The black box cockpit voice recorder from an Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed into the Mediterranean several weeks ago, killing all on board, has been found by search crews. The flight data recorder had been recovered earlier in the day. The bodies of eight victims were recovered from what is believed to be fuselage."We found it and retrieved it about an hour ago today," Lebanese army Brigadier Saleh Haj Suleiman said, as quoted by BusinessWeek. According to reports, the plane made a sharp turn and disappeared from the radar upon departure; Lebanese officials, however, say it's too early to conclude the crash was due to pilot error.The black box records communication data, technical information such as speed, altitude, etc., as well as conversation in the airplane cockpit, which could help investigators determine why the jet crashed.The boxes will be transported to France to be analysed, according to officials.Flight ET409, which had departed from Beirut, Lebanon, was bound for Addis Ababa in Ethiopia on January 25 when it crashed into the waters of the Mediterranean Sea several minutes after takeoff, in inclement weather. All ninety people aboard were killed.Minister of Public Works and Transport Ghazi Aridi told Reuters, "The priority now is searching for the rest of the bodies of victims." So far, the bodies of 23 victims have been recovered.The long awaited finale in the "Halo" series, "Halo 3", has beaten the previous record of opening day sales held by "Spiderman 3" of US$151 million. In the United States, "Halo 3" got $170 million worth of retail sales in the opening day alone.The game by Bungie Studios is available in 37 countries, which means the exact opening day figure will be much higher.More than one million Xbox Live subscribers logged on to play "Halo 3" against each other over the Internet in the first 20 hours of launch, according to Microsoft Game Studio's corporate Vice-President, Shane Kim.In comparison, "Halo 2", only sold $125 million on its first day of retail sales back in 2004. The first two "Halo" games have sold a combined total of 15 million copies.It has been reported that Microsoft spent millions of dollars on marketing the third installment of the popular "Halo" series."Halo 3" was launched on September 25 at midnight in each time zone, New Zealand being the first country to play the game, followed by Australia.At the end of January, Bach Technology announced their new music file format, MusicDNA, which was developed as an intended replacement for the mp3 format, which has been the dominant format in music since its inception.  MusicDNA uses similar compression methods to mp3, but then also adds an xml file which defines other content that can be included.  Wikinews reporter Tristan Thomas caught up with Bach Technology CEO Stefan Kohlmeyer to find out more.The DVD edition of the vampire romance-fantasy film Twilight sold more than 3 million copies on the day of its release, making it one of the top-five bestselling first-day DVD releases in the last two years.The movie — based on Stephenie Meyer's novel of the same name —  was released as a two-disc special edition DVD March 21. The 2008 film earned almost $380 million in worldwide sales during its theatrical run.Nearly 6,000 stores around the country held midnight events to mark the home release of the film, which Wal-Mart said was the most pre-ordered DVD in the store's history.Media reports said it was unclear whether Blu-Ray discs were factored into the 3 million amount.Among the other recent films with best-selling first-day DVD releases were Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End, The Dark Knight, Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix and Transformers.“We are incredibly appreciative that Twilight fans came out to once again support this film at our midnight events across the nation,” Steve Nickerson, president of Twilight studio Summit Home Entertainment, said in a press statement.“With such successful first-day sales, it is apparent that our fans remain passionate about the Twilight saga and want to own a piece of the Edward and Bella story they have come to love," Nickerson said.By the decision of the shareholders the "Voxtel" company will be transformed Into "Orange". The shareholders of "Voxtel" are: France Telecom – 61%, MMT-BIS – 30%, MobilRom – 4%, IFC – 5%."Orange" - is one of the world mobile communication leaders and is a daughter enterprise of the "France Telecom" group. The "Orange" group is present in 17 countries, where it has more than 80 million mobile communication subscribers.Over 800 National Health Service staff in Scotland are earning more than £140,000 each year—more than First Minister Alex Salmond. New figures also reveal that 3,000 NHS workers are earning over £100,000. One NHS board alone, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde, employs 893 staff earning more than £100,000, and 181 being paid over £140,000. Jackie Baillie, health spokeswoman for the Labour Party, which uncovered the figures, said they were "astonishing", and urged health boards to examine if savings can be made by reducing salaries of top earners. "This is a far better option than cutting frontline staff like nurses and midwives. In tough financial times we need to make sure that our focus is on patient care and every penny is spent in the most efficient way." She further said: “In the current economic climate, it is impossible to justify huge salaries for consultants and senior executives when health boards are planning 4000 job losses this year, including 1500 nurses and midwives."Britain's largest health service industrial union, Unison, questioned the amount of money the NHS was paying. A spokesperson said: "Unison doesn’t begrudge anybody the rate of pay for the job but obviously our membership will be concerned that while they are to face a pay freeze and people delivering frontline services are losing their jobs, there is a cohort of folk who appear to earn more than the most senior politician in the land."Australian transport investigators have announced they have identified a "critical safety issue" with engines fitted to the world's largest passenger airliner. Some Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines, which power some Airbus A380 "superjumbos", may be prone to "fatigue cracking", which could lead to oil leakage and a fire.The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) said they think this was "central to the engine failure" which occurred on a Qantas A380 on November 4, shortly after take-off from Singapore. The airline grounded all six of its fleet of A380s so they could undergo safety checks before they were put back into service. Late last month, Qantas announced the aircraft were safe and began returning them to service.The ATSB said the manufacturing fault with the Trent 900 engines "could lead to an elevated risk of fatigue crack initiation and growth, oil leakage and potential catastrophic engine failure from a resulting oil fire." The agency urged Rolls-Royce to "address the safety issue and take actions necessary to ensure the safety of flight operations in transport aircraft equipped with Rolls-Royce Trent 900 series engines."Qantas emphasised on Thursday that there was "no immediate risk to flight safety," but said they would conduct further investigations. A statement from the airline said: "Qantas currently has two A380 aircraft in operational service, following the grounding of the fleet on 4 November. Both A380 aircraft will be inspected at the Qantas Jet Base in Sydney. Inspections will commence this afternoon." Two other airlines use A380 aircraft with Trent engines, Lufthansa and Singapore Airlines; Singapore Airlines said they were checking the engines of their A380s "on a daily basis". They said: "The new checks advised by the ATSB will be carried out as quickly as possible."The incident in Singapore was embarrassing for Airbus. Aviation journalist Tom Ballantyne said the incident in Singapore was "certainly the most serious incident that the A380 has experienced since it entered operations." The A380 made its first commercial flight in 2007, and is now in service with several other airlines, including Air France and Emirates. It is the largest commercial passenger airliner in the world, with an 840-passenger maximum capacity, though Qantas' can carry 450.Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel gave yesterday's opening address to  the 42nd meeting of the World Economic Forum (WEF), which is facing a distinctly different geo-political landscape from twelve months ago. Outside the WEF security cordon, in the sub-zero temperatures of Davos' train station car park, the local incarnation of the Occupy movement are setting up 'Camp Igloo'; but, with little hope of the archetypes of the 1%, 'Davos Man', arriving by public transport and seeing their sub-zero protest.David Roth, heading the Swiss centre-left's youth wing — and an organiser of 'Camp Igloo', echoes much of the sentiment from 'Occupy' protests around the world; "[a]t meetings the rest of society is excluded from, this powerful '1 percent' negotiates and decides about the fate of the other 99 percent of this world, [...] economic and financial concentration of power in a small, privileged minority leads to a dictatorship over the rest of us. The motto 'one person, one vote' is no longer valid, but 'one dollar, one vote'."Roth's characterisation of 'Davos Man', a term coined by the Professor Samuel Huntington of Harvard University, is more emotive than that of the late professor who saw 'Davos man' as "[having...] little need for national loyalty, view[ing] national boundaries as obstacles that thankfully are vanishing, and see[ing] national governments as residues from the past whose only useful function is to facilitate the elite's global operations".As Reuters highlights, many attendees will opt to make their way from Zurich to Davos by private jet, or helicopter, and the WEF itself provides handouts indicating the cost of such is 5,100 Swiss francs (approx. 5,500 USD, 3,500 GBP, 4,200 EUR). In contrast: travelling by rail, even when opting for first class — without an advance booking, is 145 Swiss francs (approx. 155 USD, 100 GBP).Shifting fortunes see several past attendees missing this year's exclusive get-together in the alpine resort; for a second year running — and now caught up in the UK phone hacking scandal being scrutinised by Lord Leveson's inquiry — media mogul Rupert Murdoch will not be attending. Nor will the former head of financial services company UBS Oswald Gruebel, who resigned in the wake of US$2.3 billion losses incurred through unauthorised trading; likewise, Philipp Hildebrand, the ex-head of the Swiss National Bank, is absent following scandal associated with his wife's currency trading activities; and, although the sexual assault charges against Dominique Strauss-Kahn were dropped, having stepped down as managing director of the International Monetary Fund Strauss-Kahn will also be absent.As the #OccupyWEF protesters were building igloos last weekend, an anti-WEF protest in the Swiss capital Berne was broken up by police, who stated their intent to prosecute participants in the illegal protest. Allegations of calls for violent protest action led to a high number of officers being involved. In the aftermath, charges of breach of the peace are to be brought against 153 people, with some targeted for more serious offences. At least one group involved in the protest described the police response as "disproportionate".At 'Camp Igloo' Roth says he is seeking discussions with the WEF's expected 2,000 attendees; but his voice, and that of others in the worldwide 'Occupy' movement, is unlikely to be given a platform in the opening debate, "Is 20th-century capitalism failing 21st-century society?" He, and others taking part in this Swiss incarnation of the 'Occupy' movement, are still considering an invite to a side-session issued by the World Economic Forum's founder, Klaus Schwab; commenting on the invite Roth told the Associated Press they would prefer a debate at a more neutral venue.Mega Millions, a multi-state lottery in the United States is nearing a record high. Friday's August 31 drawing is expected to be at least US$325,000,000. So far, it is the fourth largest jackpot in U.S. history.Twelve states in the U.S. participate in the lottery and the odds of at least one person winning the jackpot are one in 175,711,536. It costs just one dollar to purchase a ticket and if you win, you can receive the winnings in sums of 36,000 for every million won, each year, or receive it all in one lump sum.On Tuesday, the jackpot was only at $250 million and reports say that the jackpot could rise even higher than $325 million just before the drawing on Friday.On March 6, 2007, the Mega Millions jackpot of US$390 million, the highest lottery jackpot ever in the world, was paid out to two individuals who lived in Georgia and New Jersey.The lottery results will be broadcast on live television at 8:00 p.m. (pacific time), 11:00 p.m. (eastern time).United States officials have unveiled new plans which require air traffic controllers to have longer rest periods between shifts after a spate of controllers fell asleep while on duty at airports across the country. Announcing the plans, transport secretary Ray LaHood said he was "outraged" by the incidents.The new plans, which the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the U.S. government agency responsible for aviation, said would be implemented immediately, come after another controller was suspended this week when they fell asleep while directing aircraft near Miami. The incident was the sixth this year; controllers have fallen asleep in Nevada, Washington D.C., and Tennessee. In one incident, two commercial passenger jets landed without any direction from the control tower because the controller on duty had fallen asleep.LaHood said controllers would be required to have a minimum of nine hours rest between shifts, an increase of an hour, and more supervisors would be required during night shifts, and they will be restricted in what shifts they can swap with colleagues. "I don't know when I've ever been madder," LaHood said in a television interview on Fox News Sunday. "We're not going to stand by and let that happen." "We've taken steps, as of this morning, to begin changing schedules for controllers, to change schedules for managers, and to make sure that controllers cannot switch in and out of their schedules in order for the convenience of them if they are not well-rested," LaHood said. He vowed that he would ensure any controllers falling asleep on duty would face consequences. "On my watch, controllers will not be paid to take naps," he said. "We're not going to allow that."Earlier this week, Hank Krakowski, the head of air traffic organization at the FAA, resigned from his position after LaHood said the crisis in U.S. control towers was "unacceptable", and vowed to resolve the issue. "I am totally outraged by these incidents," LaHood said. "This is absolutely unacceptable. The American public trusts us to run a safe system." The results of a study on how fatigue affects controllers will soon be published and the FAA may make changes. But LaHood insisted controllers had to "take personal responsibility" for the safety of aircraft over the U.S., and they should not make irresponsible shift changes which will make them tired and put passengers at risk. He said all the controllers involved in the incidents had been suspended, and could ultimately be sacked. The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, a labor union representing controllers in the U.S., said the FAA had their "full support" in implementing the new steps to tackle fatigue.With the United States in a recession, more and more people are looking for ways to spend less money and get a better bargain at the same time. In a time where prices are higher, 'recession gardens' are becoming increasingly popular, echoing the victory gardens which were planted during World War I and World War II which helped to reduce the stress and pressure of food shortages."There is more interest in vegetable gardens similar to the victory gardens. Because of the economy, they are being called recession gardens," said a master gardener who volunteers at Ohio State University's Extension Service office, Fred Hanacek.The new fad recently caught on in Iowa where families have began to plant the recession gardens to save money in the produce sections of supermarkets, especially organic fruits and vegetables. Public News Service quotes the National Gardening Association (NGA) as saying that they expect a nearly 20% increase in personal home garden across the U.S.. Some of the increase is also due to people wanting to know what goes onto their vegetables and in their foods."I do believe you'll find there's an extra expense in actually producing your own food, but the food quality you get is far better than what you can purchase in a store," said Beverly Bernhard a veteran gardener from Iowa.The new trend has also gotten the attention of U.S. president Barack Obama who recently stated that he plans to plant a vegetable garden at the White House. It will be the first vegetable garden to be planted at the White House in over 20 years. The last time a garden of this kind was planted at the White House was in World War II when Eleanor Roosevelt planted her Victory Garden. In 1800, former U.S. president John Adams is reported to have planted the first White House garden. Andrew Jackson went a bit further, building a greenhouse.Michelle Obama, the First Lady of the United States, broke ground on the new garden with the fifth grade class at Bancroft Elementary located in Washington, D.C. on March 20. The garden, which will be 1,100 square feet and an 'L' shape, will be located on the White House's South Lawn and the Obamas plan to grow over 55 varieties of vegetables."Let’s hear it for vegetables. Let’s hear it for fruits," yelled Mrs. Obama as they broke ground on the garden. "I’ve been able to have my kids eat so many different things that they would have never touched if we had bought them at a store," she added. Mrs. Obama also said that it will be the entire family's responsibility to maintain the garden, including the U.S. president.Many vegetables grow easily, without having to do a lot of work to maintain them. Some examples are lettuce and zucchini. The NGA says at least 9 million Americans will grow vegetable gardens for the first time ever in 2009. An estimated 43 million Americans will plant their own personal vegetable gardens this year.At approximately 1600 EST (2100 UTC) a suspicious package was found near the baggage claim at Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia, United States, leading to the closure of around half of the terminal. Police later determined that the package was harmless and reopened the affected areas of the airport. Parts of the airport had been closed for two hours before being reopened.Officials from the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority said a canine unit was attracted to an unattended piece of baggage near the baggage claim. They did not disclose what the package contained, but an official said the package did not look similar to other suspicious packages sent to Maryland state government buildings earlier today.Due to the package, four baggage claims and a United Airlines ticket counter were temporarily vacated. Flights continued to operate at the airport during the investigation.Tim Hortons, a popular Canadian express coffee and doughnut chain, has announced that they will be co-branding with another popular chain, Cold Stone Creamery, an American ice cream parlor chain.The deal includes a total of 100 new stores, at CA$121,690 (US$100,000) each.  Each company will have 50 stores that they will build as, or convert into, dual-operation franchises.  Each of the 50 stores will offer menus from each company and be located in 7 states, mostly in the Northeastern U.S.. Executives at Tim Hortons believe that mixing the two together is perfect because Tim Hortons makes most of their profit in the morning, while the Creameries are more popular in the evening. The idea proved successful when tested for three months in Rhode Island, in two different stores."We're very excited about the complementary daypart piece. It's something unique in what we see from a co-branding perspective," said Tim Hortons chief of operations, David Clanachan. Construction has already started and stores are expected to open in May.Tim Hortons was founded by Canadian ice hockey player Tim Horton. The first store opened in Hamilton, Ontario in 1964. In July of 2007, there were over 2,700 locations in Canada and 500 in the U.S.. Cold Stone Creamery was founded in 1988 in Scottsdale, Arizona. There are over 1,400 operation, in locations such as Japan, South Korea and the U.S..A report by the Chinese government states corruption is "very serious". Officials, it says, have investigated over 240,000 cases in the past seven years including bribery and embezzlement.The document, released by state news agency Xinhua, states although "notable" steps have been made towards fighting corruption, attempts to flush out corrupt citizens need to be more effective. The report further warns of corruption within government, noting new regulations ordering government officials to report investment and income. It also praises the Internet and the media for exposing corruption. In recent years China has launched several campaigns against corrupt practices, but a Chinese anti-corruption researcher told Xinhua the report indicated the Chinese government now have "a more open and cooperative attitude toward the problem."There have been several high profile cases of corruption in the country over the past several years; this year the highest ranking justice official in Chongqing, Wen Qiang, was executed for accepting bribes, shielding criminal gangs and rape, and in 2008 a powerful party boss was jailed for 18 years for involvement in a pension fund scandal.Although the report notes efforts have been taken to stamp down on corruption in China, it adds ridding it completely will be difficult. "Since the relevant mechanisms and systems are still incomplete, corruption persists, with some cases even involving huge sums of money," it states. "The situation in combating corruption is still very serious, and the tasks are still abundant."Domain names with .tel top-level domain have been put on sale for businesses and organisations purchasing their trademarks.  It is intended to be used for pages that contain contact details for individuals and companies, although websites using this domain will not be available for everyone to purchase until March 24 of next year.This top-level domain is operated by Telnic.Khashayar Mahdavi, CEO of Telnic, commented on the new domain. "The launch of .tel represents the most significant innovation in the domain name system since the advent of .com," he stated. "Essentially, the .tel offers businesses of all sizes a fast, efficient, adaptable andintelligent service that will let customers interact with them in any way they want. Anyone that wants to communicate better with their customers should purchase a .tel."Describing today's launch, Telnic stated that currently "owners and licensees of trademarks registered with national effect may apply." The organisation also requires that "trademarks must have been applied for prior to 30 May 2008 and registered prior to the date the Sunrise application is submitted. Applications may be based on both word and figurative [device] marks that consist exclusively or predominantly of words."According to a Google search for all sites using .tel, there are already 570 pages using the new top level domain.Reports say that the amount of people fleeing from their homes in California located in the United States due to wildfires has reached the 1,000,000 mark as the fires continue to grow. More than 500,000 people have been ordered to evacuate areas of Southern California as firefighters have began to realize that they may not be able to put all the fires out.45 people have been injured, 21 of those being firefighters battling the blazes. At least one person was reported to have been killed earlier, but so far those reports cannot be confirmed."If it's this big and blowing with as much wind as it's got, it'll go all the way to the ocean before it stops ... We can save some stuff but we can't stop it," said captain of the San Diego fire department, Kirk Humphries.Yesterday, U.S. President George W. Bush declared a state of emergency in California, clearing the way for the state to begin receiving federal aid assistance."All of us across this nation are concerned for the families who have lost their homes and the many families who have been evacuated from their homes. We send the help of the federal government," said Bush in a statement to the press.The Santa Ana winds have been blowing for three days and they are not forecast to stop for the next day or so.Close to 2,000 homes are burned to ashes and nearly 70,000 more are believed to be at a high risk of catching fire. Almost 400,000 acres of land have been scorched with 18 fires burning.Today the Hewlett-Packard Co. has announced that 10% or 14,500 of its full-time staff will be cut  over the course of the next six quarters. HP CEO Mark Hurd, who took office about three months ago, has decided to simplify HP's operations by combining sales and marketing directly into business units. The job cuts are expected to save HP US$1.9 billion annually. These cuts are all part of HP's new restructuring plan, the savings from which will primarily be used to “offset market forces”, in other words, to strengthen HP's competitiveness in the market.The job cuts come after prolonged analyst speculation that HP would be announcing between 10,000 and 25,000 losses. Few losses are expected in the areas of Sales or Research & Development.Developer and CEO of Savarino Companies, Sam Savarino, has confirmed to Wikinews that he has bought, and is planning to restore a severely damaged stable and livery on Buffalo's West Side. The building partially collapsed on June 11, which originally caused 15 homes to be evacuated.Savarino bought the building from owner Bob Freudenheim for US$1.00 and states that he hopes to save as much of the building as possible, including the facade, at least 20 feet of the side walls, all of the back walls including the elevator tower and if possible all three floors. There is one major downside to the purchase; he inherits the over $400,000 tax lien against the property."It was a "NYS Lotto" purchase ('a dollar and a dream'). I do inherit the City’s lien of $400,000 though," stated Savarino to Wikinews. The fee is what the city has been billed for the limited demolition it paid for before Savarino bought the building. Currently the city is suing Freudenheim to force him to pay for those fees.The building is currently undergoing minor demolition in preparations to make the rest of it stable. Once complete, Savarino plans to evaluate the extent of the damage and begin his plans to make the building into residential living spaces."Only unstable parts are being demolished. We will see what we have to deal with as the demolition proceeds but tentative plans are for living units on two floors with parking on the ground floor," stated Savarino. Construction is expected to begin as early as this year, but "more than likely next year," he added.Originally the city ordered an emergency demolition on the building after Freudenheim gave them permission to demolish it on June 12 during an emergency Preservation Board meeting. His reason was because he would not be "rehabilitating the building anytime soon." Freudenheim, along with his wife Nina, were part-owners of the Hotel Lenox at 140 North Street in Buffalo and were advocates to stop the Elmwood Village Hotel from being built on the Southeast corner of Forest and Elmwood Avenues. They also financially supported a lawsuit in an attempt to stop the hotel from being built. Though it is not known exactly how long Freudenheim has owned the stable, Wikinews has learned that he was the owner while fighting to stop the hotel from being built. Residents say that he has been the owner for at least 22 years. Residents successfully halted demolition after winning a restraining order in New York State Supreme Court, which will continue to monitor developments in the case. The next hearing is scheduled for September 2.Savarino states his project could cost at least $3,500,000 and before construction can begin, all plans must be approved by the city's planning board.Corus Group, the world's fifth largest steel producer, announced on Friday that it may be forced to mothball its steelworks in Redcar, England. This move would threaten the jobs of the works' 1,920 employees.Corus may be forced to close its Teesside operations as a consortium has refused to honour a 10-year contract with Corus' Teesside Cast Products, which accounted for 78% of the plant's operations. Corus' chief executive, Kirby Adams, said he was "extremely disappointed that the consortium members have seen fit to take this irresponsible action."Lord Mandelson, Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform, said "it is essential that Corus does everything it can legally, and with the government's assistance, to reinstate the agreement". Gordon Brown, the British Prime Minister, shared this view saying, "We are doing everything in our power to ensure that the contract is upheld." Mandelson also said "we are not prepared to reconcile ourselves to the inevitable closure of this plant".The leader of Redcar & Cleveland Borough Council, Councillor George Dunning, said "Today is like being hit by a mini earthquake compared to what's happened in the past."Martin Callanan and Stephen Hughes, Tory, and Labour MEPs for North East England, supported the idea that the government should subsidise wages in the plant on a temporary basis. Hughes and Fiona Hall, Lib Dem MEP, suggested that the government should apply to the EU's Globalisation Adjustment Fund. Hall said "if the worst comes to the worst and jobs are indeed lost, I trust the Government will change its mind and support an application to the European Globalisation Fund in order to fund skills training for those who have lost their jobs."This move could "bring to an end a fine heritage of steelmaking at Teesside", according to Adams. Steelworks in Teesside, which previously belonged to British Steel and Dorman Long, produced steel for famous structures like the Sydney Harbour Bridge.Corus had said it was likely there would be a "very significant number of redundancies" and a 90-day consultation period is due to begin.Corus' owner, Tata Steel, are also facing difficulties with another UK operation, automobile company Jaguar Land Rover.JJB Sports, British sports clothing and equipment retail chain, is to make 2,200 employees in the United Kingdom redundant as it enters administration.In a £24m deal, Sports Direct have agreed to purchase and rebrand 20 stores as well as purchasing the brand, stock, website, the license to the Slazenger Golf brand and JJB's Wigan headquarters. The deal with Sports Direct will keep 500 employees in work. In addition, 167 employees will continue working for JJB while KPMG, the appointed administrators, wind the company down.The bulk of the money from the Sports Direct deal will go to pay back loans made by Lloyds Banking Group as well as money owned to the sports clothing brand Adidas and the American sports retailer Dick's Sporting Goods, who had previously invested £20m in JJB. Shareholders are not expected to get any payout.Former professional footballer and Wigan FC owner Dave Whelan, who founded the company in 1971 and sold his share in 2007, decided not to invest to save the business. To the BBC he said, "When I sold it — I sold it something like five years ago — just before that it was valued at a billion pounds. Now it's completely worthless and it's amazing how it's happened."An early morning coal mine explosion in Beijing, China left 20 miners dead and seventeen trapped inside. The blast occurred at approximately 06:00 am (22:00 UTC) local time in the Henan province, about 430 miles (690 kilometers) south of the capital Beijing.A spokesperson for the State Administration of Work Safety said that the cause of the blast and the depth of the trapped miners are unknown. He also confirmed that seventeen people were trapped instead of 30 as previously reported.China's mining industry is one of the most dangerous in the world with thousands of deaths each year. Earlier this year 115 miners were rescued from a flooded coal mine in China. The group survived by eating sawdust, tree bark, paper and coal. 1,600 illegal Chinese coal mines have already been shut down this year in an attempt by regulators to improve safety standards. The number of fatalities in Chinese mines had fallen, but rose suddenly again earlier this year.On Tuesday, the US state of California announced it is ready to notify approximately twenty thousand state workers that they are being laid off. The announcement was made by a spokesman for California's governor Arnold Schwarzenegger. The cuts would begin at the start of the fiscal year on July 1.This comes after California lawmakers voted down a budget worth US$40 billion last weekend."In the absence of a budget, the governor has a responsibility to realise state savings any way he can," said Aaron McLear, Schwarzenegger's spokesman. "This is unfortunately a necessary decision." The state is also planning to put all remaining public work projects on hold, which could cost thousands of construction workers their jobs.California has the world's eighth largest economy. It has suffered from unemployment and the housing crisis, with Schwarzenegger declaring a fiscal emergency last December."We are dealing with a catastrophe of unbelievable proportions," said Alan Lowenthal, a Democratic state senator from Long Beach.The budget plan consisted of $11.4 billion in borrowing, $14.4 billion for temporary increases in taxes, and $15.1 billion dedicated for program cuts. The package initially appeared to have enough support to reach the two-thirds majority needed to make the bill a law, but fell short by a single vote. The Assembly was at one point in session for thirty hours, breaking the record for the longest legislative session in the history of the state.Many Republican lawmakers say they disagree with the tax increases that are included as part of the budget package."People don't realize where California is at — people are losing homes, people are losing jobs," said Republican state senator Abel Maldonado."You're not going to go back to the people's pocketbooks to fuel that spending," added Republican state senator Dennis Hollingsworth from Temecula.Senate leader Darrell Steinberg wants another session on Tuesday, saying that he would put up the tax provisions of the budget proposal for a vote. "Bring a toothbrush, bring any necessities you want to bring, because I will not allow anyone to go home to resume their lives [...] as long as we know [...] that 20,000 people will be laid off," he warned.20,000 labour activists in South Korea joined a union-organised protest in the streets of downtown Seoul on Sunday to express opposition to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum currently underway in the southeastern port city of Busan. The APEC summit of Pacific Rim leaders will include US President George W. Bush. The two-day APEC summit, expected to bring together 21 regional leaders, opens officially on November 18 in the South Korean port city of Busan. The APEC agenda includes discussions on how to enhance global free trade. Protesters' placards declared "No Bush visit" and "No APEC", demanding a revision of domestic labour laws to improve conditions for temporary workers.  Police lined the protest route, using buses to block streets as protesters marched close to the US embassy and the presidential Blue House. City police officials said there were no reports of violence. The rally was organised by the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions (KCTU), the second-largest labour organisation in South Korea. "APEC is playing the vanguard role of spreading new liberalism in trade which makes the rich richer and the poor poorer," said O Jong-Ryul, head of the People's Action against APEC — another of the protest organising groups. The activists said APEC had become a tool for US multinationals seeking to expand their dominance in the world market "under the pretext of trade liberalization."The rally was held after the death of a South Korean farmer, who allegedly committed suicide on Friday morning to protest the free trade and opening of the South Korean agricultural market. The rally cut off downtown traffic and caused severe congestion.  No serious crashes were reported.Wednesday morning, the Frankfurt Book Fair opened its gates to the first of an estimated 280,000 visitors this year in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. The Frankfurt Book Fair is the biggest book fair in the world. It also organises the participation of German publishers at more than 25 international book fairs and is the co-founder of the Cape Town Book Fair in South Africa. It maintains the most visited website worldwide for the publishing industry.The German Publishers & Booksellers Association, which runs the Frankfurt Book Fair, says that the book market is thriving. It declared on Tuesday that the high number of exhibitors and the record numbers of 7,448 exhibitors from over 100 countries, showing 391,652 books, including 121,267 new books of this year, proves that the book market is thriving.Publishing houses have long since expanded into non-traditional markets. TV and merchandising rights have long played a role, but have become more and more important for larger projects. Two other media forms have also become more standard elements of the value chain. E-books and audiobooks are both big topics of this year's Book Fair.Since the AutoTronics Taipei was held from 2006, companies from electronic and automobile-related industries steadily made their stages and a good complementary in this trade show.Before the first holding in 2006, because of the establishment of Car Electronics Pavilion in 2005 TAITRONICS Autumn (Taipei International Electronic Autumn Show), it (the pavilion) ever became a hot topic in these 2 industries. And eventually, Yulon Group recruited their sub-companies grouping their own pavilion to showcase automobile parts, accessories, and applications.Currently, automobile navigation, mobile entertainment, and road safety, were included in modern automotive devices. But in a keynote speech of TARC Pavilion, Jamie Hsu (Consultant of Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Republic of the China) pointed out several threats and opportunities on the automotive industry, his words also echoed a notable quote by Yi-cheng Liu (Chairman of Taiwan Transportation Vehicle Manufacturers' Association): "The automobile industry shouldn't be monopolized by a company or its own industry. If this industry want to be grown up, it [the industry] should do more optimizations and transformations with the other related industries like IT and electronic."Although some participants like Renesas, Fujitsu, MiTAC, TomTom NV, and Agilent ever participated in Taipei IT Month, CeBIT, or Computex Taipei, but there were varied comments for participation on Computex 2008.Renesas Technology, a participant of Computex 2007, won't showcase in Computex 2008, but Fujitsu and TomTom both declared to participate in the 2008 Taipei IT Month.Generally in the automobile industry, progressively conformed by the other industries, its success should depend on collaborations between different and similar industries because "not any company can do any monopoly in any industry" even though the automobile industry will become a "trillion industry" not only in Taiwan."2008 Boao Forum for Asia" started two days ago in Bo'ao, Hainan, China, and participated with government and industrial executives worldwide. Because revolutions in the Web 3.0 era have made a major impact on global economy, several elites from the Internet industry like Kai-Fu Lee provided forecasts for this key industry in the forum.Furthermore, Vincent Siew, the vice-president elect, provided his comments in the forum. But two coalitions (Pan-Blues and Pan-Greens) declared different comments on Siew's participation.But due to a hot topic of environment and greenhouse effect, Rajendra Kumar Pachauri, winner of 2007 Nobel Peace Prize, commented on this forum: "There were several sectors on energy-saving, not governments, but the public should play a great role in this global warming era."The 28th-annual COMPUTEX Taipei show, the second largest IT show in the world, is the largest one since they held their first show in 1982 since expanding to TWTC Nangang. Not only were vast ICT products showcased from upper, mid, and lower-stream vertical and horizontal OEMs, OBMs, and world-class stellar companies like Intel, AMD, ASUS, Foxconn, Acer, BenQ, and Kingston, but also  featured products related to green technology. Companies from Korea will be hosting the biggest international pavilion to catch the buyers' eyes.The Taipei Computer Association (TCA), one of the show organizers, will hold the 2008 WiMAX Taipei Expo at the Taipei Show Hall 2. It will allow the networking industry to chain the WiMAX Pavilion located in the TWTC Nangang and echo the basic infrastructure construction of WiMAX. Organizing the show and promoting the ICT industry are considered major tasks by newly-elected President of the Republic of China Ying-jeou Ma. Pavilions like "mega trends", "multimedia", and "green technology" will be re-arranged to host trendy and energy-efficient products launched prior to this show.According to Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), there were several seminars like "e21 Forum", "DRAMeXchange Forum", "Next Generation Networks Taipei", "Taiwan Design Center Forum", "CE Summit", "Green IT Forum" held at the Taipei International Convention Center. TWTC Nangang was  organized for buyers and companies to glance the vision of global ICT industry during the show hours. Since Jonney Shih, Chairman of ASUStek, showcased Eee PC before its launch during 2007 e21 Forum, seminars were progressively respected by industrial businessmen, especially international buyers.Not only will there be a senior competition - Best Choice of COMPUTEX, mainly promoted by the TCA, but also the TAITRA will cooperate with International Forum Design (iF) holding the "Design and Innovation Award of COMPUTEX". Its goals aims at discovering innovative and brand-new IT products to elevate the notability of Taiwan's innovations.TAITRA and TCA, the organizers, promised to do the be the best at services for transportation (Shuttle Buses, Taxis, MRT, International Airlines), living (Hotels), networking (TAITRA Lounge), and business (Trade Opportunity Rooms and Business Center) for the best quality of COMPUTEX.2008 Computex Taipei (a.k.a Taipei International Information Technology Show), the second largest IT show in the world, will start on June 3 to 7 at the TWTC Hall 1 & 3, Taipei International Convention Center (TICC), and TWTC Nangang, in conjunction with 2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei, which will start earlier at the Taipei Show Hall 2. With two IT-related industry shows will be concurrently showcased in different venues, it will bring on many convergences and opportunities for networking and mobile-related industries worldwide including Taiwan.Since the Taipei Computer Association, Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA), and Industrial Technology Research Institute preliminary imported the "WiMAX Forum Showcase & Conference" into the TICC, WiMAX-related topics were mostly focused by several worldwide media and industrial elites. In extremity, some technologies and solutions like eSNG, wireless medical care, wireless transmission, and mobile entertainment were showcased there. And the MOEA also signed MOUs with 5 world-class WiMAX companies to help the networking industry last year in Taiwan.Even though the signing of MOUs and new technologies will bring opportunities for WiMAX-related industries, and the mobile devices will be progressively popular in the future and more slim like an UMPC, but some companies from information security industry were worried about the future trend because of invisible threats on the Internet.As of "Asia-pacific IT Security Forum" and "IT Security Pavilion" of SecuTech Expo 2008, there were several changes on participation from IT industry, but due to a major impact of "Edison Chen's photo scandal", several crisis were exposed with improper habits on modern people when using the Internet.It's a real deal that the WiMAX will bring different kind profits and benefits for different industries, but before the WiMAX became the trend, if Internet users didn't cultivate proper habits on using the Internet, the WiMAX will still bring on threats for end-users and industries.2008 COMPUTEX, famed as the 2nd-largest ICT trade show in the world, started today at the Taipei World Trade Center, Taipei International Convention Center, and TWTC Nangang with 1725 companies' participation including top 5 nations - Hong Kong, South Korea, China, France, and Japan. With the newly-launched TWTC Nangang, the COMPUTEX set its record with its exhibition scale expanding by 53% and the number of participating manufacturers increasing by 29%.This year of COMPUTEX has some special features including "Design and Innovation Award of COMPUTEX", set to discover innovative designs world-wide, "Environment-related topics", highly respected by environmentalists and industrial businesspeople with many ICT products related to energy-efficiency and green technology showcased at "Mega Trends Pavilion".With another concurrent trade show - "2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei", located at Taipei Show Hall 2, Taipei Computer Association, one of the show organizers, will mainly promote the "WING"-conceptual products like WiMAX, ICT crossovers, Notebooks, and Green IT products this year. In addition, DRAMeXchange Compuforum, e21Forum, Taiwan Design Forum, and Next Generation Network Forum will be held in conjunction with the COMPUTEX to attract international businesspeople from vast industries.This year's COMPUTEX Taipei showcased vast ICT products and innovative designs. According to the Taiwan Design Center (TDC), Taiwan positioned a stable place in industrial and students' designs after winning several international design awards including G-mark, Red Dot, and iF.To promote the design of Taiwan into the world, not only pavilions from the Taiwan Excellence Gold & Silver Awards, d & i Award of COMPUTEX, Best Choice of COMPUTEX, and Taiwan Design Innovation Pavilion, the TDC & Taiwan External Trade Development Council also held the "Design Think Forum" to examine and forecast the design industry in Taiwan on the 2nd Day of COMPUTEX (June 4).In the "TAITRA ICT 5-Stars Press Conference", Walter Yeh, Vice President of Taiwan External Trade Development Council, talked to Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen about "Design", he said:Besides of the "iF Design Award Pavilion" at TAITRONICS 2008, the 2008 2nd Taiwan International Culture and Creative Industries Exhibition (a.k.a Creative Taiwan), which will be showcased at Taipei World Trade Center on October 23 - 26, will be a critical trade show for cultural, design, and creative industries. As a result, the growth of design industry will pulse the future of the other industries including the ICT.2008 COMPUTEX Taipei, the largest trade fair since its inception in 1982, featured several seminars and forums, expansions on show spaces to TWTC Nangang, great transformations for theme pavilions, and WiMAX Taipei Expo, mainly promoted by Taipei Computer Association (TCA). Besides of ICT industry, "design" progressively became the critical factor for the future of the other industries. To promote innovative "Made In Taiwan" products, pavilions from "Best Choice of COMPUTEX", "Taiwan Excellence Awards", and newly-set "Design and Innovation (d & i) Award of COMPUTEX", demonstrated the power of Taiwan's designs in 2008 COMPUTEX Taipei.Seminars and forums always played key roles to forecast the future of ICT industry worldwide after the COMPUTEX became more and more critical for businesspeople. Not only e21FORUM, the DRAMeXchange Compuforum was progressively respected by DRAM industry since 2006.Since the mobile devices have become popular in the presence, the supply of DRAM modules is still inadequate to meet the demand. "The abandonment of 12-inch fabs and the suspension of 8-inch fabs are considered critical issues in this incident. If the Mainland China wants to enlarge its market stably, the supply chain and costs of material should be cautioned." stated DRAMeXchange Technology.Mass storage devices with high capacity often linked with enterprises. With innovations of information technology, capacity of USB flash drives and mobile drives are larger and larger. "Capacity, costs of production, prices, and efficiency on writing and reading are critical factors to determine an user on choosing SSDs, hard disks, or flash drives." stated Hitach Corp.. "The market shares on storage will transform from enterprises to digital storage with a significant grown-up of Internet users within four years." stated Seagate Technology.The opening day of COMPUTEX 2008, e21FORUM was held at the Taipei International Convention Center on June 3 to forecast the future of ICT industry world-wide. To connect with the topic of "WiMAX" mainly promoted by Taipei Computer Association, e21MagicMedia, convener of e21FORUM, entitled the forum topic as "Leading to a Bright Future with Technology".Since the e21FORUM was initially held from 2001, the dialogue between Microsoft and Intel became a key topic in this event. This year, executives from Microsoft and Intel confronted here again.In the opening keynote, Sean M. Maloney, Executive Vice President of Intel Corporation, started his speech to forecast the future of WiMAX. "WiMAX will become a must-have trend. When it matured[sic], it will bring on the utilization percentages on mobile devices like MID and UMPC." stated Maloney. In addition, he also demonstrated the application of SSD by shocking and stunning its device to prove its sustainability and damage-proof in front of forum participants.On the other hand, Microsoft participated in the COMPUTEX 2008 entitled "It's better with Windows" to demonstrate the advantages of Microsoft Windows with "Trusted", "Familiar", and "Compatible". In the second keynote, Steven Guggenheimer, Vice President of Microsoft Global OEM Department, explained the opportunities which OEMs and ODMs can provide to elevate users' experiences by optimizing Microsoft Windows to the best performance.Finally in the executive panel, DigiTimes and experts from ICT industry in Taiwan forecast the future of WiMAX. Executives coordinately commented that the basic infrastructure will be a critical factor when developing the WiMAX applications in Taiwan.To showcase achievements of Taiwan's Internet industry, the Institute of Information Industry of Taiwan (III) held the 2008 IDEAS Show this Wednesday June 25. The IDEAS Show is similar from the DEMO, an Internet investment trade show in United States since 2006.Chris Shipley, Producer of DEMO Conference, was invited to make a speech in the opening keynote. She mentioned about evolutions and transformations of the Internet, especially on business models and change of leaders. Her words mostly echoed some theories proposed during the 2008 Google Developer Day in China by Kai-Fu Lee, Founding Chairman of Google China.In this exhibition, thirty websites from mobile networking, Web 2.0, social networks, application services, and hardware integrations were showcased there. The website evaluation from professional judges was also held during the showcase to encourage excellent websites promoted into the world.2008 Taipei AMPA, not only showcased automotive parts and accessories, but there were also several seminars in progress at the TWTC Nangang. In addition, the "Taiwan IT Solution Pavilion", organized by IT industry including Industrial Technology Research Institute and the other 14 companies, showcased not only solutions for automotive industry including manufacturing, e-commerce, and logistic managament, but also industrial applications like RFID, Barcode, and ERP.According to some statistics by TAITRA, the export value of service industry reached USD$284 millions, more than 67% ratio of GDP in Taiwan.After the Taipei AMPA, the TAITRA scheduled to promote this cross-industry solutions in not only Taiwan but also China, Japan, Hong Kong, and South-east Asia countries by participating different trade shows like Tokyo Game Show in Tokyo, Japan and AMAZIA, the first-ever gaming and entertainment industry trade show in Hong Kong.The 18th Taipei Computer Applications Show (2008 TICA), organized by Taipei Computer Association (TCA) and Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), started its five day trade show at the Taipei World Trade Center. Unlike COMPUTEX Taipei, TICA focused on selling electronic goods to consumers in the local area.To attract local residents, the show used several arcade machines from the recent "Digital E-Park" trade show. The event also hosted displays on Linux Applications, Robots, Digital Content , e-Learning, and Science. These displays were co-organized by TCA, TAITRA, and Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) to demonstrate achievements of Taiwan's R&Ds.According to TAITRA, technology giants such as Micro-Star International, Advanced Micro Devices, Intel, D-Link, Hewlett-Packard Company, and Sony participated in the event, in addition to local companies such as 3J Tech, Omni Motion, International Games System, and TransAVA, will showcase different trendy and incident-involved products in this show.Taipei City Government, the supervisor for the event's transport, announced a plan to deal with the amount of traffic going to the event, which expected to peak in visitor numbers of the weekend.Today saw the opening of the new Taipei World Trade Center Nangang Exhibition Hall and its first show, the Taipei International Cycle Show (Taipei Cycle). Tapei Cycle runs concurrently with the 2008 35th Taipei International Sporting Goods Show (TaiSPO), showcased at Taipei World Trade Center, running from today through Sunday, March 16.  This year, 288 companies are participating. Together for the first time since 1987,  the TaiSPO and Taipei Cycle organizers hope that having both these shows at the Taipai World Trade Center will bring greater benefits and opportunities for bicycle and sporting good industries in Taiwan and internationally.The morning before the Grand Opening Ceremony of the Taipei World Trade Center Nangang, TAITRA announced winners of the "TaiSPO Innovation Award."  According to TAITRA, this competition was designed to give participants a place to showcase innovative new products and creations.  The jury who announced the winners and participants from a variety of industries forecast another industry transformation because the significant changes in modern people's lifestyles.In the Grand Opening Ceremony of TWTC Nangang and Taipei Cycle, not only government officials but also executives from varied industries all participated in this grand launch to support the MICE (Meeting, Incentive Travel, Conference, Exhibition) industry in Taiwan.The TWTC Nangang opening, showcasing Taipei Cycle, and the concurrent running of TaiSPO at TWTC, will bring new opportunities for sporting goods, bicycle, and MICE industries as the two trade shows are firmly on track to become Asia's major center for buying and selling within these industries.Thursday at the Taipei International Convention Center, the winners of the Gold and Silver Awards were announced at the 2008 16th-annual Taiwan Excellence Awards, an event created to promote products made in Taiwan. They were announced by the Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), which also organized the event.This year, 601 products competed for the eight gold medals and twenty-one silver awards. In the ICT category, the competition was especially fierce as 388 ICT products were on display from the IT industry. In total, 308 products from 102 companies were entitled as "Taiwan Excellent Products".Several world-class experts judged the nominated products, in order to select the final twenty-nine based on four critical factors including R&D, design, quality, and marketing. In addition, the TAITRA also had categories where people could vote over the Internet or using their mobile phones.ASUSTeK picked up two Gold Awards and six Silver Awards and was the biggest winner in the "Taiwan Excellence Awards". Eee PC 4G, with features like mobility, reliability, and connectively, not only won a Gold Award, but was also voted as the "Most Popular Product" as awarded by Internet and mobile users.Ever since the Taste of Taiwan Cuisine, a complex to promote the MICE (meeting, incentive travel, conference, and exhibition) and cultural industries in Taiwan exclusively in June, made its initiation at 2006, the tourism ratio from foreigners were progressively increased in this complex event.To bring up the MICE industry, Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), the event organizer, arranged several key events including Taipei Trade Shows, travel packages, views, and conferences for international businesspeople. This effectively redefined the MICE industry in Taiwan during the event.Leading up to the 2008 Taipei Computer Applications Show (TICA), the 8th-annual Linux Forum, accompanied with Linux Expo Pavilion, started yesterday July 30 at Taipei World Trade Center Conference Roon 3 & 4 to promote the open source applications in Taiwan.With popularity of OLPC and Eee PC, mobile applications, low-price PCs, embedded systems, and enterprise applications are enrolled into the Linux Forum by forum organizer, Industrial Development Bureau of Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Republic of China.Since Linux-related solutions were promoted at Softex Taipei 2008 by Taipei Computer Association, as well as the organizer of TICA and Softex shows, executives from industrial, academical, and governmental people mostly cautioned the importance of Linux, which had also become another choice to be built inside a computer after OLPC and Eee PC.As several required functions from business software are built in some open source software, software and platforms complied with open source had become the second choice for consumers. UPP, an open source platform built by United Daily News Digital Corporation, is a typical example on open source application integrated to a USB flash drive.Apart from basic applications, some companies also demonstrated some examples of deploying and programming on a Linux-based platform. In addition, some experts recommended enterprises to consider user needs before introducing Linux as the desktop platform in the enterprise.After the Linux Forum, the Linux Expo will also showcase solutions of open source at TICA.Prior to the main race of 2008 Tour de Taiwan, the 2008 Taipei Cycle (Taipei International Cycle Show, located at TWTC Nangang) and TaiSPO (Taipei International Sporting Goods show, located at Taipei World Trade Center Hall 1) will not only exhibit from next Tuesday to Sunday (March 13-16) but it will also bring multiple opportunities for sporting goods, athletic sports, bicycle, and MICE (meeting, incentive, convention, and exhibition) industries after the TWTC Nangang stage was firmly included into 2008 Tour de Taiwan and its race will be start next Saturday (March 15).Leading up to the 2008 COMPUTEX show, the "2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei" is being held. Co-organized by Taiwan External Trade Development Council, Taipei Computer Association (TCA), the Industrial Development Bureau of the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA), M-Taiwan Office, and WiMAX Forum, the expo will be held in Taipei Show Hall two. It is planned to run for five consecutive days commencing on June 2. In addition, the 2008 WiMAX Forum Operator Summit will be also held at Far Eastern Plaza Hotel on June 2 & 3.According to the Taipei Computer Association (TCA), there will be sixty networking companies and manufacturers participating in this show. Their aim, to demonstrate the telecommunications technology in Taiwan. About seventy world-class operators from the networking industry will be invited to join the Forum Summit.Following the Ministry of Economic Affairs signing an extended Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Intel on April 21, both will work together to promote the WiMAX industry in Taiwan. Intel, participating in both COMPUTEX and the WiMAX expo has a number of WiMAX Segways to demonstrate the technology. Their involvement will also include acting as hosts for the 2008 e21FORUM where Mobile Web 2.0 will be discussed.A bus promoting the WiMAX expo will also be in service with Far EasTone Telecommunications and First International Telecom doing live demonstrations of their enterprise offerings.The International Air Transport Association (IATA) said on Wednesday that 2009 was the "worst year" that the airline industry has ever seen since 1945."In terms of demand, 2009 goes into the history books as the worst year the industry has ever seen," said IATA boss Giovanni Bisignani. "We have permanently lost 2.5 years of growth in passenger markets and 3.5 years of growth in the freight business."According to the group, passenger traffic was down by 3.5% compared to a year earlier, and freight by 10.1%. The group estimated that the airline industry lost a total of US$11 billion in 2009 last year, and will lose another $5.6 billion in 2010.Airlines in Africa had the biggest passenger demand drop, at 6.8%; North American airlines and Asian carriers had demand go down 5.8%. European airlines saw a drop of 5%. Middle Eastern and Latin American carriers, however, had rises in demand, with gains of 11.3% and 0.3%, respectively. According to the Agence France-Presse news agency, part of the reason Middle Eastern carriers performed better is because of their position between Asia, Africa, and Europe, resulting in more connecting flights through hubs."While both North American and European carriers saw demand improvements in the first half of the year, the second half was basically flat," said IATA.IATA represents 230 airlines, accounting for 90% of scheduled air traffic, although some budget carriers are not included.The IATA boss said that, although the worst appeared to be over due to the global economic recovery airlines would have to keep their costs low. "Revenue improvements will be at a much slower pace than the demand growth that we are starting to see," he noted."Profitability will be even slower to recover and airlines will lose an expected 5.6 billion dollars in 2010. The industry starts 2010 with some enormous challenges. The worst is behind us, but it's not time to celebrate. Adjusting to 2.5 to 3.5 years of lost growth means that airlines face another spartan year, focused on matching capacity carefully to demand and controlling costs," Bisignani continued.Costs for security were also an issue. Bisignani said: "Governments and industry are aligned in the priority that we place on security. But the cost of security is also an issue. Globally, airlines spend US$5.9 billion a year on what are essentially measures concerned with national security. This is the responsibility of governments, and they should be picking up the bill." Analysts, however, say that cost cutting measures, intended to attract more customers, would also harm airline profits. Saj Ahmad, an independent airline analyst, commented: "Continued fare wars between airlines mean that yields and profitability will be low. Airlines are struggling to fill their airplanes and discounted ticketing has done little to alleviate the pressures on their costs," as quoted by the BBC."Capacity has come out of the global airline system, but until a few airlines perhaps exit the industry through bankruptcy or mergers, there is still a very long road until we see serious stability, let alone growth," Ahmad added.Tuesday, World Bank released the 2012 World Development Report on Gender Equality and Development.  The United States is referred to many times, often as a benchmark to foster understanding of recent gains for women in other parts of the globe. At the same time, United States women still lag behind US men in a number of areas.In 2012, the authors note women in the United States still face challenges economically and socially.  They are represented disproportionately in certain professions like teaching and nursing.  They are paid less than their male counterparts. Jobs traditionally held by women also result in lower wages for men who hold these jobs.     They are under-represented at the highest level of business, with only 28 of Fortune 1000 companies having a female chief executive officer.  The bottom 20% of women economically have a slightly higher birth rate than their peers in the top 20%. Immigrants to the United States from Southeast Asia and India have higher than expected male to female birth ratios, which the report authors suggest is partially deliberate sex selection based on cultural attitudes from home countries.  In 2009, over half a million US women were victims of intimate partner violence.  The report suggests US men have greater pension assets than US women. When compared to elderly US men, elderly women in the United States are more likely to live alone than with a spouse.  US women are disproportionately under-represented in local police forces, accounting for less than 20% of all police officers.  Women in the United States also bear a higher percentage of housework duties than men at 61%.  When US women take part time work while raising children, they find it difficult to use that work experience to gain future full time employment.  US women are disincentivized from re-entering the workforce after giving birth because of the high cost of childcare.Many of the gains for United States women took place a while ago and took a long time to get.  It took 40 years, 1870–1910, to see major improvements in the percentage of girls aged 6 to 12 attending school. In 1921, after women got the right to vote in the United States, the United States Congress passed the Promotion of the Welfare and Hygiene of Maternity and Infancy Act. This assisted in lowering infant mortality from 23% to 15%.  The report says affirmative action in the United States resulted in jobs transferring from men to women, but the authors hedged and did not draw a conclusion about the economic impact of these legislative efforts other than to say the impact was not negative. Many of the legislative victories for United States women came early compared to developing countries. Property rights for women, while later than some of their European counterparts like Norway and the United Kingdom, started to come by 1848.  That year, the Married Women’s Property Act was passed in New York.  It was the first legislation of its kind in the country.  Other states soon followed. Women got suffrage on a state-by-state level in the country until they got federal suffrage in 1920.  Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 barred discrimination against women and allowed married women to make loans without their husband's consent. In 1980, airlines were barred from discriminating against flight attendances for their marital status during the hiring and firing stage.The number of United States respondents agreeing with the proposition "a university education is more important for a boy than for a girl" decreased from about 14% in the period between 1994 and 1999 to about about 9% in the period between 2005 and 2007.  Similarly, the number of people who agreed with "when jobs are scarce, men should have more right to a job than women" decreased from 19% to about 8% over the same period.The report cites current research from the United States and England showing the more education a mother has, the better the outcomes for her children will be.Currently in the United States, females academically outperform their male counterparts in all academic areas including [[mathematics|math] and science. On the Programme for International Student Assessment math test though, US boys tested better than US girls by a score of roughly 495 to 480.  US girls outperform boys on the literacy test with mean scores of approximately 510 to 490.  In this regard, the report suggests US girls' performance patterns resemble global ones. Mali's percentage of girls in primary school is equivalent to the United States in 1810 at around 34%. Burkino Faso is worse, matching the United States in 1780 with a percentage of roughly 25%. Niger's current enrollment for girls is around 50%, around the same percentage as the United States in 1900.Twenty-five miners are confirmed dead, two injured, and four missing, after an explosion in a West Virginia coal mine Monday.  The incident occurred in the Upper Big Branch mine in Montcoal, West Virginia.  It is the deadliest mining accident in the United States since 1984.Search and rescue operations were suspended Tuesday due to high levels of methane gas which made conditions unsafe for rescuers.  A team attempting to ventilate the mine is expected to complete the work by Wednesday evening.  Officials said that it was unlikely that the missing miners were still alive, although they would not stop efforts until they were found.The mine is owned by Massey Energy but operated by Performance Coal Company, a subsidiary of Massey, which is the fourth largest coal producer in the US. Federal officials have fined Massey nearly US $900,000 after numerous safety violations were found at the mine that suffered the explosion. To date, Massey has paid around $170,000.US President Barack Obama held a prayer breakfast in the White House Tuesday morning. He said that "I would ask for the faithful who are gathered here to pray for the safe return of the missing, the men and women who put their lives on the line to save them and the souls that have been lost in this tragic accident. May they rest in peace, and may their families find comfort in the hard days ahead."At least 26 workers were killed and five were injured in China after an accident at a tin mine in the Hunan province, national media reported.The official Chinese news agency Xinhua quoted a rescue team as saying that nineteen of the miners were killed instantly after two lifts fell due to a brake failure on Thursday. Another seven died later due to their injuries.An investigation into the accident has been launched, Xinhua reported.China has some of the most deadly mines in the world. Official statistics indicate that over 3,200 miners died in mine accidents in last year alone, although independent groups suggest the actual number might be higher, as not all incidents are reported.Officials say 27 people are dead after a plane crashed into the sea off east Indonesia today. Fifteen bodies have been recovered and it is thought the others on board have sunk with the wreckage."I can confirm that all the passengers were killed when the plane exploded as it crashed into the sea," an Indonesian navy official told local radio station ElShinta. He said around ten navy divers were sent to the Papua crash site 400 metres off-shore in six kilometres of water but "had difficulties locating them [trapped passengers] due to strong currents and limited equipment."Merpati Nusantara Airlines has not confirmed passenger numbers. A transport ministry spokesman said the ministry is "still checking on the passengers' situation," adding "the weather was pretty bad at the time [of the crash]." Built by the Aviation Industry Corporation of China, the propellor-driven MA60 was 500 metres from a runway when it crashed, according to airport officials.The nation of islands has heavy use of aviation and a poor safety record, including the crash of an Adam Air jet in 2007 that killed 102 people near Sulawesi. The European Commission had banned all Indonesian airlines from entering it, but two years ago flag carrier Garuda Indonesia was deemed to have improved and allowed to enter.Gary Knowles, head of the search and rescue operation at the New Zealand Pike River Mine,  told media a second explosion has occurred inside the mine. He stated there is no possibility any of the 29 men still inside could have survived.The situation began on Friday, around 3:45pm local time, with an explosion at the mine which is about halfway between the West Coast towns of Greymouth and Reefton. Emergency services began responding at 4.53pm; two miners managed to walk out and were treated for minor injuries at Grey Base Hospital, with 27 originally believed missing.Grey District Mayor Tony Kokshoorn initially stated: "We are holding on to hope. Look at Chile, all those miners were trapped and they all came out alive."Early Saturday, Pike River Coal chief executive Peter Whittall reported 29 were trapped underground, ranging from 17 to 62 years old. They were a mix of New Zealand, South African, Australian, and British nationals. Miners' families congregated at a hall in Greymouth, and were updated by the search and rescue leadership twice daily. Media briefings were also held twice daily.Families and the public began to feel frustration that rescuers had not yet moved into the mine. The search co-ordinator Superintendent Garry Knowles explained that the gas levels in the mine meant that the risk of another explosion was too high to allow entry. The Police Commissioner, Minister of Police, and Prime Minister all confirmed they supported the decision not to send rescuers in while expert analysis showed the mine was still unsafe.The New Zealand Defence Force supplied a bomb-disposal robot to take video footage inside the mine. However, the robot only made it 550 metres up the tunnel before being shorted out by water in the mine. Later, the robot was restarted; this time it made it 1000 metres in before running out of battery. A second Defence robot was also sent in and recorded some video footage. A 160 metre long bore-hole was drilled from the surface into an area deeper in the mine to gauge the gas levels in areas closer to where the miners could be. It was reported that the samples from that bore-hole were showing up to 95 percent methane.At a press conference on Wednesday afternoon, Superintendent Knowles reported that there had been a second large explosion at 2:37pm, at least as big as the first. "Unfortunately I have to inform the public of New Zealand that at 2.37pm today there was another massive explosion underground and based on that explosion no one survived." He said the rescue team and experts believed survival was impossible. The Grey District Mayor reported that a recovery team had gone in while gas levels were still low. In a more extended briefing, the Pike River Mining chief executive explained this had not occurred as the mine was still too dangerous, but said they would do everything they could to recover the bodies.International leaders including Queen Elizabeth have sent their condolences.Last week a presentation of the bridge linking the Crimea with the Krasnodar region of Russia took place in Ukraine. The project cost of the deal is estimated at US$480 million. According to specialists, the bridge can be built within two years given adequate preparation.The bridge project includes building a highway with the width of 15 metres; there will also be a possibility of the bridge supporting a future oil pipeline. The total length of the bridge will be about 4.5 kilometres.The bridge over the Strait of Kerch could become a transit way to more than 10 million people a year and should decrease the travel distance from Ukraine to the Krasnodar Region by 450 kilometres.450 sheep leapt to their deaths in the Turkish village of Gevas. The chain reaction started when one sheep went over the cliff, enticing nearly fifteen hundred others to follow. According to the Aksam newspaper, by the time the 450 had died, the pile of sheep carcasses at the bottom of the cliff had apparently grown large enough to cushion the fall somewhat, resulting in the saving of the other 1550. "There's nothing we can do. They're all wasted," said Nevzat Bayhan, a member of one of the 26 families whose sheep had been lost. "Every family had an average of 20 sheep," continued Abdullah Hazar, "but now only a few families have sheep left. It's going to be hard for us."The sheep were worth an estimated $100k USD, which is a significant amount of money in a country whose average GDP is only on average $2,700 USD per head.A letter and motion to be debated by Italian Parliament this week calls for action to address speculative bubbles and potential future financial crashes in the global economy. The motion asks for a global summit similar to the 1944 Bretton Woods United Nations Monetary and Financial Conference, which gave us the IMF and World Bank.The letter raises questions about the sustainability of current financial trends, based on the highly speculative nature of today's markets. For example, according to the letter, "It is estimated that the entire financial bubble, counting all financial derivatives and all other forms of existing debt, is equal to about $400 trillion, compared to a worldwide GDP of slightly more than $40 trillion".Last years collapse of Italian dairy company Parmalat, with "14.3 billion euros that must still be accounted for", is given as evidence for "a lack of effective tools and controls regarding financial operations". Enron, which famously collapsed in November 2001 revealing faudulent accounting practices from previously respected accounting firm Arthur Andersen, is given as another example.Oddly, the largest collapse on record, that of WorldCom, is not mentioned, though the set of examples is not purported to be exhaustive. A number of other crashes are mentioned: the LTCM fund,  Argentine bonds, Cirio, and Finmatica.The motion, linked to supporters of the Lyndon LaRouche movement, is signed by Parliamentarians Lettieri, Soro, Delbono, Tolotti, Widmann, Villani Miglietta, Rosato, Albertini, Morgando, Diana, Luigi Pepe, Damiani, Ostillio, De Brasi, Maccanico, Carbonella, Paola Mariani, Grandi, Pistone, Giovanni Bianchi, Giacco, Benvenuto, Piscitello, Camo, Realacci, Squeglia, Rocchi, Iannuzzi, Intini, Meduri, Santino Adamo Loddo, Boccia, Villari, Chianale, Siniscalchi, Sandi, Cusumano, Cennamo, Annunziata, Rotundo, Bonito, Buemi, Pennacchi, Fanfani, Tarantino, Rodeghiero, Angioni, Detomas, and Nesi. Debate was scheduled for March 14-18.Philippine fishermen, volunteers and authorities with dozens of fishing boats have joined hands in guiding back to sea about 500 disorientated melon-headed whales that were stranded in the shallow waters near the mouth of Manila Bay delta in the Bataan Peninsula.The gentle mammals were first spotted swimming back and forth and straying very dangerously close (about a mile or 1.6 kilometers) to the shores of the coastal towns of Pilar, Orion and Abucay 135 kilometers northwest of Manila at around at around 4:00 am on Tuesday, said Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) Commodore Luis Tuazon and Bataan Governor Enrique Garcia Jr.The Philippines Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) said its has responded to the reported mass "stranding" of whales off Pilar coastal waters in the province of Bataan where the famous and historic Corregidor Island is located. Using dozens of fishing boats with machines shut down and bare hands, more than 100 village fishermen and volunteers along with BFAR, local police and Philippine Coast Guard personnel have joined the massive rescue. With great difficulty, the emergency team has waded into the chest-deep water, clapping their hands and hitting the surface to guide and drive the whales farther away from the coastal shore to deeper waters."The mammals were at first thought to have been dolphins, but experts then identified them as melon-headed whales," local veterinarian Mariel Flores said. "This type of whale can be easily mistaken for dolphins because of their size and their teeth, which resemble those of dolphins. The mammals have ears that are sensitive to large changes in pressure underwater," she added."It looked like they never wanted to leave. They looked sad,” said Rodolfo Joson, a village councilor. Joson and his son, Joey, a fisherman like him, have rushed home at about 4 a.m. to report the pod sighting. “It was still dark when we waded into the water. The whales were about 200 meters from the shore. The water was up to my neck. We first checked their conditions by playing with them. They did not repel us or leave. They were making hooting sounds,” Joson explained the mass beaching. “It seemed they were running away from waters that they didn’t like. Dolphins are happy and strong creatures. They raced with ships,” he added.A post-mortem examination has revealed that four dead whales found beached farther up north in Abucay, Bataan, include two adult females, one of which was pregnant, while the other gave birth to a calf that also died, said Dr. Lemnuel Aragones of Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport who did the necropsy at the Bataan fisheries office in Balanga City.This is the first time that such large numbers of dolphins had been stranded in the Philippines. "We are trying to come up with a possible explanation to this unusual occurrence. It could be that the dolphins had lost their bearings and inadvertently ended up on the shallow portion of the coast unable to extricate themselves," said Dr Lemuel Aragones, Associate Professor at the UP Institute of Environmental Science and Meteorology. Dr Aragones, who holds a PhD on Tropical Environmental Studies (Marine Ecology) from Australia's James Cook University, explained that "the melon-headed whales of the dolphin family have sophisticated navigation systems that operate on a principle similar to sonar instruments used in submarines. Like humans, dolphins also follow a 'leader' of their pod. It is possible that the leader of this dolphin [pod] had somehow lost its way. In turn, the leader’s acoustic system, which serves as its guidance system, might have been impaired," the marine expert elaborated.Dr Aragones said "BFAR, UPIESM, and the Ocean Adventure Marine Park in Subic started the Philippine Marine Mammals Stranding Network (PMMSN) in 2005 as a response to cetacean strandings or beachings." She cited the PMMSN training received by BFAR officers in Bataan during Tuesday's mass beaching. She has asked the government to release funds for marine mammal studies.The two adults had damaged eardrums, Alberto Venturina, the provincial veterinarian, said. "Dolphins with injured eardrums become disoriented, cannot dive for food and are too weak to swim and just flow with the current. If it's a sick leader, the animal needs to be identified and taken out of sight of the rest of the pod so the healthy dolphins could be prodded back to sea," he added."The two animals were identified as melon-headed dolphins, weighing about 250 to 300 kilograms (550 to 660 pounds)," explained Venturina, adding "the third dolphin was only a month old and measured barely a meter long. Its gender had not yet been determined."According to Nelson Bien, head of the Fisheries Resource and Management Division of BFAR Region III, a necropsy by BFAR, the provincial veterinarian, and veterinarians from the Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport has traced the cause of their death to drowning. The marine doctors have determined that the marine mammals might have drowned after failing to extricate themselves from the fishing nets or "baklad," explained Dr. Mundita Lim, director of the Protected Areas and Wildlife Bureau (PAWB) of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). “There were no injuries to their ears, like visible lesions, but the possibility of an acoustic problem or trauma is still there,” Dr Lim explained, saying, "more tests, like analysis of tissue samples and MRI tests will have to be done to see if there were other injuries to the animals not visible externally."They are sending tissue samples to the University of Philippines in Los Baños, Laguna for analysis. “If it was something like climate change, then it would be a bigger environmental problem,” Lim added.A fourth and pregnant one was also found dead in the village of Tortugas in the town of Balanga, Bataan, said Bien, saying they were investigating the incident and would conduct a “water quality and water parameter test” to determine why the dolphins beached to shallow waters. The condition of melon-headed whale found at Talisay River and taken to Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport has improved amid forced feeding and treatment of its 2 wounds, said Nilo Ramoso, Biologist III, Pawikan Conservation Project.Dr. Westly Rosario, BFAR Center chief in Dagupan City, has reported that BFAR personnel were also investigating a “problem in the water, probably chemical pollution,” to explain why the dolphins beached and sought shelter in the shallow waters. The dolphins have faced the same direction and their blowholes above water, they seemed to be avoiding something. “The dolphins were behaving in the same way, they have the same action. People were trying to drive them back into the sea but they refused. There could be chemical pollution somewhere which they were avoiding,” Rosario explained.Dolphins' disorientation is sometimes caused by the changes in earth's magnetic field “that cause the dolphins’ navigational mechanisms to go haywire,” Dr. Edgardo Gomez, professor emeritus of the University of the Philippines Marine Science Institute, said, adding that "it could also be chemicals in the water that affected the dolphins, although this should be proven by water tests." Philippine marine biologist Rizza Salinas said a possible cause for the stranding of large pods of distressed whales is that there could have been illegal dynamite fishing in the area.“This is very strange. What is also unusual is they appeared disoriented. I am on my way to Bataan on board BFAR’s patrol vessel. We will look into the situation. Our patrol boats are also on their way to the area. We are also getting experts on stranding," said BFAR director Malcolm Sarmiento Jr. Sarmiento, explaining that the highest number of stranded dolphins recorded by the BFAR was only 20 to 30. "It's something unusual. It's the first time that such a large pod has entered Manila Bay, and is acting strangely," Sarmiento added."Most strandings are caused by seaquakes, heat wave or disturbances at sea. Such disturbances affect the pressure underwater, which subsequently affects the dolphins’ eardrums and sense of balance, leading to their "disorientation." The creatures then will avoid diving in deeper parts of the ocean and will swim to shallow areas. They came from the north and were headed towards the South China Sea," Sarmiento explained, adding that the unusual occurrence may have also been caused when the pod could have been following a sick or injured leader.Sarmiento has appealed to the public not to inflict harm on the dolphins, which are considered threatened species. "Please do not harm the dolphins because they are already endangered. The authorities should also prevent the people who want to inflict harm on the creatures. They should be arrested, if needed." Melon-head dolphins are considered threatened species — meaning they are likely to become endangered in the future. "At around 12 noon, the dolphins were finally guided to the open seas, but residents in Hermosa near Mariveles were surprised to see the dolphins near their shoreline, but around 4:30 pm, all the dolphins have left the shoreline and swam towards into deeper waters," said Governor Garcia."The dolphins swam parallel back to Abucay, Hermosa, and Manila Bay before they were eventually herded farther offshore. There are theories that this phenomenon was a result of the Monday night lunar eclipse. The Fisheries Bureau will know after their tests,” Garcia added. Having suspected the dolphins’ habitat must have been disrupted, forcing them to flee and seek refuge in shallow waters, Senate of the Philippines Majority Leader, Juan Miguel Zubiri on Tuesday asked experts to probe the cause of the sudden appearance of more than 300 electra dolphins near the shores of Pilar town in Bataan province Tuesday morning.Senator Zubiri wanted the experts to examine the possibility that an earthquake study, involving an undersea experiment using blasting in the South China Sea by the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (L-DEO) - a collaborator of Columbia University - caused the abnormal behavior of the small whales.Citing an International Union for Conservation of Nature research concluding that the melon-headed whales may have been distracted by the South China Sea study, forcing the dolphins to wander in the shallow waters, Senator Zubiri said that “the earthquake study is a sea floor investigation project in the exclusive economic zone that includes Taiwan, China, Japan and the Philippines for its earthquake research. On top of saving stranded dolphins, we should find the cause for the tragedy in order to avoid them in the future and to be prepared when it occurs again," he explained.But according to Erlinton Olavare, Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) science research specialist, “no significant event was recorded by their stations in Bolinao, Sta. Cruz and Lubag, near Pilar at the time the dolphins were stranded Tuesday."Department of Environment and Natural Resources Secretary Jose L. Atienza, Jr. said Bataan Gov. Enrique “Tet” Garcia on Wednesday confirmed there was dynamite fishing in his province. “I asked him [Garcia] and he confirmed it. He also said he was battling this illegal activity,” said Atienza. “The causes of the acoustic trauma could have been sound waves caused by dynamite fishing or sounds emitted by passing ships or seaquakes,” Gov. Garcia said. "Dolphins are a 'cohesive' group and that they follow where their leader takes them. If the leader of the dolphins was sick, then the animal could have committed a “navigational error” and led the rest of the group to shore," said the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society (WDCS)."The pod of melon-headed whales (dolphins) on Manila Bay were injured by a rather nasty group of more than 120 undersea earthquakes. The swarm started with a small magnitude-4.5 event on December 21, 2008. Things got red-hot on January 3, 2009 when a magnitude-7.6 event erupted near the water’s edge on Papua Island in Indonesia, 700 miles southeast of Davao City in Mindanao. The 7.6 magnitude quake was followed by more than 120 major aftershocks each one capable by itself of inflicting injury on a pod of dolphins," said Capt. David Williams, a retired marine mammal researcher, a commercial sea captain for 40 years and active whale conservationist. Capt. Williams explained that whales and dolphins have small air sacs (pterygoid sinuses) that surround each inner ear and help then sense sound direction underwater. A damaged pterygoid air sac results in the loosing of echonavigation and echolocation. "In summary, my Seaquake Theory indicates that barotrauma, as a result of exposure to potent earthquake-induced changes in ambient pressure, solves the centuries-old mystery of why whales and dolphins mass-strand on beaches around the world," Capt. Williams concluded.An explosive blast and explosive decompression create a pressure wave that can induce barotrauma. The difference in pressure between internal organs and the outer surface of the body causes injuries to internal organs that contain gas, such as the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and ear.According to the Natural History Museum experts, whale and dolphins can become confused, mis-read the Earth's magnetic fields, fear certain sounds and get lost. Since 1913, it has investigated all strandings, more than 11,000 so far, and it runs the UK Whale and Dolphin Stranding Scheme. New Zealand's Project Jonah has claimed that the largest recorded beach stranding was in 1918 when 1,000 pilot whales were stranded on New Zealand's Chatham Islands. The last mass beaching in the Philippines was in 1956 when around 12 sperm whales were stranded in a coastal area in Capiz, amid at least 10 yearly strandings that happened in the country involving only one or two animals that were either sick or dying.Last January this year, Filipino fishermen have also rescued an endangered sea cow. The fishermen aided the beached sea cow to the deep sea, according to the Worldwide Fund for Nature.The Melon-headed whale (Peponocephala electra; many-toothed blackfish and electra dolphin) is a cetacean of the oceanic dolphin family (Delphinidae). As small members of the dolphingroup, it is closely related to the Pygmy Killer Whale and Pilot Whale, and collectively these dolphin species are known by the common name blackfish.The tender mammal can grow up to 2.7 meters (9 feet) and weigh as much as 210 kilograms (460pounds). With black triangular “mask” on its face, it appears dark gray to black in color, has no discernible beak and its head is shaped like a rounded melon, thus the name. Its primary diet is squid and fish. The Melon-headed whale lives well off-shore in all the world's tropical and sub-tropical oceans. At the northern fringes of its range it may also be found in the warm currents of temperate waters. Ordinarily, however, it is found beyond the continental shelf between 20° S and 20° N. The Melon-headed whale is widespread throughout the world's tropical waters, although not often seen by humans on account of its preference for deep water. It has been found in Ireland, Hawaii and Cebu, in the Philippines.As social species, they are covered by the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 in the United States. In July 2004, between 150 and 200 melon-headed whales occupied the shallow waters of Kauai island in Hawaii for over 28 hours, after which, they were rescued and guided to deeper water. This incident may have been related to nearby United States Navy sonar exercise. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) which includes the melon-headed whales in its Red List of threatened species said that the number of whales involved in mass stranding had increased in the last 30 years."The melon-headed whales are likely to be “vulnerable” to loud sounds, such as those generated by navy sonar and seismic exploration. Evidence from stranded whales also has indicated that they may have died after swallowing plastic items. It has been predicted that the whales will be affected by global climate change, but the impact is still unclear," the IUCN explained.According to this years edition of the World Wealth Report conducted by Merrill Lynch and Capgemini, the number of millionaires worldwide increased by 600,000 to 8.3m in 2004. The report defines a millionaire as an individual who has assets worth more than $1m excluding their primary residence.The combined wealth of all these high net worth individuals (HNWI's) exceeds $30 trillion. At a regional level, Australia, India, Singapore, and Hong Kong were the strongest performers - Australia added 47 new millionaires a day throughout 2004, whilst India added almost 25 a day.The following is a regional breakdown:North America: Number of millionaires grew by 9.7%; total wealth grew 10.2%.Asia-Pacific: Number of millionaires grew by 8.2%; total wealth grew 8.5%.Europe: Number of millionaires grew by 4.1%; total wealth grew 3.7%.Latin America: Number of millionaires grew by 6.3%; total wealth grew 7.9%.Middle East: Number of millionaires grew by 9.5%; total wealth grew 28.9%.WHP Holdings Corp., the parent company of White Hen Pantry, has been acquired by Tokyo based Seven & I Holdings Co. for $35 million from New York investment firm, Angelo, Gordon & Co. White Hen has previously declared bankruptcy. Seven & I is the owner and operator of the 7-Eleven convenience store chain. This is the largest buyout for the 7-Eleven brand in two decades and signals a continuance of the expansion Seven & I has pursued in recent years. "This acquisition is a strategic fit for 7-Eleven and enhances market presence in the Chicagoland area," said 7-Eleven Inc. President and Chief Executive Joseph DePinto. The addition of White Hen stores will allow the company to increase their presence in greater Boston (55 stores) and metropolitan Chicago (206 stores) bringing their North American store count to over 7,100.73,000 United Auto Workers (UAW) union members launched a nationwide strike today against General Motors (GM), the largest auto manufacturer in the United States.UAW President Ron Gettelfinger said GM would need to meet pay, health care, and job security issues. Gettelfinge said, "This is nothing we wanted...No one benefits in a strike. But there comes a point where someone can push you off a cliff. That's what happened here."The strike was officially launched at 11 a.m. EDT (UTC-4) today.Negotiations were reportedly going to occur again this afternoon, but there have been no reports of any negotiating going on from either side.80 facilities in 30 different states closed today because of the strike.CNN reports that GM facilities in Mexico and Canada may close soon, too. The vice president of global vehicle forecasts for CSM Worldwide, Michael Robinet, said today that dealerships in the US likely won't feel the effects of the strike for several weeks.A statement from GM today said, "We are disappointed in the UAW's decision to call a national strike. The bargaining involved complex, difficult issues that affect the job security of our U.S. work force, and the long-term viability of the company. We are fully committed to working with the UAW to develop solutions together to address the competitive challenges facing General Motors. We will continue focusing our efforts on reaching an agreement as soon as possible." If the strike continues, UAW strike funds will supply each striker with US$200 a month and medical coverage.Total S.A., a French oil company has fired 900 contract workers at Lindsey Oil Refinery in North Killingholme, North Lincolnshire, England in response to a wildcat strike which took place at the facility this week. Total is calling the strike "illegal" and "unofficial"; the oil workers, meanwhile, accuse Total of having broken an agreement not to cut jobs by giving 51 workers redundancy. Total claims no such agreement exists. The workers were employed by Jacobs Engineering Group Inc., a contractor at the site, who are constructing a new hydro-desulfurization unit."Total can confirm, with regret, that our contractors have now started the process of ending the current employment contracts for their workforce", the company said in a statement e-mailed to the media.Workers were informed of the termination decision on Thursday and will have until Monday, June 22, to re-apply for their former jobs.The strike at Lindsey this week sparked sympathy strikes by workers in energy and the chemical industry around the United Kingdom, which draws extensive revenues from North Sea oil. Attempts by the UK government-sponsored Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service to resolve the dispute between Total and the Lindsey workers failed. Trade union Unite said that it was "extremely concerned about the ramifications" of the firings, while GMB urged both sides to return to the discussion table. Total has made an end to the strike a precondition of a resumption of negotiations; meanwhile, the Lindsey workers' demands include a withdrawal of the 51 redundancies, an end to overtime, and sharing out of the remaining work at the construction project without layoffs.Lindsey was the site of labor strife earlier in the year, with a week long strike in February brought about over employees' protests at foreign labor being brought to the refinery to undercut British workers' wages. IREM, an Italian construction company working at the site, has made heavy use of the Posted Workers Directive, which as interpreted by the European Court of Justice allows companies to make use of foreign labor from within the EU in one country while paying them only the minimum wage and offering only the coverages and benefits applicable in the employees' home countries.The plant, which refines 221,000 barrels of oil each day, will remain at full capacity.According to its annual report, Total had a 2008 net income of €13.9 billion. Since the firings were announced, shares of Total have gone up in price 0.94% to €39.315 in morning trading.Marvin Schur, a 93-year-old man from Bay City, Michigan has died after the electric company limited his electric use due to his failure to pay over US$1,000 in past-due payments.Bay City Electric Light & Power installed a power-limiting device on his home on January 13. The device would limit the amount of power the resident uses and would essentially shut it off if that limit is reached, or if the resident fails to pay the outstanding bill within 10 days of installation. In order for the electricity to be turned back on, the limiter must be reset by pushing a button.Bay City power says that a warning, indicating that the power was to be turned off and a limiter installed, had been placed on Schur's front door. Despite that, the company says that they are now "looking at our website and possibly doing an automated phone message. We obviously need to get the word out."The autopsy performed on Schur's body concluded that he had died "a slow, painful death" caused by hypothermia. Dr. Kanu Virani, who performed the autopsy, explained: "Hypothermia shuts the whole system down, slowly. It's not easy to die from hypothermia without first realizing your fingers and toes feel like they're burning."It was less than 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 Centigrade) in Schur's home when neighbors found Schur dead on January 17. Virani commented that it was his first time performing an autopsy on a body in which "the person froze to death indoors.""His furnace was not running - the insides of his windows were full of ice the morning we found him," said George A. Pauwels Jr., who was with his wife when they found Schur's body.In Michigan it is illegal for a utility company to disconnect power to any home between November 1 and March 31 when a resident is over the age of 65. Limiters are also not supposed to be used during that time frame. However, municipally-owned electric utilities like the one in Bay City, are not regulated by the state. The Michigan state attorney general's office has launched an investigation into the incident.Residents around Schur's home say he was hard of hearing, and the city states that the device's function and operation were never explained to him. When word of the story got around, people from all over the United States began to call the city in anger."I've taken calls from Canada, Massachusetts, Texas, New York, Alabama - and that's just the ones I can think of off the top of my head," said Melody Roth of the city's administrative office, who also added that people from all over are "calling all city departments, not just our office."Schur has no known children, and his wife had died several years prior to the incident.In a free trade zone in Antalya, Turkey, 80 women workers of FMC Novamed are in strike for almost a year now, since September 26th, 2006. They allege not only low wages but also severe abuses on FMC's part. Novamed, founded in 2001, is a factory managed by Turkish capitalists and located in the free trade zone in Antalya, Turkey. 95% of its workers are women. It is owned by Fresenius Medical Care (FMC), which is an international corporation with its headquarters in Germany. With factories in 12 countries and a total of 100,000 workers, FMC is a monopoly in the market of dialysis products.To promote The Simpsons Movie that will be released July 26, 2007, over a dozen 7-Elevens in the United States have been transformed into Kwik-E-Marts, the grocery store from the popular TV series. Most of the other 7-Eleven stores will also sell products with brands reminding of The Simpsons, such as Buzz Cola, Krustyo's cereal, squishees, and Bart Simpson's favourite comic book Radioactive Man, but not Duff Beer, Homer's favourite drink.Inside the outlets are employees dressed like Simpsons characters such as Marge, Homer and Bart Simpson.In the 20th Century Fox series, the Springfield Kwik-E-Mart is run by Apu Nahasapeemapetilon, a stereotypical Indian shopkeeper who always greets his customers with "Thank you, come again", lives for his store but also changes the expiration dates on Kwik-E-Mart products.The stores that received the make-over are located in:Burbank, CAChicago, ILDallas, TXDenver, COLake Buena Vista, FL/Orlando, FLLas Vegas, NV/Henderson, NVLos Angeles, CANew York City, NYOrlando, FLSan Francisco, CA/Mountain View, CASeattle, WAVancouver, BC/Coquitlam, BCWashington, DC/Bladensburg, MDAt the Sellafield reprocessing plant, a leak in the process was spotted on April 19. The leak did not cause danger to people or the environment but it disturbed the normal operation of the plant.Workers at the plant noticed a discrepancy in the amount of material being reprocessed that enters pipes that lead to a set of centrifuges and the amount of material actually arriving at the centrifuges.  They used remote cameras to find the crack where the material was escaping; over twenty tonnes have leaked into a steel lined chamber.The material, consisting of mostly uranium and some plutonium dissolved in nitric acid, would have been reprocessed in the centrifuges. The large stainless steel chamber that now contains the spilled material is too dangerous to enter due to radioactivity, though it poses no danger to those inside or outside the plant.The plant has been shut down pending repairs.On Monday, an Air France Airbus A380, operating as Air France Flight 007, collided with a Comair Bombardier CRJ-700, operating as Comair flight 553/Delta Connection flight 6293 in Delta Connection livery, on a taxiway at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City. The A380 had 520 people onboard, and the smaller plane had 66.The Comair jet had just arrived from Boston Logan International Airport, and was stopped on the tarmac, awaiting a gate to offload passengers. The A380 was preparing to depart for Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport, and was taxiing along a taxiway when its wingtip struck the tail of the other plane. The impact spun the CRJ around 90 degrees and resulted in some damage to both planes.A passenger on board the A380 said that "It really felt just like a speedbump or like hitting a pothole—a jolt—but it didn't feel right [it felt] like that shouldn't be happening."LiveATC.net captured the recording of the flight deck and ground control communications before and after the incident. In the recording, one can hear controllers giving taxi instructions to the Air France plane, then later a controller calling for emergency personnel to the intersection of taxiways Alpha and Mike.The National Transportation Safety Board plans to investigate the incident, and will study the flight recorders, air traffic control recordings, and data from radar on the ground.The Airbus A380, the world's largest passenger plane, was set to land in the United States of America on Monday after a test flight. One of the A380s is flying from Frankfurt to Chicago via New York; the airplane will be carrying about 500 people.It is being billed as the first time it has carried a near-normal number of passengers, though most will be staff of Airbus and German airline Lufthansa.A second A380 is also travelling to the U.S. on Monday, but without passengers. This will be branded as a Qantas flight and fly from Frankfurt to Los Angeles LAX airport. The first leg of the flight going towards New York will be travelling under a Lufthansa flight number, and is due to arrive at New York's John F. Kennedy airport at 12:30 EST (16:30 UTC).The test flights are being used to monitor everything from how easily the plane docks at the terminal gate to the way the in-flight dining and entertainment services work. Deliveries to Singapore Airlines, its launch customer, are not due until October - two years late.Delays of the production of the A380 have cost Airbus more than 6 billion dollars. Airbus has warned there could be additional charges to come.These monetary problems have led to a recently-announced restructuring program at Airbus, called Power8, in which 10,000 jobs go and several factories will be sold to Airbus partners. France will lose 4,300 jobs, followed by Germany having a loss of 3,700 jobs, while the United Kingdom and Spain will see 1,600 and 400 jobs cut respectively.The Belgian government has announced that it will give up to 150 million € (US$ 199 million) in aid to help sub-contractors which supply Airbus and employ thousands of workers.Two weeks ago, the government of Brazil threatened to break the patent on the most widely-prescribed AIDS medication, Keletra (produced by Abbott Labs), if the makers would not comply with the government's requests. After holding its ground during the days leading up to the deadline set by Brazilian authorities, Abbot Labs has finally reached an agreement with the Brazilian government and is lowering its prices to levels deemed appropriate by the government of Brazil. Brazilian law allows Brazil to break patents on medicines when there is a "risk to public health". After determining that the current prices were so exorbitant that they posed a significant risk to public health, the Brazilian government-owned chemical laboratories could begin manufacturing the drug themselves. Brazil spent $107 million producing the drug this past year, and stated that the new financial deal will save the government $18 million next year, and $259 million over the next six years.Brazilian citizens receive free AIDS medication, paid for by the government. This bulk purchasing arrangement allows Brazilian citizens to receive the most affordable healthcare in the developed world.An investigation into Scientology and Tom Cruise which was set to air this past Friday on the American television program 20/20 was removed from broadcast by ABC News. This is not the first time that ABC News has pulled an investigation into Scientology from airing on 20/20. A press release published by ABC on Thursday announced the scheduled airing of the investigation. It described the program as "an in-depth look" by Elizabeth Vargas into the recent report on Tom Cruise and Scientology by journalist Maureen Orth for Vanity Fair in its October 2012 publication.An analysis of the situation by Editor-in-Chief Tony Ortega of The Village Voice pointed out that in 2008, actor and former Scientologist Jason Beghe was interviewed by Elizabeth Vargas after he had flown to New York. Beghe recounted to Vargas his experiences within Scientology and his decision to cease activity in the organization. However, this interview by Vargas was never shown on ABC. Ortega noted, "Then, Friday night, ABC caved again, and this time much more publicly." He highlighted a television screenshot which displays clearly the description given by ABC for the 20/20 program scheduled for Friday: "20/20. New. 'Lovestyles of the Rich and Famous; The Camera Never Lies' Journalist Maureen Orth discusses her recent article in Vanity Fair on Scientology and actor Tom Cruise; celebrity".According to Ortega, this was to be a significant investigation into Scientology. It was going to cover topics including the recent divorce of actress Katie Holmes from Tom Cruise, the role of minors within the Scientology organization, material on Scientology's chief David Miscavige, and controversy regarding the elite Scientology group known as the Sea Org. Ortega was himself interviewed as part of the investigation, which he was told would comprise an hour-long broadcast. In addition to Ortega, former Scientologists Marc Headley and his wife Claire were interviewed by ABC News for the 20/20 piece which they were informed would be complemented by a news segment on Nightline. Claire told the camera of her two mandatory abortions she experienced while a member of the Sea Org in Scientology; Ortega reported that this interview moved the ABC television crew to tears.Marc Headley confirmed that he had learned of the ABC News decision. In a post Friday to a legal fund webpage he set up to support his family with litigation costs from Scientology, he commented: "We just got word that both ABC 20/20 & Nightline have pulled the TV shows that were going to air tonight. It appears that someone at OSA is trying to sandbag the downstats over the next few weeks." OSA is an abbreviation for the Office of Special Affairs — a department within Scientology which has been compared to an intelligence agency that handles legal affairs and public relations. Downstat refers to a negative impact on statistics gathered by Scientology members of the Sea Org due to critical investigations of the organization by the media.The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has started construction of its so called 'green city' which will be named Masdar City. It is a city which is designed to have no carbon emissions, cars, or waste. It will cost $22 billion (£11 billion) and take eight years to make. It will be able to hold a population of 50,000 people and 1,500 businesses. The city will cover 1,483 acres (6.00 km²).The city was designed by Foster and Partners, a British company.“No one has ever built a zero-carbon city before. Nor one producing zero waste or fully powered by renewable energy. Masdar City will accomplish all three,” said Sultan Al Jaber.The city will have a personal electrical power supply mainly from two renewable energy sources: wind turbines and solar panels. Water will be provided through a solar-powered desalination plant and air conditioning will be provided naturally from wind towers.It is planned to save more than $2 billion in oil over the next 25 years along with creating more than 70 000 jobs.The immense project will be supported by a company created for it called 'Masdar Initiative', which will develop and commercialise clean energy technologies. It will also be supported by the WWF, a global conservation charity, and it is hoped that international joint ventures will bring in more money.Some people fear that Masdar will become a domain for the luxury development of the rich, because the city is located by Abu Dhabi and Abu Dhabi International Airport.Dr Al Jaber said, “We are often asked why we are setting our goal so high. Our answer is because someone must... Someone must push the envelope to create the solution that we, as a global community, so urgently require.”An explosion occurred at the Rafael Arms Development Authority in Kiryat Bialik, Israel today.At least six people have been injured including police officers and medics. Rescue services say the injuries range from "moderate" to "light."The explosion is not believed to be terror related. "We are not talking about a suicide attack. It is a work accident. We don't know exactly what, a chemical that blew up in a bottle," said Moshe Weizman, a regional police spokesman.Rafael makes electronic warfare systems, missiles and tank armor.Indonesian budget airline Adam Air has been given a three-week ultimatum by the authorities to prove its economic stability or its license will be revoked, said Transportation Minister Jusman Djamal. This is because major financial difficulties have become apparent today, with two major shareholders pulling out of the company.PT Global Transport Service (GTS) and Bright Star Perkasa, who between them own a 50% stake in the company, have decided to sell back all their shares to their original owners, who control the other 50%. These are the family of founder Adam Suherman and Sandra Ang. The companies invested in the airline last year, when the company was struggling after the New Year's Day disappearance of Adam Air Flight 574 with 102 on board. The Boeing 737 (B737) was ultimately determined to have crashed into the sea near Sulawesi, and all on board are presumed dead. Shortly afterwards, Adam Air Flight 172, another B737, snapped in half during a hard landing, but held together preventing fatalities. These were not the first serious accidents for the company, as in February 2006 Flight 782 became lost for several hours after navigation systems failed and the plane entered a radar blackspot, forcing a subsequent emergency landing many miles from the intended route. The given reasons for the withdrawal are a lack of improvement in safety and financial irregularities.The company has now also defaulted on debt payments to aircraft lease firms, resulting in 12 of their 22 planes being seized, and has cut the number of routes served from 52 to 12. The remaining ten planes are also in default and at risk of seizure. Adam Air owes leasing companies US$14 million compared to free capital of $4.8 million of free capital. They have agreed to buy back shares gradually for $11 million (100 billion rupiah), $6 million less than the investment firms paid for them. The cost difference will be borne by Harry Tanoesoedibyo's family, the founder of PT Bhakti Investama, of which GTS is a wholly owned subsidiary. The companies have also lost 157 billion rupiah worth of investment in the company since the April 2007 deal. 9,325 Rupiah are currently worth US$1.GTS director Gustiono Kustianto said that "Since we joined, our priority has been safety" but that Adam Air's management had been unresponsive to pressure from the new investors to improve its poor record. Last weeek another company B737 shot off the runway during landing, damaging the plane and injuring five.Lawyer Marx Andryan of Hotman Paris Hutapea, representing the investment firms, said they have documents proving the company has not adequatly seen to pilot recruitment, maintenance and insurance.Suherman said "We have defaulted and the investors have done nothing about it. We'll continue to operate as long as we have planes," adding that there are no current plans to declare bankruptcy."Out of 22 planes, now we only have 10 because 12 of them have been declared in default. The other 10 have been declared in default as well, but I'm still trying to work out a way to restructure the payments," he told Reuters. He went on to say that a cash injection is required, and that "There is a possibility starting on March 21 Adam Air will temporarily cease operations until there is a decision from the shareholders regarding the insurance premium."The passenger numbers for Indonesian budget airline Adam Air have increased dramatically, following a slump after the loss of Adam Air Flight 574 on New Year's Day.Adam Air usually carries 450,000 - 600,000 passengers a month, but lost about 30 percent of those immediately following the crash. Adam Air corporate communications head Danke Dradjat explained the situation during a telephone conversation with reporters from The Jakarta Post. "There was a slowdown in the month following the crash, but it was brief and we managed to get back our passengers over the following three months, with a gradual increase of ten percent per month... There wasn't any special campaign to get the passengers back. We only emphasized the fact that our aircraft were maintained and serviced by the same technicians as Garuda Indonesia," he said. Garuda is Indonesia's state-owned airline.Adam Air currently operates services to as many as 150 destinations every day, including international services to Singapore and Malaysia. Danke, who defended Adam Air by pointing out that major airlines also suffer accidents, said he expects passenger numbers to continue increasing. "We're expecting up to a 30 percent increase in passengers in the seven days before and after the Idul Fitri festivities." According to Danke, Idul Fitri is one of three periods over which passenger numbers hit peak levels, the others being Christmas and New Year.US aircraft manufacturer Adam Aircraft have received US$105 million in funding for two aircraft that they currently produce, namely the Adam A500 and the Adam A700 AdamJet. Both are carbon-bodied six-seat civil utility aircraft. The A500 is piston-engined and has a Push-pull configuration and the A700 is of a new variety of aircraft known as very light jets (VLJs).A significant proportion of the money came from a senior secured credit facility from Morgan Stanley Senior Funding Inc. Adam Aircraft say that the money will be used to accelerate the production of the A500 and to move the A700 through the certification process with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).Founder and CEO of Adam Aircraft Rick Adam said that investors were given confidence by the company's order backlog, currently valued at around $800 million. Earlier this month, China's Hainan Zhong Hang Tai General Aviation Airlines expressed their confidence in the uncertified A700 when they announced that they had placed an order for 50 of the new aircraft. They say that they chose the A700 because it had the largest cabin space of any VLJ, with company CEO Jason Fan adding that he thought the "innovative twin-tail design remind(s) people of a Formula 1 race car." It is an expensive purchase, as the Chinese government charges a 21% import tax on new aircraft.Rick Adam said of the new funds "this financing allows Adam Aircraft to aggressively pursue our product development and production growth plans,".Adam Aircraft say that the A700 is presently undergoing flight tests and development processes. The company hopes to certify it with the FAA in 2008.Adam Aircraft Industries has laid off 300 members of its 800-strong workforce and suspended operations at their plant in Ogden, Utah. The moves come as the result of unexpected financial difficulties.In addition, Adam is transferring much of its work at Pueblo, Colorado to its headquarters at Centennial. The only operations that are to continue in Pueblo is machine shop work. In addition to these three locations, Adam had previously been considering the possibility of a plant at New Mexico.Fifty employees were laid off at the Ogden facility, 170 in Pueblo and 80 in Centennial. Ogdon is planned to remain inoperational for six months. Laid off workers may be able to obtain new positions within the company when production resumes.Adam Aircraft are producing two carbon composite aircraft: the Adam A500 twin-engine piston aircraft, which is certified and due to enter full production soon, and the Adam A700 very light jet, which is undergoing US federal certification processes.Adam Aircraft spokesperson Shelly Simi said that the company is looking for between US$75 million and $100 million, and that they are in talks with Citibank to secure these funds.Adam secured $93 million in August 2006, and $105 million in June 2007. The A500 is valued at $1.2 million and the A700 at $2.5 million. Seventeen A500s have been manufactured, of which seven have been delivered to customers. The backlog of orders totals around $1 billion.Adam Aircraft President Duncan Koerbel released a statement that said To provide for our future growth, we must be strategic in our focus by managing current cash expenditures to ensure adequate time to secure financing for the long term. We're off to a good start in this effort with assistance from our partner, Citibank, but we need to be able to provide them with sufficient time working with potential investors to secure long term financing."Adobe Systems, Inc. announced today that they will acquire Macromedia, Inc. for an estimated $3.4 billion in stock. Bruce Chizen, the chief executive officer of Adobe said that "Customers are calling for integrated software solutions that enable them to create, manage and deliver a wide range of compelling content and applications -- from documents and images to audio and video.  By combining our powerful development, authoring and collaboration software -- along with the complementary functionality of PDF and Flash -- Adobe has the opportunity to bring this vision to life with an industry-defining technology platform."The acquisition is expected to close in the fall, subject to approval by the stockholders of both companies and regulatory approvals. Under the terms of the agreement holders of Macromedia stock will receive 0.69 shares of Adobe stock for every share of Macromedia stock. Macromedia stockholders are expected to own approximately 18 percent of the combined company.The two companies have in the past been rivals and some of their products compete in similar niches.  For example, both Adobe Photoshop and Macromedia Fireworks are graphics editing programs, and both Adobe GoLive and Macromedia Dreamweaver are webpage design applications.In the combined company, the current CEO of Adobe, Chizen will continue as CEO. Stephen Elop, president and CEO of Macromedia, will become president of worldwide field operations.  The combined company will keep the name "Adobe", and will focus on integration and growth.  Additional details are available from Adobe Investor Relations.According to the payroll services company ADP, United States private sector employers cut 742,000 jobs in in March. The figures were almost 80,000 more than the average analyst prediction of 663,000 losses. This is the largest monthly payroll decline since January 2001, when the ADP began tracking job activity.ADP also updated its job loss statistics for February, from 697,000 to 706,000."The sharp employment declines among medium- and small-size businesses indicate that the recession continues to spread aggressively beyond manufacturing and housing-related activities to almost every area of the economy," said Joel Prakken, the chairman of the company that conducts the ADP survey, Macroeconomic Advisors LLC."Despite some recent indications that stock prices, consumer spending, and housing activity may be bottoming out, employment, which usually trails overall economic activity, is likely to remain very weak for at least several more months," he added.The US Labor Department's report for employment statistics for March is due to be out on Friday. Analysts predicted that the department will announce the unemployment rate increased to 8.5% with 660,000 jobs eliminated in March. However, the bad news from ADP has prompted some to think that the current forecasts are too optimistic.Irish national airline Aer Lingus have purchased 12 new long-haul Airbus aircraft as a means of modernising it's long-haul fleet and improving it's transatlantic network.Under the agreement, Aer Lingus Group PLC said it will receive six new A330-300E aircraft from 2009 to 2011, then between 2014 and 2016 it will take delivery of six new A350 XWB (Extra Wide Body) aircraft, a new design currently under development by Airbus. Aer Lingus also have options of six more A350s to exercise by 2018.Aer Lingus already operates an all-Airbus fleet consisting of 30 short-haul aircraft( 24 A320s and 6 A321s) and eight long-haul A330s, and had made the purchase of new long-haul airliners a top priority since the formerly state-owned company was floated on British and Irish stock markets in September 2006. The airline had approached Airbus rival Boeing regarding a potential deal for their new 787 aircraft, but Aer Lingus Chief Executive Dermot Mannion stated that he believed the Airbus aircraft were “better on fuel and better on range” than the 787. He also said that, although the aircraft have a catalogue value of €1.78 billion (US$2.4 billion), Airbus had offered them at an "exceptional discounts” on them. Some of the A330s will be replaced by the new aircraft.As well as new routes to the US, Mannion stated that there was a possibility of routes elsewhere resulting from the new aircraft as well, saying, “We will prioritize the U.S. (but) we have an eye as to what's happening to the Far East and South Africa.” The airline already offers flights to New York, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Dubai, and recently launched 3 new U.S. routes to San Francisco, Orlando, and Washington.Aer Lingus shares on the Irish Stock Exchange fell 2.5 percent to €2.73 ($3.68) the day the deal was announced. It will fall through unless backed by shareholders.Aer Lingus rival Ryanair has been attempting to take over Aer Lingus since December, and if this bid is successful, the new aircraft may become redundant as Ryanair intends to end transatlantic services. However, the Irish government, which holds a 25 percent share in Aer Lingus, disapproves of the takeover, as do Aer Lingus employee-controlled trusts that hold more than 15 percent shares. Ryanair owns a 25 percent share in Aer Lingus. The takeover is also unlikely to receive regulatory approval from the European Union.Mannion said of the integration of the new aircraft "The A350 XWB fits in with our ambitious plans to expand existing routes and to open up new ones from our hub in Dublin. We already have an all Airbus fleet and the new aircraft will fit in seamlessly."File:Boeing787 model transparant.pngRussian flag carrier Aeroflot has negotiated the purchase of 22 new Boeing 787 Dreamliners, an aircraft Boeing currently has under development. The first jets will be delivered in 2014. The Dreamliner will be the first commercial jet to be manufactured mainly with carbon-fiber composites instead of the aluminium previously used.The deal was announced during a large business forum that President Vladimir Putin had set up to showcase his country's role in the international market. The deal was the centrepiece of the event.The sale is the result of a deal begun between Aeroflot and Chicago-based Boeing last year, but negotiations had stalled due to worsening relations between the US and Russia. Aeroflot has suffered as a result of the delay. If had the sale gone through last year, the aircraft would have been delivered by 2011.The aircraft have a pre-modification catalogue value of US$3.5 billion, although neither of the companies involved would reveal the actual agreement reached between the two firms.When asked whether the deal should be seen as a step towards a resolution of the rift between Russia and the US, Boeing Executive Vice President Scott Carson replied, "It represents a business relationship between our Company and Aeroflot, and I'm really proud of it,". Boeing has had a policy of Russian involvement dating back to the early 1990s. More recently, Boeing has entered into an agreement with Russian manufacturer Sukhoi for worldwide marketing and after-sales support for their regional aircraft, the Superjet, and have reached a deal with Kremlin-owned Unified Aircraft for general co-operation. They also have a Moscow design centre that has 1,400 employees and a 30-year contract for supply of titanium parts with Russia's VSMPO-Avisma, which Boeing estimates to be worth $18 million.It has been reported that the deal between Boeing and Aeroflot was revived after Boeing promised that technical assistance would be provided to Aeroflot for the new aircraft. Aeroflot's current fleet of Boeing and Airbus aircraft was built during the Soviet era. Aeroflot say that the deal does not affect plans to purchase new Airbuses at a later date for later delivery.Fans of the American hard rock band Aerosmith have launched legal action against the band in response to a late cancellation of a scheduled concert on the Hawaiian Island of Maui.Attorney Brandee Faria filed a class action suit in Hawaii Circuit Court on October 19.  The suit alleges that the band's cancellation cost fans between US$500,000 (€349,944) and $3 million (€2.1 million) in travel and accommodation costs, as well as other related expenses.The sold-out September 26 Maui concert - originally planned months before as the final show of a world tour that began in Brazil in April - was canceled by the band on the basis that they could not make it to the island in time after a September 24 concert in Chicago.  The Chicago concert, which attracted 18,000 people, was rescheduled at the last minute after the original September 10 concert date had been postponed due to illness.The band canceled the show at Maui's War Memorial Stadium, which was set to be attended by 9,000 people, and apologized to fans.  The band's management company, HK Management Inc., gave no initial reason when they canceled on September 20, but blamed logistical reasons by the next day. However, just days later, on September 29, the band traveled to the neighbor island of Oahu to play a corporate event in Honolulu for Toyota car dealers and private guests.  An audience of 6,000 people celebrated the 50th anniversary of the Japanese automobile manufacturer at the University of Hawaii, with Toyota paying $500,000 (€349,944) to hire the campus.  Aerosmith received $1 million (€700,000) to perform at the event.  Faria alleges that Aerosmith abandoned the scheduled public concert on Maui in favor of the more lucrative corporate event on Oahu."...Defendants simply canceled the only public performance by Aerosmith in favor of the larger Chicago venue and the lucrative, private concert for the Toyota car dealers," the complaint states.Local officials had hoped the concert would attract other big names to the island.Faria said that "I've had people contact me being out of pocket at much as $800 or $900," adding that if the cancellation is found to be deceptive ticket holders may be eligible for a minimum of $1,000 each. The complaint also says that those aged 62 or over should receive at least $5,000 each. Currently about a dozen ticket holders are  involved with the suit. If the action is approved by a judge, steps will be taken to contact everyone who purchased a ticket.In spite of the U.S. Government's "five pillar counternarcotics strategy" for combating narcotics in Afghanistan, approximately 140,000 hectares of poppies were planted in Afghanistan this year, according to the Associated Press. This would be an increase of about 40 percent from 2005. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime's Rapid Assessment Survey released last month indicates that poppy planting for 2006 increased in 13 provinces, decreased in only three and remained stable in 15.Afghan government officials are asking the drug lords to invest their illegally earned profits in Afghanistan, according to Helmand Gov. Mohammed Daud, the governor of the biggest opium-growing region. During a trip to the region by U.S. Ambassador Ronald Neumann, Daud said; "We as a government will provide them the opportunity to use their money for the national benefit."The narcotics trade currently accounts for 35 per cent of Afghanistan's income.Doug Wankel, a former Drug Enforcement Administration official who is point man for the U.S. counternarcotics initiative at the American Embassy in Kabul, says the opium industry is "financing terrorism. It's financing subversive activities. It's financing warlordism. ... And if it's a threat to the government of Afghanistan, it's a direct threat to the national security interests of the United States."The USA's "five pillar strategy" includes public information, alternative livelihoods, eradication, interdiction, and law enforcement/justice reform.A 39-nation coalition in Africa passed a declaration on Tuesday to ban cluster bombs in a nearly unanimous vote. The gathering in Lukasa, Zambia was the first meeting of the Cluster Munition Coalition (CMC) in Africa. "Africa is ready for Dublin," summarised Zambian delegate Robert Mtonga, referring to the upcoming May 19-30 meeting in Ireland to discuss a global ban on the weapons. "Too often Africa's voice is pushed to the margins in international decision-making. But in banning cluster bombs worldwide, a common African voice will speak volumes and win the day". Mtonga was critical of South Africa, the lone voice against Monday's decision and the continent's largest producer and stockpiler of cluster bombs, and called on the country to destroy its munitions and join the coalition to outlaw their use. Egypt, the only other African nation to produce the controversial weapons, voiced support for the ban. "Strong political will" was credited with the resolution, by CMC co-ordinator Thomas Nash in recognising the drive "to stop the proliferation of this outdated weapon". In a released statement the CMC said that 19 African countries, including South Africa, have endorsed the Wellington Declaration.  The Wellington Declaration is the basis for the upcoming negotiations at the Dublin Diplomatic Conference in Ireland in May.While countries such as Germany and the United Kingdom have tabled the idea of a "transition period" during which time cluster bombs would remain a legitimate weapon of war, the African delegation was resolutely against the idea, calling for an immediate ban.Cluster munitions are dropped from aircraft, opening in mid-air and releasing a large number of smaller explosives over a wide area. Writer Theodora Williams stated that their use usually results in "...the death and maiming of thousands of innocent civilians".There are currently 13 African nations that possess cluster bombs although Uganda has recently announced they are destroying their stockpiles. The weapons have been used in eight African conflicts in the past 35 years. In addition to Ethiopia, Morocco, Nigeria and the Sudan, other nations known to have used the weapons are the former Yugoslavia, Eritrea, France, Israel, the Netherlands, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Tajikistan, the United Kingdom and the United States. According to the San Francisco Chronicle, the United States, China, Russia, and Israel have resisted any ban on cluster bombs, arguing that they can be used in self-defense. The San Francisco Chronicle reported that the United States has lobbied allies to create loopholes in the upcoming Oslo treaty, to allow for the use of cluster bombs. Reuters reported that a U.S. official had stated that cluster bombs should not be banned if they are used responsibly in state conflicts.In October 2007, Uganda became the first African country to state it would destroy its cluster bomb stockpiles. Uganda has announced a pan-African meeting to take place after the Dublin meeting, which would seek to garner support for the signing of a treaty in Oslo set to take place in December 2008. The weapons have been used in eight African conflicts in the past 35 years.The CMC is an international network composed of over 250 civil society organizations in 60 countries, with the stated aim of protecting civilians from cluster munitions. Members of the CMC have been working to complete an international treaty to ban cluster munitions by 2008.At the February CMC committee meeting in New Zealand, only 82 of the 122 nations present endorsed a draft ban on the production, usage or storage of cluster bombs.Wednesday marked the 100th day since the beginning of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, and although the leaking well was recently capped, the estimated three million or more barrels of oil already in the Gulf of Mexico are still causing trouble for many residents of the Gulf coast.There are still many unanswered questions about the long-term impact of the spill, including how it has affected the environment and natural habitats of the Gulf as well as whether residents of the area will be able to return to their jobs and livelihoods now that the leak has been capped. US government officials say that, even after the oil well is permanently sealed, workers will still have a lot to do, including the removal of around 20 million feet (6.1 million metres) of containment boom. "I would characterize this as the first 100 days. There's a lot of work in front of us," said Rear Admiral Paul Zukunft of the US Coast Guard.Authorities will use submarines to assess damage underwater, while teams on the ground assess the shoreline. While removing oil from beaches is expected to be fairly straightforward, cleaning the marshlands will be particularly difficult, as boats are needed to maneuver through small channels and workers are unable to stand on solid ground. At least 638 miles (1,027 kilometres) of the Gulf coast have been hit by the oil.The government is focusing on both cleaning sensitive coastal regions and looking for underwater oil plumes, but is also probing into what may have been the largest accidental oil spill. The US Justice Department, as well as Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, are all investigating what contributed to the disaster. The Washington Post reported one team is looking into whether a close relationship between BP and government regulators played a role in the spill. The Post also said that Deepwater Horizon operator Transocean as well as oil services group Halliburton were being investigated.BP officials say that they will try to perform the "static kill" process on Monday, a process which involves pumping a thick mixture of mud and cement down into the cap currently stopping the leak. At the end of next week, one of two relief wells currently being drilled should reach the leaking well, and officials will then know if the static kill has worked. It is hoped that this "bottom kill" operation will be able to permanently seal the damaged well.Even though BP is close to sealing the oil reservoir, it still faces legal battles, economic struggles, and internal changes. On Tuesday, BP announced Tony Hayward would step down from his position as the company's chief executive. His replacement, American Bob Dudley, will be the first non-British CEO of the company.On Thursday, lawyers met at Boise, Idaho hearing to determine how around 200 various lawsuits against BP will play out. Depending on whether the suits can be consolidated, BP could be facing years of legal disputes. BP, Transocean, and Halliburton had already blamed each other for the disaster during a May hearing before the US Senate. Federal regulatory officials were criticized for allegedly taking bribes and not thoroughly inspecting the oil rig.The company also reported a quarterly loss of US$16.9 billion and said it has allocated US$32.2 billion to pay for the spill. BP has a US$20 billion fund to help make up for the massive losses of the Gulf fishing, oil, and tourism industries and will pay damages for each of the millions of barrels of oil lost in the disaster.BP says that it is the "responsible party" for cleaning up the spill because it owned the leaking well and had leased the Deepwater Horizon oil rig, but claims that it is not responsible for the entire spill.News Corp., the parent company of MySpace, announced Friday that Co-President Jason Hirschhorn has decided to leave the social networking website because he wishes to return to his home city of New York. MySpace is headquartered in Beverly Hills, California.MySpace was founded in 2003 by Tom Anderson and Chris DeWolfe and purchased for $580 million by News Corps. at the height of its popularity in 2005.  In recent years, however, MySpace has been losing out in monthly unique visitors to similar sites such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.  According to comScore, an Internet marketing research company that tracks website traffic, Facebook attracted 519 million unique visitors in April of this year, and MySpace just 111 million visitors.  In response, MySpace has been recently shifting its focus towards music, games, and videos, and plans to continue doing the same in the near future.Meanwhile, another failing social network, Bebo, was sold for less than $10 million by AOL to hedge fund firm Criterion Capital Partners this week. AOL acquired Bebo for $850 million in 2008. MySpace's reduced traffic and the departure of another executive have led industry insiders to draw comparisons between the two sites.In April 2009, DeWolfe stepped down as MySpace's Chief Executive Office (CEO). He was replaced by former Facebook Chief Revenue Officer Owen Van Natta, but Natta held on to that position for just nine months. In February 2010, Hirschhorn was promoted from his position as Chief Product Officer along with Chief Operating Officer Michael Jones to the position of co-president. The departure of Hurschhorn leaves Jones to continue on as sole president. MySpace have said they do not intend on replacing Hirschhorn.In the final quarter of 2010, airline Air Canada (TSX:AC.B) earnings rose to 134 million CAD, 42 cents per share, capping a sharp return to profitability in 2010.The year resulted in the company's highest-ever earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, and rent (EBITDAR) of $1.39 billion, 707 million more than the previous year. Operating income for fourth quarter was reported as $85 million, which compared very favourably with an $83 million loss in 2009.Only 21 months ago Air Canada was threatened with bankruptcy and using its financial weakness in negotiations with its employees, achieving status quo contracts. With labour contracts scheduled to end this month and next, the strong position of the airlines is expected to stiffen union resolve to share in the increased net revenues.Those revenues were helped by increasing numbers of passengers and reducing costs, as well as foreign exchange gains. International travel, especially to the Pacific region, led the rises. US travellers through the main Toronto hub more than doubled, indicating the increase in foreign air traffic to and through Canadian airports.Canadian airline Air Canada has said that it will be laying off 1,010 machinists seconded to work at the Aveos Fleet Performance aircraft maintenance company.The layoffs will take place in April and June, with 470 and 540 workers to be laid off in each month, respectively.  They will affect some 445 workers in Montreal, 345 in Winnipeg, and 220 in Vancouver; 195 layoffs are to be permanent and the other 815 temporary.The layoffs reflect reduced demand for maintenance of the Airbus A319 and A320 planes in Air Canada's fleet, according to the Canadian Press. Mitigation efforts by the company meant that there would be fewer workers permanently laid off, but at the cost of more temporary layoffs.A spokesman for Aveos, Michael Kun, commented that some of the people temporarily laid off could return to work by July. "We will be recalling them within eight months, starting in July," Kun said, as quoted by the Canadian Press.Air France has announced that it plans to launch its fifth daily flight on the Paris-Bucharest route on June 6. Air France currently flies from Paris (Charles de Gaulle) to Bucharest (Henri Coandă) and back four times a day, under a codesharing agreement with TAROM, Romania's largest airline. The extra flight is to be operated with an Airbus 318 aircraft, which has a capacity of 94 passengers.Air France will also adjust its Paris-Bucharest timetable so that possibilities for transfer at Paris Charles de Gaulle airport can be maximised. This would enable passengers flying from Bucharest to Paris to connect to destinations such as Singapore, Hong Kong, Tokyo or Buenos Aires with very little waiting time. The fifth daily flight is also to be run under a codesharing agreement with TAROM — the two carriers have decided to allow the transfer of tickets between them.On Monday, Europe's largest airline, Air France-KLM, stated that it is interested in buying a large part of Czech Airlines (CSA). Last month, the Czech government announced that it is planning to sell its 91.51% stake in Czech Airlines, expecting to generate about US$270 million. The Czech Ministry of Finance owns 56.92% and the Czech Consolidation Agency 34.59%. The remainder is owned by other Czech institutions.Air France-KLM made a non-binding offer on this share: "Air France-KLM in a letter will today make a non-binding expression of interest in order to have access to detailed documentation on the company". According to the airline, the Czech government expects no binding offers before June: "Firm offers are not expected before June, after an in-depth analysis of Czech Airlines by the candidates". Air France-KLM stated that "its [Czech Airlines'] network is highly complementary to that of Air France-KLM. Among other things, it would enable the Group to strengthen its position in Central and Eastern Europe". Czech Airlines has a fleet of 51 planes.Both Air France-KLM and Czech Airlines are part of the SkyTeam alliance, which also includes Aeroflot. The latter also expressed interest in buying Czech Airlines.Canadian vehicle and equipment manufacturers Bombardier announced on Thursday that Air Independence and Libyan Airlines have placed orders for new aircraft valued at a total US$190 million, excluding any optional extras at customer specification.Air Independence, a European business aviation services company that already operates two Challenger 604 jets and one Challenger 800, have ordered 3 widebody Challenger 605 business jets, with a total value of US$82 million. In a separate order, Libyan Airlines have ordered 3 Bombardier CRJ900 regional jets with a value of approximately US$108 million. Air Independence's aircraft will be delivered between October 2009 and February 2010 and will be based in Munich.Managing director of Air Independence Andrian Feuchter said "Our customers love our current Challenger business jet fleet. Spacious, ultra silent cabins, transcontinental range, versatility and overall travel comfort make this family of aircraft perfect for European charter operation. We expect this satisfaction level will climb even higher once the Challenger 605 jets join the fleet. The cabin feels even more spacious and brighter and the aircraft's impressive new technology features will undoubtedly contribute towards even greater passenger comfort and productivity."The deal with Libyan Airlines had already been announced on June 6, but the purchaser had not been disclosed at the time. Libyan Airlines currently operate aircraft in Africa, Europe and the Middle East. Libyan Airlines chairman Eng. Tarek Arebi said "This purchase represents the launching of our fleet renewal program. The CRJ900 aircraft was selected because we believe it is the type of regional jet that can meet the requirement of domestic and regional routes on our network."In other Bombardier related aviation news, the company has announced that they will  display five planes, including the new 76-passenger Bombardier CRJ900 NextGen, at the upcoming Paris Air Show, which will run from June 18 to June 24. The other aircraft will be the Q400 turboprop, and business jets Learjet 45 XR, Challenger 605 and Global 5000.Brazilian aircraft maker Embraer on Friday announced it has signed a firm order with Air Moldova for one Embraer 190 jet, to be delivered in March 2010. The contract includes an option on another plane of the same model, Embraer said in a statement. The value of the deal was not disclosed.At present, renowned companies such as Air France, Lufthansa group and Spanish Iberia Airlines own Embraer 190 jets, specified the representative of Air Moldova. The same source specified that Embraer 190 jet is one of the most economic and optimal aircrafts for operation, and it will be configured in a single-class cabin with 114 seats.Air Moldova, which links the Moldovan capital, Chişinău, to cities in Europe and the Middle East, intends to use the new plane to open new markets.The Embraer 190 is one of the four members of the E-Jets family. On December 31, the Embraer 170/190 E-Jets had logged 764 firm orders and 786 options.Embraer is the world's fourth-largest commercial plane maker. It finished 2007 with a firm order backlog of US$18.8 billion.New Zealand's national airline, Air New Zealand has announced that they will be flying direct to Canada.Flights from Auckland to Vancouver will operate three times a week between November and March, to coincide with the peak travel season between the two destinations, as Canadians escape winter and New Zealand skiers head to the Canadian slopes. 46,000 Canadians visit New Zealand and 16,000 New Zealanders visit Canada each year, starting at the end of this year.  The reinstatement of the Vancouver link restores a route phased out in the 1990s.Canadian visitors make up two percent of international visitor arrivals, however they stay longer and spend more in New Zealand than many other visitors spent an average of 29 days in New Zealand in 2006, and spent almost $3400 each. In total, they contributed $136 million to New Zealand's economy.Tourism New Zealand chief executive, George Hickton has said that the direct flights will make New Zealand look much more appealing to the Canadian market. "This is great news for our tourism industry."The Tourism Industry Association New Zealand say that the new route has the added benefit of freeing up seats on Air New Zealand's busy routes from San Francisco and Los Angeles.Fiji's national airline Air Pacific has now officially returned to its original name: Fiji Airways. Fiji Airways adopted the Air Pacific name in 1971, slightly prior to its first international flight on June 3, 1973. The re-brand was described by interim CEO Aubrey Swift as allowing the airline to align itself "closer with Fiji as a destination". The name change is designed in part to reduce the confusion which surrounded the name Air Pacific. Swift noted that "Air Pacific just didn’t resonate with our customers" and said that same people "thought we were an air conditioning company". Along with the name change, the airline has redesigned its website, and changed the name of each of its classes of service. Pacific Voyager and Tabua Class have been replaced with economy and business class respectively. The airline has also introduced plans to overhaul its fleet of older Boeing 747s with Airbus A330s.  It has said that the completion of this overhaul and the re-branding efforts will be completed by the end of the year.The airline's new brand-mark and livery features a masi design created by Fijian artist, Makereta Matemosi. The new identity is to "symbolises the airline's new identity and epitomises all that Fiji Airways represents. It is authentic, distinctive, and true to the airline's Fijian roots”, the airline said.Striking pilots at Air Zimbabwe have been told that they could lose their jobs if they don't return to work. The pilots are currently on the third day of striking over a pay dispute. Their wage is currently $2,500 a month, but the pilots are currently receiving just $1,200.Jonathan Kadzura, board chairperson for Air Zimbabwe released a statement saying "The board and management have resolved to give them a 24-hour notice to go back to work. It must be understood clearly that the industrial action is illegal and if they do not go back to work inside the 24 hours, legal and disciplinary action will be taken." He added that "Government does not have any money". Air Zimbabwe can't afford to pay the airliner's force of 60 pilots their full wage but has promised to make up all back-pay.In the time that the staff have been striking Air Zimbabwe been forced to use pilots from private South African airline Quaries to cover local routes. The strike has cost the company around $500,000.On Monday, online rental firm Airbnb announced its intent to remove housing listings in Israeli West Bank settlements. The decision would likely affect about 200 properties within the coming days.Airbnb said they made the decision because of the controversy surrounding the settlements, describing them as "at the core of the dispute between Israelis and Palestinians".The company stated: "US law permits companies like Airbnb to engage in business in these territories. At the same time, many in the global community have stated that companies should not do business here because they believe companies should not profit on lands where people have been displaced".Various human rights activists and Palestinian officials, critics of Airbnb's West Bank listings for several years, lauded the announcement. Israeli leaders criticized the company and supported bringing legal action against it in US courts.The Israeli Ministry of Tourism said they would act to limit Airbnb's activity within the country. The office's minister Yariv Levin also ordered the creation of a program aimed at boosting West Bank settlement tourism and accommodations.Under international law, disputed by Israel, Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank are illegal. The settlements have been a major obstacle in peace negotiations for the region. About 600 thousand Israeli settlers populate West Bank and East Jerusalem Israeli settlements.Thirty-three people were injured during a test of the Airbus A380, a double decker superjumbo jet, in Hamburg, Germany. Injuries include friction burns from sliding down the escape ramps and one broken leg. 853 volunteer "passengers" and 20 crew members took about 80 seconds to evacuate the aircraft, beating the test's requirements by 10 seconds and over 200 people "rescued". Only eight of the plane's sixteen exits were used, as required by the test; the crew members were not told in advance which doors would open. The test was carried out in a dark hangar and the plane's aisles were littered with debris to simulate actual emergency conditions.The A380 will be the world's largest passenger airliner, almost twice as large as the current largest airliner, the Boeing 747. Airbus has had 159 planes on order by 16 customers, and the first A380s will go to Singapore Airlines towards the end of the year.This test was important to Airbus, as in August 2005 an Airbus A340 overshot the runway and 300 people escaped before the plane burst into flames. Infrared camera recordings of the test will be analyzed by authorities such as the European Aviation Safety Agency, while the US Federal Aviation Administration was present during the test. The European Aviation Safety Agency will confirm the test results this week; Airbus intends to repeat the test on Saturday if the aviation agency fails this attempt. The volunteers, who were paid 60 euros (about US$72) and a meal, were from Airbus staff, sports clubs, and dancing clubs in the Hamburg area where the test took place.  Airbus recruited people from clubs in order to get volunteers in good physical shape.Two days later, the American and European aviation authorities (the FAA and EASA, respectively) officially certified the A380 to carry 853 passengers. This certification demonstrated that the test procedures use by Airbus met their respective standards.Airbus, Europe's biggest aircraft manufacturer, has announced 10,000 job cuts over the next four years. The news comes as its parent company, EADS starts a major restructuring programme because the company is not efficient enough. Louis Gallois, the Airbus chief executive, said the company expects to cut approximately 4,300 jobs in France, 3,700 in Germany, 1,600 in UK and 400 in Spain. About half of those cuts will be made among subcontractors and temporary workers. Actual Airbus employee reduction would be about 5,000, or 9% of the total European work force of 55,000 full-time Airbus employees.Although Gallois said he hoped to achieve this mainly through attrition, the unions were displeased. Union officials said nearly 14,000 employees at four French sites had a two hour work stoppage Wednesday afternoon to protest the cuts."The response has been massive," said Julien Talavan, a spokesman for Force Ouvrière, the main Airbus union in France. "This is just the beginning," he said, hinting at future labor action.This move comes after well-publicized delays on its A380 super-jumbo commercial airliner. The restructuring announcement also includes the proposed sale or closure of 3 plants.European Aeronautic Defence & Space NV (EADS), the parent company of European airframer Airbus, has won a £13 billion contract to supply the United Kingdom's Royal Air Force (RAF) with aerial refueling tankers to replace the nation's current ageing fleet.AirTanker Ltd., an EADS-led consortium, have signed a 27-year contract with the Defense Ministry to supply 14 new Airbus A330-200 passenger airliner converted for the task. They will be owned by AirTanker, who retains commercial leasing rights to five which can carry 290 passengers plus cargo, but will fly in RAF livery. They replace existing Lockheed Tristar and Vickers VC-10 aircraft. The first aircraft will be in service by 2011 and all by 2016.Rolls-Royce, part of the consortium, will supply engines. France's Thales will supply electronics, Wimborne, UK's Cobham will manufacture refueling equipment and Southampton, UK's VT Group will provide service management.Last month, Northrop Grumman and EADS defeated Boeing to win a massive order for 179 tankers from the United States Air Force. Airbus has also inked recent deals with the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal Saudi Air Force and the UAE Air Force.Qatar Airways, which choose the Airbus A350 over Boeing's 787, will also purchase 20 of Boeing's larger 777 planes for $4.6 billion. Qatar has a previous order for 2 of Airbus' massive new A380's which it will begin to fly in 2009 out of London Heathrow.In 2004, Airbus sold more planes than Boeing for the first time ever, sparking questions whether the US company had lost its once seemingly impregnable grip on the aviation market. However thus far, Boeing has received far more orders than Airbus in 2005.Wreckage from an airplane in the Atlantic Ocean 650 kilometres from the coast of Brazil has been confirmed by the Brazilian government to be from Air France Flight 447.Nelson Jobim, the Brazilian Defence Minister, said that there were no survivors.An airplane seat and life vest were found floating in Atlantic waters on Tuesday. A French ship arrived at the area on the same day, and confirmed the debris. According to CNN, a vessel from the Brazilian navy is to arrive at the scene on Wednesday.The main goal for search crews will be to find the cockpit voice and data recorder to help find out what caused the crash. However, the Brazilian defence minister said that it may be hard to find them due to the large depth of the ocean in the area, saying that "it could be at a depth of 2,000 or 3,000 metres [6,500 to 9,800 feet] in that area of the ocean."Air France Flight 447 was an Airbus A330 en route from Rio de Janeiro to Paris, France, with 228 people on board, when it vanished from radar screens after entering an area with severe turbulence.Qantas, Australia's primary airline, has begun checking the batteries of Dell and Apple computers and in some cases removing them for the safety of the passengers. This relatively new safety precaution was sparked by a battery recall a few months ago. 4 million Dell laptops worldwide were recalled after some of the laptop batteries exploded, causing the laptop to erupt into a fireball.Although Qantas has yet to release a statement, they are expected to within the next few days. The company said in an interview that the practice has been occurring for a number of months for the passengers' safety to mitigate the rare chance of fire.—Sharron, an employee of Qantas.Airlines have attacked new EU legislation which will force them to pay greater compensation to customers in the event of overbooking, cancellations and delays.Consumer groups have praised the new rules, which set the level of compensation between €250 and €600 depending on the circumstances and the length of the flight. "This is some comeback for passengers who have been inconvenienced," James Fremantle, industry affairs adviser for the Air Transport Users Council, told Reuters. Before this legislation came into effect, passengers "bumped" from a flight could claim between €150 and €300.The new rules apply to all scheduled and chartered flights. Previously only scheduled flight operators were obliged to offer compensation in cases of overbooking— they did not have to extend compensation to travellers affected by flight cancellations. Low cost airlines have criticised the new compensation levels arguing that the compensation paid will exceed the price of the ticket.The effort by the EU is to discourage airlines from deliberately overbooking flights, a practice which has become routine for most major airlines. Overbooking often leads to "bumping", where passengers who cannot be guaranteed a seat are moved to a later flight. In future when this happens airlines will have to offer compensation. Additionally, if flights are cancelled or delayed by more than two hours all passengers must be compensated. This will be the case except in "extraordinary circumstances", the definition of which may or may not include bad weather, security alerts or strikes."It's a preposterous piece of legislation, we among all airlines are fighting this," Ryanair deputy chief executive, Michael Cawley told BBC radio 4's Today programme. It has also been claimed that the advice may mislead customers by having them believe that they may be entitled to compensation if flights are delayed due to bad weather.Marja Quillinan-Meiland, European Commission spokeswoman has said that there are "grey areas" but added "these are not as big as the airlines are making out." Disputed cases would be heard by national enforcement bodies which would decide if there is a case to answer. European Regions Airline Association (ERAA) director of air transport Andy Clarke said "we reckon it's going to cost European air passengers – not the airlines, the airlines have no money, it has to be paid by the passengers – 1.5bn euros, that's over £1bn a year loaded onto European passengers. That's basically a transfer of money from passengers whose journeys are not disrupted to passengers whose journeys are disrupted."These extra costs may also lead to carriers cancelling routes to areas that have been identified as problem destinations. The European Low-Fares Association (ELFA) is mounting a legal challenge to the laws. ELFA and International Air Transport Association expect a ruling from the European Court of Justice in fall of 2005, until then airlines have said they will comply with the regulations.American airline, Alaska Airlines have announced that they plan to cut 1000 jobs. They also plan to reduce their flight departures by 15%. The job losses will account for about 10% of their work force and affects pilots, cabin crew, technicians and service staff. The cuts are due to start on November 9 of this year and then lead into 2009.Bill Ayer, chairman and CEO of Alaska Air Group said, "The one-two punch of record oil prices and a softening economy, on top of increased competition, has burdened Alaska Air Group with a $50 million loss on an adjusted basis for the first half of this year. That demands decisive action to ensure the viability of our company."The airline made a $50m loss in the first half of this year. They currently have a fleet of 111 Boeing 737s and around 10,000 staff. These calls come around the same time as other airlines are making cuts due to the rising fuel costs. They also come as British leisure group XL entered administration.Lucent Technologies (USA) and Alcatel (France) announced a merger yesterday. The currently-unnamed entity will be a global corporation based in Paris, France and will become the second largest telecommunications equipment company behind Cisco, pulling ahead of Ericsson.Sixty percent of the new company's shares will be held by Alcatel, but Patricia Russo of Lucent will serve as CEO. Bell Labs, the New Jersey-based research and development holding of Lucent also being acquired by Alcatel, will keep their US headquarters, and a US-based entity will be set up from Bell Labs to manage sensitive US government contracts. The new firm will employ over 26,000 researchers.However, 8,800 employees, or roughly 10% of the combined personnel, are set to be let go with the merger, after Russo's halving of the Lucent workforce. CFDT, the main French Alcatel union involved in the deal, called a meeting of the French and European Work's council (Comité d'entreprise) in opposition to this move.Solo American hard shock rock artist Alice Cooper has commented that The Osbournes, a reality TV show starring heavy metal vocalist Ozzy Osbourne, ruined the career of the Black Sabbath frontman.Cooper said he felt that by allowing daily life in his house to be broadcast to the world, he destroyed the mystery that had previously surrounded him."Most fans thought he lived in a big, dark castle with skeletons in the cellar." said Cooper."When that show aired they knew he was just some guy who potters around his Beverly Hills mansion. "It was meant to be some kind of comedy but the audience was laughing at Ozzy, not with him. And as a close friend, that made me very sad." Meanwhile, both artists have related news this week. Finnish solo symphonic power metal soprano Tarja Turunen, most famous as the former Nightwish frontwoman, has released a 30-second preview of her cover version of Alice Cooper's top ten hit Poison, which will feature on her upcoming album My Winter Storm.Cooper himself has stated that during an upcoming tour he will replicate a mock hanging for the first time after a near-fatal accident performing the same stunt in 1988, only this time he will also be wearing a straightjacket.Meanwhile, Ozzy has blamed illegal music downloads for poor sales of his latest album Black Rain, saying that the low sales have forced him into a 90-gig world tour that he has admitted he can barely cope with.Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling, today unveiled the country's final annual budget before the general election. The biggest announcements included abolishing stamp duty on homes under £250,000 for first-time buyers, whilst increasing it to 5% on homes over £1 million. In his statement to the House of Commons, the Chancellor claimed that the Labour government had made the right calls in countering the global recession, but warned that introducing cuts too early would jeopardise the recovery.Opposition leader David Cameron attacked the Budget, saying that the headline stamp duty plans were stolen from his own Conservative party. He criticised the amount of government debt, expected to be £167 billion this year, pointing out that it was more than every previous Labour government's borrowing added together. Cameron continued his call for spending cuts to decrease the deficit, saying it was time for a "radical change of direction". Darling however maintains that it is too soon."I know there are some demanding immediate cuts to public spending," said the Chancellor to the Commons. "I believe such a policy would be both wrong and dangerous. To start cutting now risks derailing the recovery – which is already bringing down borrowing more rapidly than expected." This year's expected government debt is less than the £178 billion that was forecast in December 2009's pre-Budget report.There will be an estimated 2.2% real terms rise in government spending this year, and several spending announcements were made. However Darling warned that cuts will follow after 2011, and could be "the toughest for decades". The Conservatives have said that if they win the upcoming election, they will introduce an "emergency Budget" less than 50 days after taking office. Among the plans announced by the Chancellor today are a green investment bank to support renewable energy and low-carbon industries. This will have £2 billion, half raised by sale of government assets, including the Channel Tunnel Rail Link, and half raised from private investment. Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds will also have to provide loans worth £94 billion to businesses, with small and medium sized companies receiving at least half of this. These companies will also have access to a new credit adjudicator to oversee banks' decisions on loans.There will be a sharp rise of 10% in tax on cider, with wine, beer and spirit duties rising at 2% above inflation as planned. These changes will occur from midnight on Sunday, and tax on alcohol is set to increase a further 2% for two years from 2013. The previously scheduled increase in fuel duty will still happen, but will now be staggered over a longer period.Other changes include a freeze of the threshold for inheritance tax for the next four-years, whilst higher winter fuel payments for pensioners will be maintained for another year.Italian state-owned flag carrier Alitalia's board has conditionally accepted a low-value takeover bid by Air France-KLM, a company formed by the merger of Air France and KLM.Alitalia say the offer requires various conditions to be met by March 31 if it is to succeed. A board meeting, which ended unanimously, started mid-Saturday and continued until early Sunday, at which point a press release was issued. This named key conditions as approval by the trade union, agreement from the government - which must also supply a credit line repayable after a credit hike - and "elimination" of risks from a suit by Milan airport operator SEA. The government owns a 49.9% controlling stake.Further conditions include receiving a government commitment to keep the airline's landing rights, agreeing with Rome International Airport's operator over servicing and a deal to buy back some activities at Alitalia Servizi, a maintenance arm.Air France-KLM, who placed their bid on Friday after negotiations lasting eight weeks, welcomed the decision in Paris. The deal values at Alitalia at €0.10, compared to a Friday trading value of €0.53, and will swap one Air France-KLM for every 160 Alitalia shares, valuing the airline at €140 million (US$240 million). The low price comes as a result of financial difficulties that the airline is currently facing. Initial rumours suggested the price would be €0.35 a share.Also being bid on is 100% of convertible bonds at €0.3145 a bond. The state owns 62% of these. The company will keep its brand, logo and Italian headquarters.All 187 store locations of Jessops camera retailer are closing in the United Kingdom today. The business, which went into administration earlier this week, is to leave its workforce of approximately 1370 jobless. While staff at the business' top office in Leicester, in central England, are not being made redundant with immediate effect, they are in the next few weeks to lose their positions.PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), the firm declared administrator of Jessops two days ago, has said an examination of the company indicated it was no longer capable of operating successfully. "It is apparent that we cannot continue to trade", said joint administrator Rob Hunt of PwC, "and as a result we have had to make the difficult decision".PwC say no Jessops branches will open tomorrow and people who have bought items from their businesses will not be able to return them. However, stock "will be returned to suppliers if they are entitled to it", according to Hunt.Hunt said PwC "will continue to ensure that employees are paid as they assist us during the closure" at Jessops. In a comment to the BBC, Hunt described the situation at Jessops as "a horrible end to a very intensive couple of days".In a somewhat unexpected turn of events, it emerged on Monday that Arrow Light Rail — the existing operators of Nottingham, England's Express Transit (NET) system — were to have their contract ripped up, after the preferred bidder for the construction of Phase 2 was announced. The change means that the entire network will be able to be integrated throughout, rather than having two operators effectively running two separate systems.Nottingham City Council have selected Tramlink Nottingham as their preferred bidder to construct and operate the NET Phase Two lines to Chilwell and Clifton, and will now enter talks with the consortium, made up of Alstom, Keolis, Trent Barton, VINCI Construction UK, OFI Infravia and Meridiam Infrastructure, to finalise the exact details of the contract. It is expected that the concessionary contract will be awarded during the coming summer, with construction starting before the end of the year. The contract will run for 23 years.Tramlink Nottingham chairman Roger Harrison said: "Building on Arrow's successful legacy, we are excited to be taking forward the next chapter in Nottingham's tram story."Our focus now will be on working with Nottingham City Council to ensure NET Phase Two can be introduced at the earliest opportunity."The reshuffle of operating consortium means that Nottingham City Transport (NCT) — the main provider of bus services within Nottingham — will have no part to play in the extended network, despite the numerous awards and high satisfaction levels NET has had since its opening; it is the only one of Britain's five light rail networks to be an instant success."We're obviously very disappointed not to be part of the selected preferred consortium. Nottingham's tram has won numerous awards and after seven years passengers continue to praise its operation. We would have relished the opportunity to have been part of this continuing success," said NCT's Managing Director Mark Fowles.But the council stresses that they are still committed to the future of the company."This decision in no way reflects the excellent job Arrow Light Rail Limited has done operating the tram since its launch. Annual customer satisfaction figures remain very high and this is testament to this operation," added Jane Todd. "The decision to appoint a new consortium to build and operate the extended tram network was made on the basis of selecting the best proposal to meet the council's objectives for the future of the tram system. The overall offer from the Tramlink Nottingham consortium was stronger. Although disappointing for NCT it is nonetheless good news for the integration of public transport services that the city's other major bus operator, Trent Barton, is part of the preferred bidder. I am certain NCT will continue to provide award winning bus services for the people of Nottingham."Staff currently employed by Arrow Light Rail are expected to be transferred over to Tramlink Nottingham around August, when further details of the contract will become clear. Other changes that are proposed for the network include 'smart card' ticketing — similar to the highly successful Oyster scheme that is in use across Transport for London's service — and the phasing out of tram conductors in favour of on-platform ticketing machines. Current conductors will be offered new roles within the company, though talks are still on-going about how to combat any potential fare-dodgers.Furthermore, an additional 22 tram vehicles will be built by consortium member Alstom for the extended network, though these will be of a different design to the 15 existing vehicles, which were built by Bombardier to their Incentro design for the system's opening. The new trams will be part of Alstom's Citadis family, and will bring the total tram fleet to 37. This will also allow for service frequencies to be increased and for overcrowding to be eased at peak times.Ticketing arrangements for the network will also change when the new consortium takes over. Currently, combined tickets, cards and passes can be used for the tram and NCT buses, but these are due to be phased out and replaced with the new smart cards in time for the opening of the extensions. Prior to that, passengers will be able to use combined tickets, cards and passes for the tram and Trent Barton buses, in a similar arrangement to that which is already offered for NCT.Pat Armstrong, director for NET, said: "The move is very much towards more sophisticated smart ticketing, like the Oyster card in London. You use the same card but the money goes back to the company you are travelling with."The extended network, new trams and numerous other changes should be fully operational by the end of 2014, but NET users and tramway enthusiasts had mixed views on the matter:"I think it's a bad idea to phase out the conductors," said Andrew Blood, assistant editor of the Tramways Monthly e-magazine, "Not only do they help with revenue protection, but they are also responsible for the high passenger satisfaction levels on the system. In short, they keep tram users feeling safe."Greg Smith, from Hucknall, was pleased that service levels were going to increase: "The fact that the trams will be running more frequently is a massive bonus in my eyes. The service we get at [the Hucknall] end of the line is great already, but if [the trams] are running more frequently it's just another advantage of the system over the bus." But he was also wary of on-platform ticketing being brought into place: "I'm not sure that losing the conductors in favour of ticket machines is the way to go, though."All metal cladding has been forced to be taken off the primary tower at Cabot Circus, Bristol, United Kingdom, due to a fault. This move comes only five months before the shopping centre is due to open.A representative for Cabot Circus did, however, say that the move has not "compromised the overall budget."The shopping centre is intended to be home to 120 new shops.In a continuing crackdown on tax evasion, the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) has alleged that brokers with a branch of RBC Dominion Securities, Canada's largest brokerage company, helped clients set up accounts in the small European principality of Liechtenstein in order to avoid taxation on their wealth.In affadavits submitted by the CRA, brokers with an RBC Dominion Securities office in Victoria, British Columbia, allegedly helped clients set up 16 offshore entities with a division of the LGT Group in Liechtenstein. While that is not a crime under Canadian law, auditors allege that the entities were used to help Canadians hide worldwide income.  Thirteen individuals are either being audited or have made voluntary disclosures, admitting to tax evasion.  The agency is presently investigating to see if there are any other individuals participating in this scheme. Regarding the inquiry, dubbed "Project Jade", the CRA will only say that it was launched on information from a "confidential informant".RBC issued a written statement, saying "As a firm, we have never encouraged Canadians — not 25 years ago and not today — to set up entities in Liechtenstein, and we have never instructed our investment advisers to recommend that practice," and "we comply with all CRA requirements. This means that we provide all our clients with the forms they need to meet their personal tax obligations, and also file reports with CRA that form the basis for reviews such as this."Three RBC employees are presently being investigated, with one remaining unidentified.The controversial Russian music site, AllOfMP3.com, is expected to reopen after a Moscow court ruled that Denis Kvasov, owner of the site, did not break Russian copyright laws and that the site was fully legal.Mr Kvasov argued that although no royalties had been paid to the music industry, the site did pay the 15% of its profits required by the Russian Organization for Multimedia and Digital Systems (Roms). A spokesperson from Roms said "We pay royalties to those who sign up with us and ask for them. But none of the majors, among them I mean labels like EMI and Universal, want their money."A blog post on the website, which had been shut since July, said that "the service will be resumed in the foreseeable future", however no official date for the reopening has been announced.The court ruling disappointed many including the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). Tim Jenkins from the IFPI said, "If it were to resume trading as it was before, it would be in clear violation of copyright laws both within and outside Russia."Residents and business owners in the Elmwood Avenue neighborhood and surrounding area in Buffalo heard a competing proposal for development in their neighborhood  at the February 22 meeting held at the Burchfield-Penney Art Gallery, at Buffalo State College. The meeting, attended by at least 140, was originally to consider the Elmwood Village Hotel but also included a new revitalization proposal from Rocco Termini which would increase retail space, but involves less demolition and no hotel. Rocco Termini, a Buffalo, New York developer wants to develop the corner of Elmwood and Forest, the same spot where Savarino Construction Services Corporation want to build the Elmwood Village Hotel.Termini proposed that a similar revitalization take place on the intersection like one that incorporated 3 buildings on Aurburn and Elmwood just last year. Termini's proposal will add more retail space than Savarino's proposal with the possibility of including up to seven retail outlets."I just think it's necessary to preserve the streetscape that we have. That's the whole point of living and shopping on Elmwood," said Termini. "You should be able to go into little shops, that have unique items, and that bring people to Elmwood. When you bring a big box on Elmwood Avenue, it takes something away from the urban-streetscape, just as suburban areas do not want a big box Wal-Mart. We don't want a big box on Elmwood avenue and I think that's just what this (the hotel) does, brings a big box to Elmwood," said Termini. When asked if there were any development companies currently interested in his proposal Termini said, "I will be willing to take a look at this myself," said Termini. "Or I would be more than happy to be partners with Sam, Sam Savarino," who is President and Chief Executive Officer of Savarino Construction Services Corp.An unnamed source close to the project stated, "Rocco has serious concerns that the Mobius's asking price could make his project infeasible."It is unknown if Savarino Construction or the city of Buffalo will consider Termini's proposal.Termini purchased and developed several buildings and areas including the Ellicott Lofts on Ellicott Street in Buffalo, which opened in 2003, The Oak School Lofts which used to be a Buffalo Alternative School, and ‘IS’ Lofts on Oak Street in Buffalo.Eva Hassett, Vice President of Savarino Construction, and Karl Frizlen an architect from The Frizlen Group and designer of the hotel commented on the development proposal. Hassett said, "We've been thinking about it and trying to put it together for the last few months, and it was made public a couple of weeks ago." "There are lots of different areas you can look at. This is an Elmwood Avenue hotel. Putting it somewhere else makes a completely different kind of hotel. We wanted a hotel that people could walk to from the business on Elmwood. We wanted a hotel that people could walk to from the Albright Knox Art Gallery. This is really a location for this kind of hotel. Other locations end up being for other kinds of hotels," said Hassett"We are excited about the concept of a boutique hotel at this corner. We think it makes sense to the various businesses in the area or the galleries just down the street. We also believe that this is a way for the visitors of Buffalo to experience what the best of what Buffalo has to offer. We think it will be a great way for people from out of town, to get to know what we know about the city," said Hassett.Although Hassett had said that the proposal has only been around "for a few months", Karl Frizlen said that he came up with the idea "three years ago when Hans Mobius," former owner of the properties at risk, "came to me and asked what we could do with these properties." Frizlen also said that he introduced Mobius to "four different developers, who after seeing the properties, did not want to tackle them, saying that they felt like it was too much for them to take on."Hans Mobius did not attend last nights meeting.Frizlen is also designing the former telephone company building at 504 Elmwood which would be a "mixed use building with retail on the lowest level and lofts on the other two floors."On Tuesday representatives from US-based online retailer Amazon.com and smart doorbell company Ring announced the startup company will be acquired by Amazon. Ring builds WiFi-connected video doorbells that allow homeowners to view and talk to people at their door from their smartphone. Ring also sells security cameras.The deal was not officially announced to have happened, although an Amazon spokesperson told about the acquisition to US television channel CNBC (Consumer News and Business Channel).Analysts suggested the deal could aid the Amazon Key service, which allows Amazon grocery, and other, deliveries to be dropped off inside Amazon Prime members' homes. Use of Ring WiFi-connected cameras would complement the indoor Cloud Cam Amazon provides to members.Previously, Ring's CEO, Jamie Siminoff, remarked the company started when his doorbell wasn't audible from his shop in his garage.  He built a WiFi door bell, he said. Siminoff said sales boosted after his 2013 appearance in a Shark Tank episode where the show panel declined funding the startup. In late 2017, Siminoff appeared on shopping television channel QVC. Ring also settled a lawsuit with competing security company, the ADT Corporation.Amazon's Echo smart home speaker product had already been integrated with Ring, by taking voice commands to show the image from a Ring front door camera on an Echo Show device. Amazon had also purchased Blink, a manufacturer of internet-connected security cameras and doorbells, in late 2017.Yesterday, e-commerce giant Amazon.com announced they are to acquire Texas based retail grocery store chain Whole Foods Market at US$42 per share. According to the deal worth US$13.7 billion (£10.7 billion) the retail grocery store chain is to keep the Whole Foods Market brand name and John Mackey is reportedly to remain its CEO.After the announcement, Amazon's shares went up more than two percent and Whole Foods Market shares went up by about 28%. Shares of other grocery-selling chains like Kroger, Target, Sprouts Farmers and Costco experienced a dip after the announcement. Amazon runs their own online grocery — Amazon Fresh — which started a decade ago in Seattle, Washington. Amazon's​ CEO Jeff Bezos said, "Millions of people love Whole Foods Market because they offer the best natural and organic foods, and they make it fun to eat healthy." Whole Foods Market started in 1978, and employs about 87000 people in its roughly 460 stores across the US, UK and Canada. The deal is expected to cover debts of Whole Foods Market.Whole Foods Market CEO Mackey said, "This partnership presents an opportunity to maximize value for Whole Foods Market's shareholders, while at the same time extending our mission and bringing the highest quality, experience, convenience and innovation to our customers."The acquisition, which has not yet received approval from the shareholders of Whole Foods Market, adds a 27% premium to Thursday's closing value of its stock. This would be Amazon's largest acquisition if the deal is done.Technology giants Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) and ATI Technologies Inc. (ATI) today announced plans to merge. Canadian ATI will be bought by the Californian AMD for 5.4 billion dollars ($4.2 billion in cash and $1.2 billion in stock).The ATI Technologies Inc. (ATI) acquisition is being funded by a $2.5 billion loan, plus cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances of approximately $3.0 billion. That’s total funding of $5.5 billion.Many people believe Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) to be taking too much of a risk, that AMD is "betting the farm on a deal that might be very questionable."The new firm will employ near 14900 people for 7.3 billions dollars earning.The two firms announced they'll plan no job cutting in the process of merging.The latest console data from the NPD Group shows that, in April, Nintendo's DSi handheld console outsold all other consoles in America in its first month of release. Apart from the Nintendo Wii  and the original Nintendo DS, all other consoles sold under 200,000 units.A worrying trend for the industry is that the Xbox 360, Wii and the Playstation 3 all had lower sales on a month-over-month and a year-over-year basis.Hardware sales for the month in America fell 8% year-over-year, down to $391 million. Year-to-date sales are down 1%, sitting at $1.83 billion.The fall in hardware sales year-over-year can be attributed to major title releases last year in the month of April such as Grand Theft Auto IV and Mario Kart Wii.Below are the full results provided by NPD:Dr. Joseph M. Juran, an American industrial engineer and philanthropist, has died from a stroke on February 28 at the age of 103.He was born on December 24, 1904 in Brăila, Romania. In 1924, with a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the University of Minnesota (he would later earn a law degree), Juran joined Western Electric at the Hawthorne Works. His first job was in the inspection branch.Juran was promoted to a managerial position in 1928, and the following year became a division chief. He would publish his first quality related article in Mechanical Engineering in 1935. In 1937 he moved to Western Electric/AT&T's headquarters in New York City.After World War II, Japan was experiencing a crisis in mass manufactured product quality. Japanese goods were thought to be inexpensive, however, easily broken and in general poor quality. The Japanese Union of Scientists and Engineers (JUSE) recognized these issues and invited Juran to Japan in 1954.Juran is survived by his wife Sadie Shapiro, 3 sons and 1 daughter.American Paul Krugman yesterday won the Nobel Prize for Economics for developing a theory known as the “new trade theory” and “new economic geography”.Krugman first released the above theory approximately thirty years ago, and it explained why rich countries will trade with rich countries.As Krugman contributes to popular newspapers, such as The New York Times, with criticisms of the Bush administration and its financial policy, there has been speculation that Krugman's political opinions earned him the prize.Tyler Cowen, a professor of economics at George Mason University, stated that he believed the award may have been motivated by politics. "They could have waited and nobody would have asked that question, he said. "It's fair speculation that in part they are making a political statement. Krugman does deserve it, though. It's not only a political statement."Robert Solow, Krugman's former professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, dismissed these claims, however. "I don't think it's true for one minute. I wouldn't be surprised if next year it was a conservative who wins. I really think that it's pure coincidence and there is no reason at all to suppose his columns [in newspapers] had any role in this choice."Tore Ellingsen, who was in the committee that decided the winner also responded to the claims that the decision was political. He claimed that "we disregard everything except for the scientific merits," when choosing the winner.Stockholm, Sweden —The 2007 Nobel Prize in Economics has been awarded to three Americans – Leonid Hurwicz, Eric S. Maskin and Roger B. Myerson – "for having laid the foundations of mechanism design theory."The Nobel Prize, which includes ten million Swedish Crowns (US$1.54 million), was assigned by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences on behalf of the Bank of Sweden, which instituted the prize in 1968 in memoriam of Alfred Nobel."Mechanism design theory, initiated by Leonid Hurwicz and further developed by Eric Maskin and Roger Myerson, has greatly enhanced our understanding of optimal allocation mechanisms in such situations, accounting for individuals' incentives and private information," said the jury while assigning the prize.Furthermore, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences added that the theory "allows us to distinguish the situations in which the markets work fine from those in which they work bad."The attribution of this Nobel Prize closes the 2007 Nobel Prize awarding; prizes will be handed on December 10, 2007, in Stockholm, Sweden, on Alfred Nobel's death anniversary.Americans are spending more than they are earning, pushing the national savings rate to lows not seen since the Great Depression.  The Commerce Department released a report saying that personal savings fell to a negative 0.5% in 2005.  This means that people spent everything they earned and more.  This is the third time that the savings rate has been negative, the previous two times were both during the Great Depression in 1932 and 1933.  The savings rate has been declining since 1984 when it stood at 10.8%, in 2004 it was 1.8%.The Syndicat du transport de Montréal (Montreal transport Union), representing maintenance workers of the Société de transport de Montréal (Montreal Transport Society), in Canada, voted "to go on strike at one minute past midnight this May 22", effectively cutting down the bus and metro services to only some hours of the day.The Société qualified the vote of "irresponsible", as talks are still under way in order to reach a mutual agreement between the workers, who want continued salary raises for the next few years, while the Société offers to freeze salaries for the first year and a lesser raise for the subsequent years. The Syndicat's total requests are in the neighborhood of $60 million (Canadian funds), while the Société "already anticipates a $22 million shortfall" for 2007.The Government of Québec's Essential Services Council has called for some services to be delivered to Montrealers during the strike. Bus and metro (subway) schedules are thus constricted to rush hours only:Monday to Friday: 06:00-09:00am, 03:30-06:30pm, 11:00pm-01:00amSaturday and Sunday: 06:00-09:00am, 02:00-05:00pm, 11:00pm-01:00amFor low-mobility users, the Société ensures that "[p]aratransit services will be provided in full as usual."The Société asks its clients to "note that bus drivers, metro operators and fare collectors are not responsible for the current situation", and thus to be "lenient" towards them.There is no information at the moment as to how long the labour dispute will last.The Supreme Court of Angola yesterday summoned President José Eduardo dos Santos to explain his decision to appoint his daughter head of the national state-owned oil firm, Sonangol. The pair face claims of nepotism and breach of probity legislation.Isabel dos Santos, Africa's richest woman according to Forbes, is also summoned. She took control of Sonangol in June after her father fired the entire board. Angola is now the continent's largest oil producer, surpassing Nigeria after militancy affected production there. The company nonetheless is struggling to cope with reduced prices for oil.The court's move comes as it accepts a petition by a group of lawyers against the dos Santoses. "It is the first time that the court will examine a decision of the president," said one of them, David Mendes. "The law stipulates that public officials cannot nominate or allow the nomination of family members," he added yesterday.According to Mendes the dos Santoses have eight days to answer the court. One member of ruling MPLA anonymously told reporters "The constitution of Angola is clear: the president does not have to personally explain actions taken during his term in court or in parliament". He said a representative would appear instead.José Eduardo dos Santos has ruled for over 30 years, but has expressed an intention to resign in 2018 following elections next year. Three years ago his son Jose Filomeno dos Santos was made head of the national Sovereign Wealth Fund. Isabel dos Santos owns shares in both Angolan and Portuguese businesses, particularly financial and telecoms firms.Animal rights activists have demanded that the largest coffee chain in the United Kingdom pull a new advertising campaign because they fear that it will encourage viewers to buy monkeys as pets. The demands are likely to irritate Costa Coffee, who are determined to turn over a larger profit that their arch-rival, Starbucks. Five animal welfare groups have demanded that the advert, which features a futuristic room full of monkeys attempting to use coffee machines, be withdrawn. In a letter to the Rainforest Alliance, the charities say that "the use of wild animals in this way is contrary to your stance on conservation and, in particular, on rainforest species". They urged the Alliance to revoke their endorsement of Costa products unless the adverts were withdrawn. The groups also wrote to the coffee chain, saying that they hoped that Costa — which has over 1,000 outlets in the UK — would "think it appropriate to cease using primates in future productions, and make the decision to withdraw the current advert".The pressure on the coffee giant has led to fears that the company's relationship with the Rainforest Alliance—which "works to conserve biodiversity and ensure sustainable livelihoods by transforming land-use practices, business practices and consumer behavior"—may be under threat, since animal welfare groups have complained the new advert is in breach of the Alliance's code of conduct. The television advertisement depicts a number of monkeys being unable to use coffee machines, before a Costa barista hand-makes a cup of coffee. The advert, which features a voiceover by actor Bill Nighy, aired for the first time on Friday. Within hours, animal rights campaigners had demanded it be withdrawn. Manufacturers of products endorsed by the Rainforest Alliance must prove they "are demonstrating [their demand for] goods grown and harvested with respect for people, wildlife and the environment".The annual Sunday Times Rich List published today showed that Ireland now has six euro billionaires, up from four last year. The combined wealth of Irelands 250 wealthiest is €42.3bn.Topping the list was the new entrant Hilary Weston with a fortune estimated at over €7.2bn. Weston was excluded in previous lists because the majority of her wealth was made abroad, however a rule change this year allowed the Dublin born model to enter in first place. Mrs Weston, 63, grew up in Ireland and built her modeling career there before becoming wed to Galen Weston, heir to his grandfathers multi-billion euro retailing fortune in Canada. The couple permanently moved to Canada in 1983 after a kidnap attempt by the IRA.The top six on the list were as follows:Hilary Weston and family; €7.286bn - RetailingSir Tony O'Reilly; €1.897bn - Food, media and inheritanceJohn Dorrance; €1.857bn - InheritanceDermot Desmond; €1.239bn - FinanceSean Quinn; €1.157bn - Quarries, hotels, insurance and industryTony Ryan; €1.114bn - AirlineThe iconic rock group U2 placed 10th with a combined fortune of €629m.United States president Donald Trump dismissed Anthony Scaramucci from his role as White House communications director yesterday. Scaramucci had only held the position for ten days but had already received criticism after a profanity-laced phone call to a reporter from The New Yorker. President Trump forced Scaramucci's resignation after his new Chief of Staff, General John Kelly, made the decision, The New York Times reported. General Kelly replaced Reince Priebus who resigned on Friday.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, White House Press Secretary, released a statement after Scaramucci's dismissal. She said, "Anthony Scaramucci will be leaving his role as White House Communications Director. Mr. Scaramucci felt it was best to give chief of staff John Kelly a clean slate and the ability to build his own team. We wish him all the best."Scaramucci was criticised after an on-the-record phone call with New Yorker reporter Ryan Lizza. Scaramucci contacted Lizza after it was reported he was at dinner with Fox News host Sean Hannity and Bill Shine, a former executive also for Fox News. In the phone call, he demanded Lizza reveal who leaked the details of the dinner and suspected Reince Priebus was responsible. He said, "Reince is a fucking paranoid schizophrenic, a paranoiac". He went on to mimic Priebus by saying, "Let me leak the fucking thing and see if I can cock block these people the way I cock blocked Scaramucci for six months." In the same phone call he also criticised White House strategist Steve Bannon. He was quoted as saying, "I'm not Steve Bannon, I'm not trying to suck my own cock".Huckabee Sanders commented on the phone call in her statement saying, "The President certainly felt that Anthony's comments were inappropriate for someone in that position and he didn't want to burden Gen. Kelly also with that line of succession".It has been confirmed Scaramucci was not reassigned within the administration. In his resignation Scaramucci reportedly requested to be redeployed to the US's Export-Import Bank as chief strategy officer. He was previously vice president and chief strategy officer at the Export-Import Bank.Scaramucci was the third communications director of Trump's presidency. Michael Dubke resigned from the position in May while former Press Secretary Sean Spicer assumed some of the role.Before joining the White House, Scaramucci was a Wall Street financier and founded SkyBridge Capital, an investment firm. Though not always a supporter of President Trump, he later advised him during last year's US presidential campaign. In 2012, he was the national finance co-chair for the presidential campaign of Mitt Romney. Before aligning himself with Trump, he fundraised for the GOP primary campaigns of both Scott Walker and Jeb Bush.Many hope to renew acquaintances, or meet new friends. Others look to buy from dealers and artists, or show off new artwork or costumes. Some attend to make money, or even learn a thing or two. But one thing unites them: They're all there to have fun.AOL and Warner Bros. have announced plans to allow subscribers to be allowed to watch thousands of episodes of dozens of vintage shows online and for free. In2TV will be launched in January 2006, providing full episodes of many classic shows, such as Welcome Back, Kotter, Falcon Crest, Beetlejuice, Lois and Clark: The New Adventures of Superman, Babylon 5, La Femme Nikita and Growing Pains.In2TV will be offered exclusively through AOL, and will not be syndicated on TV. Each show will have two minutes of commercials for every thirty of programming. The new AOL service differs from the new iTunes Video service in that iTunes offers only new programming. iTunes also sells shows at $1.99 per episode as opposed to offering programs that are fully advertising supported.In addition to full-length episodes, In2TV will provide interactive quizzes, games, and trivia. The TV series will be orgainized into genre-themed channels, some of which are:Starchives - Episodes featuring current stars before they became truly famous, such as Brad Pitt on Growing PainsPunchlines - Classic comedy clipsTV Karaoke - Sing-alongs to favorite TV-show themesClassic Crème de la Crème - Showcases of some of the most memorable  episodes of a showBetcha Didn’t Know!: The Ultimate TV Quiz - Allows fans to test their knowledge of triviaRetroRunway - Classic fashion from TV seriesStarFavs - Some of the stars' favorite episodesWhere Are They Now? - Find out where the stars are now"This service will bring an unprecedented collection of popular TV series to a totally new platform, revolutionizing the distribution of television programming," said Eric Frankel, President, Warner Bros. Domestic Cable Distribution. Many companies are now making efforts to avoid going the way of the music industry, by preemptively providing legal, cheap methods of viewing TV episodes online. The notion that online delivery can be particularly advantageous to vintage television shows was sparked by an MP3 Newswire article that appeared a few days after Apple announced its iTunes video service. The essay titled "Can iTunes Resurrect Old Time TV?" made a business case that older television content squeezed out of traditional television delivery schemes can be revived by new online revenue models.Today, AOL had announced that it is launching a new VoIP service to be named TotalTalk. TotalTalk is much like Google Talk due to its unification of verbal conversation and instant messenger into one client. However, much like Skype, client-to-phone conversations are possible. Other features include caller ID, voice mail integration with e-mail, three-way calling, and more.Unlike AOL's current VoIP service, TotalTalk will not require AOL membership. However, access to this service may cost upwards of $34.99 per month.Later this week, AOL will also release its new instant messenger client, Triton. Triton will contain a softphone feature that can be used with TotalTalk.A pipeline rupture and fire at Apache Corporation's Varanus Island facility in Western Australia has reduced the supply of natural gas to Western Australia by 30%. 153 employees have been evacuated and 13 employees remain on the island to monitor the situation.Steven Farris, Apache's president and CEO said "No one was injured, all personnel are safe, and the rupture and fire appear to be contained on the island...At this time, we cannot estimate when throughput will be resumed." The facility was producing approximately 330 million cubic feet(MMcf) of natural gas and 8,000 barrels of crude oil per day, this has been reduced to 200 MMcf and 5,000 barrels per day.Western Australian Minister for Energy Fran Logan said that residential supplies were unlikely to be affected but has called on Western Australians to conserve the use of natural gas. Minister Logan said that Apache supplies primarily large volume users like Alinta Gas and Alcoa, and the major industrial users will be hit the hardest. The aluminum refineries owned by Alcoa, which are dependent on natural gas, have switched to diesel to maintain production.   Apache representatives, including its managing director Tim Wall and fire experts from Singapore, are heading to the site to extinguish the fire and assess the damage. Wall said during a news conference in Perth today that a small fire on a vent had already been extinguished. Apache has invoked a clause in its supply contracts to remove liability for unavoidable catastrophes that prevent them from fulfilling obligations under the contract.The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, APEC 2005 wrapped up this weekend with  trade impasse unresolved.  Member countries fell short of blaming EU for causing the impasse.  The EU has been largely criticized for not opening up its own agriculture market.  South Korean Foreign Minister Ban Ki-moon said "The leaders here ... are basically saying that now the ball is in Europe's court".  Member countries talked of high oil prices hurting their economies and agreed on energy efficiency, conservation and diversification.  Supply and demand issues were not clarified.Massey Energy Co., the fourth largest coal producer in the U.S., filed a federal lawsuit against the Governor of West Virginia, Joe Manchin. Massey’s CEO Don Blankenship alleged that Gov. Manchin acted in retaliation against the company’s coal mining operations because the company spent $650,000 in an advertising campaign to defeat the governor sponsored pension bond proposal. The $5.5 billion bond proposal, intended to shore up the state's sagging pension plan, was defeated in a special election held in June.The Massey lawsuit, filed last Tuesday on July 26 in the U.S. District Court in the W.V. southern district, was referred to by Gov. Manchin as having less to do with the bond proposal than with the newly increased state "severance tax" on coal. Nearly 40 million tons of coal production will be subject to the 56-cent tax. According to Blankenship, that tax amounts to $22.4 million in additional costs for the company, but he denied the increase has anything to do with the lawsuit. The company reported profits that almost tripled during the second quarter compared to a year ago. Of the company’s rosy earnings picture, Blankenship urged states to “show some frugality” by not placing tax burdens on coal to solve state budget shortfalls. He said his company is “playing a role” because there was no need for the bond sale and the state can afford to make payments into the pension system. Blankenship acknowledged during a conference call the now-rescinded June 30 permit by the W.V. Department of Environment Protection (DEP). At issue was the department's permit for mining operations near the Marsh Fork Elementary School, in Sundial, W.V. The school rests at the base of a mountain selected by Massey for "Mountain Top Removal" (MTR) mining techniques. Along with the mining equipment, a coal preparation plant and a sludge pond were established on the mountain. Protest groups, mainly the Coal River Mountain Watch and Mountain Justice Summer, presented a list of demands to Massey officials that included shutting down the preparation plant, ceasing all MTR mining above the Marsh Fork Elementary School, and abandoning plans for a second coal silo near the school.  They also ask that the Marsh Fork school be cleaned up or relocated. The state permit for a second coal storage silo was rescinded by the DEP the same day Massey filed the Manchin lawsuit.Gov. Manchin in June said that Blankenship could expect tougher state scrutiny of his business affairs since the Massey media campaign against the pension bond proposal. "I think that is justified now, since Don has jumped in there with his personal wealth trying to direct public policy," he said at an appearance at an American Electric Power event in Putnam County.Chanting “Blankenship, Blankenship, Blankenship,” and waving bed sheets for flags, the demonstrators demanded to be seen and heard by the Massey Chairman and CEO, Don Blankenship. Arrests for civil disobedience were avoided when two security guards were sent by the company to retrieve a list of their demands.  The demonstration, timed to coincide with Scotland’s G8 conference, was organized by a group called “Mountain Justice Summer” and environmentalists to protest mountain top removal mining techniques. The company’s mining operations are located in the Appalachian Mountain chain in the states of Virginia, West Virginia , Kentucky and Tennessee. Massey is the United States' fourth-largest coal mining operation.A statement issued by a Massey spokesman defended their respect of people’s rights, and decried what they said was, “a great deal of misinformation.”The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported that unofficial “legal observers” accompanied the demonstrators and carried notebooks to record crowd and police activity.At the company's own Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) keynote at the Moscone West center in San Francisco, Apple CEO Steve Jobs introduced the next generation of software products from Apple. Apple unveiled Lion, the new version of their Mac OS X operating system for desktop and laptop computers that brings new features to the software. They also demonstrated iOS 5, a new version of the operating system that powers iPhones, iPod Touches, and iPads. Alongside both announcements, Jobs also announced a new iCloud service to sync data among all devices. All 5,200 participating developers will spend the rest of the week in workshops with Apple employees; developer releases of each product were made available today.Mac OS X Lion will be shipped in July through the online Mac App Store available on Mac computers for US$29. According to Apple, the update adds over 250 new features to the OS. Employee Phil Schiller discussed new multitouch gestures along with a dynamic task manager named Mission Control that shows open applications. During the keynote, Schiller said, "The Mac has outpaced the PC industry every quarter for five years running and with OS X Lion we plan to keep extending our lead." It also adds full support for the Mac port of the popular App Store, full screen applications, iOS-style app icon lists called Launchpad, and other iOS-like features including a revamped Mail and Auto Save among others. Mac OS X Lion was announced at a different Apple event several months ago and will replace Mac OS X Snow Leopard, which was released in 2009.Soon after, the company also introduced the latest installment in its popular mobile operating system iOS. The fifth version (iOS 5) introduces around 200 new features, including a revamped notification system, which combines messages and notifications from all applications installed on the user's device. Scott Forestall, an Apple employee, also revealed that iOS devices would no longer require a computer for setup, allowing users to 'cut the cord' between their devices and PCs. Magazines and newspapers also have a new folder interface; the Twitter social network is now integrated significantly into iOS devices. Improvements to the mobile Safari browser were also announced; tabbed browsing and a Reader feature introduce desktop-like functionality. Finally, new camera features are built in, including the ability to take snapshots from the lock screen, as well as iMessages, a new messaging platform for iPhones and iPads.CEO Steve Jobs returned to the stage to reveal Apple's new cloud services offering, iCloud. The service integrates with Lion and iOS applications and syncs data between a user's iOS devices. For example, calendar events created on a user's laptop would be sent to their iPhone through iCloud. Apps, books, documents, photos, and more purchased or created on one device will be shared with others. The service is intended to launch in the fall of 2011 alongside iOS 5 and will be available with 5 gigabytes (GB) of storage for 10 devices for free. Earlier this year, Apple opened a 500,000 square foot data center in North Carolina intended to facilitate this new service. Jobs rounded the services off by unveiling a new iTunes feature that mirrors a user's library in the cloud, allowing them to listen and download music to authorized devices. "We are going to demote the PC to just be a device. We are going to move the digital hub, the center of your digital life, into the cloud,” said Steve Jobs during the keynote. iCloud and iOS 5 will be released in the fall of 2011; Apple announced no new hardware products.Apple have released several re-designs of their popular iPod range. In addition to the iPod Classic, Nano and Shuffle, they have announced the brand new iPod touch, a media player which mimics the iPhone's touch-screen capabilities.The new iPod Classic design features a larger memory space of up to 160GB or 40,000 songs, and has a new all-metal design. The iPod nano is now smaller and squarer, adding video playback to its features for the first time. The 4GB model is cheaper than its predecessor at $149/£99, but the 8GB is available in five colours at $199/£129. The iPod Shuffle is identical in design to the previous model, but is now available in a new range of five colours, with the same price of $79/£49.The iPod touch also features in-built wi-fi technology, enabling users to access the internet and download music from Apple's market-leading on line iTunes music store to their handset. It was announced that Starbucks would offer free wi-fi access to all users of the iPod touch in its cafes. The screen layout, similar to that of the iPhone, offers access to music, video, photos and the iTunes store. There are currently two models, at 8GB and 16GB of memory capacity.Apple CEO Steve Jobs also announced that the price of Apple's iPhone, currently only on sale in the US, will be cut by $200 to $399. He described the new iPod range as 'one of the seven wonders of the world'.Apple's lawyers are reportedly pursuing legal action against persons whom they claim are wrongfully using icons, interfaces, and other copyright- or patent-protected materials from its new iPhone on other smart phones, which may have features similar to the iPhone's.  Apple has also reportedly contacted at least one blogger who posted screenshots of iPhone icons with "cease and desist" requests, although it should be noted that in the one reported case referenced below, the blogger had also posted a download link to an interface containing features allegedly appropriated from the iPhone.  Apple's new gadget was demonstrated at Macworld 2007. Protecting intellectual property can involve a balance between (among other things) allowing some unauthorized use of such material in order to obtain "free promotion" of a company or product, and preventing competitors from "piggybacking" upon original research or upon an established reputation.Mark Papermaster, formerly an Apple Inc. executive overseeing hardware engineering for the company's iPhone, is stepping down from his post. The move came after Apple received criticism last month for the placement of the antenna on their most recent iPhone model, iPhone 4.Apple confirmed that Papermaster, 49, had left the company, but did not say whether he decided to leave or was forced out. Papermaster did not comment on the situation.According to The New York Times, who first broke the news about Papermaster's departure, an anonymous individual "with direct knowledge of the situation" claimed that the former executive had been ousted over various hardware issues, some related to the iPod Touch.When Apple CEO Steve Jobs first introduced iPhone 4, he praised the device's antenna design. However, many consumers reported that, when holding the phone in a certain location, reception would decrease and sometimes lead to dropped calls. Apple's response to the issue, dubbed "Antennagate" by the media, was first to recommend holding the phone in a different location. They later found a related software glitch that caused the signal strength to be misreported on the device. In a July 16 press conference, Jobs said that all iPhone 4 buyers would be eligible to receive a free case, or "bumper," which alleviates the signal problem.Citing people familiar with the situation, The Wall Street Journal reported that Papermaster had been pushed out due to an incompatibility with Apple's corporate culture. The sources claimed that Papermaster was not used to the environment or corporate politics and did not possess the creativity the company wanted to see. They also said that it was Jobs, not Papermaster, who made the decision to proceed with iPhone 4 development even though the company had been aware of potential signal problems resulting from the antenna placement as early as a year ago.Papermaster's post will be filled by Bob Mansfield, Apple's senior vice president for Macintosh engineering. Mansfield was already involved in iPhone development, overseeing processor and display engineering.Papermaster had been with Apple since November 2008, but a United States federal judge barred him from working until April 2009. He had previously held a senior position with IBM, where he had worked for 25 years. IBM sued Papermaster in an attempt to block him from joining Apple, but a settlement was reached after he testified that no IBM corporate secrets had been disclosed to Apple.Steve Jobs, founder of Apple, has chosen to step down from his post as CEO of the company.  The former Chief Operating Officer, Tim Cook will be succeeding Jobs as CEO.  Jobs resigned in a letter to Apple's board of directors stating, "I have always said if there ever came a day when I could no longer meet my duties and expectations as Apple’s C.E.O., I would be the first to let you know.  Unfortunately, that day has come."  In that same letter, Jobs stated that his desire was to remain as chairman of the board.Steve Jobs has been fighting pancreatic cancer since 2004 and has been on medical leave since January of this year.  This was Jobs' third period of medical leave.  He briefly made an appearance in March and June to unveil the iPad 2 and the iCloud, an online cloud computing service.  In part of his resignation, Jobs left this farewell, "I have made some of the best friends of my life at Apple, and I thank you all for the many years of being able to work alongside you."Tim Cook was personally recommended by Jobs to take over as CEO and has been serving as interim CEO since the beginning of Jobs' medical leave.  Before his post at Apple, Cook held positions at IBM and Compaq.  He is known for staying out of the spotlight.  Due to an operational overhaul by Cook, he is credited with the success of the iPad and MacBook Air.  He also stood in Steve Jobs' place while the CEO underwent liver transplant surgery.  He received $59 million for his performance in the position.Analyst Charles Golvin predicts that the resignation will not begin to affect Apple performance for 1.5 to 2 years.  Many of the new products are already under development and Jobs will continue to steer the company from his position as chairman of the board.  Art Levinson, chairman of Genentech and a member of the board, adds, "Steve will continue to serve Apple with his unique insights, creativity and inspiration".  A contrary view is offered by Charles O'Reilly, a management expert at Stanford University, who stated, "Great companies rarely go from strength to strength".  Richard Doherty attributes Steve Jobs' success as the ability to hold off on a product until it is perfect.  He states "A lot of products could have gotten to market earlier, but he wanted it better."In light of the revelation, Apple shares (AAPL) slid $19.37 in after hours trading—a drop of over 5%.  Since market open, Apple shares rose to $373.72, a drop of only $2.46 since Wednesday's close.The co-founder and former chief executive officer of Apple Inc. Steve Jobs has died yesterday at the age of 56, according to the company website.On August 24, Jobs resigned from his post as CEO. He has been fighting pancreatic cancer since 2004.Jobs, born in San Francisco on February 24, 1955, has built the most valuable technology company in the world, with a market value of $348.8 billion. He started Apple in 1976, and in 1984 the first Macintosh personal computer was released to the public. One year later he was fired from the company and he founded NeXT. In 1986 he bought Pixar which was acquired by The Walt Disney Company in 2005. In 1996, following Apple Computer's purchase of NeXT, Jobs returned to Apple and soon after reassumed the role of CEO. In 1998 Apple introduced the iMac personal computer, in 2001 the iPod music player and the following year the Mac OS X operating system was released. 2007 was the year of the iPhone smartphone, then the iPad tablet computer in 2010.A statement on Apple's website, the homepage of which currently displays a black and white photograph and the text "Steve Jobs 1955-2011", states: “Apple has lost a visionary and creative genius, and the world has lost an amazing human being. Those of us who have been fortunate enough to know and work with Steve have lost a dear friend and an inspiring mentor. Steve leaves behind a company that only he could have built, and his spirit will forever be the foundation of Apple.”United States President Barack Obama said "Steve was among the greatest of American innovators — brave enough to think differently, bold enough to believe he could change the world, and talented enough to do it".Former Microsoft CEO Bill Gates responded to Jobs' death with a statement on his blog: "The world rarely sees someone who has had the profound impact Steve has had, the effects of which will be felt for many generations to come. ... I will miss Steve immensely." The current Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer also expressed condolences for Jobs and described him as "one of the founders of our industry and a true visionary".The American computer company Apple has reached 78 percent increase in its profits during the last quarter, which ended December 30, 2006. This fact is explained by great demand enjoyed by Apple's iPod digital music players during the Christmas and New Year sales period.As a result of successful Christmas sales, the very beginning of the financial year marked a double increase of the Apple's sales if compared to the $ 565 million profit reaped during the same period of the last year. The company gained the record-breaking $ 1 billion. The overall annual revenue of the company made up $ 7.1 billion in 2006, having boosted from $5.8 billion in 2005. The company's revenue growth is partially explained by the fact that the laptops produced by Apple are also found among the bestsellers. Even the Wall Street experts have not broadcasted such remarkable results for the Apple computer company. Apple's results were way ahead of market expectations. Its net profit has made up $1.14 per share, while Wall Street expected just 77 cents. During the first quarter of the financial year Apple Inc. sold more than 21 million iPod players and about 1.6 million computers - it implies the respective growth of 28% and 50% again compared to the previous year. As soon as the results were announced at the New York Stock Exchange, the shares of the American computer company increased by 5 percent. It should be mentioned that the stock capital of Apple Inc tripled in 2004, doubled in 2005 and increased by 16 percent in 2006. The steady growth is also due to considerable sales of its iPods and computers. Last week the company presented the iPhone.In a media event on March 2, Apple Inc. unveiled its iPad 2 tablet computer, the successor to the company's iPad. The announcement was made at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California. CEO Steve Jobs appeared at the event and introduced the new product, with FaceTime video messaging (with front and rear cameras) as well as a new dual-core Apple A5 processor.The iPad 2 is an all new design and has several improvements over the original iPad. The device runs on an dual-core Apple A5 CPU. According to Jobs, the CPU's new dual-core capability enhances multitasking and doubles the processing speed. Apple additionally introduced a magnetic 'Smart Cover' accessory that snaps to the front screen of the device along with several new apps ported from the Mac OS X operating system and the iPhone. These include iMovie, GarageBand, and Photo Booth. The new iPad introduces front and rear cameras which enable FaceTime. The new tablet is 15% lighter and 33% thinner than the previous version - thinner than an iPhone 4 - and has beveled edges. It will be available in black and white. The device continues to be capable of ten hours of battery life on a single charge.The announcement comes after months of rumors about a successor to the original iPad. Competitors have designed tablets to compete with the iPad such as Motorola's Xoom powered by the Android operating system. One research analyst predicted that iPads would still make up at least 20 million of the more than 24 million tablet computers sold in the United States in 2011. Another analyst credited the Apple's App store for iPad's continued success. The device will become available in the United States on March 11, 2011, available in 16, 32, or 64 gigabytes. iPad 2's 3G models can connect to the wireless networks of AT&T or Verizon Wireless and Wi-Fi. The iPad 2 will start at US$499. In tandem with the announcement, Apple reduced the price of its original iPad to US$399. Shares of Apple inc. rose $2.81, closing at US$352.12 the day of the announcement.Apple Inc. today has introduced the much-anticipated iPhone at the Macworld Conference in San Francisco.The iPhone is claimed to be "a revolutionary mobile phone" as stated on the Apple website. The device appears to be running a mobile version of the Apple operating system Mac OSX. It is approximately the same size as a 5th generation iPod, it has a 3.5-inch LCD touchscreen display that is used to access all features of the phone including number dial, as well as making phone calls. The iPhone plays music, movies, displays pictures and is able to connect to a wireless network.Apple CEO Steve Jobs unveiled the device by walking onto the stage and taking the iPhone out of his jeans pocket. During his 2 hour speech he stated that "Today Apple is going to reinvent the phone, We are going to make history today".Today Apple also released their Media Center device - Apple TV. It will directly compete with Microsoft's Media Center operating system. Apple has taken a different approach to the media center market; rather than storing content (such as movies, music and photos) on the device, Apple TV connects to a computer (Mac and Windows) over a wirless network connection and plays all content stored on that computer. This makes it substantially easier for users to organize their media content.Apple Computer today launched a 3G version of its iPhone device. Steve Jobs, the Apple Chief Executive Officer, announced the development at a developers' conference, where he promoted the iPhone by saying that, “just one year after launching the iPhone, we’re launching the new iPhone 3G that is twice as fast at half the price.”Apple has claimed that the 3G iPhone will provide internet access at double the speed of the internet access provided by the previous versions.The price for the iPhone has also been reduced to $199 in the US, with prices in other countries equal or below that of within the US.For several months there has been speculation among Apple fans about the launch of a 3G iPhone.Apple Computers announced today that it's long awaited iTunes store is available to New Zealanders. They also launched the online Apple Store New Zealand which provides Apple products, such as iPods, Mac minis, etc. New Zealand is number 22 on the number of countries who have the iTunes store and the tenth music download store in New Zealand.The launch means that New Zealanders can now download music to transfer to their iPods, legally. However the music is only available to iPod's as converting the music to the MP3 standard for other MP3 players is illegal in New Zealand. Some music download sites in New Zealand support MP3 formats, like Digirama which sell their music tracks for $1.75.The New Zealand iTunes store provides the most digital music tracks in New Zealand at around two million and each song costs NZ$1.79 or a music video costs $3.59 of which there around thousands, an album will usually cost about $17.99 and a game will cost $7.99. The music tracks also include New Zealand artists such as Brooke Fraser, Tim Finn, Fat Freddy's Drop, etc and also includes international exclusive albums such as Red Hot Chili Peppers, Ben Harper, etc.Eddy Cue, vice president of Apple, said: "We're thrilled to bring the iTunes Store and the online Apple Store to our customers in New Zealand just in time for the holidays."There were rumours surrounding the launch of a New Zealand iTunes store this week.The podcast section on iTunes also covers a wide range of podcasts, equalling over 65,000. The New Zealand podcasts include such companies as TVNZ (Television New Zealand), Radio New Zealand and The Voice Booth.It is commonly believed that the reason the store was halted until now was because Apple has to make separate contracts with each recording company in each country.iTunes is likely to become the dominant music download store in New Zealand, following the trend of other countries.The special edition iPod nano has also been released in New Zealand. The special edition is red in colour instead of the normal white and black colours. The special iPod is available only on the online store at the same price as the normal iPod nanos but some of the profit goes to help fight HIV/AIDS in Africa.Renaissance is New Zealand's distributor of Apple goods and will still keep its contract despite Renaissance not being directly involved in both of the new online stores. Renaissance said: "New Zealand will now come under Apple's worldwide pricing model."A global supply manager for Apple Inc. was arrested Friday in California and indicted for wire fraud and money laundering, after accepting over US$1 million in kickbacks. The manager, 37-year-old Paul Shin Devine, used a system of international bank accounts and a front organization in order to receive the payments, reported the San Jose Mercury News.Andrew Ang, of Singapore, was also named in the indictment. Ang is accused of receiving confidential data, as well as accepting a portion of the kickbacks paid to Devine.Devine, who lives in Sunnyvale, allegedly passed on confidential information to Asian suppliers of iPhone and iPod accessories in exchange for more than US$1 million. The suppliers were then able to use the information to negotiate better contracts with Apple. The Wall Street Journal named several of the suppliers in question as China-based Kaedar Electronics, South Korea-based Cresyn, and Singapore-based Jin Li Mould Manufacturing, where Ang had worked until 2008.According to his LinkedIn profile, Devine was a 1996 graduate of the United States Merchant Marine Academy and a 2005 graduate from the MIT Sloan School of Management. He began working at Teradyne in 1998 and left to join Apple in 2005.In addition to the 23-count federal indictment, Devine is also the subject of a civil lawsuit filed by Apple. The company said that he took more than US$1 million in "payments, kickbacks and bribes" over a period of several years. An Apple spokesperson said that the company "is committed to the highest ethical standards in the way [it does] business," and that there is "zero tolerance for dishonest behavior inside or outside the company."Devine is being held by the US Marshals Service and was scheduled to appear in a hearing at the US District Court in San Jose, California at 1:30 p.m. PST (20:30 UTC) today. He was not available for comment.During a media event held at its Cupertino headquarters, Apple released the long awaited iPhones Software Development Kit (SDK) and the associated iTunes "App Store" and iPhone Developer Program. The SDK will allow third party software developers to create applications for the iPhone and then distribute them on the iTunes Apps Stores. Any members of the iPhone Developer Program can add applications to the store for free; the program costs $99 (USD) to join. Developers will be able to set the price of the applications or release them for free. All applications will have to be approved by Apple before being allowed on the store. Some of the disallowed categories are"porn", excessive bandwidth users and anything malicious or illegal. VoIP applications would be allowed over Wi-Fi only. Enterprises can setup private pages on the store to distribute internal applications. At the event several third party developers that had been given early access to the SDK demonstrated their applications. Among the applications demonstrated were EA's Spore, AOL's AIM instant messenger and a client for epocrates, a drug reference service. The company also announced the iPhone 2.0 update that was released as a closed beta for developers and is scheduled for public release in June. In the new version Apple has been focusing on enterprise features in an attempt to compete with rivals like RIM's BlackBerry and Microsoft’s Windows Mobile. The update adds support for ActiveSync, which Apple has licensed from rival Microsoft, WPA2 and virtual private network support. The update will also be available to iPod Touch users for what Steve Jobs described as “a nominal charge”, as Apple have done in the past with the previous iPod Touch and MacBook Wi-Fi updates.Apple Computer today introduced the new MacBook line, which includes the Macbook and Macbook Pro. It is the successor to the iBook line and contains Intel Core Duo processors and a host of features, and starting at a price of $1,099. The Macbook features a 13.3" widescreen display, while the Pro can be purchased with either 15" or 17" displays.  It comes in two colors: Black (2 GHz model only) and White (1.83 and 2 GHz models). This release leaves only one PowerPC processor computer that has not made the transition to Intel chips, the PowerMac G5.Apple has released an application that limits the volume produced from its iPod portable music players.  The software update, iPod Software 1.1.1, works with the iPod Nano and the Video version. Apple released the program in response to complaints that it had not taken necessary measures to prevent hearing loss in iPod users. In California, a class-action lawsuit was filed against Apple in January over claims of hearing loss from iPod use.Apple's worldwide vice-president of marketing for the iPod, Greg Joswiak, indicated that this patch is available for people who want "an easy-to-use option to set their own personal volume limit." It is available for free download.The software also has the option of being used with parental controls to prevent children from modifying the volume.iPods sold in France already have the volume limited, as the law forbids a sound louder than 100 decibels (dB). The American Speech Language Hearing Association published a study where it appears that iPod's (and mp3 players's) power is 120 dB, comparable to a live concert. A gunshot is 140 dB.Apple sued HTC, a Taiwanese manufacturer of mobile phones, on Tuesday, in a lawsuit claiming 20 different patent infringements, largely relating to the user interface of the iPhone, which is manufactured by Apple.According to the lawsuit, filed with both the United States District Court in Delaware and the  United States International Trade Commission, HTC violated Apple patents pertaining to both multi-touch gestures, which allow users to interact with a device's touchscreen using multiple fingers, as well as patents involving more general touch features.  Devices mentioned in the suit are all phones manufactured by HTC that use Google's Android software.  The lawsuit says that HTC, in selling the phones, knowingly induced those using the mentioned products to violate patents owned by Apple, some of which were filed in the mid-1990s.Although the lawsuit named only HTC as a defendant, many viewed the action as an indirect challenge to Google, as the lawsuit only covered HTC devices running Google's Android software.  The operating system has seen increasing popularity in the last year, and has increasingly included multi-touch input of the type mentioned in the lawsuit.  One analyst, from Kaufman Brothers, said, "I think this is kind of an indirect lawsuit against Google."  Others said that Apple was suing HTC instead of Google because the phone manufacturer was an easier target than Google. Another analyst from MKM Partners said that "HTC is an optimal target for Apple-it's a relatively small vendor with a weak brand."In the documents, Apple said that their goal was to permanently block HTC from importing and selling devices that had the offending qualities, as well a significant cash payment in damages.Pre-orders of the recently announced iPhone 4 began Tuesday, overwhelming Apple and AT&T.Many buyers experienced issues connecting to Apple's website and customer service line. Some had difficulty finishing their orders online, while others endured long waits at Apple's retail stores due to the online issues. Some customers reported that Apple had set a recording on their phone lines telling people to call back at a later time, and others even tweeted about their experience.Since the original iPhone was released in 2007, web servers for both Apple and AT&T have experienced issues at every new device launch. Today's glitches were apparently in the transaction authorization process, the point when Apple transfers information over to AT&T servers. Other retailers, including Best Buy and Radio Shack, did not appear to be having the same problems.Representatives at several Apple Stores in the United States said that buyers should try again tomorrow. Neither company made any official statement about the technical issues.The newest iPhone, iPhone 4 was introduced by Apple CEO Steve Jobs at the company's 2010 Worldwide Developer's Conference less than two weeks ago. It is slated for a U.S. release on June 24, starting at US$199. Ben Reitzes, with Barclays Capital, estimated that over eight million iPhones will have been sold by the end of the current financial quarter, which ends on June 26. Shares of Apple Inc. rose US$5.41 yesterday in regular trading, continuing their trend of having risen 23 percent this year.The European Commission has forced Apple Inc. to lower its prices for media in its United Kingdom iTunes store, Apple's online media shop. The change in policy will occur within the next six months, Apple announced this morning.Apple is the producer of the world's most-sold MP3 Player, the iPod and launched the iTunes Music Store, a online music store, on April 28, 2003. The store was renamed to iTunes Store in 2006, as Apple began selling other media apart from music, such as feature-length movies. Since its launch the store has sold more than 3 billion songs. At the moment songs are sold for £0.79 per song and £7.99 per album which after the price cut will on average be reduced to £0.74 and £7.48 to match the EU prices of €0.99 and €9.99, according to Times Online.The price decrease follows an investigation by the European Commission due to Apple charging customers in the UK up to 10% more than in other EU countries. According to The Register, Apple will be demanding that the record labels lower their prices in the UK in respect to this forced price cut.The European Commission welcomed Apple's announcement and in a reaction to the news European Commissioner for Competition Neelie Kroes said "the Commission is very much in favour of solutions which allow consumers to benefit from a truly Single Market for music downloads."Apple today unveiled its latest addition to the iPod line, the iPod nano. The announcement came today at a special music event hosted by Apple, held in the Moscone West Convention Center in San Francisco.The iPod Nano comes in two colors, white and black, as well as two sizes, a 2GB and a 4GB, capable of holding 500 and 1,000 songs and will cost $199 and $249 USD respectively. The iPod nano is the second model of the iPod family to utilize flash memory, after the Shuffle was introduced in January.The iPod nano replaces the similar iPod Mini in the iPod family.  The iPod nano's maximum capacity is 2GB smaller than that of the last version of the iPod Mini, which held 6GB for the same price of $249.Apple also announced an iTunes-compatible cell phone, the Motorola ROKR E1, which will be available exclusively from Cingular Wireless in the United States, Virgin will be in the UK. The  ROKR has a color display for viewing album art and features built-in stereo speakers, as well as stereo headphones that also serve as a mobile headset with microphone. Users can randomly autofill or manually fill the mobile phone with playlists of music, audiobooks and Podcasts from their iTunes library via a USB 1.1 connection. The Motorola ROKR pauses music automatically when users take a call and offers the ability to listen to music while messaging or taking a photo. It will cost $250 with a two-year cell service contract.A new version of iTunes was also announced at the event, bringing it to version 5. Along with a new look, it also features a customizable randomization, improved search for the Library and Music Store, and greater parental controls on songs with explicit lyrics in the iTunes Music Store as well as controlling content of Podcasts.Apple Computer announced on Tuesday the first generation of their products to use Intel processors.  The iMac and the new MacBook Pro - a notebook computer replacing the PowerBook - are said to be up  to four times faster than their predecessors (up to two times faster in the iMac, four times for the MacBook.)These new lines of computers have been set up to support the newest collection of Mac software entitled iLife, which has added internet publication software to its high-end graphics, video, and sound tools.In a Wednesday media event, Apple Inc. released a new lineup of MacBook Air laptops and the 2011 version of the company's iLife software suite. The "Back to the Mac" event also included a preview of Apple's forthcoming Mac OS X Lion operating system, to be released in mid-2011.Apple CEO Steve Jobs unveiled the new products at the Cupertino, California event, saying the company has "been inspired by the work [it has] done on the iPad, and [it wants] to bring it back to the Mac." Apple has plans to import more features of its iOS mobile operating system to the Mac OS X operating system.Jobs announced today that the "Lion" release to OS X, which is scheduled for release next summer, will include more support for multitouch and a desktop version of the company's App Store. He said that the App Store will be available for Apple's current OS "Snow Leopard" within 90 days, and that applications can be submitted starting next month. Jobs also announced that a beta version of FaceTime, Apple's IOS video calling application, would be available for OS X users immediately. Several new applications will be added in OS X Lion, dubbed "Mission Control" and "Launchpad."In his keynote address Wednesday, Jobs announced the release of Apple's iLife '11 software suite, which includes the iPhoto, iMovie, and GarageBand programs. iPhoto has new slide show templates, while iMovie has added audio editing capabilities. GarageBand now includes several new piano- and guitar-playing lessons. iLife '11 was released on Wednesday as a US$49 upgrade, and is also available free with new Mac purchases.In another move to bring iOS functionality to Macintosh computers, Jobs announced an updated MacBook Air series of laptops, on sale now. The new MacBook Air uses flash memory rather than a traditional hard drive, and has no CD/DVD drive, an approach seen on the iPad tablet computer. In addition, the laptop's battery life has been extended, even though it is only 0.68 in (1.73 cm) thick and weighs less than 3 lbs (1.36 kg). "We think it’s the future of notebooks," said Jobs. There are now two models of the MacBook Air: an 11.6-inch (29.46-cm) version and a 13.3-inch (33.78-cm) model. Analyst Shawn Wu says the company "priced it really aggressively," referring to the computer's base price of US$999.Jobs said that his company sold 13.7 million Macs last year, totaling US$22 billion. In the last financial quarter, Mac sales increased 22 percent, comprising 24 percent of total revenue for Apple. However, the original MacBook Air did not fare so well. Sales and hype over the first Air decreased soon after its introduction, and the line was overshadowed by the release of Apple's 13-inch (33.02-cm) MacBook Pro. The MacBook Air had not been significantly updated since 2008.In a special media event, Apple Computer reveiled a new wave of media products. The new products include: a revamped iPod nano in assorted colors, a new iTunes that offers movie and game downloads, a new 5th generation iPod that has had a price reduction, and iTV that is set to come out 1st quarter of 2007 which will wirelessly link iTunes to your TV. There was no mention of the rumored iPhone or the 6th generation iPod.Five years after its launch, Apple Computer's iTunes downloadable music service in February passed Wal-Mart to become the No. 1 music seller in the United States, according to figures released April 3 by NPD Group, a market research firm.The firm said more than 4 billion songs had been downloaded from the iTunes store since its launch in 2003 and that as of February, the iTunes store accounts for 70% of all digital music sales. NPD said according to those figures, Apple's iTunes store passes U.S. electronics retailer Best Buy for the No. 2 U.S. music retailer in 2007.According to an April 2nd report in Ars Technica, an internal memo at Apple showed the company passed Wal-Mart as the top U.S. music seller Wal-Mart at the beginning of the year. Their projections showed that as of January 2008, Apple's iTunes held 19 percent of the U.S. music market with Wal-Mart at 15 percent, followed by Best Buy at 13 percent. Rounding out the top five were Amazon.com and Target at 6 percent each.On Monday, US-based tech company Apple, Inc. confirmed acquisition of UK-based song identification application Shazam. According to reports, the deal is worth US$400 million."We are thrilled that Shazam and its talented team will be joining Apple [...] and we can't imagine a better home for Shazam to enable us to continue innovating and delivering magic for our users.", Shazam spokesperson Giovanni Bossio said. Shazam has over one hundred million users. Founded in West London in 1999 by Avery Wang, Chris Barton, Dhiraj Mukharjee, and Philip Inghelbrecht, Shazam creates a "digital fingerprint of the audio"  and recognises a song, and provides other information including artist's name, album, lyrics, release year and record label company. It also provides links to music streaming services including Apple Music, Google Play Music and Spotify. Shazam generates revenue from advertisements and commission from streaming services.Shazam is integrated with Apple's voice assistant Siri. Apple spokesperson Tom Neumayr said, "Apple Music and Shazam are a natural fit, sharing a passion for music discovery and delivering great music experiences to our users. We have exciting plans in store, and we look forward to combining with Shazam upon approval of today's agreement."  Apple Music has about 27 million subscribers, while its competitor Spotify has about 60 million.California-based company Apple, Inc. acquired Dr. Dre's Beats Electronics three years ago for US$3 billion.Apple Inc. has announced that, in the fiscal quarter that ended on December 31, its profits increased by 50% from a year earlier, the highest ever recorded for the company.The profits were equal to US$3.4 billion, or $3.67 per share. Analysts polled by the Thomson Reuters, however, forecast earnings of $2.08 a share.Apple sales, meanwhile, increased by 32% to a record $15.7 billion from $11.9 billion the year before, above the $12.1 billion predicted by economists. This is the second consecutive quarter in which Apple has made record revenue. According to PC Magazine, of the revenue, $5.8 billion was in cash.For this quarter, Apple has forecast its revenue to be somewhere between $11 billion and $11.4 billion, or earnings of $2.06 to $2.18 per share.Before the results were announced, Apple shares rose $5.33, or 2.7%, to close at $203.08 at the New York stock market, whilst in extended trading the shares went up an additional $1.28, reaching $204.36. Steve Jobs, the Apple CEO, commented in a statement that "if you annualize our quarterly revenue, it's surprising that Apple is now a $50+ billion company. The new products we are planning to release this year are very strong, starting this week with a major new product that we're really excited about."Daniel Ernst, with Hudson Square Research, remarked that "it was a very good quarter, as expected. It's a continued sign that Apple has great products that consumers want despite this recession. Mac sales were phenomenal as well [...] Macs continue to gain share and what's interesting is that it only has 3.6% share globally so there's a lot of headroom."Arcelor, Luxembourg's largest steel company, has reached in an agreement with Mittal Steel over a €26.9 billion merger (at €40.44 per share). The new company will be called Arcelor-Mittal. Mittal Steel will hold 45% stake in the new company. Arcelor would pay Severstal €130 million as a "fine" for the fall-out of their failed talks. Lakshmi Mittal (owner of Mittal Steel) and Joseph Kinsch (current Arcelor chairman) will be the co-chairmen of the new company. The new company will have a net capacity of 120 million tonnes.President Kirchner says that Argentina will be able to pay off its IMF debt of US$9.8 billion dollars next week following the New Year weekend.  The announcement has come with great applause at home, but according to CNN it has led to a temporary decrease of the value of the Argentine peso in international markets.  Payment was originally scheduled for 2008, and paying off the debt early will save Argentina around $1 billion dollars.  The payment is made out of the Central Bank foreign currency reports, which according to CNN total $28 billion.The economic crisis in Argentina started with a recession in 1999.  People began to withdraw money from their accounts, which resulted in the government freezing bank accounts.  Eventually the country would have to default on a large part of their public debt.  The crisis led to the increase of the income gap between the rich and the poor, but policies in recent years have brought that back down to previous levels.  Argentina had previously renegotiated private debt earlier this year of $100 billion which reduced the amount owed by 75% according to ABC News.Factory workers at a ceramic factory in Neuquén, Argentina are preparing to defend their autonomous running of their workplace, as the courts start to look at appointing an owner. The workers have been running the factory themselves since the Argentinian government meltdown in 2001, and say they are more effective working independently.There are now 410 workers at FaSinPat ('Fabrica sin Patrones' or 'Factory without Bosses'), having hired over 170 new workers in four years of autonomous control. The factory is widely known as Zanon, the name under the previous owner, Luis Zanon, who accumulated some US$170 million in debt, and shut down the factory, firing the workers.Argentinian government and businesses were in chaos at the time, with the government dissolving repeatedly and defaulting on $88 billion of debt, inflation skyrocketing and people demanding money from banks who had closed their doors.Like over 200 Argentinian workplaces facing similar conditions, the workers chose spontaneously to run the factory themselves, and continued maintenance and production, to keep trading on their own behalf.Now thirty workers have travelled the 1,200 kilometers to Buenos Aires, presenting a petition containing thousands of signatures from all over the world at the central courthouse, and mobilising outside."With these actions we are marking a playing ground for the judge," said Raul Godoy, Zanon worker and General Secretary of the Ceramists' Union.The United Kingdom's (UK) largest technology company, ARM Holdings, confirmed on Monday morning that it had accepted an offer from the Japanese company, SoftBank.ARM designs microchips used in many devices, including smart phones made by Apple and Samsung. It is expected to invest in the so-called Internet of Things, where many everyday items are expected to be connected to the internet into the future.The deal, worth £24 billion (US$32 billion), is now expected to be presented to shareholders. The amount offered per share is 43% above the value at the close of trading on Friday. Shares rose by 45% on Monday morning in response to the announcement. Three-quarters of shareholders will need to approve the deal for it to go ahead.ARM has said its headquarters will remain in Cambridge. Simon Segars, ARM's Chief Executive, also said a pledge by SoftBank to double ARM's workforce on the UK would be legally binding.Philip Hammond, the UK Chancellor, said it would be the biggest investment into the UK from Asia, as well as showing that “Britain remains one of the most attractive destinations globally for investors to create jobs and wealth”. Theresa May, the UK Prime Minister, had recently questioned the benefit to the nation of such takeovers, but has said this one shows the UK can remain successful outside the European Union.Every September, the Apple iPod is redesigned. Last year saw the release of the iPod Nano 5th generation, bringing a video camera and a large range of colours to the Nano for the first time. But as Apple again prepares to unveil a redesigned product, the company has released their quarterly sales figures—and revealed that they have sold only 9m iPods for the quarter to June—the lowest number of sales since 2006, leading industry anylists to ponder whether the world's most successful music device is in decline.Such a drop in sales is not a problem for Apple, since the iPhone 4 and the iPad are selling in high numbers. But the number of people buying digital music players are concerning the music industry. Charles Arthur, technology editor of The Guardian, wrote that the decline in sales of MP3 players was a "problem" for record companies, saying that "digital music sales are only growing as fast as those of Apple's devices – and as the stand-alone digital music player starts to die off, people may lose interest in buying songs from digital stores. The music industry had looked to the iPod to drive people to buy music in download form, whether from Apple's iTunes music store, eMusic, Napster or from newer competitors such as Amazon." Mark Mulligan, a music and digital media analyst at Forrester Research, said in an interview that "at a time where we're asking if digital is a replacement for the CD, as the CD was for vinyl, we should be starting to see a hockey-stick growth in download sales. Instead, we're seeing a curve resembling that of a niche technology." Alex Jacob, a spokesperson for the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, which represents the worldwide music industry, agreed that there had been a fall in digital sales of music. "The digital download market is still growing," they said. "But the percentage is less than a few years ago, though it's now coming from a higher base." Figures released earlier this year, Arthur wrote, "show that while CD sales fell by 12.7%, losing $1.6bn (£1bn)in value, digital downloads only grew by 9.2%, gaining less than $400m in value." Expectations that CDs would, in time, become extinct, replaced by digital downloads, have not come to light, Jacob confirmed. "Across the board, in terms of growth, digital isn't making up for the fall in CD sales, though it is in certain countries, including the UK," he said. Anylising the situation, Arthur suggested that "as iPod sales slow, digital music sales, which have been yoked to the device, are likely to slow too. The iPod has been the key driver: the IFPI's figures show no appreciable digital download sales until 2004, the year Apple launched its iTunes music store internationally (it launched it in the US in April 2003). Since then, international digital music sales have climbed steadily, exactly in line with the total sales of iPods and iPhones."Nick Farrell, a TechEYE journalist, stated that the reason for the decline in music sales could be attributed to record companies' continued reliance on Steve Jobs, CEO of Apple, saying that they had considered him the "industry's saviour", and by having this mindset had forgotten "that the iPod is only for those who want their music on the run. What they should have been doing is working out how to get high quality music onto other formats, perhaps even HiFi before the iPlod fad died out."When Jobs negotiated a deal with record labels to ensure every track was sold for 99 cents, they considered this unimportant—the iPod was not a major source of revenue for the company. However, near the end of 2004, there was a boom in sales of the iPod, and the iTunes store suddenly began raking in more and more money. The record companies were irritated, now wanting to charge different amounts for old and new songs, and popular and less popular songs. "But there was no alternative outlet with which to threaten Apple, which gained an effective monopoly over the digital music player market, achieving a share of more than 70%" wrote Arthur. Some did attempt to challenge the iTunes store, but still none have succeeded. "Apple is now the largest single retailer of music in the US by volume, with a 25% share."The iTunes store now sells television shows and films, and the company has recently launced iBooks, a new e-book store. The App Store is hugely successful, with Apple earning $410m in two years soley from Apps, sales of which they get 30%. In two years, 5bn apps have been downloaded—while in seven years, 10bn songs have been purchased. Mulligan thinks that there is a reason for this—the quality of apps simply does not match up to a piece of music. "You can download a song from iTunes to your iPhone or iPad, but at the moment music in that form doesn't play to the strengths of the device. Just playing a track isn't enough."Adam Liversage, a spokesperson of the British Phonographic Industry, which represents the major UK record labels, notes that the rise of streaming services such as Spotify may be a culprit in the fall in music sales. Revenues from such companies added up to $800m in 2009. Arthur feels that "again, it doesn't make up for the fall in CD sales, but increasingly it looks like nothing ever will; that the record business's richest years are behind it. Yet there are still rays of hope. If Apple – and every other mobile phone maker – are moving to an app-based economy, where you pay to download games or timetables, why shouldn't recording artists do the same?"Well, apparently they are. British singer Peter Gabriel has released a 'Full Moon Club' app, which is updated every month with a new song. Arthur also notes that "the Canadian rock band Rush has an app, and the industrial rock band Nine Inch Nails, led by Trent Reznor – who has been critical of the music industry for bureaucracy and inertia – released the band's first app in April 2009." It is thought that such a system will be an effective method to reduce online piracy—"apps tend to be tied to a particular handset or buyer, making them more difficult to pirate than a CD", he says—and in the music industry, piracy is a very big problem. In 2008, the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry estimated that 95% of downloads were illegitimate. If musicians can increase sales and decrease piracy, Robert says, it can only be a good thing."It's early days for apps in the music business, but we are seeing labels and artists experimenting with it," Jacob said. "You could see that apps could have a premium offering, or behind-the-scenes footage, or special offers on tickets. But I think it's a bit premature to predict the death of the album." Robert concluded by saying that it could be "premature to predict the death of the iPod just yet too – but it's unlikely that even Steve Jobs will be able to produce anything that will revive it. And that means that little more than five years after the music industry thought it had found a saviour in the little device, it is having to look around again for a new stepping stone to growth – if, that is, one exists."The Christchurch Mail Centre in Christchurch, New Zealand, was evacuated Friday after employees refused to continue working due to exposure to heavy amounts of dust suspected to be asbestos. Tuam 2 Ltd, the company set to convert the 27-year-old Christchurch Mail Centre into a new city council building, has been aware of the presence of asbestos in the building since May 2008. Hawkins Construction contacted the New Zealand Department of Labour, voicing concerns of possible exposure to asbestos material. Testing is currently underway at the facility to determine the nature of the exposure.The Christchurch Mail Centre is operated by New Zealand Post. According to Christchurch Delivery Business Leader Duncan Burman, approximately 50 post workers operate out of the facility, which services about 35,000 addresses in the central Christchurch region.According to a paper released in June by the Environment Canterbury on the subject of asbestos removal: "Exposure can occur when materials containing asbestos are sanded, sawn, drilled or handled in maintenance or removal tasks." Exposure to asbestos fibers can lead to the diseases mesothelioma, lung cancer, chest cancer, and asbestosis. Tony Marryatt, chief executive of the city council, was asked by Councillor Helen Broughton for an explanation of the incident. Councillor Broughton is the only councillor who voted against construction of new city council buildings. "Councillors made an assumption that the building had been checked by a professional and that's the question I'm going to ask the CEO now. I've asked him for a report on it and I want to see the professional opinion from a building consultant who said that the building was sound and able to be refitted and didn't have any major problems," said Broughton in a statement in The Press.The owners of the Christchurch Mail Centre informed New Zealand Post that testing performed in November confirmed there was no asbestos "in the area". Anna Kenny, a spokesperson for the New Zealand trade union Engineering, Printing and Manufacturing Union said concerns were raised about plumes of dust Friday morning suspected to be asbestos, but that there has been no confirmation of this yet. According to The Press, Kenny also confirmed that no asbestos was found in a check of the building in November. "Having said that, however, given that the dust is particularly unpleasant and unsafe and of an unknown source, we've asked for further air quality checks to be done before people go back in to that environment and we also want the hazard eliminated," stated Kenny.Construction workers and next of kin of deceased workers filed a lawsuit in Tokyo, Japan Friday seeking damages of approximately 6.6 billion yen (about US$64 million) from the government and manufacturers related to illnesses stemming from exposure to asbestos. 178 plaintiffs; including construction workers and family members filed the suit in Tokyo District Court against 46 building manufacturers and the Government of Japan.According to the Mainichi Daily News, the class action suit is the first that has been filed in Japan related to health damages caused by asbestos exposure at construction sites. The plaintiffs hail from the Japanese prefectures of Tokyo, Saitama and Chiba.The plaintiffs claim that the government and manufacturers knew of the dangers of asbestos inhalation but failed to take proper precautions, including ceasing to promote asbestos as a cheap fire retardant and banning production of the material. They state that after inhaling asbestos in the workplace, 172 people have developed lung cancer or mesothelioma, and that almost half of those afflicted are now dead. Plaintiffs argue that the government and health ministry did not act quickly enough after international organizations issued warnings in 1972 that asbestos could be a carcinogen. Plaintiffs also place blame with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for sanctioning the use of asbestos under Japanese Industrial Standards, and with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport for approving the use of materials comprised of asbestos and other substances under Japan's Building Standards Law."We will do our utmost until we win the suit," said Kazuo Miyajima, 78, who heads the group of plaintiffs. Lawyers for the plaintiffs released a statement saying: "We seek complete relief for the victims by clarifying the liability of the state and the manufacturers."Approximately 40 construction workers from Kanagawa Prefecture plan to file a similar lawsuit in June in Yokohama District Court.After a 2005 revelation that residents who lived near a factory in Amagasaki, Hyogo Prefecture developed diseases related to asbestos, the government implemented a law in 2006 which provides monetary assistance to asbestos victims and relatives of deceased family members. The plaintiffs argue that the amount of financial assistance given to families and victims of asbestos-related diseases is not sufficient.Asbestos has been used in Japan as a fire retardant, for sound absorption, and for insulation. It was mixed in concrete and water and sprayed on walls and ceilings, but the practice of spraying asbestos in this manner was banned in Japan in 1975.According to the IATA, airlines lost a total of $400 million daily for the first three days of the week that European airspace was closed. The closures also impacted an estimated 1.2 million passengers around the world each day, until airspace around Europe began reopening last night.  IATA's chief executive officer, Giovanni Bisignani, said that "[f]or an industry that lost $9.4bn last year and was forecast to lose a further $2.8bn in 2010, this crisis is devastating." He also claimed that the airline industry would require three years to recover from the effects of the crisis, and called on governments to provide some form of compensation to airlines.Bisignani also criticized the response of European governments to the ash threat, saying that they had over-reacted and the shutdown of all airspace was excessive. He said that "Airspace was being closed based on theoretical models, not on facts. Test flights by our members showed that the models were wrong. [The crisis] is an extraordinary situation exaggerated by a poor decision-making process by national governments." Individual airlines also criticized the airspace closures. Micheal O'Leary, CEO of Ryanair, said that "It might have made sense to ground flights for a day or two...But by the time that that cloud has dispersed through 800 or 1,000 nautical miles of air space, a full ban should never have been imposed."In defense of the European airspace controller, Eurocontrol, the CEO of the Irish Aviation Authority, Eamonn Brennan, said: "It's important to realize that we've never experienced in Europe something like this before. So it wasn't just a simple matter of saying: Yes, you could have operated on Saturday or Sunday or Monday. We needed the four days of test flights, the empirical data, to put this together and to understand the levels of ash that engines can absorb." Additionally, scientists in Switzerland said that studies of ash content in the atmosphere were high enough that the total closure of most European airspace was warranted.Restrictions over air travel in Europe have been lifted in many parts of the continent today; three-quarters of the scheduled flights were operating, and most of the European airspace having been opened. Only parts of British, French and Irish airspace remain closed, and most of Europe's major airports are open, although not necessarily operating at full capacity; at London Heathrow Airport, about half the scheduled departing flights were canceled.Leaders and central banks in Russia, China, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, and Kazakhstan have called for an international currency system.Speaking on April 1 in advance of the G-20 summit in London, Russian president Dmitry Medvedev argued that the international finance system needed a "new construction" including "new currency systems", saying that such a new system could be the purpose of a revamped IMF and World Bank. The IMF was originally founded in 1946 as the overseer of the Bretton Woods system, which from its founding until the 1970s tied the western world's currencies to the US Dollar, which was in turn backed by gold. Russia's proposal was for the new currency to serve as a reserve currency, one which would take the place of the dollar, euro, and other heavily-traded currencies as an international standard of exchange.Medvedev's comments are a reversal of Russian position from a lukewarm response following a looser outline for a worldwide currency by Kazakhstani president Nursultan Nazarbayev. On March 11, Nazarbayev suggested the establishment of the "acmetal", a portmanteau of "acme" and "capital", as a reserve currency replacing the ruble in international transactions, first for Central Asia and then worldwide. 1999 Economics Nobel laureate Robert Mundell, speaking to the Daily Telegraph, endorsed the idea, saying "It would be a very good idea if the G-20 took that idea up in London". 2001 Nobel economics prize winner Joseph Stiglitz, meanwhile, said the new currency could come about quickly if it was based on an expansion of the IMF's already established system of Special Drawing Rights, units of exchange used by the IMF which already have some of the features of currency. Stiglitz argued that, as the US dollar has become the standard global reserve currency, it has inadvertently created a system which hurts the world economy. "It's a net transfer, in a sense, to the United States of foreign aid," he argued, reasoning that when other countries purchase US dollars in order to use them on international markets (such as for the buying and selling of petroleum), they effectively give the US a zero-interest loan — sometimes at times when they can least afford it. Stiglitz made his comments as head of a United Nations panel of economists giving recommendations to address the global financial crisis.In the weeks leading up to the G-20 conference, the People's Republic of China also began discussing a new system for reserve currencies. In a March 23 speech, Zhou Xiaochuan, governor of the People's Bank of China, endorsed a new reserve currency, saying "the desirable goal of reforming the international monetary system, therefore, is to create an international reserve currency that is disconnected from individual nations and is able to remain stable in the long run, thus removing the inherent deficiencies caused by using credit-based national currencies." Zhou went on to endorse the expansion of the SDR system in the long-term creation of a reserve currency government by the IMF. While Zhou did not mention the US dollar specifically, analysis by Qu Hongbin, chief China economist for HSBC, for the Financial Times said that the speech "is a clear sign that China, as the largest holder of US dollar financial assets, is concerned about the potential inflationary risk of the US Federal Reserve printing money".China holds $740 billion as assets; inflation in the US economy, which has been low in recent years, would directly cause those assets to lose value.While the Chinese government has engaged in currency swaps with several other growing economies, such as South Korea, Argentina, Malaysia and Indonesia, the Chinese Yuan cannot be used itself as a reserve currency as it cannot be freely traded on the global market.The Chinese-Russian proposal was not entered onto the agenda at the G-20 meeting itself. Nonetheless, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown said that the G-20 was open to considering the proposal if and when a detailed one is presented. United States President Barack Obama, meanwhile, endorsed the continuation of dollar supremacy, saying that the US dollar is "extraordinarily strong" and arguing that its strength was the result of the intrinsic stability of the United States economic and political system; US treasury secretary Timothy Geithner had, the week before, made comments that while he supported an expansion in the SDR mechanism he rejected the idea of a global currency. Rather than change the role of SDRs, the G-20 meeting instead added $250 billion in support to the fund backing SDRs.After the G-20 conference ended on Thursday, Malaysia's The Star BizWeek reported that the central banks of Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand had endorsed the Chinese proposal. All three countries have close economic ties with China and suffered heavily from the collapse of their currencies in the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis; the sudden growth in the value of the US dollar relative to those countries' native currencies sharply increased debt in Southeast Asia's economies, leading to a wave of bankruptcies.International reaction from other economies has been mixed and guarded. Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, President of Brazil, said that the currency proposal was important to discuss but did not give extensive comment. And while UPI reports that India supported the SDR proposal at the G-20 conference, the Indian Press Trust quotes Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh as saying last month, "It is too early to talk about common currency."Calls for an independent global reserve currency are not new. In 1944, John Maynard Keynes proposed the "bancor", a unit like the SDR supported by a basket of commodities. Keynes' idea was rejected and the US dollar took the equivalent role under the Bretton Woods system. Keynes proposed that the bancor system would be reinforced by a tax on participating countries' current accounts, the difference between their exports and their imports, in order to encourage balanced trade. Meanwhile, monetary unions have become more popular since the end of the gold standard, with most of the European Union now trading the euro, and several countries outside the EU using it as a de facto currency; five West African countries adopting the eco at the end of this year; and the African Union planning to introduce the afro in 2028. Proposals for a North American currency union based around the  so-called "amero" have been frequently discussed as the focus of conspiracy theories in the United States, but none of the US, Canada or Mexico have actively pursued the establishment of any such monetary union, however the dollar is the currency of several Latin American countries.On Monday, stock markets across Asia resumed their downward slide, and Japan's Nikkei stock index fell to lows not seen since October 1982 as the Japanese government's former measures to stop the credit and stock crisis have been seen by stockholders as not sufficient.Japan's prime minister, Taro Aso, spoke to government officials and asked them to make new tentative plans to save Japan from more damaged inflicted by the worldwide recession. For the day, the Nikkei closed down 6.4 percent, or 486.18 points, to close at 7,162.90. The U.S. dollar rose against the yen after six straight days of losses, trading at 92.27 yen to the dollar. On Friday, the trading value for the yen fell to 90.89, its worst showing for the currency since August 1995.The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong was in a freefall for the most of the day, ending down 12.7 percent, or 1,602.54 points, to 11,015.84. Before a late session rally, the index was trading below 11,000 points, which has not occurred since 2004.The Shanghai Composite Index lost 6.3 percent, or 116.27 points, to close the day at 1,723.35. In the past year, the Shanghai Index, which is the most valued in mainland China, has lost nearly three quarters of its value. Other Asian markets fell sharply on fears echoed by Japan and China. Singapore's Straits Times Index, which fell 8.3 percent on Friday, was not open today for a holiday.Indian shares on the Sensex index in Mumbai fell ten percent, below the crucial 8,000-point level earlier in the day before rallying to a more modest two-percent decline. Australia's stock losses were also marginally lower, still pushing the All Ordinaries in Sydney to their lowest levels since autumn 2004, at 3,768.Semicon Taiwan goes to the final day on September 14, one of exhibitors Siemens AG imported containers named "exiderdome" to Taiwan and held an exhibition at A13 Parking Lot in Xinyi District, Taipei City for professionals from some industries such as automation, semiconductor, and electronics experiencing the advantages on automation solutions by Siemens.For this special exhibition, Wikinews Reporter Brock interviewed Stephen Huang (International Account Manager of Automation and Drives Department, Siemens Limited) and Ken Cheng (Director of Automation and Drives Department, Siemens Limited) for information on this exhibition.The growing power of the Internet is clearly reflected in the decision, announced Tuesday, for the Associated Press to begin charging newspapers and broadcasters to post wire stories, photos, and other content on their online editions. The changes go into effect January 1, 2006. An advisory committee meeting will be held in the fall to ease the transition.As the Internet draws more news consumers from traditional repositories of data, increasing numbers are demanding the stories on the Internet reflect the quick updating and coverage of a large wire network such as the Associated Press.The rates the AP charges, known within as “assessments”, have risen by about 2.75 percent annually during the 90’s. Since the service is supposed to be not-for-profit and is owned by its customers, price increases are a tough sell. The formula for the new calculations still has not been set, making it difficult to determine how the changes will affect what the outlets charge for their online  news coverage. Currently the AP bases rates on newspaper circulation or broadcast audience with the large ones footing the major part of the bill.The AP is creating a computer database of news paraphernalia which includes stories, photos, graphics, audio and video. It is all designed to make it easier for news rooms to create usable content.The Associated Press (AP) announced yesterday that it will charge its members for online content, starting on January 1, 2006. The decision occurred at its annual board meeting.Until the new pricing arrangement takes place, news sites that purchase AP content for their print editions have been able to use the same content on their websites at no additional charge. No pricing scheme has been announced, but the AP did say that it would increase its fees less than usual this year to ease the transition.Burl Osborne, the chairman of the AP's board, stated that since the creation of the internet, the "AP's philosophy was to promote member efforts to develop this new medium, and to give those fledgling online efforts time to grow."The price increase was not the only plan mentioned at the meeting. According to an AP report in the New York Times, "The AP also plans to introduce a new multimedia package designed to appeal to young adults, a prized advertising demographic deeply immersed in the Internet and other digital media."AT&T Inc. and BellSouth announced a US$67 billion merger deal Sunday. If approved by shareholders and regulators, the merger would create the largest telecommunications company in the United States, with control of over half of the telephone lines in the country and the largest cellular service provider, Cingular Wireless."This transaction combines two solid, very well-run companies," AT&T Chairman and CEO Edward E. Whitacre said in a press statement. "BellSouth operates in an attractive region with a growing economy. It has great employees and an outstanding network, with fiber optics deeply deployed in its service area. It has a strong record in terms of customer service and a sound, conservative balance sheet. These strengths, added to those of AT&T, will improve our ability to provide innovative services to more customers while returning substantial value to our owners and improving our growth profile."AT&T and BellSouth had shared ownership and operations of Cingular Wireless, which will be absorbed by AT&T as part of the merger. If the deal passes shareholders, BellSouth stock holders will receive 1.325 shares of AT&T common stock for each single share held of BellSouth stock. at a rate of 1.325 shares of AT&T stock per BellSouth share.  Though subject to approval by government regulators and shareholders of both companies, the merger is expected to be completed within the next year.BellSouth and AT&T employ nearly 316,000 people in the United States. The merger, if approved, would give AT&T 70 million telephone users, almost 10 million broadband subscribers, and AT&T will provide services to more than half the companies on the Fortune 100 in 22 states.Whitacre will remain as chairman, CEO and a member of the board of directors of the combined company. Duane Ackerman, currently chairman and CEO of BellSouth, will remain in his position for a transition period following the merger. Additionally, three members of BellSouth's board of directors will join the AT&T board.The announced purchase recalls the planned US$115 billion dollar merger of MCI WorldCom and Sprint in 1999 that was prohibited by the federal government. Despite this, analysts think the federal actions will be smaller, since these actions came under protest three months ago due to the actions of their European rivals.With the price of AT&T closing at US$27.99 per share, and the price of BellSouth closing at US$37.09 per share, AT&T will pay an additional 17.9% for each stock of BellSouth. This operation ultimately leads to a capitalization of US$165 billion, and officials with the companies predict a force reduction of at least 10,000 employees, lower costs of operation in networks, and an overall savings of  $2 billion after the second year, with altogether savings reaching US$18 billion. AT&T also announced that it will try to acquire the US$10 billion worth of stocks that were yielded during the company's bankruptcy in 1984.The corporate headquarters for the combined company are expected to remain in San Antonio, Texas, though Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue and Atlanta Mayor Shirley Franklin said Monday that they will work to persuade AT&T executives to move their headquarters to the BellSouth HQ in Atlanta. Cingular's headquarters will remain in Atlanta, as will the combined company's Southeast regional telephone company headquarters.On Sept 28, the Government of Alberta announced that the province's Athabasca University will get CA$30 million towards the creation of an Academic and Research Centre that will increase the University's campus by 50%. The announcement was made by Doug Horner, the Minister of Advanced Education & Technology at a Press Conference at the University."It's all about more choices and accessibility to education," the Minister said.The grant is being called by some as the University's second-biggest milestone after the move to the Town of Athabasca, and will allow for an additional 1,500 full time students per year. All of the University's courses are delivered by distance education."It allows us to serve our mission" said Joy Romero, the Chair of the Athabasca University Governing Council.Three people have died after a fire in an Athens bank as protesters fill the streets to demonstrate against austerity measures aimed to save Greece from its massive debts. Many of the nations services were shut down yesterday in a sweeping 24-hour strike, which follows on from earlier strikes and protests Monday.Protesters reportedly smashed the windows of a Marfin Bank building, and proceeded to hurl bombs containing petrol into the building. Three people, two men and a pregnant women, died of asphyxiation in the resulting fire, and around twenty people were rescued from the wreckage by firefighters. Police in Athens were placed on high alert in response to the attacks.Up to 100,000 people were reported to have taken part in the demonstrations, the largest since Greece's economic crisis began last year. In addition to the bank bombings, protesters reportedly set fire to other buildings, cars and bins, as well as setting up barricades in the streets. Protesters also attempted to storm police surrounding the Greek parliament, using marble broken from buildings as weapons.Police responded by using tear gas and water cannons against protesters; a journalist for Al Jazeera in Athens said that "[i]t looked like a pitched battle for quite a while. An awful lot of tear gas used by the police, they would say no doubt to protect the parliament building and perhaps the people in it."The protests occurred during a nationwide strike protesting the austerity measure enacted by the government. The strike has ended all public transportation in the country, as well as services provided by public services like schools, hospitals, and government offices.The Greek government has been attempting to get funds from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund in response to the country's debt crisis. Austerity measures were a requirement for getting such funds, and despite the protests, it's considered unlikely that the government will give up its efforts to enact the measuresThe company which has filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in a Manhattan court lost over $340 million last year. This is despite the fact that there are now believed to be over 30 million followers of the diet in the USA.Administrators were appointed to the British division of Atkins Nutritionals just six months ago after a string of poor sales results and mounting debt. Three million people in Britain follow the diet.Robert Atkins, the American cardiologist who started the diet, died in April 2003 after sustaining head injuries from a fall outside his New York office and falling into a coma. Rumors have circulated regarding the cause of his death, and medical records show that he suffered from hypertension and congestive heart failure prior to his fall. It is not known if the two were related.The Atlantic Lottery Corporation says it will team up with all four Atlantic Canada provinces for an investigation into Atlantic Canada's lottery system. The corporation will pay a total of $300,000 for the investigation.Nova Scotia is the first Atlantic province to fully investigate lottery sales. After several concerns, New Brunswick ombudsman, Bernard Richard, monitored their lottery for some time but no investigation was carried."People have to have confidence that our systems are fair, secure," said Marie Mullally, president of the Atlantic Lottery Corporation in Nova Scotia. "It references a number of aspects of ALC business, it talks about all aspects of our operations, and to date, most of our focus has been on issues arising from retailer wins."The investigation is expected to be started late June.Recently, the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation was under investigation under allegations that lottery retailers stole prizes from consumers.A customer could go into a variety store and ask the retailer to check their tickets for them. If a retailer saw a winning ticket they could tell the customer they didn't win and keep the prize to themselves. It was proven after Ontario man Robert 'Bob' Edmonds sued the corporation in 2001 for refusing to return his winnings, after a store woman clerk claimed that he did not win. Days after, the clerk and her husband claimed Edmonds' jackpot of $250,000.Administrators Ferrier Hodgson are working to get troubled EG Green and Sons, trading as Harvey Beef, back open in two weeks.  Approximately 600 workers are directly employed by the company, which is both a major employer in the region and the region's largest meat exporter.  South West Chamber of Commerce and Industries president Rolf Stene was quoted as saying "It could affect a lot of people, those 600 workers at the abattoir, farmers, shopkeepers, the service industry it would hit a lot of people right throughout the community."  The employees have currently been forced to take annual leave.Many beef producers are owed money by the company.  The Pastoralists and Graziers Association (PGA) is still trying to identify creditors and EG Green and Sons are working with the administrators in order to "maximise returns to creditors".  Despite the well known brand, the company has been trading at a loss in recent years.  Recent expansions may be at the root of the sudden financial problems that forced the company to suspend operations.Calls by the Opposition for a government enquiry were rebuffed by the Agriculture Minister's parliamentary secretary, Tony McRae, saying "an inquiry would be counter productive."  The State Government has at this stage declined to assist EG Green and Sons.Dubai Aerospace Enterprise (DAE) of Dubai, United Arab Emirates has entered a controversial bid for New Zealand's busiest airport, the Auckland International. Merger documents have revealed that DAE would use "reasonable endeavours" to create new routes and services from Auckland for Emirates Airline. DAE's plan is to takeover 60% of the publicly-traded airport for NZ$2.6 billion (approx. US$2.1 billion).The chair of DAE, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, also chairs Emirates, which flies four times daily into Auckland. DAE does not have a shareholding in the Dubai-based airline. Emirates has said its long term plan for the airport is to establish it as a secondary hub, with flights to the west coast of the United States, or Central America and South America. Another possibility being looked into is round-the-world flights through Dubai, South Africa and Auckland. Auckland has been chosen as DAE's hub of the region due to Australian laws preventing foreign control of major airports.DAE was set up last year by the government of the United Arab Emirates in Dubai, with funds of US$15 billion (approx. NZ$19 billion). One of the entity's goals is to build up a global portfolio of airports, particularly in emerging markets.DAE is not the only party interested in the airport. Canada Pension Plan (CPP) is among the potential buyers completing due diligence. CPP is said to be close to submitting a bid.China has entered into a "nuclear safeguards agreement" which will allow it to purchase uranium from Australia. Under the conditions of the agreement, China must not use Australian uranium for military purposes.The agreement was signed by Australia's Foreign Minister Alexander Downer and his Chinese counterpart, Li Zhaoxing in the presence of their leaders Australian Prime Minister John Howard and Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao.Australia will not allow uranium to be exported to any country which has not entered into a nuclear safeguards agreement. A requirement of this agreement is that the country wishing to purchase uranium must also be a signatory to the UN's Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.Alexander Downer stated that China needs the uranium for its nuclear energy program. He said "Given China's high projected growth in electricity demand over the coming years, there are clear environmental benefits in diversifying from fossil fuels to low greenhouse-emission technologies such as nuclear power."China is expected to build between 40 to 50 nuclear plants over the next 20 years.Ian Macfarlane, Austalia's Resource Minister said that exports should begin within four years and that the agreement was only the beginning of the export process. He told ABC Radio "The signing of this agreement is really only the start of the process,We need to move forward, there needs to be commercial negotiations between companies in Australia that are producing uranium and companies in China that wish to purchase it" he said.It is believed that Australia, which holds 40 percent of the world's uranium, may need to increase production. At present, Australia produces 10,000 tonnes per year. It is expected that China will require 20,000 tonnes a year from Australia."Uranium will only be sold by contract to utilities, it cannot be used for military purposes, China will also be subject to international atomic energy safeguards and that means inspections," Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer has stated and continued "Thirdly, there will be a system that will track Australian nuclear material."Kevin Rudd, Australian Opposition's foreign affairs spokesman said that he supported the agreement. Labor's foreign affairs spokesman Kevin Rudd supports the deal."If we have with China effective bilateral safeguards arrangements then there should be no impediment," he said. Professor Ian Lowe from the Australian Conservation Foundation said in response to the deal that "This is no time to be increasing the amount of fissile material in the world."Christine Milne has commented "Make no mistake — selling Australian uranium to China will make the world less safe."The Prime Minister of Australia, Julia Gillard, has today announced a new bill into Parliament to assist in the Queensland floods recovery. The proposed levy will be a once-off tax, given only to those with an annual income of above A$50,000. Exemptions to the flood relief fund will be given to those who are income earners of less than $50,000 a year or those who were affected by the flood crisis. Anyone earning between the ranges of $50,000 to $100,000 will contribute 0.5 percent of their income whilst anyone earning over $100,000 annually will pay 1 percent.During her announcement, Gillard stated: "Under this levy, someone who has an income of $60,000 will pay just under $1 extra per week. A person earning $100,000 per year will pay just under an extra $5 per week."The levy is set to contribute to the relief effort to assist in the five-billion-dollar reconstruction of Queensland infrastructure. The Government will obtain three billion dollars through the scratching of certain schemes and the postponement of others. The levy will then contribute the other two billion.The bill has not come without criticism. The leader of the opposing Liberal Party, Tony Abbott, has claimed that there is "fat" in the budget. He said there should be no requirement for Australians to contribute towards a levy, but rather the government should cut back on its own spending.Gillard responded to Abbott's claims by saying that the Liberal's proposed paid maternity leave scheme would have required Australian people to pay a levy, and that it is unjustifiable that they then wouldn’t allow for the rebuilding of Queensland.Independent Bob Katter has said that until a designated fund for natural disaster relief is established by the Government, he will not approve of any relief levies introduced into parliament. Tony Windsor, a fellow independent, agreed. With Labor currently in a minority government, the passing of the bill is in jeopardy without the support of the independents (which of whom, except for Bob Katter, formed government with Labor).There is currently no certainty that the bill will be introduced yet. It must first be approved in the Lower House and then in the Senate.A spokesperson for the Australian Assistant Minister for Infrastructure and Regional Development, Warren Truss, announced plans this week to close four mainland immigration detention facilities — Scherger, at RAAF Scherger, Queensland; Leonora, in Leonora, Western Australia; Port Augusta, in Port Augusta, South Australia; and Inverbrackie facilities in Woodside, the Adelaide Hills, South Australia — by the end of February. The detainees would be relocated to other detention centres. Pontville detention facility, in Pontville, Tasmania, was empty and would also be closed.The detention centres staff learned about planned closure of their workplaces from the media rather than the employer directly, United Voice, an Australian trade union, commented. It estimated the number of affected people as 100 workers and "many more" casuals and contractors.In a statement, Australian Immigration Minister Scott Morrison referred to recent border protection practices to justify the decision. On Tuesday, he told PM radio, "This Government is taking control of our borders, which enables us to shut mainland detention centres down in Australia. This will save taxpayers around $89 million a year and it's the first down-payment on the dividend of stronger border protection. ... These sites are remote, relatively small and expensive. The savings ... amount to at least $7.4 million a month". He also noted that the Pontville and Scherger detention facilities would be returned to the Defence Department.The local mayor near the Pontville detention centre, Tony Foster, said the centre was opened only three years ago and revived the local economy. Foster also complained about the short notice from the new federal government elected last year. He cited recent centre upgrade costs of $15 million, estimated the number of local small businesses serving the centre between 45 and 48, and said he would explore the option of converting it to a "corrections facility for 18 to 24 year olds" with the relevant state and Commonwealth officials.Scott Donaghy, who runs the Brighton's Best Bakehouse business in Brighton, said "Staff members come in for breakfast, coffee, lunch, having a meeting. Not only were they coming in but there was more money coming into the general area from wages and people living here. I'm disappointed at the fact that another employer is gone from the area." A pharmacist-in-charge at Brighton Discount Drug Store also commented, saying that staff members from the detention centre came to Brighton for lunch and shopping.The announcement follows controversial reports of wrecked refugee boats found near Indonesian shores by the local police. The refugees had reported being towed back from Australia by the Australian Navy, which had originally deceptively claimed Christmas Island as the refugees' destination.Figures issued by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade show that in the twelve months to October, 2005 exports from Australia to the United States fell by 4.7 per cent while imports from the US rose 5.7 per cent. Australia and the US entered into a free trade agreement which began in January, 2005.During the drafting of the agreement it drew heavy criticism for only opening parts of the US market to Australia.The Australian Government insists that the results are due to a stronger Australian Dollar and increased competition from Asia. Acting prime minister, Mark Vaile said while exports to the US slowed, Australia was exporting to other markets "At the same time, there have been buoyant and robust economies operating in north Asia that have been very attractive for our exporters to go into those markets, so you can't just look at 12 months in isolation."Critics of the Free Trade Agreement are calling on the government to use its escape clause. "Our argument is that we should be looking seriously at the provision in the agreement (under which) the Government can give six months notice to end the agreement" said Public Interest Advocacy Centre policy officer Patricia Ranald.Mark Vaile has also indicated that he wishes to lobby the US to include sugar in the free trade agreement. This has received strong opposition from sugar farmers in the US.The news comes just days after Mark Vaile announced that the government were considering dropping an amendment to the FTA to protect generic medicines.The Australian Government's plan for the full privatization of Telstra, Australia's dominant telecommunications company, received criticism leveled at the government and company by executives. The government owns 51.8%, with the remaining 48.2% of Telstra stock held by shareholders, having been partially floated in the 1990s.Phil Burgess, senior executive, made comments that Telstra was "a loser" hindered by excessive regulations and that he would not recommend purchasing the shares to his mother. The government responded, with Treasurer Peter Costello telling the Telstra management to manage the company and leave industry regulation to the government. Prime Minister John Howard repeated those sentiments, saying Telstra's problem was government ownership over government regulation.There are plans for introducing legislation next week which will approve the sale of the remainder of the government's share. This is the first time such legislation will have gone through the Senate with the Coalition, consisting of the Liberal and National parties, controlling both the Senate and the House of Representatives. This may allow the predominantly Liberal-backed proposal to be passed. However, members of the National Party have spoken out against full privatisation, citing concerns over the future of less profitable rural services. A major base of support for the National Party is in rural areas.Two major financial institutions divested their Telstra stock as shares dropped to their lowest point since mid last year.The fallout from  earthquake and tsunami catastrophes in Japan   will cost Australia about A$2 billion in lost export earnings in the near term due to lower  Australian exports to Japan, according to estimates in a Treasury brief released Thursday. After China, Japan is Australia’s largest export market, making up 15 percent of its total exports.  "The tragic events in Japan—together with the impact of floods and Cyclone Yasi at home—will clearly mean revenues take a substantial hit in the near term", Treasurer Wayne Swan said in the brief.Short term exports of "non-rural bulk commodities" are predicted to be lower as Japanese port facilities, coal-fired power stations and steel-making plants were damaged. Businesses whose export products are designated for Japan must find other customers to replace Japanese clients, the brief said. The loss of Japanese markets has been a contributor to a 6 percent drop in the price of iron ore  and an 8 percent drop in the price of coal. Japan imports account for 27 percent of Australia's iron ore and coal exports.Also on Thursday, Japan's manufacturing production index experienced  its sharpest fall in the decade since  data has been collected, indicating a steep fall in output for  most businesses in Japan in March. Recently, Japanese industry seemed to be rebounding from the global financial crisis.In Asia, concern is mounting that the electricity shortages and other disruptions to Japan's manufacturing sector will affect manufacturing in various areas of Asia, since the manufacturing of many goods are dependent on the integrated network of supply chains.Australian unemployment is at a 28-year low at 5.1 per cent, according to recent figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS). This has prompted debate over whether interest rates should increase [1]. However, the number of underemployed still remains high, at 600,000 [2] — that is, around the same 5.1 per cent figure when compared to Australia's labour market of 10 million 3.The Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) ruled that Australia's Channel Seven has broken television regulations by showing a 15-second McDonald's advertisement during a children's program.The advertisement, a playground campaign, was shown 72 times in October and November 2010 during television broadcasts in Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Brisbane, and Perth.The DDB ad agency and OMD media agency were involved in the campaign's development.The advertisement was marketed as a network promotion but did not feature Channel Seven. The ACMA ruled that the advertisement was for the restaurant as the footage included the golden arches, and characters Grimace and Hamburglar.The campaign was filmed at Customs House in Sydney’s Circular Quay.The 2009 Children’s Television Standards prohibits advertising during preschool viewing periods and restricts it during children’s viewing periods.ACMA chairman Chris Chapman said: "The ACMA remains serious about the protection of children during children’s programming, particularly given their vulnerability to forms of advertising that are not well signposted or have the potential to be unduly influential."A Channel Seven Spokesman said, "We accept ACMA's finding and are implementing steps as discussed with the regulator to improve our processes.”McDonald’s has agreed with the ACMA about the placement of the advertisement. "McDonald's Australia is extremely disappointed that the identifier was placed during C and P viewing periods," a McDonald's spokesperson stated to AdNews. "This advertisement was not produced by McDonald’s but was produced and placed by Channel Seven. ... We take very seriously our commitment to responsible advertising where children are concerned."Channel Seven was not fined by the ACMA. The channel must implement a review process all non-program material that will be broadcast during P programs.The Nine Network has announced the death of one of Australia's richest men, Kerry Packer, aged 68.Announcer Richard Wilkins said on the Today Show that he had just been handed official confirmation of Mr Packer's death at 68.He said a statement from Tony Ritchie, Nine head of news, said: "Mrs Kerry Packer and her children James and Gretel sadly report the passing last evening of her husband and their father Kerry. He died peacefully at home with his family at his bedside".Packer was the major shareholder in Publishing and Broadcasting Limited (PBL) which owns the Nine television network and Australian Consolidated Press, the producer of many Australian and New Zealand magazines.Packer was also involved in the gambling and tourism industries and owned the Crown Casino in Melbourne.In the 1970s, his World Series Cricket revolutionised cricket, bringing One-day cricket to the fore by introducing things such as coloured uniforms, white balls & day/night matches.Business Review Weekly magazine estimated Packer's net worth at AU$6.5 billion in 2004. Another famous rich Australian media magnate, who may have lost his Australian nationality, is Rupert Murdoch.Hutchison, the company which operates the "3" mobile network in Australia has announced that it's 2G CDMA customers will have 90 days to migrate to their UMTS based 3G mobile telephone network or be without service. Hutchison said that customers who were under contract and wished to leave would be able to do so without penalty.In February, Hutchison rebranded their CDMA service from Orange to 3 CDMA to coincide with its 3G network's company name. Hutchison has been offering their CDMA customers special deals to tempt them into moving to their 3G network and has so far migrated around 200,000 users voluntarily.It is believed that the migration will cost AU$145 million but will save the company around AU$70 million per year by not having to operate two separate networks.Kevin Russell, CEO of Hutchison said that customers are looking to get more from their mobile telephone and that customer demand for 3G services is strong. "Customer demand to move to 3G has been very strong," he said. "It is clear that customers want more from their mobile service,"  "With a critical mass of our 2G customers now using our 3G service, the time is right to commence plans to close our 2G network" said Mr Russell.Paul Budde, an independent telecommunications analyst said that some customers might not wish to migrate because of the inferiority of 3G handsets to those used on the CDMA network.Another hurdle may be that UMTS 3G networks have similar coverage to GSM network cells (base stations), which have around 35 km range of coverage. CDMA by comparison has a 90 km range.Hutchison was the first telecommunications company to launch a 3G network in Australia, however it only operates in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, The Gold Coast, Adelaide, Perth and Canberra. If users go outside these areas they roam onto Telstra's 2G GSM network.Telstra has announced plans to build a AU$1 billion 3G network nationwide and will decommission its CDMA service around 2008. At present Telstra has entered into a sharing deal with Hutchison to use the "3" network while its network is rolled out.Optus and Vodafone have also announced plans to build a 3G network in co-operation with each other nationwide.Engineers from the Australian airline Qantas are to hold a one-hour strike on Friday amid fears over job security. The strike will likely cause disruption for thousands of passengers.The strike was called after negotiations between the ALAEA, an engineers' union, and the airline, broke down. "What interests us more is job security, and for aircraft engineers that means simply being able to carry out aircraft maintenance in Australia," Steve Purvinas, the secretary of the ALAEA, said. It is likely the strike will be the first in a line of industrial action.Purvinas said last-ditch negotiations between the ALAEA and Qantas before a Fair Work Australia judge yesterday had "hit a brick wall." Analysts say the strike will probably have a huge impact on Qantas flights. The airline said it was "extremely disappointed" at the strike action but said disruption would be minimal. "We will not be able to negotiate on some of the demands they have put forward, they are simply unacceptable," an airline spokesperson said.The ALAEA said the main concern was that Qantas was outsourcing more work overseas and maintenance checks on aircraft are becoming less regular. Pervinas said Qantas engineers were "sick of the systematic dismantling of our industry by Qantas management."Australian airline Virgin Blue plans to increase its fares, making for an average additional A$5-10 charge to most airfares. The airline will also cease its Sydney to Prosperine route in July 2008 and Melbourne to Darwin route in August 2008 in order to cut costs due to the airline's rising fuel bill.Virgin Blue's fuel costs have risen above A$500 million, which is up 21 per cent as compared to the last financial year. The cut backs will also see 4 of the airline's aircraft removed from its fleet and an immediate wage freeze to all management staff.Virgin Blue CEO Brett Godfrey said that the move was part of a A$50 million package of cost savings and capacity cuts.Australian billionaire mining magnate Clive Palmer has announced plans to build a fleet of luxury cruise ships, including a replica of the famous RMS Titanic. Palmer has announced his new company Blue Star Line Pty Ltd has commissioned a close replica of the Titanic from CSC Jinling Shipyard in China. Construction would commence in 2013 and the maiden voyage would be in late 2016.Palmer said, "It will be every bit as luxurious as the original Titanic but of course it will have state-of-the-art 21st century technology and the latest navigation and safety systems". When asked if the replica would be unsinkable, Palmer said "Of course it will sink if you put a hole in it. It will be designed as a modern ship with all the technology to ensure that doesn't happen."Palmer also said the Chinese Navy had been invited to escort the ship on its maiden voyage. The original RMS Titanic sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on April 15, 1912 after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton to New York, with the loss of 1,514 people.Budget cuts at the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) are expected to impact on several key surveys, including a loss of accuracy in the monthly Labour Force Survey, and the scrapping of several planned developments for the 2011 Census of Population and Housing.It has also been reported that the ABS would stop publishing the annual yearbook.News Ltd has reported that an angry response has been forecasted from people who use the ABS' statistics.The Sydney Morning Herald has reported that the cuts are likely to save 1.5 billion Australian dollars.Brian Pink, the chief executive of the ABS described the organization in an interview last month. He said that "the Bureau of Statistics is the national statistical agency here in Australia, and we provide a very wide range of statistical services to the Australian and state and territory governments, to business, to community more generally, and we cover a very broad range of economic, social, population and more recently environmental statistics, and a lot of analysis and research around various themes and topics within those general domains."Australian business tycoon Alan Bond died today after complications from open heart surgery. He was 77.Following open heart surgery to repair and replace heart valves, leading to complications, Bond was placed in an induced coma.  The family released a statement outside the Perth hospital where Bond died in intensive care following his operation on Tuesday.His son John said, "His body finally gave out after heroic efforts of everyone involved here at the intensive care unit at Fiona Stanley Hospital [...] He never regained consciousness after his surgery on Tuesday."In the 1980s Bond was one of the richest men in Australia; in 1992 he declared bankruptcy. In 1997 he was convicted and jailed for his involvement in an AU$1.2 billion fraud case. Bond was released in 2000.In 2008 Australian magazine Business Review Weekly estimated Bond was worth AU$265 million.Bond leaves behind three children and eight grandchildren.On Sunday July 5, Australian businessman Stern Hu along with three other Rio Tinto employees were arrested by Chinese officials claiming they have evidence that the men damaged China's economy and security. The arrest come after the failed US$19.5 billion bid by state owned Chinalco to obtain an 18% stake in Rio Tinto and during the annual iron ore supply and price negotiations.Tan Yixin, a senior executive of the Chinese steel maker the Shougang Group with close ties to the group, has also been detained for alleged crimes relating to the trade of raw materials. Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Qin Gang cautioned Australia against politicising the issue. The maximum penalty for espionage in China is life imprisonment.While Australian Trade Minister Simon Crean prepares to leave for meetings in Beijing over the issue, the Australian Labor Government has called for the opposition parties to discipline Nationals Senator leader Barnaby Joyce over comments linking the failed bid to the arrests as being grossly irresponsible. Opposition leader Malcolm Turnbull called on Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd to contact the Chinese government and demand that Hu, an Australian citizen, be released and granted access to consular officials. On Thursday Xinhua News agency confirmed the arrests, the first official announcement since the group was detained on Sunday. The Xinhua News Agency also reported that a number of Chinese nationals have been detained and authorities are considering further investigations into China's steel production in the Shandong and Hebei provincesAustralian Defence Force Academy (ADFA) cadets Daniel McDonald, 19, and Dylan De Blaquiere, 18, were arrested  and appeared in court Friday after allegations were made that they filmed a female cadet having sex and then broadcasted it over the internet, lying about it afterwards. They were released on bail.The female complainant, 18, stated that while the sex was consensual, the transmission via the chat host Skype to another room on the grounds of the academy, was done without her knowledge. In addition, she stated that photos were taken and "distributed to other people."Police allege that on March 29, the footage captured on Mr. McDonald's webcam was sent via Skype to Mr. De Blaquiere's room where he and five other cadets watched the stream on a laptop computer. McDonald told De Blaquiere in advance. Police say De Blaquiere sent a text message to McDonald saying, "I just had a fuckin sick idea pop into my head, fuck her n film it." The friend replied, "Oh friggen hell is she aware of this or not?" McDonald's answer was "Nope."Mr McDonald said in a Facebook chat with another friend: "I'm about to root a girl n have webcam set up to the boys in another room."McDonald's attorney applied for a suppression order in court yesterday to protect Mr McDonald’s name for reasons of national security, but was the request was denied. The two cadets now face charges of using a "carriage service" to offend. McDonald faces a further charge of committing an act of indecency without consent which carries a maximum penalty of a five-year jail term.Bail has been granted for both men under provisions they do not contact the complainant or any witnesses involved with the case outside regular ADFA classes.When the complainant went public with her allegation, there was a flood of anger from the public. The Australian government in connection with the defence force has responded by launching of a series of investigations into the treatment of women in military service, including systematic bullying and harassment that could reach the point of sexual assault. The ADFA is considering taking action against the two cadets charged in this case, including possible suspension.Australia's biggest charity organisations are refusing to cooperate with the Howard government's welfare reform rules. The federal government expects about 18,000 people a year will lose their payments for eight weeks when the new welfare-to-work regime comes into force on July 1.Only 23 organisations have signed up to a government registry to "financially case manage" the most vulnerable unemployed, who will be left without income under tougher rules. The Brotherhood of St Laurence has told Fairfax newspapers it will not participate because it believes the welfare shake-up is unjust.About 18,000 people a year, according to the Government, are expected to lose their benefit for infringements of job search rules. Those with dependants, and those deemed "exceptionally vulnerable,"  will be eligible for case management by a charity on the government register.But the Brotherhood of St Laurence and the St Vincent de Paul Society have refused to register.  The moral dilemma of whether to become an agent for a policy some believe is "unjust" may be contemplated by the Salvation Army, and others.Charities will be paid $650 to manage each eligible unemployed person it assigns them, the Government has said. It wants charities to assess a person's "essential" expenses and notify Centrelink, which would then decide whether or not to pay the bills.Director of UnitingCare Australia Lin Hatfield Dodds said she did not expect many of the 400 agencies in her network to sign up to be case managers. Mission Australia has also not registered. Sue Leppert, executive director of Anglicare Australia, said many of her member agencies would definitely not register and others were grappling with the issue.Many Australian charities strongly oppose the policy of stripping all income from unemployed people for infringements. There is much concern that sole parents and many disabled people will be diverted from specific pensions to the Newstart Allowance. They will then be subject to stringent job search rules, potential infringements and harsh penalties.Charities also have been alarmed that under the new policy, people can immediately lose their payment for eight weeks if they refuse a job offer, are dismissed for misconduct, or are voluntarily unemployed.The executive director of the Brotherhood of St Laurence Tony Nicholson said the policy was unjust. "First they suffer an eight-week suspension of payment, and to add insult to injury they have to justify to some case manager their expenditure on their meagre income."Sole parents whose youngest child has turned six, and disabled people who are assessed as capable of working 15 hours per week, will no longer be granted a pension under the Welfare to Work plan.At the launch of a nation-wide advertising campaign for the government reform, Minister for Human Services Joe Hockey said: "the advertising campaign is part of an education process designed to encourage more people on income support to move into work." "The Howard Government is investing $3.7 billion to deliver greater employment services and other assistance, including rehabilitation, to those people required to look for work," said Minister Hockey.A spokesman for the Minister said the Government was trying to ensure "rents will be paid and kids won't get tossed out of home" if parents failed to meet their job search obligations.Solar Systems Pty Ltd, Hawthorn, Victoria, have announced an agreement with Boeing Australia Ltd for supply of Spectrolab solar cells. The agreement will result in the supply of 500,000 cells, capable of generating 11MW of electricity.Spectrolab produces multi-junction solar cells, originally designed for powering satellites. The solar cells are three times more efficient than the cells used in typical domestic solar panels, and are capable of converting light energy to electrical energy with up to 34% efficiency according to NREL's National Centre for Photovoltaics. Solar Systems utilise Spectrolab's multi-junction solar cells to increase the output of their dish systems.Solar Systems have already trialed the cells in one of their CS500 concentrating solar dishes installed at a solar power station in Hermannsburg, Central Australia, established to reduce the consumption of diesel in the remote community. Simply replacing the existing cells with the Spectrolab multi-junction solar cells increased output from 24kW to 34kW.Solar Systems is planning to use the technology in a solar power station it will build in northern Victoria, with a capacity of 154MW.Australia's Department of Defence spent thousands of dollars on controversial development seminars, Australian media reported Wednesday. The seminars are run by a San Francisco, California-based training company called Landmark Education. The company evolved from Erhard Seminars Training "est", and has faced criticism regarding its techniques and its use of unpaid labor.Australia's Defence Minister Warren Snowdon said that the government is in the process of reviewing Defence Department expenditures on career development. "We're in the process now of doing an audit, completely unrelated with anything to do with Landmark, which is being undertaken into learning and development to make sure that they meet our needs. ... We have to be very sure that the courses that people do undertake are relevant, appropriate and indeed in line with what community expectations might be," said Snowdon in an appearance on ABC Radio.The Australian and Australia's ABC News reported that Landmark Education had been listed in France as a "possible cult" in the mid 1990s. When asked about this on ABC Radio, a spokeswoman for the company in the United States, Deborah Beroset, responded: "What happened in France was that a commission established by the French parliament issued a report in which they listed almost 200 organisations as being possible cults ... We were never contacted. We were inappropriately included in that list". In a program which aired Wednesday, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation radio program AM reported that Australia's Defence Department spent at least AUD12,270 of taxpayer funds to send government employees to Landmark Education courses. According to AM, the Defence Department said it does not appear that further funds have been sent to Landmark Education since 2004. In a statement released by the Defence Department, the government stated: "A search of Defence records does not indicate exactly how many individuals attended courses with this training provider, however it is believed it was a small number of individuals. ... Defence has been unable to determine individual reasons for why groups within Defence choose this training provider."AM also reported that the use of unpaid labor by Landmark Education "has attracted the attention of the US and French governments," and that some individuals in the mental health field have accused the company of brainwashing. When asked about the allegations by mental health experts that Landmark Education's techniques amounted to brainwashing, Deborah Beroset responded: "Well, there is absolutely no credence to that whatsoever."In a March 9 article in the Herald Sun, Peter Rolfe reported that taxpayer money was used to send at least 37 police and government staff from Victoria, Australia to seminars run by Landmark Education. Police and Emergency Services Minister Bob Cameron said that "Decisions on the appropriateness of staff attending courses by Landmark Education are made by individual managers who remain best-placed to assess the development needs of their staff," but State Liberal MP Murray Thompson told the Herald Sun that the funds should have been put towards fighting crime. Apple Inc., Reebok, and Mercedes-Benz have sent employees to Landmark Education seminars, according to a spokeswoman for Landmark.In October 2006, Landmark Education took legal action against Google, YouTube, the Internet Archive, and a website owner in Queensland, Australia in attempts to remove criticism of its products from the Internet. The company sought a subpoena under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in an attempt to discover the identity of an anonymous critic who uploaded a 2004 French documentary of the Landmark Forum to the Internet. "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" (Voyage to the Land of the New Gurus) was produced by Pièces à Conviction, a French investigative journalism news program. The Electronic Frontier Foundation represented the anonymous critic and the Internet Archive, and Landmark withdrew its subpoena in November 2006 in exchange for a promise from the anonymous critic not to repost the video.Landmark Education is descended from Erhard Seminars Training, also called "est", which was founded by Werner Erhard. est began in 1971, and Erhard's company Werner Erhard and Associates repackaged the course as "The Forum" in 1985. Associates of Erhard bought the license to his "technology" and incorporated Landmark Education in California in 1991.After 27 years, the Australian Dollar has achieved a record high by equating to 98.73 U.S. cents. The previous record was set in 1983, when the currency was floated by foreign exchange markets — since then the last peak that it experienced was in July 2008, when it was worth 98.49 U.S. cents. Local economists believe this is a clear indication that interest rates will rise in the near future.The Australian Minister for Jobs, Chris Evans, has attributed the spike in the Australian dollar to government stimulus rolled out at the crux of the global financial crisis of the last several years, from which Australia exited relatively unscathed.The news comes as the Australian Bureau of Statistics released a report stating Australian unemployment was set a 5.1 per cent after additional jobs were gained in previous months. American magazine Forbes magazine recently named Australian businessperson and CEO of Westpac Gail Kelly as the eighth most powerful woman in the world.Australian Prime Minister John Howard and federal industry minister Ian MacDonald today announced that the federal government would be providing Ford Australia with a AU$52.5 million (US$40.4 million) "financial assistance package". Additional assistance will also be provided by the Victorian state government.According to Mr Howard, the injection will secure Ford's manufacturing operations in Australia "for the long term".From the package, AU$40 million will be used for the design and manufacture of Ford's next model Falcon and Territory vehicles, which will be built in Australia.Despite being given a major facelift in 2002 and another in 2005, the Falcon's bodyshell dates back to 1998. The current Falcon will need to serve the company until at least 2007 when the new model is anticipated. In the meantime, it will face stiff competition from the completely new Holden Commodore (the Falcon's major competitor) which will be released in the second half of this year. The additional AU$12.5 million will be spent on the development of a light commercial vehicle platform, which will be built overseas and marketed to around 80 countries. Mr Howard said that the light commercial project would involve construction of a research and development centre, which will become the base for R&D projects in the region.Mr MacFarlane said that the research facility was exciting for Australia and that it would put the Australian automotive in the spotlight.“The funding has helped Ford Australia secure the largest automotive R&D project ever undertaken in Australia which is equally exciting news for local Ford employees and Australian component producers” he said.“The project will see Ford Australia become a centre for automotive design and engineering excellence in the Asia Pacific region which will bring spin-off benefits for the broader industry,” “This opportunity will put both Ford Australia, and the Australian automotive and components sectors on the world map as far as our automotive design and engineering capabilities are concerned.” Mr MacFarlane said.Mr Howard claims that the projects will create 273 jobs and secure the future of the "iconic" Ford Falcon, which has been built in Australia since 1960.The financial package is conditional upon Ford Australia giving the Australian automotive component industry an opportunity to supply components for the vehicles produced by the two projects.In response to the Stern Report, Australia's Prime Minister John Howard announced AU$60 million to fight climate change, on 42 projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The projects are part of the Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate. "The Asia-Pacific Partnership includes countries that represent about half of the world's emissions, energy use, GDP (gross domestic product) and population, and is an important initiative that engages, for the first time, the key greenhouse-gas emitting countries in the Asia-Pacific region," Mr Howard said in a statement.Howard told the audience at the CSIRO's Ensis, a research and development organisation for the forestry industry, the government was taking practical steps to lower greenhouse gas emissions and symbolism would not clean up the air."Symbolism will not reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Practical methods will and that is what I'm interested in...The thing that matters is doing things" he said.More than half the money is going to projects to develop clean coal technology, including $8 million for a mobile carbon catcher for coal-fired power stations. $17.5 million will be spent on renewable energy projects, including high efficiency solar power stations and solar-enhanced transport fuels. $11 million will be spent on coal mining. $6 million will be spent on improving energy efficiency of appliances and buildings, and AU$2.5 million will be used to help the aluminium industry reduce emissions.Howard dismissed as "pure speculation" the Stern Report's more alarmist projections. "Talk about hot air. There's an enormous amount of hot air on this issue," Howard says "what we need are measures which actually achieve results." and that his announcement will achieve results.Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd has told the House of Representatives that the federal budget may need to fall into "temporary deficit" if the global economic crisis impacts upon Australia further. The Prime Minister said it would draw upon its budget surplus to stimulate growth and jobs.The Prime Minister said the Australian economy had changed significantly over the past few months and warned that there were hard times to come for many people. Mr Rudd said the situation will worsen before it gets any better.Mr Rudd said that the government will go into temporary deficit and spend on infrastructure to stimulate growth if required and not to do so would be irresponsible."If Australian economic growth slows further because of a further deepening of the global crisis then it follows that Australian Government revenues will reduce further," he said."Under those circumstances, it would be responsible to draw further from the surplus and if necessary to use a temporary deficit to begin investing in future infrastructure needs including hospitals, schools, TAFEs, universities, ports, roads, urban rail and high speed broadband."  He added, "Such action would support growth would support families and jobs and would be undertaken in the national interest." If the budget fell into deficit, it would be first time the federal budget has gone into deficit since 2001. Previously, the government has refused to concede the budget would go into deficit, contrary to predictions by economists.The admission by the government follows claims on the weekend by the Prime Minister that he did not expect the budget would go into deficit "in the current circumstances." Today Mr Rudd told parliament that the global economic crisis is accelerating."The world economy is deteriorating rapidly," Mr Rudd told parliament."The impact of the global financial crisis ... has grown from a trickle to a flood. It is now sweeping across the world from China to Chile, from Germany to Japan."The government slashed its budget surplus forecast earlier this month by AUD15 billion to $5.1 billion and revised down revenue for the next four years by a further $40 billion. Mr Rudd blamed part of the downgrade to falling commodity prices.Figures recently released by the OECD predict that Australia will manage to avoid a recession this year; economic growth is predicted to be 1.7%.Opposition leader Malcolm Turnbull used the Prime Minister's announcement to attack the Rudd government's economic credentials. He said any deficit would be regarded by voters to be a failure in economic management.Mr Turnbull asserted that it is unlikely that any deficit would be temporary. "Experience and history tell us that Labor deficits are never temporary," he told parliament. "The last Labor deficit lasted for six years. It only came to an end with the election of a coalition government."Mr Turnbull said the government had remained focused on inflation for longer than they should have."It was the only government in the developed world that was ignoring the global financial crisis...and was declaring its own war on inflation, when much darker storm clouds were on the horizon."The Liberal leader took aim at comments made by Finance Minister Lindsay Tanner and Prime Minister Rudd on the weekend that said the budget would not be allowed to fall into deficit."Forty-eight hours [later] and that has been completely abandoned," said Turnbull.The gas crisis in Western Australia continues to deepen with more businesses standing people down without pay. Businesses have been instructed to turn off non-essential items including limiting the number of lifts and reduced lighting; domestic customers are also urged to reduce energy use. In the Federal parliament today Resources Minister Martin Ferguson raised the prospect of activating the Liquid Fuel Emergency Act. "During such a situation, I can control the production, transfer and stock levels of crude and liquid fuel...While I sincerely hope that this will not be required, the Liquid Fuel Emergency Act provides authority for the Australian Government to prepare for and manage a national liquid fuel supply emergency," he said.Western Australian Premier Alan Carpenter called on all Western Australians to reduce energy usage, saying that the situation could be managed with on going co-operation, while reassuring everyone that the crisis will be short, with the Apache Corporation expected to begin partial operations in two months. Supplies were interrupted after a fire at Apache's Vanarus Island refinery, which supplied 30% of the state's natural gas requirements.An Alinta spokesman has said that with the expected cold weather during the next week demand will put further pressure on supplies, advising that it is critical that all consumers limit energy usage.Alinta requests that residential customers;use only essential heating and limit it to one roomturn down hot water system by 10 degreesreduce shower timeswash in cold water.While suggesting small businesses;shift production schedulesbring forward maintenance and shut down schedulesturn off equipment not essential to the business.The Rudd Labor government introduced its "fair work" bill into the House of Representatives today, effectively dismantling the former government's WorkChoices industrial relations platform. The Australian Labor party campaigned heavily on abolishing WorkChoices at the 2007 election.The bill was presented to parliament by deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Industrial Relations, Julia Gillard. Introducing her government's bill, Ms Gillard said "Over a century ago at Federation, Australians decided that we would be different to other nations. Democratic, yes. With parliamentary institutions, judicial independence and individual rights similar to those of other great democracies like the United Kingdom and the United States of America, but without their wide social inequalities."Ms Gillard said the WorkChoices platform said "make your own way in the world; without the comfort of mateship; without the protections afforded by a compassionate society; against odds deliberately stacked against you. No safety net. No rights at work. No cooperation in the workplace to take the nation forward."Ms Gillard said that by voting for Labor at the last election, Australians had stayed true to Australian values. According to Ms Gillard the new Industrial Relations System "balances the interests of employers and employees and balances the granting of rights with the imposition of responsibilities."Central to the bill is:A safety net of ten minimum conditions that every employee has the right to. Including rules surrounding hours of weekly work, public holidays, leave, notice and redundancy pay;For bargaining between employees and employers to be done in good faith;Unfair dismissal protections;Workers earning more than A$100,000 a year being exempt from award wages;The establishment of Fair Work Australia to oversee worker's rights and review minimum pay levels.A vote is expected in the House of Representatives by the end of the year, but a Senate inquiry will be held before the bill is debated by the Senate. Leader of the opposition, Malcolm Turnbull said the Coalition will vote in favour of the bill in the House of Representatives, but will reserve the right to amend it in the Senate.Ms Gillard says the Government expects a Senate inquiry to look at the bill, but will not tolerate a delay."They shouldn't stand in the way of the Australian people, they should pass this bill," she said.Neither unions or employers were completely satisfied with the bill, which the government has hailed as evidence it has come up with a balanced system.An amendment of the US Fair Trade Agreement insisted by the opposition may be dropped after lobbying by the US Pharmaceutical Industry.Mark Latham, former opposition leader negotiated the "evergreening" amendment to ensure that drug companies could not extend patents to fight off cheaper generic versions of their medicines. Companies caught doing so may receive multi-million dollar fines. The US Pharmaceutical Industry claims that the provisions are harming investment.Acting Prime Minister, Mark Vaile said "We will have a look at it, if (the evergreening issue) is raised by the Americans"."(But) the US will have to prove that Labor's evergreening amendment is commercially detrimental, not just philosophically detrimental."A Health Department secretary will travel to Washington on January 13 to discuss the issue before a formal review of the FTA in March.In response to higher than expected mortgage rate increases last week, Australian treasurer Wayne Swan flagged changes to banking regulations to increase competition between lenders on home mortgages.Swan announced yesterday he had sought a Treasury report on the banking sector ahead of talks over the next fortnight on reforms to make it easier for bank customers to move mortgages between lenders by forcing banks to reduce exit fees, to "make the market more competitive". "Everybody knows we've been impacted upon by the U.S. sub-prime mortgage crisis that has pushed up the cost of money," Swan said. "But, as I said last week, some of the increases we saw by the banks were not justified. In my view, they were excessive. I urge people to vote with their feet. If there are obstacles to people voting with their feet, switching their accounts, we'll have a look at those."The banking industry, however, insists that loan refinancing is not a complicated process currently, according to the head of the Australian Bankers Association (ABA), David Bell. "There is a competitive marketplace for home loans and the Cannex website shows the many products that are available," said Bell. "Regarding the switching of transaction accounts, the Australian Payments Clearing Association is conducting a community consultation process on this issue. ABA member banks support this process."Australian economic growth forecast for 2008/09 has been reduced to 2.75% as the impact of the gas crisis ripples through the economy. Federal Resources Minister Martin Ferguson said today that disruption to economic activity is expected as Western Australian companies layoff thousands of workers with mining and industrial companies forced to cut back production. BHP Billiton has brought forward upgrades to its nickel refinery in Kambalda and diverted its gas allocation to keeping the Worsley Alumina refinery operating. The upgrade originally scheduled for mid 2009 is expect to take four months to complete. BHP has said that it will continue to accept ore from independent mining operators in the area inline with current contracts.Economists expect continuing turbulence as mining companies come under pressure to continue to supply China's demand for materials from Western Australia, combined with growing inflation rising gold and commodity prices.Members of Australia's Health Services Union (HSU) will go on strike in Victoria next week in a dispute over stalled wage and career structure negotiations. Over 5000 physiotherapists, speech pathologists and radiation therapists will walk off the job next week, effectively closing the state's 68 largest health services.The strike will force the closure of intensive care units and emergency departments across the state.It is feared the strike could continue into Easter.National secretary of the HSU, Kathy Jackson said admissions would be crippled, while intensive care patients would have to be evacuated to New South Wales, Tasmania and South Australia as hospitals will not be able to perform tests or administer treatment."When an ambulance shows up you can't admit a patient without an X-ray being available, you can't intubate them and you can't operate on them," she said. "If something goes wrong in an ICU you need to be able to X-ray, use nuclear medicine or any diagnostic procedure," said Ms Jackson.Ms Jackson said the HSU offered arbitration last year, but the state government refused. "They're not interested in settling disputes, they hope that we are just going to go away.""We're not going away, we've gone back and balloted the whole public health workforce in Victoria, those ballots were successful, 97 percent approval rating," she said.The HSU is urging the government to commence serious negotiations to resolve the dispute before industrial action commenced.The government has offered the union a 3.25 per cent pay increase, in line with other public sector workers but the union has demanded more, but stopped short of specifying a figure.Victorian Premier John Brumby said the claim would be settled according to the government's wages policy. "The Government is always willing and wanting to sit down and negotiate with the relevant organisations . . . we have a wages policy based around an increase of 3.25 per cent and, above that, productivity offset," he told parliament.The union claims it is also arguing against a lack of career structure, which has caused many professionals to leave the health service. Ms Jackson said wages and career structures in Victoria were behind other states.Victorian Opposition Leader Ted Baillieu said he was not in support of the proposed strike and called on the government to meet with unions. "There could not be a more serious threat to our health system than has been announced today." "We now have to do whatever is possible to stop this strike from proceeding," he said.The opposition leader will meet with the union at 11:30 AM today.Victorian Hospitals Industry Association industrial relations services manager Simon Chant said hospitals were looking at the possible impact and warned that patients may have to be evacuated interstate if the strike goes ahead.File:Australian Mitre 10 logo.jpgWednesday, an over-90-year-old Manns Mitre 10 hardware store, run by Alex P Mann Pty Ltd, closed until further notice after a rent dispute in Port Adelaide, South Australia. The rent dispute involved $315,060.70 of rent for months of September 2012 to January 2013 unpaid to the landlord, Fourteen Sails Pty Ltd. The site was distrained. The store had to fire about 40–50 employees without a warning in advance.The store was closed three days before Australia Day, January 26, Saturday.The store administrator, Tim Clifton, said they had to ring the workers out of the blue: "I was advised the landlord had distrained for unpaid rent over the business and that left the directors in the position where the business was untenable. I presume at this stage trading was poor and the company just didn't have the money to pay the rent. ... Unfortunately they had to terminate their employment this morning and we've rung them all. We'll do our best to get them their entitlements under the government schemes, and we calculate what they're owed in the next few days and hopefully get that underway for them. ... It's a sad day. It's a sign of the times isn't it. Things are tough out there."Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union state secretary Dave Kirner said workers were not allowed to collect their personal belongings left inside of the store: "I spoke with a worker who said the locks have been changed, they were asked to leave and all their personal belongings are in there". On Saturday, Wikinews took photos of the documents available at the store entrance. The rent dispute details and an inventory were available for everyone to read. During the ten minutes of taking photos, around seven people visited the closed entrance and read the documents a first time. One of them commented, "oh hey, Bunnings will be stronger".The store owner, Jarred Spearman, reported negotiations ongoing with the landlord and said he would "hopefully try to work [our] way out of this ... We are pretty lucky to have the customers and staff we had".Port Adelaide Mayor Gary Johanson said the loss of the store is a significant loss as Port Adelaide is being redeveloped: "Their staff were extremely good, the service levels were high, the store was always well stocked and it was a great example of a family business. That will be a great loss to the Port." "The landlord is not at fault here. The landlord is acting within their rights. ... This is the sort of thing we cannot afford to lose if we're serious about the Port being redeveloped. This is not a multinational company. This is a franchise of a bigger company but it is a family franchise and it employs a lot of staff. The staff that they employ are local people and they're employing large amounts of staff in relation to their turnover. We need to take stock of what local businesses we have left and say, how can we ensure they stay with us?"The Australian Medical Association (A.M.A.), an independent organization representing over 27,000 doctors, has written a letter to the Australian Government's Biofuels Taskforce supporting the mandatory use of ethanol blends.“The A.M.A. is a strong advocate on initiatives related to environmental impacts on human health such as global warming,” wrote Dr Haikerwal, President of the A.M.A. .“In our opinion, there is incontrovertible evidence that the addition of ethanol to petrol and biodiesel to diesel will reduce the deaths and ill-health associated with the emissions produced by burning those fuels.” The A.M.A. has recommended the use of petrol with 10% ethanol and diesel with 20% biodiesel.The A.M.A. also indicated its support for the reduction of toxic aromatics (such as benzene), increased use of liquid petroleum gas (LPG) or compressed natural gas (CNG), and the use of filters and gas-detoxification systems in vehicle tunnels.Australian opposition leader Kim Beazley is expected to release his workplace plan when he will speak to a union delegate meeting in Sydney today.At the meeting today, there will be delegates from the Construction Forestry Mining Energy Union (CFMEU), Energy Union, Australian Manufacturing Workers Union (AMFU) and Australian Workers Union (AWU).Under the plan, employers will be prevented from employing overseas migrants for 12 months after sacking Australian workers from the same job.In a statement, Andrew Ferguson, CFMEU's NSW Secretary said that his union is contacted regularly after Australian workers are sacked for less expensive overseas labor. "There is not a day that goes by that people don't contact the union looking for help finding a job because employers are importing cheap labour rather than investing in Australian workers".Mr Ferguson welcomed the opposition's incentives. "Kim Beazley's proposal is a welcome step forward in rectifying the short-sighted policies of a government that has completely failed to look out for the interests of working Australians."The outgoing governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, Ian Macfarlane, has warned that the Australian economy will probably begin to slow after over a decade of solid growth. Mr Macfarlane, in a speech to the House of Representatives, said that both interest rates and inflation were likely to rise. "We forecast gradual rises in underlying inflation, with it reaching 2½ per cent by end 2005 and 3 per cent by end 2006."The Prime Minister, John Howard, responded to the news by saying that "We will never go back to the 17 per cent interest rates under this Government" and added that homeownership "should always be something which is kept within the reach of Australians on modest incomes."Australian senator Barnaby Joyce (Nationals, Queensland) has moved to oppose the government's planned changes to the country's petrol retail industry. The National Party, of which Senator Joyce is a member, governs Australia in coalition with the Liberal Party.The government plans to amend regulations governing the petrol industry to allow oil companies to own more than five percent of petrol stations. Senator Joyce has given notice to disallow regulations that would force the government to debate them in the House of Representatives and the Senate.Senator Joyce said the proposed changes would hurt the smaller retailers in the industry. "What we need is protection for independents and mum and dad businesses," he told the Australian Financial Review.Senator Joyce is concerned that the proposed regulations would start takeovers of smaller retailers by oil companies. "Obviously the sites they're going to get are the sites that are controlled by independents or independent franchisees, what I would term the mum and dad operators," he said."In 1980 we thought it was a good thing for there to be wider participation in the retail market by mum and dad operators and I still think that's a just cause," said Senator Joyce.It is not the first time Senator Joyce has gone against his party's legislation. Senator Joyce refused to support a government bill changing Australia's trade practices law in October 2005 and voted against voluntary student unionism legislation in December 2005.Australian telecommunications giant Telstra has announced that it will be offering a rebate to those customers who placed calls to the United Kingdom to check on relatives in the wake of the recent bombings. Of the approximately 700 people wounded in the attacks, only 7 were Australians, however there are many more Aussies spread throughout England and Europe at any time.To be eligible for the rebate, the calls must have been made between 6pm AEST Thursday the 7th through to 6am Saturday the 8th, according to Telstra chief Sol Trujillo. As well as this, Telstra customers who have a relative who has been hospitalized as a result of the event will be eligible for a rebate for a period of one month from July 7.Applying for the rebate involves Telstra customers calling a special number which will appear on their next bill. Telstra has been working with the Australian Federal Government to provide further assistance to customers.File:AUS$20 John Flynn.jpgThe ability of Australian opposition leader, Kevin Rudd to run the country's economy has been questioned by the Government after he made an error responding to a question on Australia's current tax system today. Speaking in Queanbeyan, New South Wales earlier today, Mr Rudd was asked if he could name the current tax rates and the thresholds at which they kick in.Mr Rudd said that he thought the top tax rate started at AUD$175,000. In fact, Australia's top taxation rate begins at $150,000. "Well, as of July 1, if you went through the four thresholds, I think the high threshold kicks in I think at $175,000, then I think it cascades down the spectrum," Mr Rudd told reporters.Australian treasurer Peter Costello, who introduced the tax threshold changes, has seized on the opposition leader's uncertainty, claiming that "he has never cared about economic policy, he has no interest in it," he said. Treasurer Costello claimed: "He was exposed as a fraud on productivity and we don't hear him talking about productivity very much anymore. "Now he has been exposed as being naked when it comes to understanding the tax system."Mr Costello demanded that the opposition release their taxation policy. "Since the Labor Party demands an election to be called on a daily basis, you would think they might have the decency of releasing a policy so that people can know what it is," said Costello.A Federal election is expected in Australia in the next three months and the Coalition Government is trailing the Opposition by ten percentage points on a two-party preferred basis.Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan has today handed down his last budget before the 2013 Federal election. He announced two financial years of deficits before the budget returned to surplus in 2016/2017. The deficit for 2013/2014 is to be A$18 billion."This year, we've faced the second largest revenue write down since the Great Depression," he said. There is to be a A$60 billion write down over four years. "Because of our deep commitment to jobs and growth, we have taken the responsible course to delay the return to surplus, and due to a savage hit to tax receipts, there will be a deficit of $18 billion in 2013/14".Infrastructure spending includes A$12.9 million to connect more local governments to the national broadband network, A$40 on other local government infrastructure, investment in Brisbane's cross river rail and Melbourne's Metro rail system.People earning the Newstart Allowance can now earn more from paid employment before there payments from the government are cut. Mr Swan announced the so called "Baby Bonus" was to be merged into the Family Tax Benefit Part A."Family Payment system reshuffle leaves poorest worse off!" Australian Greens leader Christine Milne tweeted.A professor from Australia's most prestigious university said yesterday that Australian Treasurer, Peter Costello, "must try harder on welfare." Professor Bob Gregory of the Australian National University and leading economist said, "If people could not hide on disability and sole parent pensions then [Mr Costello] couldn't claim credit for the fall in unemployment.""In my view, the Treasurer has to come out openly and say that he has not been able to produce full-time jobs at a sufficient rate to get people off welfare. Either he has to wait until the economy generates unskilled jobs or he has to play around with the wage system."Another report relating to the Australian Social Security system was released yesterday by researchers at the University of Melbourne. It found that care-givers who look after mentally ill dependents claim significantly less stress when they engaged in work outside the home.The report from the Cole Inquiry has been handed down to Governor-General Michael Jeffrey. The inquiry was setup by the Howard government just over twelve months ago to investigate claims of corruption in relation to the United Nations Oil-for-Food Program.The report will be made public next week.Mainstream media has speculated that the report will recommend a string of charges against former AWB executives. It is believed that around AUD$222 million of illegal payments were made to a Jordanian trucking company partly owned by Hussein's Iraqi regime. AWB executives claim it was a victim of the Iraq government's corruption.The Australian government has also come under scrutiny for failing to investigate reports of the AWB breaching UN sanctions against Iraq. It is expected that the report will contain little about the government's role as that is outside the inquiry's terms of reference.The opposition is expected to attack the government when the report is tabled in parliament this week. Opposition spokesman for Public Accountability, Kelvin Thomson said the inquiry was set up to return a verdict wanted by the government and that the terms of reference were deliberately narrow."The inquiry has been given rorted terms of reference. It has been limited to reporting on the conduct of AWB, it has not been allowed to make findings concerning the conduct of Howard Government ministers.""The Opposition expressly raised this with Commissioner Cole earlier this year and this was Commissioner Cole's response.""So all along, the Howard Government has been seeking a verdict of AWB guilty, Government innocent," said Mr Thomson.Former chairman of AWB, Trevor Flugge said he will not read the report when it is released and said he has done nothing wrong but fears going to gaol.Speaking to The Australian newspaper, Mr Flugge said he had no interest in reading the Cole report because the case has been built against him from the outset."My public life is obviously over. And I can't honestly say that I miss it," Mr Flugge said.The Australian Wheat Board (AWB), the primary economic authority for Australian wheat export is set to lose its long-standing trade contract with Iraq worth $270m/annum to United States exporters after a deal was struck with Iraqi Wheat Board for a majority share of the $500m wheat market.Aggressive lobbying by United States trade diplomats used the imminent uncovering of AWB involvement in the Oil for Wheat incident as fodder in their recent negotiations. The AWB's previous arrangement saw the use of Alia, a Jordanian based transport corporation owned by the wealthy Al-Khawam family, to transport their wheat to Umm Qasr, a southern sea port in Iraq."There has been obvious corruption in procurement and there were illegal and illegitimate transfers of huge funds abroad, outside the control of the Iraqi state," said Iraq's finance minister, Ali Allawi.The UN report headed by Paul Volcker (former Chairman of the United States Federal Reserve), released in October 2005, noted that the AWB was aware the Iraqi Government used Alia as a backdoor for obtaining $310m in kickbacks under the guise as 'transport costs' and adjusted their price for the wheat accordingly which was noticeably higher than their trading price with importers in other regions."Numerous aspects of the AWB-Alia relationship suggest that some employees of AWB were placed on notice of facts strongly suggesting that AWB's payments were in whole or part for the benefit of the government of Iraq." said Vockler.Sheik Hussein al-Khawam head of the Shiite Al-Kahawam influential family business operation including Teebah, Alia, Al Huda International Trading Company recently assumed  its control on the newly established Iraqi Airlines in alliance with the new Iraqi Government, has been under heavy scrutiny from some influential US political analysts, including Volcker and which accuse the family of corruption due to dealings with Saddam Hussien.File:New Zealand money.jpgA recent survey has shown that the public support of a shared currency between Australia and New Zealand has risen.The Australian survey, released at the Australia New Zealand Leadership Forum, has shown that the support for a shared currency in New Zealand is at 49%. The Australian support is slightly lower at 41%.Helen Clark, Prime Minister of New Zealand, has said that New Zealand would not have a shared currency, but an Australian currency. She fears that the new dollar would be run by an Australian Reserve Bank, driving interest rates that are unrelated to the state of the New Zealand economy. Miss Clark told the New Zealand Press Association, "The convergence of trying to bring the two [economies] together could be quite rough on the smaller party [New Zealand]."Opposition National party leader, John Key is supporting an exploration of the idea of a shared currency.The world's second largest auto parts maker, Delphi Corporation, has announced today that 8,500 salary workers may be out of a job soon as part of a major restructuring plan, which will also include voiding the contract with the UAW union.  The move would also shutdown over a third of its factories worldwide, including twenty one located in the United States.Eight plants in the U.S. are slated to continue operating.  Those located in Clinton, Mississippi, Brookhaven, Mississippi, Lockport, New York, Rochester, New York, Warren, Ohio, Vandalia, Ohio, Kokomo, Indiana, and Grand Rapids, Michigan will continue to serve as Delphi properties.  The rest of the factories are said to either be sold to other companies, or to be closed entirely. The plans were brought up to a bankruptcy judge earlier today.  In addition to the proposed closings and layoffs, 34,000 workers may experience cut wages and less benefits.  Hourly workers wages will drop from $27 to $22 an hour soon, and will further decrease to $16.50 in late 2007.  Delphi previously filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in October 2005.  In the original filing, requests were made to drop the hourly wages down to $12.50 an hour.California-based Autodesk Inc. announced yesterday that they plan to acquire Toronto-based Alias for $182 million in cash. The acquisition is expected to be completed within six months. “Alias’ technology spans several of our most important markets and augments the synergy between our design and media business,” said Carl Bass, COO of Autodesk.Autodesk is the creator of one of the top computer aided design programs; AutoCAD, which is used by many engineers and architects for design activities including drafting. Autodesk’s software is used by over 6 million people. They are the 5th largest PC software company in the world. They employ approximately 3,500 people. In the past fiscal year they earned $1.2 billion.Alias produces 3D graphics software used in the creation of special effects, video games, industrial, and automotive design. They were founded in 1983 under the name Alias Research. They merged with Wavefront Technologies under SGI in 1995 and changed its name to Alias in July 2003. In June, 2004 they were spun off from Silicon Graphics Inc. and acquired by Accel-KKR and Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan. In the 2005 fiscal year they earned $83 million in revenue. They currently employ approximately 600 people. Alias customers include DreamWorks SKG, Pixar, Nintendo, Industrial Light & Magic, General Motors, and BMW. According to Alias, their software has been used in nearly every film nominated for an Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences award in the Best Visual Effects and Best Animated Feature Films categories.The US car manufacturer General Motors said that it would axe 10,000 jobs at its European division, Opel. According to the company's vice president John Smith, the firm wanted to reduce costs at Opel by 30%.Smith announced the company's move on Wednesday. He didn't say where the cuts were going to take place, but wanted to present details of the plan to European governments "very soon".A day before the announcement, GM said it was cancelling a deal to sell Opel to Magna, a Canadian automobile parts company.Politicians in Germany expressed disappointment at GM's cancellation of the Magna deal, which the country's government had favoured. "[GM's] behaviour towards Germany is completely unacceptable," said German economy minister Rainer Bruederle.The premier of the German state of North Rhine-Westphalia remarked that "General Motors' behaviour shows the ugly face of turbo-capitalism. That is completely unacceptable."The UK government, however, welcomed the firm's decision. "It is the best decision for Britain and our plants," said the general secretary of the British union Unite, Tony Woodley. "I am absolutely delighted that General Motors have finally done the right thing for them and for us," he told the BBC.About 54,000 people are employed by Opel, about 25,000 of them in Germany.The US automobile manufacturer Ford has said that it posted a net profit of US$997 million in the third quarter of this year, and predicted that it would be "solidly profitable" by 2011. The reports surprised most analysts, who had forecast that the auto company would lose money.Ford's profits equate to 26 cents per share, a large difference to the 12 cent per share lost that had been anticipated by most economic analysts."Our third-quarter results clearly show Ford is making tremendous progress despite the prolonged economic slump," said the firm's chief executive officer, Alan Mulally. "While we still face a challenging road ahead, our transformation is working and our underlying business continues to grow stronger."Mulally predicted that his company would meet or even surpass all of its financial targets, and suggested that the fourth quarter of this year could see it post an operating profit.The Japanese car making company Toyota has announced that their predicted profit loss for 2008 has tripled from their previous estimate. The company reports the loss after demand for its vehicles dropped. In December 2008, Toyota estimated its full year operating loss to be 150 billion yen (US$1.65 billion). Now the company has tripled that number, forecasting a 450 billion yen (US$4.95 billion) loss. This would be the first yearly loss at Toyota in 70 years.The firm also said that it predicts its global sales to fall by 17.87% to 7.32 million vehicles sold, compared to last year's 8.91 million vehicles sold. Overall for 2008, Toyota's car sales in the United States were down 15.4%, but that number was down from 2007 in which sales dropped 18%. For the month of January alone, Toyota's sales fell 31.7% compared to the overall U.S. sales loss of 37.1%.As a result of the loss, 17 of the company's 75 production lines worldwide, will be reduced to only a single shift of workers. The company also announced a full closure of all their Japanese plants for a total of 14 days between January and March 2009. Toyota's boss Katsuaki Watanabe described the loss as happening only "once in a hundred years".In January, the Japanese Nikkei newspaper said that Toyota was thinking of firing 1,000 Northern American and British workers, all of whom hold full-time positions in the company. The paper quoted Toyota's Executive Vice President Mitsuo Kinoshita as saying that "outside of Japan, we intend to make every possible effort to protect the jobs of our employees."Sales of automobiles in the United States fell as much as 35% in January, compared to the same month a year ago, as manufacturers reported their January sales.Ford Motor Company NYSE: F sales dropped 42% last month from the previous year. General Motors NYSE: GM reported a 49% decline. Chrysler was hardest hit among the domestically owned manufacturers with a plunge of 55%.The decline in sales has not been limited to just US manufacturers. Japanese automaker Toyota NYSE: TM reported a 32% drop in US sales from a year earlier, Nissan MotorsNASDAQ: NSANY dropped 30%, and Honda NYSE: HMC sales dropped 28%.Subaru and South Korean Hyundai Motor Company LSE: HYUD were two of the few auto firms that reported an increase in sales. They posted gains of eight and fourteen percent, respectively.On an annual basis, sales overall have also been plummeting. Industry-wide US car sales dropped 18% last year to 13.2 million automobiles.GM announced today that it will offer voluntary buyouts to 22,000 employees in the US, in an effort to reduce its expenditures.Last month, GM and Chrysler were given loans worth US$17.4 billion from the government after they warned of imminent bankruptcy.2008 Taipei International Auto Parts & Accessories Show (2008 Taipei AMPA), a trade show for the automotive industry, located at Taipei World Trade Center Nangang Exhibition Hall (TWTC Nangang), opened yesterday and will continue until this Saturday April 12 with two concurrent trade shows for motorcycle and electronic industries at Taipei World Trade Center named Taipei International Automobile Electronics Show (AutoTronics Taipei) & Taiwan International Motorcycle Industry Show (Motorcycle Taiwan).The three main shows in different venues, highlighting key issues like the environment, energy-efficiency, and industry transformations. TAITRA held "AutoTronics Forum" and "Taiwan Automotive International Forum & Exhibition" in hopes of forecasting the future of the electronic and automobile industries. Yamaha Corporation put on the "'Fi' 5th-Stage Emission Standard Pavilion" to showcase the research achievement and solutions for the future standard of fifth-cycle.The 3D science fiction epic romance Avatar has surpassed Titanic—also by director James Cameron—as the highest-grossing international film of all time.Avatar has overtaken Titanic by a margin of more than 15 million US dollars, with both films grossing in excess of $1.843bn. The film has been the most popular film in box offices around North America and Europe for six weeks, with United Kingdom takings for this weekend alone in excess of £5.1m. In the United States, the film has pushed The Dark Knight into third place.Avatar's victory has been put down to the higher prices many viewers have had to pay to see the film in 3D, as well as inflation over time (as the figures have not been adjusted for such). If the figures are adjusted for inflation, it is beaten to the top spot by Gone with the Wind. In the adjusted chart, Titanic makes it only to number six, with other members of the top ten including Star Wars, The Sound of Music, and E.T: The Extra-Terrestrial.Having resisted financial-market pressure for months, Portugal has finally requested an International Monetary Fund (IMF) and European Union bailout. The emergency loan, believed to total around 75 billion euros, comes three weeks after the country’s prime minister, José Sócrates, resigned following parliamentary rejection of his government’s proposed austerity measures.Following recent sovereign debt crises in Greece and then Ireland, the Portuguese government’s actions have attracted harsh criticism in the European press. Applauding the request for foreign assistance, Britain’s The Guardian nonetheless lambasts Mr Sócrates for the tardiness of his decision. The British newspaper described Portugal as “the financial-market equivalent of a dead man walking” in an editorial dated April 7.In Portugal, Público observed that “it will not be easy to accept more austerity, but it will be impossible to accept any more demagoguery, denial of reality, political incompetence or irresponsibility”. The National Daily noted, however, that the “return of the IMF represents a stinging defeat for Portugal”. Indeed, the political intransigence since Mr Sócrates’s resignation on March 23 was widely viewed as doomed to failure from the outset. The Portguese request, pointed out Spain’s El País, “surprised no-one, but [had] been delayed for political reasons”.These latest developments will no doubt fuel further criticism of the single currency. In Austria, Vienna’s Der Standard labelled the euro a “deceitful entity”, mocking the claim by European leaders that “States bailed out using taxpayers’ money will be able to repay their debts with restructuring”.There have been widespread claims that a will to protect the euro has led Brussels to unduly downplay the gravity of the sovereign debt crisis sweeping the continent.The emergency loan is expected to be delivered before Portuguese elections on June 5.Bank of America (BoA) is attempting a takeover of Merrill Lynch, which, if successful, would combine two of the largest banks in the world. BoA would buy Merrill Lynch for around $44 billion in stock. BoA, the largest bank in the United States, has been looking for a major acquisition for the last few months. The bank was seen as a possible buyer of Lehman Bothers before it pulled out, citing lack of financial support by the U.S. government, and possible shareholder problems.Merrill's CEO John Thain is believed to have initiated the discussion with Kenneth Lewis, BoA’s chief executive. It is believe that Merrill has been suffering major problems with a lack of cash on hand to operate its business. According to The New York Times, Thain believes that unless it can secure a deal with another bank, then it could possible face a collapse. Thain also believes that the U.S. government would not step in to stop such a collapse, as with the current situation with Lehman Brothers.BoA would buy Merrill at $29 a share. On Friday, Merill stock price closed at $17.05. Merrill Lynch has suffered a massive drop in its share price over the last year, down 68 percent due to subprime mortgage crisis. Merrill had over $10 billion pumped into the bank in December 2007 and January 2008 by sovereign wealth funds.Bank of America Corp. has completed its acquisition of MBNA Corp. in a deal worth about $34.2 billion.  Bank of America now has 40 million active credit card accounts.  MBNA was a leader in affinity marketing with relationships with organizations like the NFL and L.L. Bean.  Shareholders of MBNA will receive .5009 common shares of Bank of America plus $4.125 in cash for each share.  MBNA had 24,700 employees prior to the deal, Bank of America had over 177,000. 6,000 of those jobs will be eliminated saving the bank $850 million by 2007.  Bank of America is the world's second largest bank.Currently, the U.S. Secret Service are looking in to the matter, a federal agency whose brief includes investigations of serious financial crime such as this. All parties concerned are worrying about possible identity theft as it contained valuable information such as bank account numbers, names and addresses.A review this week by Wikinews of US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) complaints about mortgages in the United States shows Bank of America leads all lending institutions in complaints.Since mortgages complaints were recorded in December 2011, 77,622 total have been added to CFPB's database. 29.2% of these complaints involved Bank of America, with the second most received by Wells Fargo, accounting for 15.5% of all complaints. JPMorgan Chase ranked third by volume of complaints with 9.8%. Ocwen was fourth with 8.7% and Citibank was fifth with 4.8%. Nationstar Mortgage; Green Tree Servicing, LLC; HSBC; PNC Bank; U.S. Bancorp; OneWest Bank; SunTrust Bank; Flagstar Bank; and Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. each had between 1.0 and 3.8% of total complaints.  The remaining 14.4% of all complaints about consumer mortgages were divided between about 530 other lending institutions.The Motley Fool reported last month that for the past fiscal quarter, the biggest US based mortgage lenders were from first to fifth Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Quicken Loans and U.S. Bancorp.According to the US Federal Reserve, debt for family residences stands at US$10.706 trillion for the second quarter of 2013. As of the end of June of this year, Bank of America is the United States's second largest commercial bank with US$1.343 trillion in domestic assets. Wells Fargo is the fourth largest commercial bank with US$1.251 trillion in domestic assets. JPMorgan Chase is the largest US commercial bank with US$1.329 trillion in domestic assets and US$1.947 trillion in total assets.The mortgage complaints in the CFPB report include several subproducts. Conventional fixed mortgages account for 27.1% of all complaints. Conventional adjustable mortgages account for 10.0%. FHA mortgages account for 7.7% of all complaints. Home equity loans or lines of credit account for 3.8% of all complaints. VA mortgages are 1.4% of all complaints. Second mortgages and reverse mortgages each account for 0.6% of complaints. The remaining 48.7% of complaints are about other mortgages or other mortgage issues. A few years ago, FHA loans accounted for about 10% of all US mortgages while VA loans accounted for about 3%. Prime loans accounted for over 75% of the market and the rest were subprime mortgages.California leads all states by volume of complaints with 14768.  It is followed by Florida, New York, Georgia and Texas.  When complaints are divided by a state's total population, New Hampshire leads.  The state is followed by Washington D.C., Maryland, Georgia and Florida. Complaints do not correlate with national rankings for August's foreclosure rate by state where Nevada topped the list, followed by Florida, Ohio, Maryland and Delaware. Two zip codes account for over 1,000 total complaints between them. 565 complaints originated in the 48382 zip code, which is in Commerce Township, Michigan, located in suburban Detroit. 553 complaints originated in the 33071 zip code, in Coral Springs, Florida.  According to real estate website Zillow, there are currently 1,033 properties in foreclosure in Coral Springs while Commerce Township only has 131 properties currently in foreclosure. Four other zip codes have 100 plus complaints originating from them. 91730, in Rancho Cucamonga, California, had 158 complaints. 33409, in West Palm Beach, Florida, had 132. 92626, in Costa Mesa, California, had 125 complaints.  92660, in Newport Beach, California, had 122 complaints.  Respectively, the towns had 534, 1,068, 153, and 134 properties currently in foreclosure.  These numbers are higher than for the cities of a few sampled zip codes where there was only one complaint, such as Gold Hill, Oregon which has 4 properties in foreclosure, and Decatur, Illinois which has 6 properties in foreclosure.The CFPB categorizes complaints into six categories: "Loan modification, collection,foreclosure" or problems when a person is unable to pay; "Loan servicing, payments, escrow account" or problems with making a payment; "Application, originator, mortgage broker"; "Credit decision / Underwriting"; "Settlement process and costs", and "Other".  The CFPB says the complaint types indicate consumers "appear to be driven by a desire to seek agreement with their companies on foreclosure alternatives. The complaints indicate that consumer confusion persists around the process and requirements for obtaining loan modifications and refinancing, especially regarding document submission timeframes, payment trial periods, allocation of payments, treatment of income in eligibility calculations, and credit bureau reporting during the evaluation period." Currently, 59.6% of all complaints against lenders deal with being unable to pay. 25.1% deal with problems in making a payment. 7.0% have to do with the application process.Of the complaint-heavy zip codes, for 48382 in Commerce Township, Michigan, 98.9% of all complaints have to deal with being unable to pay. Accounting for 23.4% of all mortgage complaints in Commerce Township, 132 of the complaints for being unable to pay were made regarding Bank of America, accounting for 97.8% or all but 3 complaints against them from the zip. 121 of the Bank of America responses in Commerce Township were closed with explanation and 12 were closed with non-monetary relief. 33071 in Coral Springs is different, with 537 of the 553 complaints being categorized under other.  Only 11 complaints relate to foreclosure and issues with being able to pay.  92626 in Costa Mesa, where 32% of the mortgage complaints were about Bank of America and 26.4% were about Wells Fargo, had 93.6% of its complaints dealing with being unable to pay. 5 total complaints dealt with payment issues and 3 dealt with applications.Beyond regional variance in complaint types lodged, the top five mortgage lenders by volume of complaints all had being unable to pay as their top complaint category, ranging between 55.8% for Citibank and 69.4% for Bank of America.  Problems with payment accounted for the second largest area of complaints, with Ocwen having the largest percentage of complaints at 31.9% and Bank of America having the smallest at 18.8%.  Foreclosure was the top area of complaints for a number of other lending institutions including 1st Alliance Lending, OneWest Bank, Ally Bank, Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, Bank of the West, BMO Harris, BOK Financial Corp, Caliber Home Loans, Inc, Capital One, Deutsche Bank and EverBank.Nationally, complaints reached a high of 5,840 for January 2013, 1,107 more than the next highest month of April 2013.  The total emerging for September is the second lowest since records were first kept in December 2011.  On a state by state level, this pattern largely repeats with a major exception for Florida which saw a peak of 849 complaints in June 2012. Then, as now, Florida was one of the top five states in the nation in its foreclosure rate. The national January spike came as the Qualified Mortgage standard required by the The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 came into play.  It required mortgage lenders to take steps to insure borrowers could repay their mortgages.Bank of America's complaint volume follows the national trend, with a spike in January 2013 with 1,925 total complaints.  Unlike nationally, the next month by volume of complaints was February of this year with 1,598 complaints. Prior to that, the highest month was May 2012 with 1,418 complaints.  The lowest volume of complaints is September this year with 334.Wells Fargo matched national trends for volume of complaints by month, with the exception of the current month being the lowest on record for number of complaints with 197 compared to the next lowest month, December 2011, when they had 221. JPMorgan's complaint volume by month spiked in January and March of this year with 504 complaints. April of this year was the next highest month with 493 complaints, edging out May of last year with 488 complaints.   September this year is on track to be the lowest month by complaint volume.The federal government shutdown is unlikely to impact the current mortgage situation in the United States directly for most consumers, though mortgage processing by the Federal Housing Administration could be slower, resulting in fewer mortgages processed.The Bank of America Corporation, the second-largest bank in the United States, has announced that it lost US$2.24 billion in the third quarter of this year, mainly due to increases in loan losses.According to the bank, the losses are equal to 26 cents per share, worse than most economic analysts had forecast. In the same period a year earlier, Bank of America had gained $704 million, or fifteen cents per share.The bank's CEO, Ken Lewis, said in a statement that "[...] credit costs remain high, and that is our major financial challenge going forward. However, we are heartened by early positive signs, such as the leveling of delinquencies among our credit card numbers."Lewis said that losses from loans would probably continue to increase. In a conference call with analysts, he said that "based on [the] economic scenario, results in the fourth quarter are expected to continue to be challenging as we close the year."The governor of the Bank of England, Mark Carney, has warned that the state of the housing market in the United Kingdom is the current biggest domestic threat to the country's economy, due to lack of house building, and regulatory issues.In an interview to be aired on Sky News today, he said the housing market is the "biggest risk" to the economy and has "deep, deep structural problems". Of house building he said: "There are not sufficient houses built in the UK. To go back to Canada, there are half as many people in Canada as in the UK, twice as many houses are built every year in Canada as in the UK and we can't influence that.""We're not going to build a single house at the Bank of England. We can't influence that. What we can influence [...] is whether the banks are strong enough. Do they have enough capital against risk in the housing market?"Carney also said the Bank of England would look into the procedures used to issue loans and mortgages to see if they were being granted appropriately: "We'd be concerned if there was a rapid increase in high loan-to-value mortgages across the banks. We've seen that creeping up and it's something we're watching closely."Kris Hopkins responded to Carney on behalf of the government, saying the government "inherited a broken housing market, but our efforts to fix it are working". "We've scrapped the failed top-down planning system, built over 170,000 affordable homes and released more surplus brownfield sites for new housing. We've also helped homebuyers get on the housing ladder, because if people can buy homes builders will build them. Housebuilding is now at its highest level since 2007 and climbing. Last year councils gave permission for almost 200,000 new homes under the locally-led planning system and more than 1,000 communities have swiftly taken up neighbourhood planning. It's clear evidence the government's long-term economic plan is working."Earlier this month, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development called on the UK government to "tighten" access to the 'Help to Buy' scheme introduced by George Osborne and the coalition government in 2013. 'Help to Buy' has also recently been criticised by three former Chancellors of the Exchequer — the Conservatives Norman Lamont and Nigel Lawson, and former Labour Chancellor Alistair Darling. Darling said: "Unless supply can be increased substantially, we will exacerbate that situation with schemes like Help to Buy."The Bank of England has held UK interest rates at 0.5% for another month. The rate is the lowest ever, and has remained in place since March last year as part of the central bank's response to the global financial crisis. Most analysts had predicted the rate to go unchanged.Quantitative easing, also begun in March 2009, will continue in January. This involves the Bank purchasing a total of £200 billion in assets. In a brief statement released today, the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee said it expected the programme to take another month to complete. The decision will be revisited in February, when more official economic data and forecasts are available.The Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank has been responsible for setting the UK's official interest rate each month since 1997. Prior to this the base rate was controlled by the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer.In a move widely viewed as surprising, the Bank of England raised UK interest rates from 5% to 5.25%, the highest in five years. In a press release the Bank stated that "an increase in Bank Rate of 0.25 percentage points to 5.25% was necessary to bring CPI inflation back to the target in the medium term".The last publicly released value for inflation (measured according to the consumer price index) stood at 2.7%, above the Government target of 2%. However the Bank and Government receive advance figures, not due to be publicly released until next week. Analysts have speculated that these figures may explain the rise.Following the announcement the FTSE 100 fell.The Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee has been responsible for setting the UK's official interest rate each month since 1997. Prior to this the base rates were controlled by the Treasury and the Chancellor of the Exchequer.In a separate decision the European Central Bank maintained the interest rate within the Eurozone at its previous value of 3.5%.It emerged last night that the Bank of Ireland, Ireland's second largest bank, intends to lay off 15% of its workforce. Such a move would affect 2,000 of the bank's 12,000 employees. The job cuts would be an effort to reduce the banks large cost base and thus improve its overall competitiveness.Newly appointed CEO Brian Goggin, who took over from Michael Soden at the end of last year, suggested at the time of his appointment that one of his first moves would be to cut costs. This objective is likely to be fulfilled on Tuesday when the company makes a formal announcement about the cuts. The relative contributions of staff versus technology to the Bank's cost versus revenue base is unclear from the announcement, begging questions as to the rationale for such changes.   The Irish banking sector - one of the world's most profitable - has experienced a dramatic change in the last few months. Danske bank, one of Denmark's leading banks recently announced the purchase of National Irish Bank. The Bank of Scotland also recently announced its entry into the Irish retail banking sector by purchasing the ESB chain of retail units for €120m. Both banks have said they intend to introduce significantly cheaper products to the market over the next twelve months. Both the Bank of Ireland, and its biggest competitor AIB announced profits of over €1bn last year.File:Antonio-fazio.jpgBank of Italy Governor Antonio Fazio has resigned today, Monday December 19, after several months of crisis.  He is suspected of malpractice concerning the takeover of the bank Banca Popolare Italiana.  The European Central Bank has raised questions over allegations that Fazio accepted gifts from the Pop Italiana's former CEO, Gianpiero Fiorani.  Fiorani, suspected of embezzlement, was arrested last week.The news was welcomed by many Italian politics. The European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said he "fully respected" Fazio's decision.Members of the All India Bank Employees Association have threatened to go on nation-wide strikes to express their unhappiness with the move to privatise banks, allowing foreign direct investment in the banking sector and outsourcing of services. The exact dates of the strike will be decided at the AIBEA national general council meeting to be held in Chennai on June 13 and 14. Speaking to press persons on Friday, C.H. Venkatachalam, secretary of the association, condemned the attempts to continuously `attack the financial and banking sector.' The AIBEA was against the government's intention to privatise public sector banks and the disinvestment of shares up to 49 per cent. In the past decade, a number of private sector banks had folded and hence, in the best interests of the investor, banks should continue to remain in the public sector, he said. Merging public sector banks into five or six big banks in order to enable them become global institutions dealing with international trade and business was a `retrograde' idea, he charged. The total assets of all the 27 public sector banks in the country (less than U.S. $300 billion) were well below the assets of any top global bank, he added.The United States automobile manufacturing firm General Motors announced on Wednesday that most of its bondholders did not exchange GM's US$27 billion debt for a ten percent share in the company's stock. The automaker, in financial straits, has a June 1 deadline to finish a government restructuring plan that includes plant closures and other debt reduction measures. U.S. President Barack Obama's administration said it would not give more financial aid to the firm unless 90% of GM's bondholders would agree on compromises that would significantly reduce the firm's costs."The principal amount of notes tendered was substantially less than the amount required by GM to satisfy the debt reduction requirement," GM said in a statement."They said no. That's it. They tried. That's why they're going to have to file for bankruptcy," said a university professor from the University of Michigan who specializes in bankruptcy.In a televised speech from the White House at 16:00 UTC today, President of the United States Barack Obama presented a reorganization plan following the 12:00 UTC announcement by General Motors that it had filed for bankruptcy and Chapter 11 protection from its creditors, the largest bankruptcy of a U.S. manufacturing company.Describing the problem with the company as one that had been "decades in the making," Obama explained the rationale behind his proposed reorganization plan for General Motors. He stated that his intent was not to "perpetuat[e] the bad business decisions of the past," and that loaning General Motors money, when debt was its problem, would have been doing exactly that. His plan, he stated, was for the United States government, in conjunction with the governments of Canada and Ontario (which he thanked for their roles alongside the government of Germany which he thanked for its role in selling a corporate stake in GM Europe), to become shareholders in General Motors. The United States government would hold a 60% stake. The government will give GM a capital infusion of US$30 billion in addition to the funds it has already received.Of the government ownership he stated that he refused "to let General Motors and Chrysler become wards of the state", and described the bankruptcy of Chrysler, and the bankruptcy of General Motors that he envisioned as being "quick, surgical, bankruptcies". He pointed to the bankruptcy of Chrysler as an example of what he envision for General Motors, but stated that General Motors was a "more complex company" than Chrysler.Responding to challenges voiced by political opponents, before the speech, that the federal government would actively participate in the affairs of the restructured company, he stated that he had "no interest" in running GM, and that the federal government would "refrain from exercising its rights" as a corporate shareholder for the most part. In particular, he stated that the federal government would not exercise its rights as a shareholder to dictate "what new type of car to make." He stated that he expected the restructured GM to make "high quality, safe, and fuel-efficient cars of tomorrow," and several times described what he anticipated as "better" and "fuel-efficient" cars, after a streamlining of GM's brands.He said to the general public that "I will not pretend that the hard times are over." He described the financial hardship that some — shareholders, communities based around GM plants, GM dealers, and others — would undergo as a "sacrifice for the next generation" on their parts, so that their children could live in "an America that still makes things," concluding that one day the United States might return to a time when the maxim (a widely-repeated mis-quotation of what Charles Erwin Wilson once testified before the U.S. Senate when nominated for the position of Secretary of Defense) would once more be true that "what is good for General Motors is good for the United States of America."An international credit ratings agency has downgraded the creditworthiness of British bank Barclays LSE: BARCThe bank's shares fell on the news that Moody's had cut long-term debt ratings from "Aa1" to "Aa3" on the back of fears of nationalization, significant losses and write downs of more bad loans as the recession bites. The bank's financial strength was also downgraded from "C" to "B". Last week, another agency, Fitch, downgraded the bank one step to "AA-minus".Barclays  is one of the few major "High Street" banks in the UK not to have taken any government capital support. The support is given in return for shares, giving the government significant - sometimes even controlling - stakes in other banks, such as Lloyds Banking Group and the Royal Bank of Scotland Group.Moody's said that the downgrades "reflect [our] expectation of potentially significant further losses at Barclays as a result of write-downs on credit market exposures as well as an increase in impairments in the UK, which could weaken profitability and capital ratios... [we consider] the systemic importance of the bank and the likelihood of receiving government support in case of need to be high."The bank has forecast a pre-tax profit of £5.3 billion for 2008. It has £36 billion in committed capital equity and expects gross write downs of £8 billion. The bank has recently been referred to the UK's Serious Fraud Office over allegations of breaching South Africa's foreign exchange controls, something the bank denies.The year 2007 marks the meeting of the major representatives of the watch and jewelry industry  at BaselWorld Show, Basel, Switzerland. The Show will take place in the period of April 12 - 19, 2007. The international event is to attract over 2000 companies from 45 countries and about 90,000 visitors.At present day the luxury goods business holds quite strong positions in the world industry and is still developing at high rates due to appropriate economic climate. Thus, BaselWorld is perceived by watch and jewelry producers and their partners as favorable new grounds for their further development.BaselWorld is organized annually by MCH Swiss Exhibition (Basel) Ltd with a purpose to provide new business opportunities for the participants who are expected to exhibit their latest products in the exhibition area of about 160,000 m2.  Visitors come to BaselWorld to keep aware of the current trends of watch and jewelry making, while retailers and wholesalers discover new partners and strengthen their links with well-established ones.The exhibition is divided into product sectors presented in the six exhibition halls, among them there are the Hall of Universe and the Hall of Elements. This year the management of the Show has taken care of updating and redecorating the design of the halls. All the participants of the event will be able to expand their business contacts beyond the fair in the BaselWorld Village located nearby. The 'village' comprises special facilities for partners to discuss their matters in informal atmosphere.BASF has made a $4.9 billion hostile bid for Engelhard Corp.  Engelhard is a US based supplier of pollution control devices such as catalytic converters, which it invented.  Engelhard holds 35% of the world market on such pollution control devices.  The bid is $37 a share in cash and may be increased by $1 a share.  BASF has over $4.79 billion for acquisitions after it sold Basell NV plastics in August.  If the acquisition goes through it will be the biggest ever hostile takeover of a US company by a European firm according to Bloomberg.Engelhard shares have surged above the offer price on the news to about $38 a share.  Some speculate Dow Chemical Co., the largest US chemical maker, will make a competing offer. "Dow has an automotive materials business like BASF, and is diversified like BASF so that it could use all the pieces" said John Roberts, a Buckingham Research analyst.US regulations going into effect in 2007 are tighter on emmissions.  This will increase the demand for Engelhard's catalytic converters.  Limits are getting tighter in the EU and Japan as well.Dow Chemical declined to comment on the bid or the possibility of the corporation making a bid, stating "it's Dow's policy not to comment on speculation regarding possible investment opportunities".I-Holding ehf, a Icelandic investment company owned by Baugur Group, Straumur investment bank, B2B Holdings and Birgis Bieltvedts, has bought 80% in Illum warehouse in Denmark from Merrill Lynch International Global Principal Investment. The same group recently bought Wessel & Vett A/S and Magasin du Nord, so it already owned 20% in Illum.Illum will be run separately from Magasin du Nord.Illum reported a profit and 11% gain in sales the first three months of 2005.Skarphéðni Berg Steinarssyni from Nordic Investment at Baugur Group said the Danish retail market is increasing and they believe in Illum because it's a well known brand in Denmark.Icelanders invest in Denmark and UKIcelandic companies have been investing heavily in Denmark for the last few years. Recently the Fons Investment ehf. bought the Danish airlines Sterling Air and Mearsk Air. Eimskip, a shipping company in Iceland, recently bought the shipping division of Mearsk. I-Holdings have been investing heavily in the Denish retailer market.Baugur Group, as well as FL Group, have been investing in the UK market. FL Group has bought 11% in easyJet.com and has shown an interest in buying more. Baugur Group has been investing in the retailer market and has bought among other things Iceland supermarket chain as well as Hamleys, a well known toy store.The Icelandic investment firm Baugur has decided to withdraw from the Somerfield bid because of legal action against some of it's core employees including its CEO, Jón Ásgeir Jónsson, and chief of board, Haukur Loftsson. Baugur Group will also sell each share it owns in Somerfield.Baugur Group had previously made EUR1.5 billion bid as had been covered on Wikinews.Baugur makes a US$1,8 billion bid for SomerfieldBaugur used to own 5.5% of Somerfield's shares, but they will be sold to the Iranian businessman Roberts Tchenguiz for 190 pence per share, in total about 55 million pounds. Baugur will probably earn 30 million pounds by selling them.Baugur has also reached agreement with it's partner companies that if they will be able too buy Somerfield they will repay Baugur what it has spent on research.Baugur decided to withdraw from the bid so that the legal actions would not harm it's partner companies.London/Reykjavík  – The Icelandic retail and investment company Baugur is making a bid for the British supermarket chain Somerfield of £1 billion, 120 billion ISK, or US$1,8 billion. The supermarket chain has 700 Somerfield supermarkets and 500 Kwik Save discount foodstores across the United Kingdom. Baugur already owns the Iceland supermarket in the UK and Ireland, Bónus and Hagkaup supermarkets in Iceland, and other retailers in Iceland, the Faroe Islands, United Kingdom, Sweden & Denmark.The staff of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) have entered a one-day strike this morning in dispute of impending job cuts and partial privatisation.The industrial action follows union ballots at three of the leaders of journalism and broadcasting: Amicus, National Union of Jounalists and BECTU. The NUJ have already described the action as an "astonishing success" and its general secretary, Jeremy Dear, describes the union as "absolutely delighted with the level of support we have received for the strike." The unions expect 11,000 of 27,000 BBC staff to take part in the strikes.Due to the extensiveness of the strike it has affected the output of the BBC on its television and radio services. News and live services have been particularly badly affected following the unions aims to leave "blank screens and dead air".BBC Radio 4's Today, The World at One, PM and The World Tonight have all been cancelled; BBC One's 1 O'Clock News and 6 O'Clock News was shortened from half an hour to 15 minutes, although the 10 O'Clock News was unaffected. Live programming of BBC News 24, BBC World and Five Live have been extensively cut; and international output on the World Service has been impacted. The most noticeable impact have been on the Breakfast programme, headed by just one presenter (against the usual two) and cut short for a pre-recorded interview. The leading serious news magazine programme, Newsnight, was also cancelled.Some BBC radio celebrities appeared for work on their shows despite the strike. These include breakfast radio presenters Chris Moyles of BBC Radio 1, Terry Wogan of BBC Radio 2, and Shelagh Fogarty of BBC Radio 5.Unlike a similar 1989 strike in which presenter Nicholas Witchell crossed the pickets to read news, those presenters who have decided to continue their positions have not been publicly denounced.Striking staff have been picketing outside the main entrances of the BBC Television Centre in west London.The strikes have occurred following the Corporation's plans to cut 3780 jobs and privatise parts of the national service. It has claimed that these cuts are necessary to spend more on programming when they were announced in March by governing director Mark Thompson. The cuts aim to make savings of GBP 355 million (US$663.37 million, EUR 487 million ).Unions have defied calls by BBC executives to partake in consultations over impending actions. The unions have responded by claiming that consultations would give their staff little say and that negotiations are the only way in which they will be listened to.The ballot to strike which was held on May 12 also determined to strike for 48 hours on May 31 and June 1. It is unclear if any further action is planned.Sixty percent of respondents in an international survey conducted for the BBC World Service felt that the likelihood of terrorist attacks around the world has been increased by the war in Iraq.The international polling firm GlobeScan conducted the survey, which polled 41,856 residents of 35 countries between October 2005 and February 2006. Participants were asked, "Has the war in Iraq increased, decreased or had no effect on the likelihood of terrorist attacks around the world?"Fifteen percent felt that the likelihood or terrorism had decreased; 12 percent felt there had been no effect; and 13 percent did not answer.Out of the 35 countries polled, only Mexico and Nigeria thought the invasion lessened the likelihood of terrorist attacks. By contrast, 85 percent of Chinese respondents said they felt the invasion increased the likelihood of terrorist attacks.Other questions asked in the poll found that 45 percent of respondents felt removing Saddam Hussein from power was a mistake, compared to 36 percent who felt the removal was the right decision. The poll also found that results were split on whether the foreign troops should remain in Iraq until the country is stable: 35 percent said they believed the troops should stay, 32 percent felt the troops should pull out within a few months, and 13 percent thought that a pull-out should occur within a few months unless the government of Iraq requested them to stay."It's official. Citizens worldwide think Western leaders have made a fundamental mistake in their war on terror by invading Iraq," Doug Miller, president of GlobeScan, said. "Short of the Iraqi government asking them to stay longer, people think the troops should leave," he said.In the United States, the GlobeScan poll found that 55 percent thought chances of terror attacks were increased. In an unrelated poll conducted in the U.S. by CBS News, only 36 percent of U.S. respondents thought "the war is going well," and that 30 percent felt "Bush was doing a good job of handling the conflict." This U.S. poll also found that only 18 percent held a favorable view of Vice-President Dick Cheney.In a televised interview with Elizabeth Vargas of ABC's World News Tonight which aired last Tuesday, President Bush said, "If I worried about polls, I wouldn't be doing my job," on the topic of his low U.S. approval ratings. "I think the American people — I know the American people want somebody to stand on principle, make decisions and stand by them and lead this world toward a more peaceful tomorrow, and I strongly believe we're doing that," he said.  "I've got ample [political] capital and I'm using it to spread freedom and to protect the American people, plus we've got a strong agenda to keep this economy growing." President Bush also said that Iraqis must choose between "chaos or unity."Satellite Information Services Limited (SIS), the racecourse television company part-owned by William Hill (19%) and Ladbrokes (23%), has been named by the BBC as the preferred bidder for its Outside Broadcasts division, one of three active businesses within BBC Resources Ltd. Other SIS shareholders include, Thales (Racal) (23%), United Business Media (19%), Racecourse Association (10%) and the Tote (6% - all figures rounded).SIS Chief Executive David Holdgate would not comment on the terms of the deal, thought to be between £20m and £50m, but said it would be "an ideal acquisition for SIS" and "a perfect fit with our existing SISLink and sports coverage". The company has long-term contracts with other leading broadcasters, such as Sky and ITV and provides satellite links for live sport and news.In a statement, the BBC said that it intended to exchange contracts and transfer the Outside Broadcasts business and around 300 staff in the near future, with Andrew Thornton, BBC project director for the sale of the division, saying that "SIS offered the BBC a good deal and best value for licence fee payers". Mark Tugwell, Director, BBC Outside Broadcasts, added "it's time for our business to flourish under new ownership, without the constraints of BBC ownership".The transfer would mean that SIS will be covering major sporting events including the Beijing Olympics for the BBC in August 2008.The sale of the BBC subsidiary BBC Resources Ltd., has hit a hurdle after it emerged that the BBC could be left with a loss of up to £15 million on the deal.  The cost of transferring the pensions of BBC Resources staff from the BBC pension scheme to its new owners could be up to £50 million according to a Guardian Newspaper report.Managers from the division will meet with union representatives from BECTU on Monday to discuss this and related sale issues. BECTU general secretary, Gerry Morrissey is quoted as saying: "If the BBC gets less than £50 million for BBC Resources then how can it fulfil [sic] its duty of care to licence fee payers?"It is believed that the BBC had hoped that a surplus in its pension fund could be used to bridge the possible £50 million gap — but the trustees of the fund have said "no". A BBC source said: "This is being discussed at the highest level".Since April 2004 members of the BBC pension scheme have seen their contributions into it increase regularly, the BBC — like many other employers — having reduced its contribution (to 4.5% of payroll) over a ten year period when the stock market was booming in the 1990s.The Guardian is seen as a reliable source on BBC matters, having reported the proposed sale of BBC Television Centre back in January 2007, with the formal announcement finally being made by BBC Director General Mark Thompson on October 18, 2007.Newspaper The Guardian reports today that the sale of the BBC subsidiary BBC Resources Ltd., has cost £3.4m in consultancy fees — over £1m more than the £2.3m trading profit the commercial division is estimated to have made for the last financial year.  Details of the failed privatisation were released by the BBC following a freedom of information request, and prior to publication of its annual report on July 8.Fourteen months after advisers were appointed to try to sell BBC Resources Ltd., only one of the three main business units has been sold — its Outside Broadcast division to Satellite Information Services Limited (SIS), for an estimated £20m. On March 7, 2008 it was also announced that the studios operation would remain in BBC ownership and in early June, the fate of the third business was put on hold with the BBC stating that "like Studios, Post Production will remain within BBC Resources, which will continue to operate as a wholly-owned commercial subsidiary of the BBC."BBC Resources Ltd. made an operating profit of £6.1m for 2005-06, down from £7.4m the year before, with the BBC accounting for 83.3% of its turnover, down from 87.4% for 2004-05. Last year's published figure for 2006-07 was £5.2 million — with BBC business at 80% of turnover.BECTU Assistant General Secretary Luke Crawley is quoted as saying: "It's fairly outrageous that around half the profit of the company [announced last year] has been spent trying to sell it. It's an inordinate amount of money. The BBC was promised big returns if it sold BBC Resources but it's only managed to sell outside broadcasts and we do not know how much it made out of that. We think the £3.4m is a poor investment."The BBC Television Centre has been placed up for sale by the corporation. Plans to sell the centre originally came forward in 2007 but the BBC only appointed Lambert Smith Hampton, a commercial property consultant, in November of last year. The building which is based in Shepherds Bush, London was opened in 1960 and is the home of BBC News and BBC Vision.The BBC stated they were interested in preserving parts of the building while setting up a "hub for creative businesses and a visitor destination."  According to the head of BBC Workplace, Chris Kane, "With high investor demand for commercial property in London and a shortage of landmark sites as distinctive as Television Centre, we anticipate strong competition for both conventional and innovative proposals."The property has been valued between £150 million to £300 million but is expected to fetch around £200 million.5000 staff are currently based at the centre which BBC bosses hope to be empty by 2015. The BBC is creating a new development in Salford, Greater Manchester. Several departments including BBC Sport, BBC Breakfast, and children's shows are moving to Salford while BBC News is being relocated within central London.A man named George Schultz in Parksville, British Columbia is selling the boat from old TV series Gilligan's Island at the cost of $99,000. The cruiser, originally cost about $290,000 in the 1960s."There have been a couple of modifications, so it doesn't look exactly like the original," said Shultz, a boat broker who's selling the 36-foot Wheeler Express Cruiser for fellow Parksdale resident Scotty Taylor. "But it's still the original boat."Originally, the boat's name was The Blue Jacket. "Just for the show, for a stage name, it was called the S.S. Minnow," Shultz said. The name was a reference to Newton Minnow, once chairman of the FCC."He just liked the boat, he wanted to restore it, it was a nice looking boat, a wooden boat, a classic and he likes classic boats," said Shultz. "The hole in the hull was actually the least of the repairs - the interior needed a lot more work". Someone later stole the plaque on the boat, but the 46-year-old boat still has the round life preserver with S.S. Minnow emblazoned on it and the skipper's chair.The Belgrade Neonatology Institute has refused to hand over a child to her mother, after she was unable to pay her medical bills. Macedonian Senija Roganovic, who has no health insurance of any kind and cannot come up with the money for the bill, gave birth to the baby two months ago at and owes US$8,290.91 in hospital bills.20-year old Roganovic has been sedated for the past two months and has lost 30 pounds of weight, possibly due to anxiety over what might happen to her child. During this period the hospital only let her see the baby once and she was not allowed to breast-feed her son.On the 7th of February, Roganovic told her story to a journalist from the daily paper Kurir. After media reports the following day, the hospital finally let the baby go yesterday.Bell Canada Enterprises (BCE), one of Canada's largest telecommunications companies, announced Tuesday that it is in talks with a consortium of Canadian pension funds to explore the possible sale of the company.If successful in their bid, the consortium would take the publicly-traded company private, which would mean an end to the trading of BCE shares on the Toronto (TSX: BCE), New York (NYSE: BCE) and the Swiss (SWX: BCE) stock exchanges. BCE is one of the most widely held stocks in Canada. BCE revealed that the potential takeover group includes the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, the Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec, and Canada's Public Sector Pension Investment Board. Each of the pension funds involved have signed non-disclosure and standstill agreements with BCE. It was also revealed that New York-based private equity firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR) would join the Canadian-led consortium as a minority partner."We are pleased to be a partner with this consortium of leading Canadian institutional fund managers and look forward to working closely together in this transaction." said Henry Kravis, co-founding member of KKR. "Our experience in large, complex transactions of comparable size will be of significant value to this process," continued Kravis.BCE is also leaving the door open to rival bids, "taking into consideration the need to meet all legislative and regulatory requirements, including ensuring the Company remains Canadian to meet existing foreign ownership restrictions," the company stated. In addition, BCE may retain the status quo if it does not receive a bid that it feels would enhance shareholder value.One other pension fund that has expressed interest is the Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan (OTPP). "We are pleased that this process is not exclusive and we will continue to review our options, including leading an alternative Canadian consortium," said Jim Leech, Senior Vice-President, Teachers' Private Capital. OTPP is currently BCE’s largest single shareholder, with an approximate ownership stake of 5.3 percent.BCE, as Bell Canada, has been in business for 127 years. It provides phone service, satellite television, Internet access, wireless services, and other technologies to residential and business customers.If analyst estimates are accurate, the sale of BCE could be worth about CA$32 billion or roughly $40 per share. On Tuesday, BCE shares were up CA$2.34 to close at $38.60 on the TSX, and up US$2.03 to close at $34.10 on the NYSE.Today, Bell Canada Inc.'s beaver mascots Frank and Gordon were discontinued as of Friday. A nation-wide full page ad depicting the beavers as saying "It's been a blast, [but] Nature is calling and we have been invited back to the forest to become teachers for a whole new generation of spokecritters."The decision to discontinue the mascots was a symbol that Bell is under new management said spokesman Mark Langton. "It was time for a change. The beavers have served us well, they were very well known and quite popular and well known. But it's time to move on."The two mascots were developed Quebec Cossette Communication Group in 2005 as Jules and Bertrand. A year later, they became Frank and Gordon nationally. There were both positive and negative reactions to the beavers.BellSouth, said in a statement yesterday that the telecommunications company did not hand over customer call records to the National Security Agency or NSA. On May 11, 2006, USA Today reported that the NSA collected millions of call logs from telecommunications companies in 2001 under a contract the NSA claims to have had with the company.BellSouth said that they conducted a "internal review" and that the review "confirmed no such contract exists and we have not provided bulk customer calling records to the NSA," said Jeff Battcher, spokesman for BellSouth. "We do not believe that any final review will turn up anything different from what we have currently found. There is no link between the NSA and BellSouth that we can find in what we feel is a very exhaustive review. We wouldn't have made this bold statement if we weren't confident about this," added Battcher.AT&T and Verizon Communications were also said to have handed over customer call logs, but Verizon said on Friday that they don't "and will not, provide any government agency unfettered access to our customer records or provide information to the government under circumstances that would allow a fishing expedition."On Monday, Massachusetts Representative Edward Markey of the House Energy and Commerce subcommittee on telecommunications asked for help from the Federal Communications Commission or FCC, to investigate whether Verizon, AT&T, and BellSouth violated privacy rights under communication laws and regulations.In a 70 to 30 vote on Thursday, the United States Senate voted to confirm Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke for a second term.The vote, which was not split along party lines (11 Democrats and 19 Republicans voted against Bernanke), was the closest vote ever for a Federal Reserve chair appointment. The previous closest vote was in 1983, when Paul A. Volcker was confirmed by the Senate, 84 to 16. Complaints against Bernanke mostly involved his presiding over the major economic downturn, as well as the bailout of AIG. In the case of the latter, Bernanke agreed to the AIG matters being audited by the Government Accountability Office.The supporters of Bernanke included Democratic Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, who said in support, "Let us not judge the man or the work prematurely." Conversely, Democrat Barbara Boxer of California questioned his commitment to all economic aspects, stating, "The American people have the right to ask whether the Fed is truly committed to supporting Main Street's economy, not just Wall Street." Among the opposers included Republican Senator Jim Bunning of Kentucky, the lone vote against Bernanke on his original appointment. He said, "a vote for Ben Bernanke is a vote for bailouts." Republican George Voinovich of Ohio voted in support for Bernanke, as did Utah SenatorOrrin Hatch.Bernanke was originally looking to pass easily, but opposition began rising in the Senate chambers after Ted Kennedy's seat was lost to the Republicans, though Obama began outreach to Democratic Senators after the election, putting the confirmation back on track.Former Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto, who was killed in a suicide attack yesterday, has been buried in her ancestral home in the village of Garhi Khuda Bakhsh. Meanwhile, violence has erupted across the nation in protest to the 54-year-old opposition leader's death.The Pakistani government has claimed to have evidence to suggest that al Qaeda were responsible for attacking her at the end of her address to an election rally. One spokesperson for the Interior Ministry said "We have intelligence intercepts indicating that al Qaeda leader Baitullah Mehsud is behind her assassination." Mehsud, believed to be in Pakistan near the border with Afghanistan, is one of Pakistan's most wanted criminals.Mustafa Abu al-Yazid, a head of al Qaeda in Afghanistan, told the Asia Times by telephone that the group had indeed been responsible, saying "This is our first major victory against those who have been siding with infidels in a fight against Al Qaeda and declared a war against mujahideen,"  and that anti-Shi'ite militant group Lashkar-i-Jhangvi carried out the attack on al Qaeda's behalf.United States federal bodies are attempting to verify that al Qaeda were responsible. One official told the Associated Press that a bulletin circulated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of Homeland Security to law enforcement groups mentioned several Islamist websites posting claims of responsibility. Director of National Intelligence spokesman Ross Feinstein commented that they were "in no position right now to confirm who may have been responsible."Unrest in Sindh, Bhutto's home province, was to the extent that the military has been called in to the area. According to officials, unrest since her death has resulted in 32 deaths, including those of four police officers. 23 of the deaths were in Sindh. It is feared that recent events could cause Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf to postpone an election intended to place Pakistan back under civilian rule, which is currently planned for January 8.Soldiers were told to shoot to kill violent protesters on sight, as scores of people set up roadblocks and torched hundreds of cars, trucks and buses. Other areas also saw violence; an election meeting in the Northwest suffered a bomb attack that killed a candidate for Musharrif's party and seven others, whilst one was killed in the city of Lahore.Thousands lined the way as Bhutto's coffin, draped in the tricolor of the Pakistan People's Party, was transported the 7km to the family mausoleum, accompanied by Bhutto's husband Asif Ali Zardari. She was laid to rest alongside the body of her father, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, himself a former Prime Minister hung after a military coup. Zardini prayed at the site alongside their three children, son Bilawal, 19, and daughters Bakhtawar, 17 and Aseefa, 14. Bhutto's two brothers, whose deaths remain officially unexplained, are also buried at the site, which she had herself arranged the construction of.Reuters reported that many at the scene chanted slogans in opposition to Musharraf and to the United States, who for many years have supported Musharraf. "Shame on the killer Musharraf, shame on the killer U.S.," the news agency quoted the mourners as saying. Meanwhile, one farmer told them "Bhutto was my sister and Bhutto was like my mother... With her death, the world has ended for us."Musharraf, a former army general, seized power in an armed 1999 coup. For many years he has had US support in the hope that he can keep control in the unstable country, which is afflicted with Islamic extremist violence.Economics in the country have also been much affected, Koichi Ogawa, chief portfolio manager at Daiwa SB Investments, commented that "Unrest in Pakistan is eroding the market sentiment dramatically as Pakistan, unlike North Korea or Iran, is known to really have nuclear weapons." Although the affect was generally to decrease values, lower risk investments, such as gold, went up in demand. India has reacted to the violence by ordering immediate suspension of all cross-border bus and rail services with Pakistan amid fears that violence will spread. Extremists are known to attack trains, including one attack in February where 68 people died on an Indian train heading for Pakistan. Indian border forces have been put on alert, although no specific threats have yet been identified. Relations between the two countries are peaceful but tense, and Indian border forces regularly go on alert at times of crisis in Pakistan.Leaders of African Union (AU) member states met in Niamey, Niger's capital, for an AU summit where on Sunday Presidents Muhammadu Buhari of Nigeria and Patrice Talon of Benin signed the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement.Nigeria previously announced it planned to join the AfCFTA in the week leading up to the summit. AU trade and industry commissioner Albert Muchanga announced Benin was to join. The commissioner said, "We haven't yet agreed on rules of origin and tariff con[c]essions, but the framework we have is enough to start trading on July 1, 2020".Niger's president Mahamadou Issoufou said, "Nigeria is Africa's biggest economy and most populous country. Without Nigeria the free trade zone would've been handicapped."The agreement seeks to remove tariffs on 90 percent of commodities and better intregrate African economies.At the opening of the AU summit, AU chairperson President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt said, "The success of the AfCFTA will be the real test to achieve the economic growth that will turn our people's dream of welfare and quality of life into a reality".With Sunday's signings, all but one of the member states of the 55-member AU have signed on to the agreement, with Eritrea the only state unsigned. African leaders have negotiated the deal over the last four years. While 54 nations have signed onto the AfCFTA, only 27 have ratified the agreement.While many transactions in Africa occur using U.S. dollars or euros, the AU announced an electronic pan-African payment system.African Export–Import Bank president Okey Oramah said the use of third-party currencies "costs Africa between $5 and $7 billion," further saying, "Beyond that, it also reduces trade because Africa has a scarcity of foreign exchange."There are reportedly 1.3 billion people in the free trade area, with the combined economies of the countries worth US$3.4 trillion. One of the stated goals of AfCFTA is to encourage more intra-Africa trade. Currently about 16–17 percent of African trade occurs between African countries. This is in contrast to the European Union members, where intra-European trade accounts for over 60 percent of trade.The International Monetary Fund said in May the AfCFTA might be for African countries comparable to the European and North American trade blocs as an "economic game changer".Seven members states had bid to host the AfCFTA secretariat, the operational organ of the free trade agreement, with Ghana winning the bid.Electronics retailer Best Buy said today that it signed leases for 28 new stores. This is part of the company's plan to build 60 new stores this year. Best Buy, the largest consumer electronics retailer in the United States, declined to discuss the terms of the leases but did say that the new stores will result in the addition of 3,500 more jobs to the corporate payroll.ITV have dropped images of the face of Big Ben from the title sequence of ITV’s News at Ten. ITN announced that the images were being removed as the show begins a revamp. The change comes as the company wants to engage with viewers who live outside of London where Big Ben is situated. The changes will be made on November 2 of this year. The bongs that come from the clock's bell will however remain as part of a new soundtrack.The ITV news returned in 2001 at the new time of 10:30 pm but was later changed back to its original timeslot of 10:00 pm in 2008. The original ITV News at 10 was dropped in 1999 after 32 years on air. Current anchors Mark Austin and Julie Etchingham will remain as the show's presenters after the revamp.Leading off is the week-long Harley rally, followed by the next week's BikeFest. In and around town, both day and night are punctured by the sounds of bike engines gunned and revved at stop lights and in parking lots.  Groups of cycle riders dominate the streets.“By Friday night, the front parking lot will be a full line of motorcycles to the corner.” said motel owner Ranjan Patel. The Super 8 motel takes up half a block at its location in the heart of the downtown motel strip. “Both sides [of Ocean Blvd] are nothing but bikes.” Both she and her co-owner husband agree, the influx of bikers dwarf in size the numbers of tourists who visit during regular summer months for ocean-side and family amusement park attractions.The highly accesorised bikes, decked with chrome and polished to show it, flashed the townscape. Choppers made a showing, but road hogs dominated the ridership, often going twosome. Many rally goers arrived on the scene with SUV’s or big pickup trucks towing cargo trailers loaded with cycles.Growth in the sheer size of the two rallies led police to make changes in the handling of traffic flow. During BikeFest last year, the mostly black crowd that came in on the heels of the largely white Harley rally the week earlier, were faced with confusion when the two-lane Ocean Blvd was made one-way.A branch of the NAACP in Conway, the next town over from Myrtle Beach, alleged discrimination by Horry County and Myrtle Beach Police. They claimed authorities and police used an overwhelming and aggressive police presence, combined with a restrictive one-way traffic pattern, to intimidate and discourage the participants in the rally.An injunction was issued earlier this week by U.S. District Judge Terry Wooten, who ruled that bikers at both rallies be treated the same. Myrtle Beach city lawyers immediately filed an appeal to the ruling at the Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, saying "the trial court erroneously determined that the plaintiffs would likely succeed on the merits; that is, that the city of Myrtle Beach intentionally treats Memorial Day weekend tourists differently from others similarly situated because of their race."A plan to submit an opposition to the notice has already been announced by Michael Navarre, an attorney for Steptoe & Johnson, who represents the NAACP civil rights group. "We certainly don't think the judge has ruled erroneously," Navarre said, according to The Sun News.Traffic control and safety measures were in full swing Friday morning on US-17. Both directions of the 4-lane divided highway south of Myrtle Beach had traffic cones and parking barriers set up to control traffic. Large flashing road signs on each side of the highway warned cars to use the passing lane. The warning sign flashed a message that the right lane was for motorcycle use only. Police monitored the pull-offs near a Harley dealer's lot where popular attractions were set-up in the immediate vicinity.Former United States president Bill Clinton visited Bucharest on Saturday to attend the Beyond Borders conference, where he delivered a keynote presentation about the meaning of branding, or marketing, a country. The Beyond Borders conference was also attended by several high-profile Romanian personalities, including President Traian Băsescu, Prime Minister Călin Popescu-Tăriceanu, opposition leader Mircea Geoană and former Prime Minister Petre Roman.Clinton said that since his last visit to Romania in 1997, things have changed positively. The country had become a NATO member (an event which occurred in 2004), it is soon to join the European Union, and people are more optimistic, with higher hopes for the future.Clinton praised Romania for its involvement in the relief effort for the Indian Ocean tsunami of December 2004, stating that "This proves you [Romanians] are involved and you want to be more integrated into the international community."As to branding Romania, Clinton advised that Romanians should find a phrase or symbol that truly reflects the country and that its residents believe in. He said, "If 98 percent of Romanians will believe in that phrase, it is good, because they will be able to convince foreigners."The former U.S. president said that, before the conference, he had a talk to President Băsescu about marketing. Clinton said that Băsescu wants to launch Romania's image as "the new tiger of Europe", making an allusion to Romania's solid economic growth and political progress in the past few years. Romania's economy grew in 2004 by 8.3%, one of the highest growth rates in Europe.Meanwhile, Clinton said he thought a more appropriate phrase would be "find Europe's future here". He stated that, "Every Romanian I have met believed in freedom and believed in the future of his country, [a future] which is tied to the US and Europe."Clinton also said that, in order to give Romania a competitive advantage over other countries in the region, it should choose elements that are positive and different from its neighbouring countries. "You can simply say Romania is bigger. That gives more room for investment," he said.Aside from attending the Beyond Borders conference, Clinton launched the Romanian translation of his autobiography "My Life", going to a major bookstore in Bucharest to sign 500 copies of the book. "My Life" sells in Romania for 75 new lei, or €21, with 5000 copies launched in bookstores around the country.Bill Cotton, who was formerly the director of BBC One, has died in hospital at the age of 80. In 1998, he won the "Academy Fellowship" BAFTA award.  Cotton died in a Bournemouth hospital.He was first the producer of a TV show 1956, when he produced the Billy Cotton Band Show. He went on to produce Six-Five Special in 1957 and many more shows at various points in his life.His first TV show after Six-Five Special was Play Your Hunch, which was produced in 1961. This was followed by The Dave Allen Show, then Call up the Stars.Cotton was the director of light entertainment for the BBC between 1970 and 1977. He became the Managing Director of television for BBC, prior to his retirement in 1987. He became a member of the Order of the British Empire in 2001. In addition to producing many films, he was due to star in the 2009 drama Gangster Kittens. Filming for Gangster Kittens has completed, so the drama will still be able to be broadcast.Bill Gates, founder of the software giant Microsoft, has been made a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in recognition of his business skills and work on poverty reduction. He received the title on Wednesday, March 2, at a private meeting with Queen Elizabeth.Now at age 48, Bill Gates is the world's wealthiest man, according to Forbes Magazine. Bill Gates rose to fame in the early nineties as the CEO of Microsoft, the maker of Microsoft Windows 95, the world's best selling computer operating system at the time.Though Mr. Gates has now been knighted, he cannot use the term Sir since he is not a citizen of the United Kingdom. He can instead place the letters KBE after his name. If he chooses to become a subject of the Queen in the future, he can have his title upgraded to Sir.Bill Gates, the world's richest man and chairman of Microsoft, has said that he thinks it could take several more years for the global economy to rebound after the recent recession, which most economists believe began in late 2008.Gates made the remarks while speaking earlier today in a televised interview with ABC's Good Morning America. "When you have a financial crisis like that, it's years of digging out. The budget's very, very out of balance," the billionaire commented. "And even as the economy comes back, without changes in tax and entitlement policies, it won't get back into balance. And at some point, financial markets will look at that and it will cause problems.""Taxes are going to have to go up and entitlements are going to have to be moderated," he added. "We're having a slow recovery and everybody's frustrated by the pace of the recovery. But I don't think the government could change and magically make it speed up a lot. If you try to do too much, it can distort things. The government's role is more of a long term role, investing in education."We need leadership for these long-term trade-offs and I'm hoping that won't cut back a few key areas like aid to poor countries. But there's going to be cutbacks. We're seeing this at the state level right now, and so far it's not being handled very responsibly."Gates' comments come two days before US president Barack Obama's State of the Union speech, expected to focus on the current economic situation, as well as the need to create more jobs. Three days from now, meanwhile, Microsoft is scheduled to announce it earnings for the fiscal second quarter of the year.United States President Barack Obama on Tuesday signed into law a bill that raised the US debt limit, averting a predicted default on the government's bills, among other economic ramifications.The bill in question was the result of a deal announced by Obama on Sunday. It was approved by the House of Representatives on Monday night 269–161, passed the Senate early Tuesday afternoon 74–26, and was subsequently signed by Obama.Under the terms of the bill, the debt limit can be raised from its previous level of US$14.3 trillion by $900 billion. An amount of $400 billion can be immediately authorized by the President, while the rest is still subject to Congressional approval. Along with the increase, there will be an immediate budget cut of $917 billion, with total savings of at least $2.1 trillion over the next decade.In the longer term, the bill allows the establishment of a special bipartisan committee of lawmakers from both the Senate and House to come up with proposals to reduce the federal budget deficit by at least another $1.5 trillion. Those proposals will be voted on no later than December 23, at which point the debt limit can be again increased, by up to $1.5 trillion if the committee's proposals are approved or by $1.2 trillion if they fail.Birks was recently announced as the "Official Supplier of Jewelery" for the 2010 Vancouver-Whistler Olympics. The company will create licensed products with the logos of the 2010 Olympic Games, 2010 Paralympic Games, and the Canadian Olympic team emblem, including necklaces, earrings, pendants and rings.The partnership was announced at an employee celebration in Vancouver, to mark the centenary of Mayors Jewelers Inc., an American company Birks acquired in 2002.The six-year sponsorship includes the rights to the Canadian Olympic team logo during the Beijing 2008 and London 2012 Olympic Games.Thomas A. Andruskevich, president and CEO, Birks & Mayors stated in a press release:The products will be launched in early 2008.In New York, speaking at the Clinton Global Initiative, British Prime Minister Tony Blair spoke with "brutal honesty" about the UNFCCC's Kyoto protocol and global warming.Blair, a longtime supporter of the Kyoto treaty, recognized that countries will not accept the limits imposed on Kyoto: "No country is going to cut its growth."Of India and China, "They're not going to start negotiating another treaty like Kyoto."  India and China are classified as developing countries in the Kyoto protocol, so they can get money and technology but are not restricted by its limits.His approach: "What countries will do is work together to develop the science and technology….There is no way that we are going to tackle this problem unless we develop the science and technology to do it."On Sunday, Prime Minister Blair is expected to pledge to double the UK's development aid for Pakistan to £480m ($960m) during the next three years. Also this weekend, Chancellor Brown promised an extra £100m ($188m) to Iraq to "help rebuild the economy".Tony Blair expects to meet the President of Pakistan, Pervez Musharraf and Pakistan's Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz to discuss anti-terrorism measures and the radicalisation of youth.Gordon Brown met some of the 7,000 British troops deployed in the theatre and said he hoped to see troop reduction in the next few months. He also met Iraqi deputy prime minister Barham Saleh and some senior Iraqi ministers and discussed the economy with them.This is Brown's first visit to Iraq and it is seen as part of a programme to establish his credentials as Blair's successor.British Prime Minister Tony Blair announced at a press conference today the results of the 31st G8 summit in Gleneagles, Scotland.Blair, the seven other leaders of the G8 nations, and the leaders of Algeria, Ethiopia, Ghana, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa and Tanzania stood on the step of Gleneagles to address the press. The Prime Minster said "We speak today in the shadow of terrorism but it will not obscure what we came here to achieve."Among the decisions made was a commitment to another $48 billion (£28.8 billion) per year by 2010 in aid which Blair says can indeed, in time and if properly seen through, will make "very substantial progress" towards "making poverty history". The deal was secured following a last-minute commitment by Japan.Half of this aid will be sent to Africa. Some analysts have raised fears that African economies will not be able to absorb so much aid so quickly, and that the money could fuel corruption.Only $20 billion of this deal is new money - the rest has already been pledged on previous occasions.The US, Germany and Italy rejected a plan by Blair to double aid immediately by borrowing against future aid budgets."It isn't the end of poverty in Africa, but it is the hope that it can be ended," Blair said. "It isn't all everyone wanted, but it is progress - real and achievable progress. It is the definitive expression of our collective will to act in the face of death and disease and conflict that is preventable"There will also be further pushes towards ending the debt of the poorest nations, but only confirmed a earlier deal to cancel the debts of 18 countries.Campaigners have welcomed the news, but have said that it does not go far enough, falling short of the hopes of the people who had embraced the Live 8 and Make Poverty History drives. "Today the G8 have chosen not to do all that campaigners insist is necessary to free people trapped in the prison of poverty," the Make Poverty History read this evening. "But more action is urgently needed if they are to play their role in bringing about real change for the world's poorest people."The leaders also pledged to end farm subsidies - but did not say by when. However, they called for talks on trade liberalisation to reach a conclusion by the end of 2006. The Prime Minister was cautious not to "over-sell" the decisions that had been made but he was resolute and confident in the possibilities for progress in the future.Less progress was made in the realm of climate change with countries agreeing that climate change was a problem but without any concrete decisions. Talks will be held on the matter, particularly with China and India, beginning in November.The G8 have also announced a $3 billion aid package for the Palestinian Authority.If you are in the market for new bedding, and not too concerned with the new United States guidelines for mattress fire resistance, now might be a good time to buy. Mattresses sold in the U.S. must meet new federal guidelines for flammability starting on July 1.The flammability of mattress sets sold in the U.S. is subject to a new mandatory federal regulation requirement passed by the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC) on February 16 last year. The requirement, costing mattress manufacturers an estimated $100 million to meet, is scheduled to take effect on July 1. The commission anticipates that the new standards will save 270 lives and 1,330 injuries per year from mattress fires."We've passed a new open flame regulation and the whole idea behind the regulation is to make sure that if a mattress catches on fire that the fire burns slowly enough that people have enough time to get out of the house and get away," said Hal Stratton, chairman of the CPSCRadio and TV advertising spots are reacting to the new regulation by discounting prices on mattresses that fail to meet the new guidelines. Sales made in the mattress industry, like the automobile industry, are highly negotiable on price. The new regulation does not appear to have much "teeth" for mattresses already in the distribution pipeline, but it is a new law that is a bargaining position for potential buyers.The battle between the two high definition optical disc formats, Blu-ray and HD DVD has ended after sole HD DVD manufacturer Toshiba has announced it will no longer produce HD DVD players.In a press conference yesterday, Toshiba president Atsutoshi Nishida announced and confirmed that Toshiba will terminate the R&D plan on HD-DVD products. The key issue to force Toshiba terminating their HD-DVD R&D plan was Warner Bros., who changed their R&D plan from HD-DVD to Blu-ray on January 4.In what is a reverse of the VHS vs Betamax format war, Sony's Blu-ray has come out on top with the backing of major studios and retailers such as Warner Bros. but also Wal-Mart, Best Buy, Netflix, and Blockbuster who announced they would only support Blu-ray exclusively this past month.Even though Toshiba is currently about to change their R&D plan from HD-DVD to NAND flash drives and micro drives and plan to build two factories in Iwate, Japan, the company will provide the maintenance service on discs and players in the future 8 years.Sony bundled Blu-ray into their PlayStation 3 game system. Microsoft's competing Xbox 360, comes with a $200 HD DVD add-on player, whose fate is now undetermined with the demise of HD DVD. Microsoft has said they will wait for what Toshiba has to say.The first ever case of Bluetongue disease has been reported in the UK. The case involves a cow at a farm near Ipswich, Suffolk.Bluetongue affects ruminants such as sheep and cows, but is not known to affect humans. It is sometimes fatal, depending on the animals affected, and presently has no treatment.  The disease was prevalent in Africa for many years and had since migrated to European nations such as France and Germany, causing officials had feared a UK outbreak in the UK follows recent outbreaks of the disease on the European continent in nations such as France and Germany.Experts such as microbiology professor Hugh Pennington of Aberdeen University had suspected the disease would eventually spread to the UK.Automobile manufacturing company BMW has announced that its sales increased by 7.6 per cent during the month of July. BMW reported that 129,094 units were sold during the month, consisting of the motor vehicle brands of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce Motor Cars.In a statement, Ian Robertson, member of the Board of Management of BMW, told of the company reporting "the most successful July sales ever", claiming that it is "well on [the] way to achieving our recently announced target of over 1.6 million vehicles in 2011, the best ever sales result for the BMW group".Demand increases were notable in the United States and China in particular. 21,409 vehicles were delivered by BMW in the United States in July, an increase of 11.7 per cent from July 2010. In China, 18,858 units were sold in the month, meaning a sales rise of 36.1 per cent on the same month last year, with the increased popularity being attributed to "substantial gains in many markets", BMW said. Sales increases were also reported in South Korea, Russia, India and Brazil. BMW did admit to a decrease of sales by 0.8% in Germany, the country in which the company is based. As a brand, BMW sales stood at 108,721 for July, 7.1% more than July 2010. In the year to date, BMW delivered 962,468 vehicles, a 17.9 per cent rise. According to Agence France-Presse (AFP), developing markets have become the cause  of the substantial popularity of high quality automobile manufacturers. However, growth in this area may decline later on in the year, due to the difficulties facing the global economy, AFP claims. Meanwhile, General Motors stated on Friday that its China sales decreased by 1.8 per cent in July this year compared to the same month in 2010. This was due to a lowered demand for commercial vehicles, AFP reported.A Florida man was killed and another man hospitalized after their boat sank off Cape May, New Jersey, US.The Sea Wolf sent a distress signal via emergency satellite beacon at about 1:35 AM on Thursday, seven miles off Cape May. A member of the State Police informed the Coast Guard who sent out an MH-65 rescue helicopter and two rescue launches.The helicopter managed to save Steve Hopkins of the District of Columbia but was unable to do the same for Gregory Arlotta of Florida. The 62 year old disappeared among the debris in eight-foot waves.Arlotta had recently bought the vessel in New York; its previous owner was in his seventies and had decided to sell the ship. The Sea Wolf had been operating  for a couple of decades prior to the sinking, and was described by one local as unfit for the voyage it was undertaking to New Orleans.  A 1963 Gilligan, it was designed for use within ten miles of shore for fishing.After 34 years as president of Bob Jones University, Bob Jones III announced yesterday that he will retire on May 7. He will be replaced by his son, Stephen Jones. Jones, 65, will continue as Chairman of the Board and Chancellor. The Christian university was established by his grandfather, the evangelist Bob Jones Sr., in 1927. It has been the subject of much controversy because of its racial policies and anti-Catholicism.When George W. Bush made a speech at the non-accredited college during his 2000 presidential campaign, many critics questioned his judgment, asking why he would support a college with an official ban on interracial dating. The ban was subsequently dropped.Jones is an ardent supporter of Bush. In his letter congratulating the president on his reelection, Jones wrote, "Pull out all the stops and make a difference. If you have weaklings around you who do not share your biblical values, shed yourself of them."File:Ahmed bin Zayed Al Nahyan.jpgThe body of Emirati Sheikh Ahmed bin Zayed Al Nahyan has been found in a lake near Rabat, Morocco. Sheikh Ahmed had been missing since his glider plane crashed four days ago. Sheikh Ahmed was the managing director of the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority at the time of his death. He was the son of Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, and although he was the brother of Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed he was not in the immediate line for succession. The Spanish pilot survived the crash and is at the hospital in stable condition. Divers from several countries including Morocco, France, Spain, the United States, and the UAE all helped search for the missing Sheikh. The search had become more complicated after heavy rainfall over the weekend. Sheikh Ahmed’s funeral will be held on Wednesday in Abu Dhabi.Boeing's newest commercial aircraft, the 787 "Dreamliner", made its first test flight Tuesday in Everett, Washington at 18:00 UTC.  Boeing claims that the new 290+ seat wide-body, twin engine jetliner is more fuel efficient than previous Boeing models.The release of the "Dreamliner" is almost two and a half years behind schedule.  The project has been plagued by various issues, including strike action, parts shortages and design problems. The aircraft is thought to have attracted 840 orders to date, though some have been cancelled due to the delays, making the 787 worth in the region of US$140bn (€96bn, £86bn) for Boeing. An aerospace analyst, Richard Aboulafia, said that "[The test flight] will provide a badly needed perception that the program is on some kind of schedule again, but it's still a long way from the ultimate result." Boeing's European rival, Airbus, is preparing to release a similar aircraft, the A350, in 2013.Boeing's Launch Systems, Launch Services and Delta Program business units are to be allowed to bid once more for U.S. space launch contracts, the USAF has announced.Boeing had been suspended since July 24, 2003 after violating federal law. The company was discovered to have been in possession of thousands of pages of documentation from Lockheed Martin, Boeing's rival during the 1998 evolved expendable launch vehicle source selection process. The USAF and Boeing have signed an interim agreement to protect the Air Force's interests. The agreement allows for the reinstating of the suspension if Boeing is indicted or convicted, or if new evidence is found. Boeing will have to submit to outside verification of the remedial steps it has taken, and cannot charge the Air Force for associated costs. Internal management responsibilities for ethical practice have been changed.Lockheed Martin's Atlas V and Boeing's Delta IV are two types of expendable rocket, designed to reduce the cost of space launches.United States airframer Boeing has announced that development of a replacement for their 737 narrowbody airliner, begun two years ago, has been pushed back several years, Boeing saying that further advancement of technology is required.Spokeswoman Sandy Angers said that that the team formed to look at the development had been merged into the parent product development team and would cease looking at specific designs. Boeing say airlines demand performance improvements of 15-20% are required if a new airliner is to be commercially viable."We've reduced our airplane-design effort and are focusing more on the technology breakthroughs," said Angers. "We need technology breakthroughs in engines, aerodynamics, materials and other systems. You can't simply shrink the 787 and expect the same benefits for the narrow-body market. We've got difficult challenges."One important difference is that the plastic composite used for the fuselage of the 787 would not offer as significant a weight saving on a smaller aircraft. The delivery date for the plane is now anticipated to be around 2020, and not 2015 as previously hoped. This coincides with the expected date for Airbus to deliver their A320 replacement. Industry analysts predict development of one to trigger development of the other. Boeing had hoped to have their's ready for 2012.Boeing Commercial Airplanes CEO Scott Carson said "We're continuing our research effort until we find the right solution. It has to be a 25-year product."Since its 1967 debut 5,700 737s have been deliverd to date, with orders for 2,200 more, keeping the jet in production until at least 2014. It is Boeing's most popular airliner.Three years after it was first due for delivery, Boeing has rolled out the first 787 Dreamliner that is to be delivered to a customer. Japan's All Nippon Airways (ANA) were to take delivery in May 2008, but will now receive the aircraft next month.The plane promises increased fuel efficiency as it is the first model to be built out of plastic and carbon composites, more lightweight than conventional materials. Boeing says they have 800 orders at $200 million per aircraft. Launch customer ANA have ordered 55.Delayed by Boeing's outsourcing system to a variety of subcontractors, two models have been developed. The 787-8 holds between 210 and 250 passengers; the 787-9 holds 250 to 290. Airlines choose the seating layout they want.After the 787, already bearing ANA's livery, arrives in Tokyo next month, the airline will use its first commercial flight for a special charter from Tokyo to Hong Kong. "We plan to use the 787 to expand our business, particularly our international routes," says ANA senior vice president Mitsuo Morimoto. "We plan to increase our revenue from international route significantly and the 787 will play an instrumental role in this," he adds, noting flights to Europe or the US are possibles for 787s."We are rolling out the first delivery airplane, the first 787," enthused Scott Fancher, 787 project manager and Boeing vice president. "That's an amazing thing for those who have worked on the program five, six, seven years, here at Boeing and our partners around the world."Boeing says they must increase the tempo of production from two a month to ten, if they are to meet customer demand. "It's an extraordinary challenge, no one has ever built a wide body aircraft at the rate of 10 per month before," claims Flight International writer John Ostrower.Boeing has secured two large orders for new aircraft.Air Canada has ordered US$6 billion in new airliners, while Air India has signed a deal for a further US$7 billion.The Air Canada deal includes firm orders for 18 777s and 14 of the new mid-size, long-range 787 Dreamliner. Options are included for 18 more 777s and 46 more 787s.The Air India order is worth US$6.8 billion for 50 787s.Air India says the new fuel-efficient airliner will save US$300 million in fuel a year, while Air Canada has estimated a 30% fuel saving over their existing 767s. Air India have also said that the 20 extra seats the 787 offers over a similarly-sized Airbus A330 was a decisive factor.Korean Air also bought 20 Dreamliners earlier this month.Boeing now has a total of 237 orders and commitments for the 787.The Boeing 777 is a family of long range widebody twin engine airliners built by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. It carries between 305 and 550 passengers and has a range from 5,600 to 8,870 nautical miles (10,400 to 16,400 km). The first flight of the 777 was in 1994.The Boeing 787, or Dreamliner, is a mid-sized passenger airliner currently under development by Boeing Commercial Airplanes and scheduled to enter service in 2008. It will carry between 200 and 350 passengers depending on the seating configuration, and be more fuel-efficient than earlier airliners. In addition, it will be the first major airliner to use composite material in the majority of its construction.Boeing has unveiled a new ultra-long range version of its 777 airliner, capable of flying from London to Sydney non-stop.The 777-200LR can fly for 9,420 nautical miles (17,446 kilometers) with 301 passengers onboard, giving it a range greater than any other airliner in the world.The aircraft can fly from New York to Singapore and from Los Angeles to Dubai with a full passenger and luggage load non-stop, and has been named the Worldliner by Boeing to mark the fact it can connect almost any two cities on Earth. Although it can fly from London to Sydney non-stop, the 777-200LR will have to break its return journey to refuel due to direction of the prevailing winds in the upper atmosphere.So far, Boeing has received five orders from two customers for the 777-200LR since it was announced in February 2000. The first of the new airliner will be delivered to Pakistan International Airlines in January 2006. EVA Airways is the other launch customer.First flight is scheduled in early March.The 777-200LR will be the basis for an all-freight version of the 777, announced last November.Boeing's European rival Airbus, which has out-sold Boeing since 2003, believes that the future of passenger flight is in very large aircraft like its new twin-deck A380 airliner flying up to 840 people between a relatively small number of large hub airports world-wide. Passengers would then take connecting flights to reach their final destinations. Boeing, by contrast, believes passengers will want to fly direct between more local airports too small to handle aircraft like the A380.Aircraft manufacturer Boeing have unveiled their new 787 Dreamliner at their Everett Factory near Seattle, Washington, in the United States. Sunday was chosen as its date matches the aircraft's designation number when written in the American format, 7/8/07.The event was attended by 15,000 people including employees, customers, suppliers and officials from government and the local community. Scott Carson, president and CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes said, "This has been a wonderful and exciting day to celebrate this breakthrough airplane with our customers, employees, supplier partners and our communities."The mid-sized 787 will seat between 210 and 330 passengers, and will be the first commercial airliner of a mostly carbon fibre composites construction. Boeing claims that the resulting reduction of weight compared to the traditional aluminium will offer enhanced fuel efficiency, benefiting both operators and the environment. According to the company, the 787 Dreamliner will use 20 percent less fuel per passenger than similarly sized aircraft.On Saturday, Boeing announced 35 new orders from German airline Air Berlin and ALAFCO Aviation Lease & Finance of Kuwait, bringing the total to 677 orders from 47 customers. At the list price, these orders are worth US$5.62 billion.The first flight is expected to take place in August or September of this year, with the first customer, All Nippon Airways, due to receive their first aircraft in May 2008.The 787 illustrates the differing strategies adopted by Boeing and Airbus whose double-decker A380 first flew in April 2005 and is expected to enter service later this year. Whereas the Airbus A380 is aimed at flying large passenger numbers between major hubs, the Dreamliner is targeted at smaller airports where Boeing predicts will be an area of growth in the industry.Earlier in the day, Boeing received a congratulatory letter from Airbus. The company president and CEO Louis Gallois said, "Today is a great day in aviation history. For, whenever such a milestone is reached in our industry, it always is a reflection of hard work by dedicated people inspired by the wonder of flight. Even if tomorrow Airbus will get back to the business of competing vigorously, today is Boeing's day -- a day to celebrate the 787."So more staff can be hired for Bolivia's education, health and social programs, President Elect Evo Morales announced that he and his cabinet will take a 50% pay cut.  The 46-year-old leader slashed his future salary of about $3600 a month to $1800.Raising Bolivia from its situation as one of the poorest countries in the world is a primary intention of the president elect. "It's a question of sharing the country's situation among us all." said Morales. "This is a democratic revolution and we will answer the Bolivian people's call."Cabinet ministers and all 157 members of Morales' party that were elected to Congress will also take a 50% pay cut, Morales said. The salaries of 157 substitute congressmen will be eliminated.Morales, who is known across the country as "Evo", is Bolivia's first native Indian president. Growing up in poverty has marked his politics.  He often says, "For a handful of people there is money, for the others, repression."  Evo will soon move from his rented single room of a shared house to Bolivia's presidential palace.Morales also met with business and civic leaders on Tuesday in a conciliatory meeting. Morales said his government would create a stable legal and economic environment to attract investment and create jobs which was applauded by the Bolivian elite."I do not have a professional education, but it is important that we co-operate. You have the professional capacity, I have the social consciousness".Bolivian President Evo Morales has ordered that all foreign-owned natural gas fields be turned over to the national government of Bolivia. President Morales signed a decree that orders troops to seize the fields "immediately" to ensure gas production. The decree also says that companies have 180 days to sign over their fields or leave the country.The fields are owned by such companies as the United States' Exxon-Mobil Corporation, Brazil's Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Spanish-Argentine Repsol YPF SA, and Great Britain's BG Group PLC and BP PLC. "The looting by the foreign companies has ended. We are not a government of mere promises, we follow through on what we propose and what the people demand. We want to ask (the Armed Forces) that starting now, they occupy all the energy fields in Bolivia along with battalions of engineers," said Mr Morales after signing the decree."The time has come, the awaited day, a historic day in which Bolivia retakes absolute control of our natural resources," added President Morales.One of Morales' vows in his presidential campaign was to "recover" the country's natural resources by renationalizing them. President Morales explained, on a visit to Brazil in January, that renationalising the industry would not mean expelling foreign companies or expropriating foreign property. "Foreign companies have every right to recover investments and make profits, but profits should be balanced".Bolivia has the second largest supply of natural gas in South America after Venezuela.A bomb exploded at 7:24 pm on Tuesday at the PayPal headquarters, a subsidiary of eBay, located in San Jose, California, causing the evacuation of employees from the building. Authorities stated that the explosion was "not an accident." Spokespeople for eBay said that the incident was "isolated" and that there were no injuries or deaths reported."It's definitely not an accident. Everything else there is accounted for. This was not any kind of accident or malfunction," said San Jose Police Sgt. Nick Muyo. He added that authorities have yet to find any kind of explosive device or material."We believe this is an isolated incident. We're working closely with local authorities. We have everything under control," said Amanda Pires, a spokeswoman for the PayPal division of the company.The blast was seen from the street and was located in an area where workers take breaks. The initial damage reported was a broken window near the blast site.Fire officials do not yet know the specifics of the bomb's makeup."Whatever it was, it disintegrated. Whatever caused this was pretty strong," said San Jose Fire Department Captain Jose Guerrero.The San Jose Police are working with agents from the Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives Bureau (ATF) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), but it is reported that the San Jose Police are in charge of investigating the blast. There are no suspects at this time.The BSE Sensex touched another milestone by crossing the historic 13,000 mark. The BSE's main index reached to 13,039.30 in morning trade, surpassing the previous peak of 12,994.45 set earlier this month on October 17. After 135 trading sessions the new milestone of 13,000 has been achieved. Sensex also gained today all-time closing high of 13,024.26 points.Reliance Communications Ltd. gained almost 3 percent when it announced it's better than expected results in the morning. Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd. gained 4.09 percent at 760 while Bhari Airtel group gained 2.65 percent at 541.25. Infosys gained Rs. 6.55 at  Rs. 2,104 per equity share.People are expecting bullish market and looking for higher benchmarks. Nimesh Kampani, Chairman, JM Morgan Stanley expected the new milestone of 14,000 mark by March, next year.The Internet is very much present at the Frankfurt Book Fair 2007, not just, like in previous years, as a means for the journalists who have 80 workplaces for their own notebooks to report on the fair, but like before as a chance - and as a threat for rights-owners of digital media.BP Chief Executive Anthony Bryan "Tony" Hayward is negotiating the terms of his departure and will stand down from the company; effectively taking responsibility for the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, according to journalists.  The New York Times cites an anonymous source "close to the board", and the BBC's business editor makes a similar analysis.  It is expected that President and CEO of the company's Gulf Coast Restoration Organization Bob Dudley, a Mississippi native, member of the Board of Directors, and most senior American executive of BP, will replace Tony Hayward as Chief Executive.A report by the BBC World Service said a BP press release asserted that, "[Hayward] has the full confidence of the Board."  The resignation, and change of leadership, at the multinational UK-based oil firm are expected to be discussed by the company's Board of Directors on Monday, and will potentially be ratified as early as Tuesday. Hayward's position was, essentially, undercut when United States President Barack Obama said he "would have fired him."The usually inhibited desert locust Schistocerca gregaria, which wiles away the months as a solitary, insignificant grasshopper can shift into horrifying swarms due to a chemical commonly found in people’s brain, a research showed. The solitary and gregarious phases of locusts are so different that they were considered distinct species until 1921.  Scientists have known for several years that touching a solitary desert locust on the hind legs, or allowing it to see or smell other locusts, is enough to transform it into the gregarious phase. This week, Science magazine published strong scientific evidence that the behavioural and physical makeover is effected by serotonin, a carrier of nerve signals in virtually all animals.Researchers from the University of Sydney, University of Oxford, and University of Cambridge have pinpointed a single neurochemical - serotonin - as the cause of an instinctive behavioural change from the locusts' solitarious phase to become gregarious and form disastrous swarms of millions. Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) is a monoamine neurotransmitter synthesized in serotonergic neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) and enterochromaffin cells in the gastrointestinal tract of animals including humans. Serotonin is also found in many mushrooms and plants, including fruits and vegetables.In the central nervous system, serotonin plays an important role as a neurotransmitter in the modulation of anger, aggression, body temperature, mood, sleep, human sexuality, appetite, metabolism, as well as stimulating vomiting. Keeping serotonin levels high is the aim of many anti-depressant drugs. "Serotonin profoundly influences how we humans behave and interact," said co-author Dr Swidbert Ott, from Cambridge University. "So to find that the same chemical is what causes a normally shy, antisocial insect to gang up in huge groups is amazing," he explained.Prior to swarming, the locusts undergo a series of physical changes - their body colour darkens and their muscles grow stronger. The 'Phase change' is at the heart of the locust pest problem, for locusts are one of the world's most destructive insect pests, affecting the livelihoods of 1 in 10 people on the planet. "To effectively control locust swarms, we must first understand exactly how it is that a single shy locust becomes a highly social animal that swarms," said University of Sydney Professor Steve Simpson who led the research for almost 20 years.The 'phase change' was caused by stimulation of sensory hairs on the hind leg of locusts. Professor Simpson's team began to investigate the neurological and neurochemical basis of this effect. Dr Michael L. Anstey, of the University of Oxford, supervised by Professor Simpson, and Dr Stephen M. Rogers, part of Professor Malcolm Burrows' team at Cambridge, led the research investigating this novel field. "Here we have a solitary and lonely creature, the desert locust. But just give them a little serotonin, and they go and join a gang," said Malcolm Burrows.Of 13 neurochemicals in locusts that were gregarious (swarming form) and solitarious (non-swarming), the only neurochemical that showed a relationship with social behaviour was serotonin. "It was clear that as locusts switched from solitarious to gregarious, the amount of serotonin in their central nervous systems also increased," explained Professor Simpson. "The next step was to determine if this relationship actually meant that serotonin was the cause of gregarious, and thus swarming, behaviour in locusts," he added.To do this, the researchers either added serotonin or prevented the production of serotonin in locusts. The results show unequivocally that serotonin is responsible for the behavioural transformation of locusts from solitarious to gregarious. Serotonin was also found to be involved in social behaviour of species across the animal kingdom, including crustaceans, rats, and humans. The team has found that swarm-mode locusts had approximately three times more serotonin in their thoracic ganglia, part of the central nervous system, than their calm, solitary peers. "The question of how locusts transform their behaviour in this way has puzzled scientists for almost 90 years," said co-author Dr Michael L. Anstey, from Oxford University. "We knew the [physical] stimuli that cause locusts' amazing Jekyll and Hyde-style transformation. But nobody had been able to identify the changes in the nervous system that turn antisocial locusts into monstrous swarms. Now we finally have the evidence to provide an answer," he added. "The fact that serotonin causes the transition from a shy, antisocial animal into a party animal means that pharmacologically, gregarious locusts are on Ecstasy or Prozac," said Professor Simpson, who also explained that "(whilst a very good idea, in reality) it would be difficult to create a locust control agent that interferes with serotonin."Professor Simpson's team has significantly discovered that "locusts offer an exemplar of the how to span molecules to ecosystems - one of the greatest challenges in modern science." He also offered an explanation on the problem of using a locust control agent: "Because social behaviour in so many animals depends on serotonin, if we used unspecific serotonin antagonists in the environment, we run the risk of affecting other processes in locusts, as well as severely impacting animals other than locusts. We would need to be sure that locusts have a unique serotonin receptor that causes phase change, which we haven't identified yet. Any locust control agent would have to be specific for this serotonin receptor in locusts."This study, which was sponsored by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council of England, England's Royal Society, the Australian Research Council Federation, and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. The scientists that the conclusions of the study will provide a hint as to how to solve the problem of locust infestations, which affect China, Africa, and Australia. Dr. Rogers said the landmark discovery has opened a new area of study into ways of blocking specific serotonin receptors, “something that would allow us to break apart these swarms before they develop.”Charles Valentine Riley, Norman Criddle, and Sir Boris Petrovich Uvarov were also involved in the understanding and destructive control of the locust. Research at Oxford University has earlier identified that swarming behaviour is a response to overcrowding. Increased tactile stimulation of the hind legs causes an increase in levels of serotonin. This causes the locust to change color, eat much more, and breed much more easily. Green locusts turn bright yellow and gain large muscles. The transformation of the locust to the swarming variety is induced by several contacts per minute over a four-hour period. It is estimated that the largest swarms have covered hundreds of square miles and consisted of many billions of locusts."Locust" is the swarming phase of short-horned grasshoppers of the family Acrididae. The origin and apparent extinction of certain species of locust—some of which reached 6 inches (15 cm) in length—are unclear. These are species that can breed rapidly under suitable conditions and subsequently become gregarious and migratory. They form bands as nymphs and swarms as adults — both of which can travel great distances, rapidly stripping fields and greatly damaging crops. Though there are about 8,000 currently known species of grasshoppers, only 12 form locust swarms. In the history of the insect Desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria) is probably the most important because of its wide distribution (North Africa, Middle East, and Indian subcontinent) and its ability to migrate widely. Adult Desert Locusts grow to between 2-2.5 inches in length, can weigh 0.05-0.07 oz, and are excellent fliers. In religious mythology, the eighth Plague of Egypt in the Bible and Torah, a swarm of locusts ate all the crops of Egypt. "The gregarious phase is a strategy born of desperation and driven by hunger, and swarming is a response to find pastures new," Steve Rogers from Cambridge University emphasises.The extinction of the Rocky Mountain locust (Melanoplus spretus) in the late 19th century has been a source of puzzlement. Recent research suggests that the breeding grounds of this insect in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains came under sustained agricultural development during the large influx of gold miners, destroying the underground eggs of the locust. That species of locust had some of the largest recorded swarms.In the 1915 locust plague, which lasted from March to October 1915, locusts stripped areas in and around Palestine of almost all vegetation. This invasion of awesome proportions seriously compromised the already-depleted food supply of the region and sharpened the misery of all Jerusalemites. The plague resulted in several increases to the price of food. On April 25, 1915, the New York Times described the price increases: "Flour costs $15 a sack. Potatoes are six times the ordinary price. Sugar and petroleum are unprocurable and money has ceased to circulate."In the 2004 locust outbreak, the largest infestation of Desert Locust happened in Western and Northern Africa, affected a number of countries in the fertile northern regions of Africa. These infestations covered hundreds of square miles and involve billions of vegetation-munching insects, which repeatedly devastated agriculture, and cost huge amounts of money to control.In November, a locusts swarm 3.7 miles (6km) long devastated parts of Australia. Along the process of their active phases, these insects can eat their own bodyweight daily, and can fly swiftly, in swarms of billions covering 60 miles in five to eight hours in search of food. Researchers are now considering the development of sprays that convert swarming locusts back into solitary insects. “We hope that this greater understanding of the mechanisms causing such a big change in behaviour will help in the control of this pest, and more broadly help in understanding the widespread changes in behavioural traits of animals.” Malcolm Burrows said. However, according to Paul Anthony Stevenson of Germany's University of Leipzig, the discovery will not likely to a short-term pest control solution. "To be effective, antiserotonin-like chemicals would need to be applied when the animals are solitary locusts and scarce targets in vast expanses of desert -- about three locusts per 100 square meters (1,076 sq ft)," Stevenson explained. "Current serotonergic drugs are not designed for passing through the insect cuticle and sheath encasing the nervous system, nor are they insect-selective, hence their use is ecologically unjustifiable," he added.The City of Brampton in Ontario, Canada, and Marikina in the Philippines have recently been "twinned".Both cities are roughly the same size, both have female mayors, both are near urban destinations (one of Toronto, the other Manila) and feel they can benefit economically with each other.Mayor Susan Fennell of Brampton commented "This twinning agreement between Brampton and Marikina City will not only provide new and exciting economic possibilities, but it is an excellent chance to recognize and celebrate the Filipino community in Brampton. As one of Canada's most diverse cities, Brampton is home to more than 8,000 Filipino residents with a distinct culture, and I am pleased to be able to celebrate that culture with this agreement."Brampton is also a twin of Plano, Texas.As "Brand International Promotion Association" and "Taiwan Excellent Manufacturers' Association" merged to "Taiwan Excellent Brand Association" (TEBA), "2007 Taiwan Brands' Trend Forum", with the slogan of "Winning Global Economic with Taiwan Brands", held yesterday and invited professionals from governmental, financial, and IT industries to share experiences on marketing MIT (Made in Taiwan) brands and encourage MIT brands market to the world by innovations.Newly-elected Chairman of TEBA Andy Tzu-jen Hsieh remarked in the opening: "A product with MIT brand didn't mean 'cheap' but 'value' of its good quality." With Hsieh's words, Minister of Economic Affairs of Taiwan Steve Ruey-long Chen echoed and said: "Self-made (MIT) brands were progressively refined with its innovations, R&D, and new ideas. Lots of good MIT brands became notable world-wide in the presence. But it's uncertain to determine success or failure when a company manages its brand because companies with small-business scale were grown up. A brand needs a long-period management to keep it in a good image."Many participants and local media focused on the keynote speech by the founder of Multitech Stan Shih. He compared brands trend between Taiwan and other world-wide countries with "The World Is Flat" and proved the trend of optimization on global companies with his "Smiling Curve" theory. "We (the public) should determine a brand good or failure by its quality, nature, and notability but not its scale." Shih said and stressed, "Companies with MIT brands (OBMs) can't always be ODMs or OEMs because some (people) often confused on conceptions and basis of 'Branding Taiwan' and 'Taiwan Brands'. If a company need a good brand, it (a brand) should has its (brand owner's) creations and management strategies to mark it into the world in a good position.""The brand trends in Taiwan is from ODM in the past to OEM commonly in the presence. But after some products by MIT companies were presented to the public, lots of MIT brands became world-class brands such as BenQ, Giant, Acer so that Taiwan can enter into the OBMs' era. If Taiwan can still be in the OBMs' era, the global market competitiveness and world-wide media exposure of MIT brands will be improved. 'OBMs in Taiwan' will help companies from several industries keep their headquarters retain in Taiwan." Tracy Chun-fang Hsu (Vice Director-general of the Bureau of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Economic Affairs of R.O.C.) mentioned in the forum.Before the Panel Discussion, Jerry Wang (Vice Chairman of BenQ) corrected the difference between "Values" and "Value" with some quotes from Wikipedia. He said: "Value of a brand include values and consumers' value. A factor who determine consumers to buy a product or not is emotion or self-need. A brand's or a product's nature can be known with differences on consumers' population. Of course, in Taiwan or other world-wide countries, every self-made brand or product has its style, nature, and characteristics."In the final of Panel Discussion, 3 main speakers think that "Smiling Curve" theory is a key factor to determine a company pursue its "brand value" success or failure. If a MIT brands wants to become world-class and notable, a company (brand owner) should not only have its creations, images, and innovations but also consider feelings from consumers.The city of Bratsk in Irkutsk Oblast, Russia, received a new turbine for its famous 4,500 megawatt hydroelectric plant founded in the mid-1950s on the Angara river. In future this new unit will cause an efficiency rise up to 255MW for each turbine.Currently, the Bratsk Power Station operates 18 hydro-turbines, each with capacity of 250MW, produced by the Leningrad Metal Works ("LMZ") in the 1960s. The plant is the second level of the Angara Hydroelectric Stations cascade. Since its full commissioning in 1967, the station was the world's single biggest power producer until Canada's Churchill Falls in 1971. Annually the station produces 22.6 billion kWh.The precious 80 tonne cargo was transported to Pulkovo International airport of Saint-Petersburg where it was loaded on Antonov An-124-100 Ruslan to made all the way to Bratsk by air. On October 4, 2006 it landed in the Bratsk airport. In two days the unit 16 replacement arrived to the assemble place on the Angara river.Sergey Emdin, CEO of IrkutskEnergo JSC, noted the press that the Bratsk plant reconstruction project includes not only the economical, but the ecological aspect by reducing carbon dioxide emission for 6 million tonnes for the period of 2008-2012.In 2006 and 2007 the old plant is scheduled to receive two more working wheels - by one for each year respectively, and in 2008 and 2009 another four - by two for each year.Brazilian aerospace conglomerate Empresa Brasileira de Aeronáutica, S. A. (Embraer) has revealed plans to cut around twenty percent of the company's workforce of 21,362 people. Twenty percent is over 4,200, but Embraer have not revealed exact numbers.The firm has also scaled back predictions for deliveries and revenue. Estimated delivery figures for 2009 now stand at 242 airliners and corporate jets, compared to the previous number of 270, in the second downwards revision of Embraer of their delivery figures for this year within three months. Revenue for 2009 is now predicted to be US$5.5 billion, down thirteen percent from the previous estimate of US$6.3 billion.Embraer is the world's fourth-largest airframer, following Airbus, Boeing and Bombardier. Embraer stock fell 1.9% after the announcement, or 16 centavos, to 8.46 reais in São Paulo. Over the last twelve months Embraer stock has fallen 55%. The manufacturer also produces military aircraft, but statistics for these are not published.In December, the Metalworkers Union of São José dos Campos, claimed the firm planned to cut 4,000 jobs, which Embraer at the time denied. Embraer said they would only take "such a drastic decision if there are risks to the company’s profitability and sustainability." The new statement said that production and administration would take the brunt of the cuts, with engineers retained to continue product development.The company described the decision as vital given "the new reality of demand for commercial and executive aircraft," and noted that "over 90 percent of its revenues are generated abroad. Therefore, the resiliency that the Brazilian domestic market has been demonstrating through the crisis does not significantly alter this adverse scenario."The official news agency Agência Brasil reported that Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva was upset by the layoffs. He will meet with company directors next week and wants Embraer to explain the decision.Minas, one of the largest states of Brazil, has stopped the sale of the Toyota Corolla over safety concerns.The move was made after nine Corolla customers reported that their cars automatically accelerated. The state public prosecutor's office said in an online statement on Tuesday that the problem is blamed on accelerator pedals sticking underneath floor mats. Local government said the issue was "putting in danger the lives of occupants".According to the prosecutor's office, sales of Corollas may resume when Toyota alters the floormats in its current models. Toyota has recalled over eight million vehicles worldwide due to acceleration problems.CARACAS, Venezuela —The Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva met the Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez on February 14, 2005 in Caracas, Venezuela. Brazil and Venezuela signed agreements of cooperation on many areas. According to the Brazilian government this was a strategical encounteur. This meeting is the first of three meetings that President Lula will have with South American Presidents in three days. The scheduled meetings are with the presidents of: Venezuela (February, 14), Guiana (February, 15) and Suriname (February, 16).President Lula was accompanied by the following comitiva: the Minister of Development, Industry, and External Trade Luiz Fernando Furlan, the Minister of Finance Antônio Palocci, the Minister of Foreign Relations Celso Amorim, the Minister of Health Humberto Costa, the Minister of Mines and Energy Dilma Roussef, the Minister of  Tourism Walfrido Mares Guia, the President of Petrobras  José Eduardo Dutra, the President of National Economic and Social Development Bank (BNDES)  Guido Mantega, the President of  Eletrobrás Silas Rondeau Cavalcante Silva and the Special Secretary for Aquaculture and Fisheries José Fritsch. In addition a delegation  of executives representing enterprises from Brazil accompanied the President.The Brazilian Ministry of External Relations  told the trip aims the construction of a strategical alliance and commercial integration between both countries. The Brazilian Presidential Advisor Marco Aurélio Garcia said:"With this gesture, Brazil will consolidate one of its major political goals, which is the constitution of a South American community of nations". He added: "These agreements with Venezuela are  strategical. We want this agreement as a model for other agreements in the region." According to President Lula the integration of the Latin America is the priority number one of his government. Days before the arrival in Venezuela and commenting about the trip Lula said: "We're going to do the same thing in Colombia and in other countries in which integration is no longer a campaign speech but part of the way we deal with real things, day to day". The integration of the Latin America is the politics  repeatedly proposed by Lula during the meetings of the Foro de São Paulo. According to him and the others members of the Foro there must be a integration among all the left parties and governments of Latin America. The union aims to be an alternative and opposing force to the politics and influence of the richest countries, mainly the United States. Among the organizations which are usually participants of the Foro de São Paulo are: Communist Party of Cuba, Colombian Communist Party, Communist Party of Bolivia, Communist Party of Brazil, Workers' Party, Paraguayan Communist Party, Peruvian Communist Party,  Socialist Party of Peru, National Liberation Army, Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front, Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity, Tupamaros.On December 4, 2001 during the 10th edition of the Foro de São Paulo in Havana Lula said:"A shoal  of small fish may mean the finishing of the hungry in our countries, in out continent. We should not think as the History ended on our journey by the Earth. Even it happens just once, or with one gesture, let's effectively  contribute to the improve the life of millions of human beings who live socially excluded by  this neoliberal model."[1]In Venezuela, once again, he brought out the integration wish: "This is the biggest dream I am carrying, that we can negotiate collectively, not like one country, but like a set of countries so we can do that our people may have the chance to conquer the full citizenship."Former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney testified Thursday before an ethics committee in the Canadian House of Commons about the Airbus affair, a case involving alleged bribery at the highest levels of government to secure Airbus sales of aircraft to Air Canada.In his testimony, Mulroney said that he should not have associated with German businessman Karlheinz Schreiber nor should have he accepted bundles of cash — which he placed in safe deposit boxes in two different countries.Nonetheless, Mulroney denied accepting kickbacks. He admitted taking about CAD225,000 in cash from Schreiber in 1993 and 1994, which was after his departure from politics. He also said that the money involved promoting Schreiber's private business dealings.To the committee Muroney said: "When I look back on it today, I realize I made a serious error of judgment in receiving a payment in cash for this assignment even though it was decidedly not illegal to do so. That mistake in judgment was mine alone. I apologize and I accept full responsibility for it. ... I should have declined the offer. I should have insisted that payment be in a more transparent or more accountable manner. By not doing so I inadvertently created an impression of impropriety on the high office I was privileged to hold.""Do you realize, Mr. Mulroney, that the way in which you acted in this matter did not make it appear that it were a legitimate transaction," said MP Serge Ménard of Bloc Québécois.Two days earlier, Schreiber testified before the same committee, alleging that Mulroney agreed to accept CAD300,000 to promote a light armored vehicle factory and benefited from the purchase of 34 Airbus aircraft by Air Canada."I never received a cent from anyone for services rendered to anyone in connection with the purchase by Air Canada from Airbus of 34 aircraft," Mulroney said, refuting Schreiber.Mulroney also attacked Schreiber's credibility, pointing out that the German could be extradited to his home country where he faces charges. "He succeeded. He got what he wanted ... he’s sitting in his mansion over in Rockcliffe," Mulroney said. "I think he seriously misled every member of this House ... with this false affidavit."The committee's investigation will resume in late January, when it is expected to call dozens of witnesses.British MPs on the Commons Environmental Audit Committee warn Britain could face widespread electrical blackouts if new generating capacity is not added soon.Clean and renewable generating methods will be preferred in the Government's energy review, including a return to nuclear power generation. But the committee warned that no new nuclear power plants are expected to come online until at least 2017 with the proposed network not reaching full capacity until as late as 2030. Meanwhile nearly a quarter of Britain's current generating capacity is scheduled to go offline by 2016, creating a shortfall described by the committee as a "generation gap" which could not be bridged by nuclear energy."Very substantial investment in new generating capacity and energy efficiency will be required if the lights are to stay on," committee chairman Conservative MP Tim Yeo said. The committee stated that an "extensive" building programme of new gas-fired power stations would be needed to meet the predicted shortfall.The committee's statement drew some support from environmentalists as well as from some energy sector industries. Friends of the Earth was cautiously cheered by the committee's commitment to energy efficiency, and support of reduced emissions. "...people understand renewables is the next big thing and we should get on with it," said Maf Smith, CEO of Scottish Renewables to BBC.The US-based credit rating agency Moody's Investors Service announced on Saturday their decision to downgrade their rating of the United Kingdom economy from AAA to AA1 - stating that lack of economic growth and austerity continuing into 2016 are to blame.Moody's Investors Service said in a statement: "The main driver underpinning Moody's decision to downgrade the UK's Government bond rating to AA1 is the increasing clarity that, despite considerable structural economic strengths, the UK's economic growth will remain sluggish over the next few years due to the anticipated slow growth of the global economy and the drag on the UK economy from the ongoing domestic public- and private-sector deleveraging process".George Osborne, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, said that the move to lower the credit rating was a "stark reminder" of the debt problems that the country is facing and that the government is planning to stick to it's original deficit reduction plan.  He went on to say "Far from weakening our resolve to deliver our economic recovery plan, this decision redoubles it". The British economy shrank by 0.3% in the final quarter of 2012 and output remained flat throughout last year - the economy would have to grow in the first quarter of 2013 in order to avoid a recession. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development warned George Osborne last month that he should slow down the rate of his deficit reduction and austerity programme if Britain entered a triple-dip recession.The Labour Party has said that the government must reduce the number of spending cuts and focus on growth. Ed Balls, the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer, said: "This credit rating downgrade is a humiliating blow to a Prime Minister and Chancellor who said keeping our AAA rating was the test of their economic and political credibility."On Thursday, the United Kingdom (UK) voted to leave the European Union (EU) in a referendum.During the referendum, voters were asked the following question with these options:"Should the United Kingdom remain a member of the European Union or leave the European Union?Remain a member of the European UnionLeave the European Union".Voters across the UK voted in favour of leaving the EU by a margin 52% to 48%. Support for this outcome was strongest across the majority of England and Wales, with London, Scotland, and Northern Ireland the only regions where the majority voted to remain a member of the EU. Following the results, David Cameron announced his intention to resign as the UK's Prime Minister. It is expected he will remain in his post before the UK Conservative Party choose a new leader ahead of their annual conference in October. He also said he would not invoke Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, the process by which a member can leave the EU, leaving that to his successor as Prime Minister. A number of officials at the EU — which would be down to 27 members with the UK gone — in a statement said they would like this process to begin "as soon as possible".At the start of trading on Friday the markets reacted negatively to the result, with the FTSE 100 falling in value by £120 billion. Mark Carney, Governor of the Bank of England, stated an extra £250 billion will be made available to help stabilise markets.The auction for the mobile spectrum capable of carrying 4G mobile broadband services in the United Kingdom got underway on Thursday. The auction process is expected to take several weeks and will take place online. Mobile network operators are expected to roll out services by July. 4G mobile network technology will bring faster downstream speeds than the current 3G connections allowing for data-intensive surfing on the move such as video streaming. Some mobile users have criticised the industry regulator Ofcom for having taken a long time to start rolling out the 4G technology, with the United Kingdom falling behind many other European countries.EE (Everything Everywhere) launched the UK's first 4G network in a number of cities last year, however many people complained due to them being the only service provider. The bidders include the current main UK mobile network operators — Vodafone UK, Telefónica UK (O2), Everything Everywhere and Hutchinson 3G (3) — as well as British Telecommunications.Ed Richards, the Chief Executive of Ofcom, said of the auction: "It will release the essential raw material for the next wave of mobile digital services. This will change the way we consume digital media in both our personal and working lives and deliver significant benefits to millions of consumers and businesses across the country."Each bidder is competing with one another to win combinations of the 28 spectrum 'lots' available from the 800MHz and 2.6GHz spectrum bands.All flights in and out of Birmingham Airport have been diverted or suspended until at least noon local time after a business jet carrying an organ for transplantation crashed on approach to the airport in Birmingham, England, during heavy fog. Two people were injured in the accident, one seriously. A spokesperson for the airport said: "We can confirm that an incident has occurred involving a private Cessna aircraft. The incident occurred on arrival into the airport and the emergency services are in attendance."West Midlands Police Chief Inspector Matt Markham confirmed that the aircraft was carrying an organ for transplantation, but said that it was undamaged in the accident and it had been taken from the aircraft. Later reports suggested that the liver had been transported to Queen Elizabeth Hospital, where the operation was being carried out.Inspector Markham that the police were "alerted to what was described as a 'hard landing' at the airport" at approximately 3:35 pm local time, and pledged to carry out a "thorough investigation" into the cause of the accident. He said: "It would appear the aircraft came down on landing and soon after there was a small fire within the aircraft. There were two casualties on board the plane. One we believe is in  serious condition and has been airlifted to hospital; and the second one has been taken to hospital but with less significant injuries."The British national airline, British Airways has announce that the former CEO of Aer Lingus, Willie Walsh is to be their new CEO. Mr Walsh is to replace the current CEO, Australian-born Rod Eddington in September after his retirement. Willie Walsh started as a cadet for Aer Lingus at the age of 17, later becoming a captain of the airline. In 1998, he became the chief-executive of the airline's charter subsidiary Furtura, and later in 2000 chief finance officer. In the wake of 11th September 2001, he became the chief-executive of Aer Lingus, itself. Worried about what happen to Swissair and Sabena, he looked at the rival Irish airline Ryanair for inspiration and made Aer Lingus in effect a no-frills airline, such as replacing the infamous turquoise uniforms with polo shirts and promoting via the Internet.British Airways (BA), the flag carrier for the United Kingdom, announced record losses today. For the first quarter of the year ending March 31, the airline reported losses of £401 million before tax, despite revenues which rose to £9 billion over the previous year. The company's finances have suffered from rising fuel costs and a weak pound. The loss also takes into account redundancy-related costs of £78 million: The company laid off 2,500 workers last year.BA's costs soared due to an unprecedented fuel bill of £3 billion following a 44.5% increase in the price of oil last year. The recent drop in oil prices has led the airline to announce an expected saving of £400 million in fuel by next year.Company CEO Willie Walsh announced that employees will be offered the option of taking unpaid leave or working part time in order to ease the financial crisis. In order to set an example, he said that he himself would forego pay for the month of July, describing his move as "no stunt," and added that he "saw no signs of recovery anywhere."Part of BA's troubles over the last year could be due to the company's dependence on the premium travel market. The company saw a drop of 13% in 'Club' and 'First Class' passengers. With two new aircraft on the way to operate a Club-only service from London, the company may struggle to fill the flights.Cabin crew workers at British Airways have begun a three-day strike, affecting over 60,000 people, after last-minute talks between BA and the union, Unite, collapsed.The strike will extend for three days, after beginning at midnight in London.  After the first strike, the union plans another four days of industrial action, beginning on March 27th.  According to BA, around 65% of the airline's passengers will be able to reach their destinations, despite 1,100 of the normal 1,950 flights being canceled.  The effect of the strike varied between airports; while all flights were operating from London City Airport, only 60% of long-haul and 30% of short-haul flights were expected to operate from London Heathrow Airport.  At London Gatwick Airport, all long-haul flights and around half of short-haul flights were still operating.The strike began after last-minute negotiations between BA and Unite collapsed.  BA and Unite have been at odds for some time; in November 2009, BA announced plans to reduce the number of crew on many flights and institute a two-year pay freeze from 2010.  While Unite says it recognizes the need for costs to be cut, it also claimed it was not consulted on the means to do so.The strike also has political implications in the United Kingdom, as Unite is one of the largest backers for Prime Minister Gordon Browns' Labour  Party.  The opposition Conservative Party have called on the Labour Party to sever financial ties with Unite during the length of the dispute, saying that "Labour's dependence on funding from Unite is compromising their ability to stand up to the unions and stand up for the interests of passengers."The Sunday Times and Observer newspapers today both stated that British Airways CEO Rod Eddington is planning to step down in the Summer. Althought no official announcement has been released from the airline about Mr Eddington's future, speculation is already mounting on who the successor will be.Possible internal candidates include marketing director Martin George and finance director John Rishton. However it is quite possible that an external executive such as Willie Walsh, former CEO of Aer Lingus, could take the post. Mr Walsh successful turned around Aer Lingus into one of the most profitable national carriers in the world after it had almost bankrupt in 2002.Mr Eddington took over the top job at British Airways in May 2000United Kingdom flag carrier British Airways (BA) has entered into merger talks with Spanish airline Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA. BA is already Europe's third-largest airline. The proposed all-share merger of BA and Iberia, meanwhile, is approved by the boards of both companies. BA already holds a 13.15% stake in Iberia, while Iberia have a 2.99% holding in BA. British Airways has been increasing its holdings in Iberia since 1999, from an initial 9% to the current 13.15%. Under the proposed deal, the airlines would go to a holding company and the new firm would be listed on both the FTSE 100 and the Madrid stock exchange."A merger would be good news for our customers and enhance our existing relationship," said Chairman of the Iberia board, Fernando Conte. Additionally, BA and Iberia have been in talks with American Airlines about a potential cross-atlantic joint venture.Both companies also say they feel confident they will get the European Union's approval that the deal needs for it to go ahead. BA and Iberia are partners under the Oneworld airline alliance and already have a codeshare agreement."The aviation landscape is changing and airline consolidation is long overdue," said BA CEO Willie Walsh. "The combined balance sheet, anticipated synergies and network fit between the airlines make a merger an attractive proposition, particularly in the current economic environment."Last Friday, BA completed its purchase of French airline L'Avion, a two-plane airline that flies business class between Paris and Newark. L'Avion will merge fully with BA subsidiary OpenSkies by 2009. Both offer transatlantic flights from Paris.The United Kingdom's flag carrier airline, British Airways (BA) has warned the markets that it will post a full year loss of up to £150 million.The former state airline, privatised in 1987, saw its shares fall 8.5% on the back of an announcement that "further economic weakness in January and the outlook for February and March combined with the fall in sterling are impacting our outlook for the year", according to The Daily Telegraph. Quarterly revenues are still anticipated to grow by 4%, but a full-year loss is now expected. Costs have risen in recent months, whilst the historic lows of sterling have hit the bottom line. First and Business Class traffic has fallen as the global credit crisis has hit premium and business travel. Fuel costs have fallen, but previous hedging has negated this benefit.The airline has been considering a merger with Spanish flag carrier Iberia, but The Guardian, relaying Reuters, reports that Iberia now has a larger market capitalisation than BA, changing the field of play.The airline sector in general is facing trouble, with American and United posting fourth quarter losses and the Franco-Dutch Air France-KLM issuing a profits warning.Due to greater consumer demand, British Airways announced yesterday that it would run a further three flights weekly on the route from Bucharest (Henri Coandă International) to London (Gatwick). The Bucharest-London flights will run on Monday, Thursday and Saturday, while the return flights will run on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. The extra flights will mean that British Airways will now fly from Bucharest to London, and back, ten times a week.What began as a ground crew strike on Thursday has escalated into the grounding of all flights from Heathrow's Terminal 4 until at least 8pm Friday.The row began with a funding crisis of meal provider, Gate Gourmet, which resulted in the axing of 200 full-time staff earlier on Wednesday.  In reaction, unions of ground crews and baggage handlers from British Airways announced a stop work from Friday, which escalated into a full close-down of Terminal 4 on Friday due to overcrowding and backlog.British Airways grounded more than 100 flights on Thursday evening, and by Friday evening, around 550 flights look to be cancelled.  Other airlines which utilise Terminal 4 are also affected, including Qantas, Sri Lankan Airlines and Finnair, with incoming longhaul flights now being redirected to other European airports, including Frankfurt.The airline British Airways have reported that they will start flying between Iceland and Gatwick airport, London. British Airways said they will provide the service five times a week; the first flight is scheduled March 26, 2006.Until now, only two airlines have been flying between the UK and Iceland with passengers: Icelandair, the oldest and biggest airline in Iceland, and Iceland Express, a recent low-fare airline and the competition between them has been fierce.Icelandair's PR, Guðjón Arngrímsson, said that Icelandair welcomes the competition and believes Icelandair can compete with BA: "This market has been growing rapidly. Iceland has been well marketed in London and Britain as a whole so number of passenger has been rising fast. We're always ready for more competition on every route between Iceland and other countries. We're ready and willing to compete here as we are on other routes" Arngrímsson said.Birgir Jónsson at Iceland Express agrees. "Iceland Express welcomes the competition without a doubt." He then added, "The competition will benefit us all".British Airways have reported the tickets will cost about €291.British Business Secretary Vince Cable has tonight been reprimanded by Prime Minister David Cameron after saying he was "at war" with Rupert Murdoch over News Corporation's attempts to take full control of BSkyB.Cable will remain in the cabinet, but he will have no further role in the takeover bid. A statement released by officials in Downing Street said Cable's comments were "totally unacceptable and inappropriate". The statement confirmed Cable will no longer have responsibility over matters relating to media and broadcasting.In a secret recording made by journalists from a British newspaper posing as members of the electorate, Cable said he had already decided to block the takeover bid. "I am picking my fights, some of which you may have seen, some of which you may haven't seen," he said in the recording. "I don't know if you have been following what has been happening with the Murdoch press, where I have declared war on Mr Murdoch and I think we are going to win." In another extract from the recording, Cable says: "I have blocked it [the takeover bid], using the powers that I have got. And they are legal powers that I have got. I can't politicise it, but for the people who know what is happening, this is a big thing. His whole empire is now under attack. So there are things like that, that being in Government ... All we can do in opposition is protest."News Corporation, owned by Murdoch, owns 39% of BSkyB, but wishes to purchase the other 61% for £7.8 billion. Cable had pledged to remain impartial in the decision, and had ordered Ofcom to investigate the takeover bid. News Corporation stated they were "shocked and dismayed" at Cable's comments, and said they "raise serious questions about fairness and due process." A source inside Downing Street said the government took "swift and firm action" in stripping Cable of his powers over the takeover bid. "He will have absolutely nothing to do with media," the source added.The business secretary apologised for his remarks, saying: "I fully accept the decision of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. I deeply regret the comments I made and apologise for the embarrassment that I have caused the Government." Political commentator Nick Robinson said although he remained in office, Cable is in a "very awkward" position, because the statement from Downing Street was, for Cable, a "humiliating slap in the face." Cable refused to answer journalists' questions as he arrived at his constituency home in Twickenham, London.The British Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne delivered the budget today, an annually-held audit of the country's finances deciding how taxpayers' money should be spent. He set out plans to boost the housing market in his fourth budget, as well as stating the economy will grow by 0.6% — half his prediction four months ago. George Osborne revealed plans to improve the housing market, including a "Help to Buy" shared equity scheme which would offer buyers who can place a 5% deposit on a new house, a 20% loan to buy it. He said: "This is a budget for those who aspire to own their own home". He also offered a new Mortgage Guarantee, created in conjunction with mortgage lenders — the scheme would allow them to offer loans to homeowners without the need for a large deposit and offer guarantees to support up to £130bn of lending for three years beginning in 2014. As a measure to attract investment to the British economy, he announced to reduce corporation tax from 21% to 20% taking effect from April 2015. The rate of corporation tax has fallen from 28% in 2010 to the current level of 21%. The United Kingdom is to have lower rates of corporation tax than the USA at 40%, France at 33%, and Germany at 29%.The Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) stated the government debt reduction programme to reduce the budget deficit will miss its targets. The government has forecast the total public sector debt will begin to fall by the financial year 2015/2016, while OBR says national debt will reach a high of 85.6% of GDP, £1.58 trillion, in 2016/17. Osborne defended the government efforts to reduce the deficit and said: "Our judgement has since been supported by the IMF, the OECD and the Governor of the Bank of England."In response to the Budget speech, the Leader of the Opposition Ed Miliband said: "At the worst possible time for the country. It’s a downgraded budget from a downgraded Chancellor [...] Debt is higher in every year of this Parliament than he forecast at the last Budget. He is going to borrow £200 billion more than he planned." The Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer Ed Balls said to The Independent, "They are borrowing £245bn more in this Parliament, we said all along …said this two years ago, if they had moved more quickly with a sensible, targeted package of measures to kick-start the economy, which would have meant at that time more borrowing for a VAT [Value Added Tax] cut to bring forward housing investment, then we would have got the economy growing and the deficit coming down." The Business Secretary Vince Cable told the BBC in an interview, the "age of austerity" would probably end within the current decade, but made no more definite forecast.The head of the British Federation of Small Businesses, John Walker, said: "The Budget opens the door for small businesses to grow and create jobs. The Chancellor has pulled out all the stops with a wide ranging package of measures to support small business. [...] [W]e are pleased to see the scrapping of the 3p fuel duty due in September".Len McCluskey, the General Secretary of Unite the Union, criticized the budget for not helping working families. He said: "This is a Budget for the few by the few that attacks the many. Millionaires are days away from getting a £40,000 tax cut from the Tories, but George Osborne is using the budget to attack hard-working public sector workers. The worst chancellor in British history has gone further by giving big business another tax cut while staff caring for the sick get pay cuts. [...] [H]e should have raised the national minimum wage by £1 and drop the senseless plan to give millionaires a tax break in a few days' time".A group of 26 British charities have formed a group to lobby the government to provide them with the funds that they lost during the collapse of Icelandic banks.The group, called Save Our Savings, will in addition to lobbying the government will also lobby the creditors of the fallen banks.The chief executive of Cats Protection and Naomi House, Peter Hepburn and Khalid Aziz, are acting as spokespeople for the group."Naomi House has been campaigning for the safe return of our funds since October, and we are not giving up until they are returned in full," stated Aziz. "The £5.7million we have at risk has been donated by our supporters in the local communities we serve. We owe it to them and the families who use Naomi House to keep up the pressure on the administrators and the Government to ensure that this is done as soon as possible.""The team at Naomi House has been working with Cats Protection to secure a place on the Creditors Committee; success will give the hospice a voice during the administration process," he continued. "Forming the action group, Save Our Savings, will help to achieve this, and by working together, we increase our chances of representation."British coast guards have walked out for the first time today in a strike over low pay.  The strike, which began at 7 a.m. UTC will affect 19 regional call centres which handle emergency calls and maydays.The Public and Commercial Services Union said that 700 members had walked out over pay conditions, citing the £12,000 salary, which is below that of other emergency services, and low wage increases in past years. The union says the 24 hour walkout is to try to achieve a £3000 wage increase, to match that of the other services and break the "poverty pay" that staff and members currently receive.Managers have been called in to handle the emergency calls, and the union confirmed that the service would not be affected, with boats and helicopters still remaining active throughout the strike period.Granville Technology Group, who own brands such as TIME Computers and Tiny are to axe around 1,500 jobs just after the company went into administration.The company has already closed down all their 78 retail stores around the United Kingdom.It had emerged that all the group's directors, except its part-time chairman, have also resigned.Formerly known as the Time Group, it had been producing around 500,000 PCs a year.Its customers included businesses, schools and private individuals, and its products have been household names for several years.British computer magazine PC Pro has investigated the electricity costs of running today's computers.Their investigations showed that an individual could save £250 a year while a medium-sized business could potentially save £5,000 a year by making changes to the way computers and their peripherals are operated.A CRT monitor uses £150 of electricity over five years; enough to pay for a new low-power LCD monitor. Using a screen saver, rather than turning the monitor off or using many computers' built-in feature to turn monitors off after a period of inactivity, could cost £100 alone in a year.It was also discovered that turning a single laser printer off overnight and on weekends would save £70 over the life of the printer.Many others computer users however run 'distributed computing' projects while their computers are idle, such as the '@home' series of projects (including the well-known 'SETI@home').The British stock index FTSE 100 closed at its highest levels in over a year on Monday, following news of stronger commodity prices.The share index increased by 48.3 points, or 0.9% to finish the day at a level of 5,210.17, a figure not seen since last September.The best performer was the Old Mutual insurance company, reaching a sixteen-month high after gaining 4.6%.Some economic analysts think that the FTSE index could continue to gain for the remainder of the week. David Jones, the chief market strategist at IG Index, said that "the next FTSE target traders are eyeing in the short term is the 5,350 high hit in September last year and the way sentiment is going it would not be a surprise to see that hit this week."Other European markets also posted gains on Monday. The German DAX index gained 71.35 points to a level of 5,783.23, while the French CAC 40 increased 46.19 points to 3,845.8.One of Britain's largest domestic energy suppliers, British Gas, has announced that it is to raise the price of its gas and electricity prices by a record 14.2%. It blames the price rise on increasing wholesale gas prices, which have gone up by over 50% in the past year, the rising cost of oil & the increasing difficulty in getting gas from the North Sea, a major gas field for the United Kingdom. 250 000 people on low incomes will receive a one-off GBP 60 (USD 110.35 , EUR 88.93) rebate to alleviate this price rise. This follows increases from other suppliers including Powergen and EDF Energy, with both having risen their prices by 7 to 12%. Energywatch, Britain's consumer energy watchdog has said domestic gas and electric bills have gone up by 17 and 22% on average respectively in the last 18 months to August.In 2004, British Gas increased its prices by 5.9% in January and 12.4% in September.Across the water in Ireland, the Irish government approved a 25% increase on gas prices by the state owned monopoly, Bord Gais.British-based utility company Centrica, which holds ownership of British Gas, has announced its intentions to increase the prices of domestic electricity and gas later this year. On August 18, 2011, the company plans to raise the costs of gas and electrical supplies by eighteen and sixteen per cent, respectively. According to The Guardian, nine million customers will be affected by these changes.British price comparison website uSwitch has reported that the "[a]verage household bill for a dual fuel British Gas customer will now go up from £1,096 to £1,288". Mike O'Connor, the chief executive officer of consumer organisation Consumer Focus, has claimed that the announcement "will send a shock wave across the country" and will place an increasing amount of difficulties "on stretched household budgets. Consumers [...] rightly question whether prices are fair."Phil Bentley, a managing director for British Gas, has claimed that value increases like this are "an issue facing all energy suppliers". A director for British Gas, named Ian Peters, has claimed that "a fair return" will be made after the changes occur.In 2010, British Gas experienced its largest ever profit, making £742 million (US$1,192 million, €835 million). Meanwhile, Centrica achieved £2.4 billion (US$3.8 billion, €2.7 billion) in profits. Richard Lloyd from product sampling charity Which? criticised the decision to raise prices, calling the declaration "unwelcome but unsurprising" for British Gas consumers.Previously in December 2010, British Gas increased the price of its gas by 6.9%, which equates to £43 (US$69, €48). At the same time, the company's electricity prices were raised by 6.7%, or £28 (US$45, €32). On Friday, Chris Huhne, the secretary of the Energy and Climate Change Select Committee, said that British electricity businesses must modify themselves so as to avoid "the cycle of fossil fuel addiction. Alternatives like renewables and nuclear power must be allowed to become the dominant component of our energy mix," said Huhne.This news comes to light as Scottish Power, a rival energy company to British Gas, announced last month their intentions to up the prices of their electricity and gas supplies by ten and nineteen per cent respectively.The British government has announced a £2.3 billion package of aid to attempt to support the country's car manufacturing industry.Lord Peter Mandelson, the Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform announced to the House of Lords that the government planned to obtain £1.3 billion from the European Investment Bank for the industry. A further £1 billion loan is available if the industry agrees to invest it in environmentally friendly vehicles.Mandleson told the Lords that the industry is vital to the British economy, which with "near one million employees from manufacturing to retailing" provides "£10 billion worth of added value to the economy." However, he stressed that the government was not providing a "blank cheque" and would not provide operating subsidies.His newly-appointed shadow Kenneth Clarke told the House of Commons that the plans were "pretty small beer" and repeated the Conservative charge that the government was "dithering" in the face of the downturn. Liberal Democrat John Thurso also expressed disappointment in the plans.The British Conservative-Liberal Democratic coalition government has scrapped plans by the previous government to change the rules on equal pay between men and women.The previous Labour government included a provision in the Equality Act 2010—Section 78—to allow the government the option to introduce regulations that would require companies to publish details of the difference in pay between male and female employees. If the government had activated such regulations, they would have come into force in 2013. The current government have decided not to activate this requirement and instead will only ask businesses to provide this data voluntarily and will set an "aspiration" to dramatically increase the number of women in senior positions in business.Lynne Featherstone, the Liberal Democrat MP and coalition Equalities Minister, in announcing the plans stated that the government wishes "to move away from the arrogant notion that government knows best, to one where government empowers individuals, businesses and communities to make change happen."Featherstone announced the policy at the School of Management at Cranfield University, who have conducted research finding that only 12.5% of directors of FTSE 100 companies are women, up from 12.2% last year—"glacially slow" progress according to business commentator David Prosser.Featherstone justified not implementing the pay audits due to the economic costs: "Right at this moment of financial peril to the nation is perhaps not the moment to introduce mandatory pay audits."This breaks with a Liberal Democrat manifesto commitment, as well as contradicting Featherstone's own words two years ago in support of the audit: "A voluntary audit system for private industry is hardly worth the paper it's printed on. We need to know when the government actually plans to step in if progress isn't made."Women's groups and trade unions have condemned this move. Dave Prentis, the general secretary of UNISON, Britain's second largest trade union, said that this is an example of the government "stripping down its commitment to equality".Prentis continued: "It is a disgrace that women are still getting paid less than men. This move threatens to turn the clock back on all the progress already made with equal pay."Ceri Goddard, the chief executive of the feminist campaigning group the Fawcett Society, condemned the plans: "The persistent gap in pay between men and women is one of the starkest examples of inequality in the UK today. The government's decision not to bring into force section 78 is a huge disappointment and means this injustice will continue for a long time to come. The government has today consigned another generation of women to lower pay. Their proposal to rely only on voluntary business action on pay isn't just naive, it sends a dangerous signal that tackling discrimination against women is a choice, not a requirement."Yvette Cooper, Featherstone's shadow minister on the Labour benches, called the news "another broken promise from the government" and said that "scrapping Labour's plan to increase transparency in pay is a backwards step for women's equality."The new British coalition government has warned local authorities in the United Kingdom not to provide tax breaks to branches of the Church of Scientology. After an investigation by The Guardian newspaper revealed that several local authorities have granted Scientology tax breaks worth over a million pounds, Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government Eric Pickles intervened to urge councils to end the practice. Pickles noted in a statement that Scientology was not officially recognised in the UK as a religion or a registered charity and was not eligible for tax relief. Pickles commented, "I do not believe the majority of the public would want their own council to be giving special tax breaks to such a controversial organisation." The minister's intervention followed the disclosure by The Guardian that at least four local authorities have given Scientology lucrative tax discounts on branches in their areas. These included:The City of London Corporation, which gave an 80% tax exemption worth £1.3 million to the flagship Scientology centre in the City of London. The corporation justified the exemption on the basis that Scientology could be considered to be a charity either for the advancement of religion "or other purposes beneficial to the community". It said that it feared being sued by the organisation if it discontinued the exemption.Westminster City Council granted 80% rates relief to the Scientology Celebrity Centre in the Bayswater district of London. This saved Scientology £165,303 over the past ten years, though as of July 2010 the centre is no longer in use. The council determined that Scientology was a "non-registered charity" that is "beneficial to the community".Birmingham City Council awarded the Church of Scientology Religious Education College an 80% tax discount on the grounds that the property was an educational institution.The City of Sunderland gave the Church of Scientology's branch in the city tax relief worth £30,000 over five years.Camden London Borough Council refused to disclose whether and how much tax relief had been granted to the Scientology branch in the London Borough of Camden. Other local authorities, including Manchester City Council and Mid Sussex District Council, said that they charged Scientology the full commercial rate.In response to The Guardian report, Eric Pickles issued a statement saying that Scientology should not receive privileged tax status and did not deserve to do so, "Tolerance and freedom of expression are important British values, but this does not mean that the likes of Church of Scientology deserve favoured tax treatment over and above other business premises. The Church of Scientology is not a registered charity, since the Charity Commission has ruled that it does not provide a public benefit. Nor are its premises a recognised place of worship. Councils may award charitable relief. They should take into consideration the Charity Commission's rulings when weighing up whether to do so. I do not believe the majority of the public would want their own council to be giving special tax breaks to such a controversial organisation."The controversy was the latest in a series of disputes involving Scientology's tax status in the UK. Scientology is not officially recognised as a religion. The Charity Commission for England and Wales rejected an application in 1999 by Scientology for charitable status, ruling that its activities did not meet the "public benefit" test. However, in 2000 Scientology obtained exemption from Value Added Tax (VAT) on the grounds that its services were educational and non-profitable. It successfully sued HM Revenue and Customs for the return of £8 million in overpaid VAT.A spokesman for the Church of Scientology told The Guardian, "Scientology is very popular with those who have visited our churches, met with Scientologists and observed or utilised our numerous community activities that effectively address drug abuse, illiteracy, declining moral values, human rights violations, criminality and more. Local council authorities, government bodies in this country and many others, and the European court of human rights have all recognised the religious nature of Scientology or the fact that Scientologists are actively helping those in their communities as a direct reflection of their religious beliefs."Birmingham City Council told the local Sunday Mercury newspaper, "We have noted Mr Pickles' comments and will take them on board."Edward Stobart, famed for his construction of the Eddie Stobart truck empire and being its chief executive officer for over thirty years, has died at the age of 56. In a statement, the Stobart Group commented: "It is with great sadness and regret that Stobart Group shares the news that Edward Stobart, son of Eddie Stobart, passed away at 8:10 AM this morning at University Hospital Coventry, after heart problems yesterday."When Eddie Stobart — Edward's father, who is aged over eighty — created the company during the 1950s in Cumbria in northern England, it originally involved itself in the business of agriculture. In the 1970s, the business was given the name Eddie Stobart Limited and became a haulage service. Eddie Stobart then handed over the company to his son. The enterprise subsequently became the most popular of that industry within the United Kingdom, according to BBC News Online; it extended to include transportation by air and railways, as well as warehousing and management of logistics.Due to the cult following that they had achieved via a fanbase of 'Stobart spotters', which involves the observation of their company's uniquely named vehicles, the Stobart Group decided to create an official followers' group, which now has in excess of twenty-five thousand members. Eddie Stobart-branded merchandise has also been released.William Stobert — the brother of Edward Stobart — and Andrew Tinkler purchased the business from Edward in 2004. Edward subsequently relocated to the Midlands and took over what was to become an unsuccessful truck trailer building firm in 2009.Edward Stobart experienced his death in Coventry, England at 0810 BST (0710 UTC) on Thursday. The Stobart Group have expressed their condolences to "Edward's wife Mandy, his children and family at this difficult time."Haulage firm Preston's of Potto's chairwoman Ann Preston described Edward as "the most iconic figure that has ever been in this industry" and that the death of a man who "was very passionate about road transport" and "didn't want to do anything else" since he was a child was "a massive loss". The Stobart Members' Club have stated: "The club's members will certainly have fond memories of the man who started the phenomenon off, created the iconic Eddie Stobart brand and made it cool to spot lorries. Stobart Spotting will continue and the legacy of Edward Stobart will live on."Quinton Quayle, the UK's ambassador in Romania, said at a conference held by the Romanian-British Chamber of Commerce that there are approximately 20 British companies investing in Romania this year, but would not reveal more information.Brian Davies, president of the British company Sanders Polyfilms, which currently has operations in Romania, claims that investors from the UK come to the country not only for the local market, which is the second-largest in Central and Eastern Europe, but also because Romania could be a great export centre to other markets in the region.Other factors that make Romania attractive are a low flat tax rate of 16% on personal income and corporate profits, as well as a skilled, English-speaking workforce. So far, companies from the United Kingdom have invested $1.2 billion in Romania. Romania's total foreign direct investment (FDI) in 2004 was 4.1 billion euro. Besides the UK, other large investors in Romania are Austria, Italy, Germany and France.Relations between the UK and Romania have been boosted recently as a result of the Romanian president, Traian Băsescu, making a visit to London earlier in the year. During his election campaign last year, Băsescu said that he wanted to create a London-Bucharest-Washington axis, accenting the importance of Romania's relationship with the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Romania's ties to the UK are also important as the UK will hold the EU's rotating presidency from July to December 2005, at a crucial stage of Romania's preparations for EU accession, which is expected to occur in 2007.The British TV station Channel 4 has discovered that the Sudanese government has signed a deal for a contract to drill for oil in southern Sudan, and that the key man in securing the deal is British.Friedhelm Eronat, who until two years ago was an American citizen, secured the largest stake made in a consortium that won the drilling contract in 2003. Oil was discovered in April of this year.Geologists have long suspected the presence of oil in the south of the Sudan. Clivenden Sudan, which Eronat personally owned in 2003, had a high level of expertise in the country's geology.The twenty five year deal secured by Clivenden Sudan will see it pay the Sudanese government $8m in the event oil is produced. The government will also receive 70% of the profits from the oil.In a statement to Channel 4 News, Eronat said that he is not a shareholder or officer of Cliveden Sudan, that he does not work for or financially benefit from Cliveden Sudan, and that Cliveden Sudan is not the operator of the concession, only a shareholder.Cliveden Sudan itself said "there has been no commercial oil find in Block C [the area being explored for oil]."Villages in Darfur 180km from the Clivenden Sudan wells have been attacked by Sudanese troops and aircraft.Eronat became involved in the deal through Lebanese businessman Eli Calil, who has been accused of funding a failed coup in Equatorial Guinea last year (allegations denied by Calil). Calil and Eronat live near each other in the London suburb of Chelsea.At least one rebel group in Darfur is certain the search for oil will inflame the conflict in Darfur. The Justice and Equality Movement wants exploration to stop until peace is established.A member of the JEM, Ahmad Hussein, told Channel 4 News: "So when they say they discover oil in Darfur, who is going to benefit from that? Are they the people of Darfur? Of course not. Absolutely not, the only beneficiaries is the ruling elite and ruling minority of the regime."Eronat changed his nationality from American to British in October 2003, shortly before the deal was signed. Under US law, he could have faced up to ten years imprisonment and/or fines of $500,000, due to US sanctions on Sudan.The UK government has been at the forefront of efforts to try and halt the crisis, with international development minister Hilary Benn making a statement to the house of commons yesterday after a visit to the region. He said: "I visited the Kalma camp in South Darfur and the El Meshtel and Abu Shouk camps in North Darfur where tens of thousands of people are facing a precarious existence. I spoke to men and women whose homes have been destroyed, villages burned, and whose communities have been the victims of killings, looting and rape."We are in a race against time in Darfur, and the UK remains committed to doing all that it can to help those affected and to work for a just and lasting peace for its people."Liberal Democrat British MP John Hemming revealed in Parliament yesterday that Fred Goodwin, former chief executive of the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) Group, applied for and was granted a superinjunction to prevent the media revealing he was a banker. After the bank bailouts in 2008, Goodwin became a hate figure after it was revealed that he was going to receive a £700,000 a year pension while the RBS Group announced a £24.1bn loss.John Hemming's revealing of the superinjunction in Parliament is protected by Parliamentary privilege. The revelation of the superinjunction came as a question during 'Business of the House' hearings:In a secret hearing, Fred Goodwin has obtained a super-injunction preventing him from being identified as a banker. Will the Government hold a debate, or make a statement, on freedom of speech, and whether there is one law for the rich, such as Fred Goodwin, and another for the poor, such as Lee Gilliland who has had his mental capacity removed on the basis of a report from his GP that he is not allowed to see?Superinjunctions have become a more frequently applied and often controversial practice in British law: they allow for parties to block publication of some controversial matter and also block publication of the fact that such an injunction has been granted. They came to light dramatically when a superinjunction was granted preventing The Guardian newspaper from revealing that statements regarding an allegation against the  commodities trading company Trafigura had been made in Parliament. The superinjunction was broken when a variety of bloggers and Twitter users started pointing to foreign news outlets that had published the allegations and the order against The Guardian. Superinjunctions have also been used by the Premiership football player John Terry following allegations of an affair.In the United Kingdom, PRS for Music has announced that the total royalties that artists in the music industry receive has decreased by 1%. This is the first time that such a decline has ever occurred.The company has reported that the total was £611.2 million (US$977.8 million, €693.9 million) in 2010, a decrease of overall annual revenue of 1%, or £7 million (US$11.2 million, €7.9 million), from 2009. PRS for Music has claimed that this fall was due to lower sales of Compact Discs and DVDs, as well as digital copyright infringement.The collection society, which is a representation of seventy-five thousand writers, composers and publishers of music, gathers royalties from music being used in excess of twenty-five billion times annually by various means, including television / radio, commercial businesses, musical venues, Compact Discs and DVDs.Robert Ashcroft is the Chief Executive Officer of PRS for Music and is responsible for being the representative of such British music artists as Adele, Jessie J and Florence Welch. Speaking about this news, Ashcroft said: "The loss of high street outlets, the slowdown in physical music sales as well as the challenges capturing the full value of music usage online has meant that for the first time we have seen royalties collected dip. Previously, any reduction from falling physical sales had been offset by our strong performance in music licensing both in the UK and internationally. In 2010 slower growth at home and abroad failed to fully mitigate the decline."In 2010, the sales of music physically and digitally grew by 7% to achieve 120 million units. Meanwhile, sales of compact discs fell by 12.4% to a total of 98.5 million. British global entertainment retail chain HMV has attempted to save money by closing down sixty of its shops in the UK. In 2010, royalties' growth reduced in speed to 4.3%.Simon Neil, of Scottish rock group Biffy Clyro, explained that "[t]he thing about PRS is for a lot of bands it's the only way you make money. In our first six years of being in a band that was the only kind of income we had. It's the bread and butter for bands. It's almost your only guaranteed source of income."PRS for Music has stated that its payout to its members was decreased by £800,000 (US$1,3 million, €900,000), due to improved society efficiency and a reduction in costs related to administration. According to Newsbeat, the small royalty drop may trigger a larger decline, causing new musical composers and writers to avoid joining the music industry. The company believes that further action needs to be taken to prevent the lack of CD sales and compete with illegal downloads, including the development of legal download services.A British oil firm has claimed to have discovered oil off the coast of the Falkland Islands. Rockhopper Exploration would be the first company to strike oil in the Falklands if the claim is proven. Rockhopper were working in the North Falkland Basin when they apparently struck oil. Rockhopper Exploration released a statement saying that one of the well’s "indicated an oil discovery". Managing Director Samuel Moody said "Current indications are that we have made the first oil discovery in the North Falkland Basin. We will now focus on analysing in more detail the data gathered from the well." He added that "We are extremely excited by the results of this well."After the discovery, Rockhopper Exploration’s shares doubled. Desire Petroleum, another company that work in the Falkland area have seen rises in shares. Other oil companies in the Falklands also saw shares rise after the discovery. The sovereignty of the Falkland Islands have always been disputed. Both the United Kingdom and Argentina claim the islands.A British plane caught on fire in Afghanistan. It was a four-engine propeller aircraft that got into trouble while landing. One of the aircraft's tyres exploded.Ambassador Stephen Evans escaped injury after the military transport plane, in which he was travelling, caught fire at an airstrip in southern Afghanistan. None were seriously hurt. All 27 people on board were safe.British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has condemned the workers who staged mass walkout across the country on Friday.Speaking to the BBC from the World Economic Forum in the Swiss skiing resort of Davos, he said that the walkouts were "not the right thing to do". Workers on industrial sites in Wales, Scotland, Cheshire, Hampshire and Teesside had left their plants and staged protests outside in sympathy with staff at Lindsey Oil Refinery in Lincolnshire, after French owner Total had given a contract to an Italian firm. The firm brought 300 Italian and Portuguese staff into the plant.Brown had made a speech in 2007 where he called for "British jobs for British workers". He explained to the BBC's Politics Show that "when I talked about British jobs, I was taking about giving people in Britain the skills, so that they have the ability to get jobs which were at present going to people from abroad". The government says that European Union (EU) law makes it impossible for them to provide British jobs for British workers in the EU common market. Earlier, the Secretary of State for Health, Alan Johnson, told the BBC that recent European Court of Justice judgments had undermined employment rights but that the government would be pushing the EU to take action if it finds that the foreign workers are 'undercutting' UK citizens. He described the walkouts as "unhelpful", but said he understood the anger over EU workers coming to the UK "on worse terms and conditions to actually get jobs in front of British workers on the basis of dumbing down the terms and conditions." The walkouts were also condemned by the opposition Conservative Party. Foreign affairs spokesman William Hague said that "strikes are never the way forward" and that his party strongly supported the free market in labour in the EU. He said that it was "so unbelievably ridiculous and silly" for Brown to have made the promise on British jobs in the first place.The government has asked the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS) to examine the circumstances behind the strikes and see if British workers are being unlawfully excluded, as the GMB union has claimed.Secondary or sympathetic industrial action has been illegal in the UK since the 1980s. However, the penalties apply only to unions organizing secondary action and not to individual workers walking out.British shareholders will be able to veto executive pay packages according to statements yesterday by British Prime Minister David Cameron.Mr Cameron said he wanted to allow shareholders to make a "straight shareholder vote on executive pay packages". Shareholders can only submit a non-binding advisory vote on executive remunerations under current law. The move comes amid growing political pressure and public criticism over excessive pay for chief executives even when a business has failed.Details of such a scheme may be revealed with an anticipated package of reforms under the portfolio of Business Secretary Vince Cable.Ed Miliband, leader of the opposition, said the public would not accept the government's policy. "Does anyone really believe that David Cameron came into politics to create more responsible capitalism?" he asked rhetorically.The Labour Party has also called for measures to monitor and reel in exorbitant executive salaries. On Saturday, shadow business secretary Chuka Umunna said a "better capitalism" needs greater transparency. Mr Umanna said this could take the form of publishing pay ratios of chief executives compared to their employees.The Liberal Democrats have pledged support for reeling in executive pay.British Rail minister Claire Perry resigned on Thursday evening, after continuing problems with Southern Rail.Southern has an ongoing dispute with the Rail, Maritime and Transport union (RMT) about increasing driver-only services, without conductors or guards. The union objected, citing concerns about job losses and driver safety.London mayor Sadiq Khan said "This utter mess is now an embarrassment to our city" and that he was "calling on the government to strip Southern of its franchise and take over the temporary responsibility of running these services." Transport secretary Patrick McLoughlin focused instead on the union, saying "Most industrial disputes are about threats to employment or conditions so the RMT's attitude is absurd. There is no threat to safety, no threat to jobs, no threat to pay and yet they continue disrupting passengers' lives on a daily basis."In an attempt to reduce cancellations and delays, on Monday the company cut 341 trains a day, in light of the current staff shortages.  They said since this change the trains' reliability improved from 60% on-time to 80%.The large UK retail group Littlewoods is set to make 3,200 staff redundant and close 126 of its Index catalogue-based shops. It intends to sell the remaining 33 stores to its largest rival Argos.The firm revealed that it had made accumulated losses at the Index chain of more than GBP 100  million (EUR 146 million, US$190 million) in their 20-year history.Index currently employs about 4 000 staff, 3 200 will lose their jobs and the rest will be transferred to Argos, which is owned by GUS Plc. Great Universal Stores Plc, a FTSE 100 member, is one of the UK's largest retail firms controlling the successful Argos and Homebase chains. GUS is to pay Littlewoods GBP 44 million (EUR 64 million, US$ 83 million) for the 33 stores.Littlewoods is owned by Sir Frederick and Sir David Barclay who bought the business in 2002 for GBP 750 million (EUR 1.1 billion, US$ 1.42 billion).The company is one in a line of retailers feeling the pinch of consumers spending including Allders and The Gadget Shop.There are rumours around that the Littlewoods chain of stores is also going soon, possibly to the Associated British Foods-owned discount clothing retailer Primark.The world's third largest supermarket chain, Tesco of Britain, announced intentions to start a film downloading service on the back of its successful music download service in the United Kingdom.Tesco takes a 10% share in the UK music download market, even though they are a late comer.The reason for the service is that Britain is one of the largest illegal downloaders of film and television programmes in the world, with many TV shows copied to PCs as soon as they are shown in the United States. Copies of The Simpsons, The O.C., Desperate Housewives and even Lost which is not available yet in the UK are found on p2p servers like Kazaa and BitTorrent.This is not the first company who has decided to start a film download service. The entertainment giant Sony has asked for such a service, plus the music downloader Wippet has already decided to introduce film downloading in the UK.Bernard Matthews, founder of the turkey company of the same name, has died at the age of 80. His death was announced by Noel Bartram, the group chief executive of the company.Matthews started Bernard Matthews Farms Ltd. in 1950 when he invested in a small number of turkey eggs and a used incubator. Within two years he had turned his production into full time and was producing 3,000 turkey eggs.Bartram released a statement on Matthews death. He said "It is with a great deal of personal sadness that I confirm Bernard Matthews passed away on the afternoon of the 25th November. I have personally known Bernard Matthews for well over 30 years, and on behalf of myself and my fellow colleagues, I wish to express our great sorrow and extend our thoughts and sympathies to the family." Matthews died on the US holiday of Thanksgiving, also known as "Turkey Day". He steped down as director in January of this year on his 80th birthday following a few hard years for the company. Chef Jamie Oliver targeted Bernard Matthews Turkey Twizzlers during his healthy eating campaign, and in 2007 a strain of bird flu was found at one of his farms. Following the outbreak sales dropped and staff were cut.Hideaki Noguchi, 38, a close aide to Livedoor president Takafumi Horie was found bleeding in a hotel bed with cuts to his wrists on Wednesday in Naha, the capital of the southern prefecture of Okinawa. He was later confirmed dead and the police suspect that he committed suicide. Hideo Sawada, the president of HS Securities, told reporters in Tokyo that Noguchi's family had identified the body.Noguchi was a board member at Japan M&A Management Co., a unit of H.S. Securities Co. The firm was raided by prosecutors earlier this week in connection with fraudulent practices at Livedoor, according to the Kyodo News agency. He was a graduate of Tokyo's Meiji University, and joined Livedoor in 2000. He had previously worked at Kokusai Securities Co. as an adviser in financing. Livedoor was publicly listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange in April 2000. Noguchi then set up the investment unit Capitalista Co., which merged with HS Securities.News of the suicide is being featured in the Japanese media in connection with what is being termed the "Livedoor Shock". The problems at Livedoor have led to the loss of a third of its $6.3-billion value in the stock market. Livedoor maintains that its own investigation reveal that it did not violate any securities laws. Some view the affair as an outcome of the larger struggle between competing business cultures in Japan. Takafumi Horie is part of a new generation of Japanese entrepreneurs with little patience for the customs of a traditionally cautious business culture. Horie has shown an appetite for publicity through his internet blogs and appearances on TV shows while living a rock star lifestyle that includes private jets and actress girlfriends.Horie is also credited with popularizing stock trading among individual investors. The practice of day trading is relatively new in Japan. The Nikkei index was up about 40% last year, its best performance since 1986.UK Chancellor Gordon Brown promises that UK will lead the world in the fight against global warming.The Stern Review, the first about the economic effects of climate change, is published today. Commissioned by the British Government and prepared by Sir Nicholas Stern, former top economist at the World Bank, it forecasts that, if action is not taken now, the world will suffer an economic disaster on an unprecedented scale. 100 million people will be refugees from floods caused by rising water levels, drought caused by the melting of glaciers will affect 1 in 6 of the world's population, up to 40% of present wildlife species will become extinct and the world economy will shrink by 20%.Sir Nicholas claims that these forecasts are based on the best available scientific evidence about the extent and effects of climate change. He does not claim absolute certainty, only a high degree of probability that the world is facing economic catastrophe if action is not taken immediately. An expenditure of just 1% of the world's wealth now could avert it. Spending £1 now could save £5, or even more, in the future. The effects of global warming can be contained, says the Review, if about 1% of the world's GDP is invested in reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases. This investment must take place over the next 10 to 20 years otherwise the effects of climate change could be disastrous on a scale comparable to the great wars and the slump of the first half of the last century. There has to be action at national, regional and international levels. The Review concludes that the actions to be taken include emissions trading, doubling investment in research and development of low carbon energy sources, curbing deforestation and supporting adaptation in poorer countries by developing crops appropriate to the changed climatic conditions.The Stern Review shows that the scientific evidence for global warming is "overwhelming", said Prime Minister Blair. Chancellor Gordon Brown said that Britain will take the lead in persuading the world of the seriousness of the problem. All the major political parties in Britain have been discussing climate change.The Review is attracting a great deal of media attention. Salient among the views being reported are those of a number of experts including the following:Professor Bill Mcguire, Benfield UCL Hazard Research Centre who says that Stern has greatly underestimated the effects of global warming. Martin Livermore, The Scientific Alliance asserts that "climate is not driven primarily by human use of fossil fuels" and that the money to be spent is unlikely to have much effect: it would be better spent on the world's poor. Pia Hansen, European Commission Spokeswoman says doing nothing is not an option, we must act now.Simon Retallack, UK Think Tank IPPR - this (Review) removes the last refuge of the "do-nothing" approach on climate change, particularly in the US.Tom Delay, The Carbon Trust - The Review offers a huge business opportunity.Richard Lambert,CBI Director Genera says that a global system of carbon trading is urgently needed.Charlie Kronick, Greenpeace - now the government must act and, among other things, invest in efficient decentralised power stations and tackle the growth of aviation.Concurrently with the publication of the Stern Review, the United Nations reports that emissions from the industrialsed world are still rising.  There has been a 2.4% increase in emissions across 41 industrialised countries in the first four years of this century. Britain, France and Germany are near to achieving their Kyoto Protocol targets, but the US is the biggest polluter and its emissions have been increasing.The Kyoto Protocol calls for a reduction of 5% of pollutants below 1990 levels. There has been a reduction of 3.3% since then but this has been the result of the collapse of industry in Eastern Europe which has counterbalanced the increases in the rich countries. The Stern Review suggests that the Kyoto targets are too modest.The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensex touched yet another milestone today by crossing the historic 14,000 mark.At 9:58 a.m. (local time), BSE-30 share index touched a new high of 14,028.47 points, which was 154 points higher than closing (13,874.33) of the last day.Market closed at 13,937.65 which was also all-time closing high and 63.32 points higher than previous closing.Sensex touched the new milestone just after 35 days which comprised of only 26 trading sessions.NSE index (Nifty) was 14.75 points higher (0.37%) at 4015.75 with an intra-session high of 4,033.20.Major supporters in the market gain were Reliance Industries, BHEL, Reliance Energy, ACC, Grasim Industries, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Auto, Maruti Udyog, Tata Motors, Hero Honda, Reliance Communications, Tata Steel, Larsen and Toubro, TCS, State Bank of India, ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Ranbaxy Lab.The former managing director of BSkyB, Trevor East, has been appointed director of sport at Irish sports TV company Setanta. Prior to working for BSkyB Mr. East, 54, was head of sport at ITV for 22 years. The new role will involve gaining the rights to different sports events, and possibly even the premiership.Setanta initially started out by broadcasting GAA games to Irish people living abroad particularly in the US. Today, backed by an investment by AIG, it is pursuing an ambitious plan to grow its business - it currently broadcasts the Scottish Premier League and earlier this week it bought control of North American Sports Network. North American Sports Network broadcasts baseball, NFL football, basketball and Nascar motor racing outside the US. Also in the planning stages is a European sports station for the US market.BSkyB, the UK television broadcasting and transmission company, faces a serious rival bid from Setanta Sports for the rights to broadcast Premiership football. BSkyB, which dominates the satellite TV market, has held the rights to the broadcast Premier League games since 1992. They paid £1.02bn for its current three year contract.Setanta has approached the managing director of BSkyB, Trevor East, with the intention of luring him to Setanta to lead the acquisition of sports rights. Mr East, who's contract runs out soon, has not yet made a decision, but should he decide to sign a contract with the Irish station, it would be a massive boost to their ambitions.Setanta initially started out by broadcasting GAA games to Irish people living abroad particularly in the US. Today, backed by an investment by AIG, it is pursuing an ambitious plan to grow its business - it currently broadcasts the Scottish Premier League and earlier this week it bought control of North American Sports Network. North American Sports Network broadcasts baseball, NFL football, basketball and Nascar motor racing outside the US. Also in the planning stages is a European sports station for the US market.BT Global Services this week laid out its vision for the next three years: its revenues to double in the USA, Japan, India and China, and £400m of annual savings, achieved through offshoring and slashing its procurement costs.  £200m of this will come from a reduction in what it spends on technology from vendors on large systems integration projects.CEO Andy Green admitted that BT had been slower than rivals such as IBM and Accenture to ramp up its offshore headcount.  But he claimed that BT Global Services is thriving as the fastest-growing division within BT.  He said that the division was outperforming its closest rivals, T-Systems, Orange Enterprise and AT&T Enterprise, which had all posted revenue declines for the most recent quarter.  He said BT was fast becoming a familiar brand to businessmen in New York, Tokyo, Mumbai and Shanghai.He disclosed a few revenue figures not revealed before.  For the financial year ending March 2006, UK revenues rose just 2% to £5.5bn, while overseas revenues shot up 48% to £3.3bn.  And of the £8.8bn total revenue, £1.6bn was captive work for its parent, while of the remaining £7.2bn, 18% came from the UK government sector and 17% from financial services.  BT said it still harbours ambitions to conquer America, despite the failure of the 'Concert' partnership with V in the 1990s.In a separate story, BT announced it has chosen Chinese vendor ZTE to develop a dual-mode handset -- 3G and DAB-IP -- for launch by its BT Movio subsidiary next year.  DAB-IP (in other words, IP over the DAB digital radio network) will enable BT Movio to broadcast four TV channels at acceptable quality to the handset.3G will enable video-on-demand, so that the users can specify what video clips or programmes they wish to watch.  UK legislation specifies that no more than 30% of the DAB spectrum can be used for non-radio purposes, so BT is lobbying for more DAB spectrum to be released, to enable higher quality video and/or more TV channels.After a pay rise of over 40% last year, BT's chief financial officer, Hanif Lalani, has become one of the very few UK financial directors whose remuneration exceeds £1 million. Said to be endowed with an 'enterpreneurial spirit', Lalani has been a key contributor to BT plc, whose core strategy in recent years has been to reduce its dependence on traditional voice revenues and instead obtain an increasing portion of its turnover from so-called New Wave revenues.  At the heart of this strategy is BT Global Services, which has won many significant contracts in the commercial and public sectors, in part through its portrayal as a "momentum story".There is, however, increasing disquiet among analysts that the annual growth of the Global Services business has been unimpressive, and that BT has been using prior year adjustments to achieve favourable growth figures, for example in page 24 of http://www.btplc.com/News/ResultsPDF/q307release.pdf . Take the quarter ended 30th September 2005, for example.  At the time, BT said the external revenues of its Global Services division were £1,740m.  However, a year later, BT revised this figure downwards to £1,703m.  This enabled BT to claim growth of 3.5%, instead of the dismal 1.3% it would have been forced to announce if it hadn't adjusted the prior year's figures.BT has made a habit of adjusting the previous year's revenue figure every quarter.  Only once in the past year has BT adjusted the figure upwards rather than downwards, and then it was by a tiny amount.BT does not provide a justification for these prior year adjustments in its quarterly reports, but there can be no doubt that it is using these adjustments to make anaemic growth figures look acceptable.  It could be an opportune moment for City analysts to ask Lalani some searching questions.The largest multiplex cinema complex in Southeastern Europe opened on Friday in Bucharest, the capital of Romania. The cinema is operated by Movieplex Italy and is located in the Plaza Romania shopping centre. Robert Longhi, the general manager of Movieplex, said that the value of the investment reached 4.7 million euro. It is estimated that, during the first year of activity, the cinema will attract one million customers.Plaza Romania is one of the newest shopping centres in Bucharest, having opened in October 2004 after a 45 million euro investment by Anchor Group, a Turkish company, which also invested in the Bucharest Mall, another large shopping centre in the Romanian capital.Metrorex, the operator of the Bucharest Metro in Romania's capital, has signed a US$144 million contract with Bombardier for the delivery of 20 additional six-car metro trains for the network. This marks the second phase of the Bucharest Metro's modernisation, the first being the order of 108 state-of-the-art trainsets from Bombadier in 1999. The first series of trainsets were put into operation in 2002 and currently operate on Line 2 of the metro. The second order, signed on January 18, 2005, will ensure that, by 2006, the Bombadier trainsets will service all four lines of the network, transforming the Bucharest Metro into one of the most modern systems in Europe.The parts for the cars will be produced in Germany and Sweden, with the final assembly taking place in Craiova, Romania.Since 1999, the Bucharest Metro, which is the largest urban rail system in southeastern Europe, has embarked on a comprehensive modernisation campaign. Marius Lapadat, the general director of Metrorex, claims that "residents and visitors... are impressed with these new state-of-the-art trains", referring to the 108 Bombadier trainsets already running on Line 2 of the network. This second order is expected to further consolidate the Metro's image as a modern and convenient way of travelling, especially since line extensions are being constructed presently. Lapadat also stated that, "The metro provides a modern feel to Bucharest which is important for our economic future." In early 2003, Metrorex ordered new traffic control and interlocking systems worth US$14 million from Bombardier.The modernisation programme for the Bucharest Metro, including the order for new trainsets, is funded equally by Metrorex and the European Investment Bank, each contributing 50% to the entire sum.Bucharest is currently looking at possibilities to improve its appearance and rebrand itself as a lively, creative and vibrant city. Many initiatives have sprung up to improve the city, including the organisation of CowParade later this year. Additionally, the old town centre will be restored. Due to Romania's current economic boom, several other major construction projects are taking place.Bucharest City Hall has blocked traffic in the city center due both to the old town restoration and to the Esplanada project.The city's Common Council met in Council Chambers today with a full agenda. Among the items in the agenda was the Elmwood Village Hotel proposal.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a proposed hotel by Savarino Construction Services Corporation and is designed by architect Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group. It is to be placed on the corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo and will require the demolition of at least five properties (1109-1121 Elmwood).During the hour-and-a-half meeting, the Common Council approved the hotel proposal. The entire voting process for the proposal took less than two minutes, and the public was not allowed to speak. The Council voted unanimously in support of the proposal; however, the city's Planning Board must also approve the proposal. The Board will meet on Tuesday, March 28, 2006 at 8:00 a.m. on the 9th floor of City Hall, room 902.The approval allows for the rezoning of all five properties, including 605 Forest, to a "special development plan," or a C-2 zone. "There is a 'special development plan' in front of the council, which changes only one thing about the zoning. It allows one permitted use — for just a hotel. The rest of the zoning remains as it is under the current Elmwood Business District zoning. 605 and 607 Forest are not required for the project. They are not part of the footprint for the project. Let me answer this question again. This is on the record, in council: 605 needs to be rezoned in order to facilitate the project because of the sideyard requirement. Anything in C-2 is excluded besides the hotel. So we've taken the C-2 and included the hotel as a permitted use, and excluded everything else, and everything else remains the same," Eva Hassett, Vice President of Savarino Consrtruction, said to Wikinews during a public meeting on March 16, 2006.However, during the same meeting, Pano Georgiadis, owner of 605 Forest and owner of Pano's Restaurant on Elmwood, threatened to "sue" Savarino Construction saying, "If you try to get a variance to change the code, I will sue you. This is my home, number one."Savarino Construction hopes to break ground this Summer.The Common Council of Buffalo voted on Tuesday to send the Elmwood Village Hotel proposal "to committee for further discussion", after citing the need for more public involvement.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a development proposal by the Savarino Construction Services Corporation, a project designed by the architect Karl Frizlen of The Frizlen Group. The hotel would be placed on the southeast corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo. To make way for the project, at least five buildings located at 1109 to 1121 Elmwood Ave would be demolished. At least two properties on Forest Avenue could also be demolished. The Elmwood properties, according to Eva Hassett, Vice President of Savarion Construction, are "under contract", but it is unclear if Savarino Construction actually owns the Elmwood properties. Hans Mobius, a former mayorial candidate, is still believed to be the current owner the properties. Mobius also owns 607 Forest Avenue.The proposed Elmwood Village Hotel got the final approval it needed from the city of Buffalo's Planning Board this morning.In a unanimous vote, the Board approved most of the design and site plan of the hotel.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a proposed hotel by Savarino Construction Services Corporation and is designed by architect Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group. It is to be placed on the corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo and will require the demolition of at least five properties (1109-1121 Elmwood).Despite the fact that today's meeting was not a "public hearing", several citizens lashed out at the Board after the approval."Thanks for destroying Buffalo," said one man."[I am] disgusted. Because they did not allow the community to speak, it is the bastardization of the concepts of justice and democracy, and that's what happened [today]," said Clarence Carnahan, a local business owner and concerned citizen, to Wikinews. He also referred to some board members as "immoral pigs.""[I feel] frustration because no one could speak. I was going to address the displacement of all the shops that are there and that they should be grand-fathered into the new space. We did not get to say that. [I am disappointed] that they are endorsing this enormous monstrosity." said Nancy Pollina, co-owner of Don Apparel with Patty Morris at 1119 Elmwood.Although the Board approved the hotel proposal, Savarino Construction must still go before the board to approve things such as signage and lighting. The Planning Board meets again on April 11, 2006 at 8:00a.m., but it is unknown if the hotel proposal will be on the agenda.During Monday night's meeting, Pano Georgiadis, owner of 605 Forest and owner of Pano's Resuraunt at 1081 Elmwood Avenue in Buffalo, threatened to "sue" Savarino Construction if they tried to obtain a variance on his property to build the Elmwood Village Hotel.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a proposal by Savarino Construction that would be placed on the corner of Forest and Elmwood in Buffalo. In order for the project to move forward, at least five buildings (1119-1121 Elmwood) which include both residences and businesses will have to be demolished. The hotel was designed by architect Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group. Although the properties are "under contract," according to Hassett, it is unclear whether Savarino Construction owns the properties. Hans Mobius, a resident of Clarence, New York and former Buffalo Mayoral candidate, is still believed to own them.Currently, none of the properties is zoned for a hotel.A freelance journalist writing for Wikinews asked Hassett what kind of zoning permit they [Savarino] would be applying for and, if 605 Forest is included, what zone that would be."There is a 'special development plan' in front of the council, which changes only one thing about the zoning. It allows one permitted use for just a hotel. The rest of the zoning remains as it is under the current Elmwood Business District zoning. 605 and 607 Forest are not required for the project. They are not part of the footprint for the project. Let me answer this question again. This is on the record, in council: 605 needs to be rezoned in order to facilitate the project because of the sideyard requirement. Anything in C-2 is excluded besides the hotel. So we've taken the C-2 and included the hotel as a permitted use, and excluded everything else and everything else remains the same."However, during the February 28 Common Council meeting, Hassett was quoted as saying that the two properties were "off the agenda.""Now Karl said, at the last meeting, that they will build this hotel right on the borderline [property line]. If a wall forty-five to fifty feet high goes next to this house, of course it's not right. You really have to go with whatever the city code says, so you have to get back as many feet as the city code says," said Georgiadis."If you try to get a variance to change the code, I will sue you. This is my home, number one," added Georgiadis. "First of all I think we are all wasting our time here, you [Savarino], have already made up your mind, but if you go against city code, and you try to do the most rooms with a minimal amount of parking, again, I will sue you. If you build a hotel, in my idea its going to fail. It's doomed, ok. [If] it's going to be a home for the disabled, for the homeless, for recovery people, but that's another story. Then how is it going to be when we say, well I told you so? You will be over and done with. Its very hard to take a four story building [hotel] down."Georgiadis stated last night that he was against the proposal and signed a petition to stop it, jokingly saying, "this isn't a paper to sign to build the hotel, is it? Don't make me sign the wrong thing."Joseph Golombeck, district councilman, was at Monday's public meeting and said, "we also did request this and the reason we are doing this as a special business district is so that it has to be this specific plan. They [Savarino] can't go halfway through it and in six months decide that [the hotel] it's going to be three floors. They can't decide it's going to be five floors. It has to be, per law, exactly what it is that they brought to us [the public] so far, and then ultimately to the City of Buffalo Common Council when it's approved. So if it gets approved, it has to be this specific, exact project. They couldn't make it fifty parking spots, they couldn't make it thirty. It has to be specifically what they have right here."A man who lives on Granger Street in Buffalo attended the meeting, speaking in favor of the hotel development. He claimed, "There are a lot of low property values. Hopefully if we embrace development, our property values, for those of us who have property, will go up. There are a lot of people unfortunately, who are working hard, that do not get a chance to come to these meetings. I myself was at work and wasn't able to go to the last two meetings. I express that we appreciate that you [Savarino] invest in the City of Buffalo and for what you hope, because I do not think Savarino is into losing money. These people are not in business to be losing money here. They are hoping for the success of this [the hotel] more than any one of us. They are hoping that the property values in this area will go up more than any one of us, because it will benefit them [the residents and business owners], more than any one of us. I want this city to develop. I don't think anybody else is here understanding that we're looking for development in this city, we are looking for the city to get better. The councilman here is not interested in Buffalo failing."After nearly thirty years, Pano's Restaurant at 1081 Elmwood Avenue in Buffalo, New York will end a tradition of being open 24 hours a day, seven days a week by ending its overnight food service.The tradition for Buffalonians, who are able to enjoy drinks at the bars and clubs until 4:00 a.m. will end sometime at the end of August or September, according to overnight manager Wendi Dittmar and restaurant accountant Roseanne Jones."We will be starting the closure of the overnight shift sometime in the next 2 weeks to a month," said Dittmar in an exclusive interview with Wikinews.Jones told Wikinews that owner Pano Georgiadis is "just fed up" with the "destruction, the walk-outs of bills and fights that the 'drunk' people cause" in his restaurant.Pano's opened in 1977 on the day of the blizzard of '77' and has "remained open for 24 hours since then", only closing for an hour at a time on the weekends to clean up and prepare the restaurant for breakfast, said Georgiadis.Artvoice, which holds the "Best of Buffalo" competition every year where readers vote for their favorite Buffalo place, has listed Pano's as the Best of Buffalo for best brunch, best Greek restaurant, best patio and best super-cheap breakfasts for 2006. Dittmar also says that Georgiadis is expected to make several "public service announcements" within the next few weeks to "thank customers for their patronage."An agreement to begin construction of the Burgas-Alexandroupolis pipeline to transport oil from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean was signed by Bulgaria, Greece and Russia today.The signing ceremony was held in the presence of the President of the Hellenic Republic, Karolos Papoulias, at the Presidential Palace in Athens, with President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Prime Ministers of Greece and Bulgaria, Kostas Karamanlis and Sergei Stanishev respectively. The oil pipeline agreement is the end of months of negotiations between the three countries and was saluted by the Greek government as a "momentous" agreement. According to President Putin, the agreement will not only benefit the three contributing members but will also be significant for the world economy and, furthermore, he added that "the pipeline allows diversification in the oil routes, in the best interest of our countries, our peoples and the economy". As for the Greek-Russian bilateral relations, Mr.Karamanlis stated that "this visit bears witness to the excellent ties between the two nations, signalling and symbolising the construction of a major project, the Burgas-Alexandroupolis oil pipeline". This the second time that Putin visits Athens to meet with the Greek Premier, however they had also previous meetings in Moscow and northern Greece, during the last two years.    Before the signing of the pipeline agreement, President Putin and Prime Minister Stanishev had the opportunity to meet with their Greek counterparts and discuss issues of bilateral and regional significance. Yesterday night, Prime Minister Karamanlis hosted a dinner in honour of the Russian and Bulgarian heads of state in central Athens.Bus drivers at Stagecoach, the main busline in Auckland, began a six-day strike on May 5 after company and union representatives failed to reach a settlement. Traffic during rush-hour has become much more dense than usual, due to parents driving children to or from school. Extensive motorway roadworks in Auckland are in progress, as well as the usual rash of roadworks at the end of the annual council budgets.Stagecoach employees are in disagreement with the new UK-based management over working practices and pay.Stagecoach, Auckland's main busline, may suffer strikes from its workers on Monday. British-owned Stagecoach believes a one day strike has become unavoidable after unions representing over one thousand workers walked out of renewed negotiations yesterday.Eighty thousand passengers making one hundred and fifty thousand trips in and area from Orewa to Pukekohe will be affected by the proposed industrial action. More strikes are also threatened for the following week.Company operations director, Warren Fowler said, "They are looking hellbound to have a strike. We have now made four offers or proposals to the combined unions to reach a settlement and avert industrial action, but we just don’t seem to be making any headway - it’s very frustrating."Unions advocate Gary Froggatt said he is frustrated the different offers represented different ways of dressing up the same amount of money. "They are using the same money - there is no increase in the money they are offering," he said.United States President George W. Bush addressed the nation on the economic financial crisis from inside the White House saying the economic situation is "serious" and is "in danger" of becoming "a long and painful recession.""We are in the midst of a serious financial crisis and the federal government is responding with decisive action," Bush said in his televised speech. Bush called for the United States Congress to pass a US$700 billion bill intended to keep struggling companies afloat. He asked the two presidential candidates along with leaders from both parties of Congress to join him for a conference on Thursday.Last Friday, Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson called for a bailout plan that would allow for the United States government to purchase devalued mortgage backed securities, resulting from the subprime mortgage crisis, from troubled financial institutions. Paulson has said that the plan could cost up to $700 billion. Congressional leaders have said that some form of the plan will pass; however, there is considerable debate over several key issues.White House spokeswoman Dana Perino said that Bush "believes it is important for the American people to fully understand the depth of the crisis in our financial markets, how that crisis affects them, and the urgent need to agree on a solution." Bush has been criticized for waiting too long to speak in prime time. John McCain suspended his campaign to return to Washington and work on the bailout bill. Barack Obama has called for another form of the bill to pass and said that Congress should not package the bailout bill with any other bills — such as an economic stimulus plan.Meanwhile, Congress has held a second round of hearings on the proposed bailout bill. Paulson and Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke testified in front of the House Financial Services Committee. They felt it was a serious problem in need of an immediate solution.Rep. Barney Frank, Chairman of House Financial Services Committee, says it is "clear" that the financial bailout bill will pass.Director of the Congressional Budget Office Peter R. Orsza said while testifying before Congress that "ironically, the intervention could even trigger additional failures of large institutions, because some institutions may be carrying troubled assets on their books at inflated values."The bailout plan has been called a "blank check" by many, with members of both parties divided on the issue.United States President George W. Bush announced on October 29, 2007 the list of winners of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor which may be granted by the United States. President Harry Truman initiated the award in 1945 to honor civilian service during World War II and President John Kennedy re-established it in 1963.The Medal of Freedom may be awarded by the president to any person who has made an especially meritorious contribution to the security or national interests of the United States, or to world peace, cultural or other significant endeavors.The medals will be awarded on November 5, 2007.The winners are:Gary Becker, 1992 Nobel economics prize winnerOscar Elias Biscet, an anti-abortion and pro-democracy activist and political prisoner in CubaFrancis Collins, Human Genome Project leaderBenjamin Hooks, US civil rights leaderRetired Rep. Henry Hyde of Illinois and former chairman of the House Foreign Affairs committeeHarper Lee, author of the book To Kill a MockingbirdBrian Lamb, founder of the C-SPAN cable public affairs networkEllen Johnson-Sirleaf, president of Liberia and the first woman elected to head an African countryGeorge W. Bush, the President of the United States, has attempted to reassure Americans on the economy in his weekly radio address."Over the past few days, we have witnessed a startling drop in the stock market -- much of it driven by uncertainty and fear," he said, introducing the address. "Many Americans have serious concerns about their economic well-being."Bush then pointed out the action that the government is taking. "Here are the problems we face and the steps we are taking: First, key markets are not functioning because there is a lack of liquidity. So the Federal Reserve has injected hundreds of billions of dollars into the system. The Fed has joined with central banks around the world to coordinate a cut in interest rates -- a step that should help free up credit. The Fed has also announced a new program to provide support for a vital tool that many American businesses use to finance their day-to-day operations -- the commercial paper market, which is freezing up. As this program kicks in over the next week or so, it will help revive a key source of short-term financing for businesses and financial institutions.""Second, some Americans are concerned about whether their money is safe," continued the president. "So the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the National Credit Union Administration have significantly expanded the amount of money insured in savings accounts and checking accounts and certificates of deposit. That means that if you have up to $250,000 in one of these insured accounts, every penny of that money is safe. The Treasury Department has also acted to restore confidence in a key element of America's financial system by offering government insurance for money market mutual funds."Bush then said that there was an  issue with fraud in the economy. He stated that, to address this issue, "the Securities and Exchange Commission is launching rigorous enforcement actions to detect fraud and manipulation in the market."The Dow Jones Industrial Average yesterday fell to its lowest level in five years at 8,579.19, falling 679 points in one day. This, at 7.3%, is the eleventh largest percentage fall in the history of the index. The growth then continued, with the index being up over 150 points on the start of the day at one point.The index, did however, recover, and as of 19:30 UTC was up 17.68 points, or 0.21%, pushing the index up to almost 8600.U.S. President George Bush yesterday lost the power to unilaterally approve or 'fast-track' trade deals, bypassing congressional approval.  Fast-track authority originated in 1975 during the Ford Administration. President Bush and Bill Clinton are the only presidents to lose this authority.On Friday,  Democratic members of the Ways and Means committee stated that their priorities "do not include the renewal of fast track authority" and complained that Bush had "pushed too many trade deals through at the expense of worker rights and environmental protections" and costing American jobs.Administration official Susan Schwab urged renewal of this presidential authority warning that the United States could lose the race to exploit new markets without it.  The Bush Administration has approved trade deals, without congressional oversight, with Singapore, Chile, Australia, Morocco, Bahrain, Oman, the Dominican Republic, and the Central America Union, since winning approval in 2002. Democrats have complained that these deals have resulted in the export of American jobs and in American companies moving off-shore to capitalize on tax and trade breaks, along with weaker labor and environmental  laws. Republicans stress the market-opening benefits of such trade deals.U.S. President George W. Bush has asked the U.S. Congress for an additional $80bn to pay for the on-going military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.This is on top of $25bn approved by Congress last summer in the fiscal defense appropriations bill for 2005. Bush states that this money is to provide U.S. troops with "whatever they need to protect themselves" and also to fight terrorism in Iraq.The money will support the 'global war on terror' until September 30, 2005. Of the $80bn, $75bn will be spent on the repair and replacement of equipment, training of the Iraqi security forces, and basic personnel costs.The remaining $5bn will be used to fund State Department embassy construction, activities in Iraq, and humanitarian operations in Darfur, Sudan.U.S. President George W. Bush, accompanied by his wife Laura, began his five-nation trip to Africa today in Benin, where he met with President Yayi Boni and participated in a joint press conference. This is Bush's second visit to Africa and the first time any US president has visited Benin. Topics that were discussed included malaria, cotton, and the crises in Kenya and Darfur.At the press conference, held at Cadjehoun International Airport in Cotonou, Yayi thanked Bush for coming to visit and praised him for his "great concern for Africa, its well being, and of the development of its people." Bush then commended the government of Benin for their "fight against corruption" and "firm commitment to the investment in its people". "Your fight against corruption is visible and easy for the people to see," Bush said. "This is such a good lesson ... because leaders around the world have got to understand that the United States wants to partner with leaders and the people, but we're not going to do so with people that steal money, pure and simple." Benin is one of the recipients of the Millennium Challenge Account, which aims to foster economic growth in countries that are deemed to have effective governments and economic freedom.On the topic of malaria, Bush mentioned the Malaria Initiative, which intends to provide a mosquito net for every child to prevent the spread of the disease. He also mentioned initiatives to facilitate the spread of HIV and AIDS. "We can save lives with an aggressive, comprehensive strategy," Bush said. "And that's exactly what you're putting in place here in Benin."The economy was also an important issue. President Yayi said he and President Bush discussed diversifying Benin's economy away from its dependence on cotton. "He shared his vision with us, and he is encouraging us to diversify the sources of solutions to the problem that we have today, namely the cotton industry." Yayi says it is hard competing with cotton markets in Asia and the United States. Bush said the World Trade Organization is willing to help Benin's economy, but he also suggested exporting more cotton-based products in addition to raw cotton.Bush said the United States will help facilitate a peacekeeping force in Darfur, but will not send troops to the region. "I made the decision not to [send troops], upon the recommendation of a lot of the groups involved in Darfur, as well as other folks ... once you make that decision, then there's not many other avenues except for the United Nations and the peacekeeping forces."When asked about the situation in Kenya, Bush said he has sent Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to visit the country on Monday to support former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan in mediating the conflict. "Kenya is an issue ... and that's why I'm sending Secretary Rice there to help the Kofi Annan initiative - all aimed at having a clear message that there be no violence and that there ought to be a power-sharing agreement," said Bush. White House national security adviser Stephen Hadley said Rice's visit will only last a few hours. "It's basically to go in, give some impetus, but then step out and let Kofi Annan continue his diplomacy," he said. At a press briefing aboard Air Force One, one reporter questioned what could be accomplished in a few hours and asked why the President didn't go to Kenya instead. Ambassador Jendayi Frazer answered with, "Secretary Rice's engagement on Kenya has been much longer than a few hours. She has been talking to President Kibaki and Raila Odinga before the election, right on the eve of the announcement, immediately after that. And so she's been very much engaged over the last three or four months on dealing with electoral crisis.""The purpose of her going is to back Kofi's mediation, it's not to take over that mediation," Frazer continued. "President Bush does not need to go to Kenya at this point. At the right moment in time, the President will engage, but right now it's occurring in a very systematic way to back Annan's mediation, not to try to supplant Annan's mediation."After spending three hours in Benin, Bush flew to Tanzania, where he will stay for three nights. He will then continue his trip in Rwanda, Ghana, and Liberia.American President George Bush, Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin, and Mexican President Vicente Fox met at Baylor University in Waco, Texas on Wednesday. The leaders discussed cooperation in the areas of border security, trade, and immigration, signing an accord called the "Security and Prosperity Partnership of North America.""In a rapidly changing world, we must develop new avenues of cooperation that will make our open societies safer and more secure, our businesses more competitive, and our economies more resilient," read a joint statement released by the three leaders.The agreement calls for greater sharing of intelligence and the strengthening of infrastructure security. It also seeks to develop a common system for screening travellers, and promotes collaboration in the sectors of transportation, energy, technology, and financial services.Each nation will set up ministerial-level working groups that will "set specific, measurable, and achievable goals and implementation dates" and "identify concrete steps the governments can take to achieve these goals," according to a White House press release. The initial reports are due within 90 days.President Bush, while not offering specific details, also said that he would "continue to push for reasonable, common-sense immigration policy with the United States Congress."These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.These are some short blurbs about current events in the business world.These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.A survey of 251 North American companies revealed that less than 10% of their computers have Windows XP Service Pack 2 installed. The results of the study, conducted by AssetMetrix, were released this week after 136,000 PCs running Microsoft's Windows operating system were examined. Although many of the companies in the poll are still using earlier releases of Windows, such as Windows 2000 and Windows 98, only 24% of businesses using Windows XP had successfully rolled out SP2.Released in September 2004, SP2 includes security improvements for the Windows XP operating system, including an enhanced firewall and a pop-up ad blocker for Internet Explorer. [1] When it was first made available, businesses could opt to postpone installation of the service pack so that their respective IT departments could prepare for the update. However on April 12, Microsoft will force users to upgrade to SP2 via their automatic Windows Update system, which delivers software over the Internet. AssetMetrix believe this move will catch out unprepared companies."Microsoft allowed a significant period of time to accommodate companies' demand to test and validate Windows XP SP2 within their IT infrastructure," explained AssetMetrix Research Labs' managing director Steve O'Halloran.He added: "Based on our research, a substantial number of companies have yet to decide whether to accept or embargo Windows XP SP2. To date, we have observed that 40 percent of companies using Windows XP have actively avoided upgrading to SP2, and only 7 percent have actively accepted it. The other 52 percent of the companies showed no direction or policy towards SP2, and may find themselves having support issues by allowing multiple editions of Windows XP to exist in their infrastructure."Frank Batten, the businessman who founded The Weather Channel, has died at the age of 82.  Batten died on September 10 after a long illness in Norfolk.  He is survived by his wife Jane and two daughters.  Batten started as a reporter and publisher and later ran a communications empire which included several newspapers and cable television. The nephew of Samuel L. Slover, he assumed leadership of The Virginian-Pilot and The Ledger-Star in 1954. He opened up his own communications empire Landmark Communications and added The Greensboro Daily News and The Roanoke Times in 1965 and 1969. In 1964 Batten launched TeleCable and expanded cable into 15 States. He was the chairman of the Associated Press from 1982 to 1987.On May 2, 1982, Batten launched The Weather Channel. Batten began to work on the idea after Good Morning America forecaster John Coleman suggested it. The channel broadcasts weather forecasts and weather related news 24 hours a day. Landmark sold the channel to NBC for $3.5 billion. Batten was ranked 190th on the 2008 400 Richest Americans list with an estimated fortune of $2.3 billion. He graduated from the College of Arts & Sciences of the University of Virginia in 1950 and was a significant donor to that institution.The US Secret Service has released the first photos Wednesday of the new presidential limousine that will transport Barack Obama down Pennsylvania Avenue next Tuesday as part of the 56th Presidential inaugural parade after he is sworn in at the Capitol. The First Limo - the 2009 Cadillac Presidential Limousine - will replace President Bush’s Cadillac DTS Presidential Limousine that rolled out in 2004.Nicknamed "The Beast", the hulking machine is a new model year 2009, modified limousine. According to General Motors, the new "2009 Cadillac Presidential Limousine" is the first not to carry a specific model name. The Obama Mobile was introduced on January 14 with noticeably different styling borrowed from the Cadillac Escalade and STS, while the suspension is most likely related to the Chevrolet Kodiak medium-duty truck. Mr. David Caldwell of General Motors has revealed that the sleek black car would include a hand-crafted interior and "state of the art electronics." The car's high-tech security features include five-inch-thick (12.7-centimeter-thick) bombproof glass, tough-as-nails tires, and a sealed interior that's invulnerable to chemical attack. The armoured limousine has been heavily modified to withstand potential attacks by weapons or bombs. The San Francisco Chronicle puts it in a proper perspective noting, “a half-inch of transparent armor is enough to stop a .44 Magnum round at point-blank range; at a thickness of 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 inches, the same material can withstand higher-velocity bullets fired from military assault rifles.”According to spy photographer, Brenda Priddy, and General Motors, the limousine, which has the intricate, dual-textured grille, is also equipped with standard Goodyear Regional RHS truck tires in a 285/70R19.5 size, on 19.5-inch wheels. The rims have a run-flat device (manufactured by Hutchinson Industries). Xenon headlights from the Escalade are installed in the front, while the rear has some STS part. The doors are at least 20 centimeters (8 inches) thick. It carries the US flag on the front fenders and an embroidered Seal of the President of the United States is affixed to several panels in the back.According to the US Secret Service, the vehicle would be a "valuable asset" in providing the President with the highest level of protection. "Although many of the vehicle's security enhancements cannot be discussed, it is safe to say that this car's security and coded communications systems make it the most technologically advanced protection vehicle in the world," Nicholas Trotta, Assistant Director for the Office of Protective Operations said in a statement. The new limousine is the responsibility of White House Transportation Agency.The Presidential State Car is the official state car used by the President of the United States. It is informally known as "Cadillac One". The current Presidential State Car is a 2005 hand-crafted, armored, and stretched DTS (DeVille Touring Sedan) built on a GM four-wheel drive platform. It was first used on the second inauguration parade of George W. Bush in 2005. But the version to be used by President Obama uses a GMC Topkick chassis, while maintaining the Cadillac exterior.The President of the United States travels in one of two armoured Cadillac limousines based upon the normal sedan, the Cadillac DTS, with heavy customisation. Lincoln cars have also been used in the past, most notably by President John F Kennedy. The current limousines were custom-built by O'Gara, Hess and Eisenhart, founded in Fairfield, Ohio in 1942. It specializes in armouring limousines for presidents and heads of state.President William McKinley was the first US president to ride in an automobile. However, it was President Theodore Roosevelt who rode on the first government-owned car, a white Stanley Steamer. Roosevelt's successor, William Howard Taft, was the first president to use a presidential state car that was permanently stored in the White House garage.Meanwhile, Obama's 2005 Chrysler 300C Hemi was auctioned on eBay with a starting bid of $100,000 and a buy-it-now price of $1,000,000. It has less than 21,000 miles on it and is in like-new condition. He leased the car in 2004 and traded it for a Ford Escape Hybrid in 2007. The car was sold to Tim O'Boyle.President Bush is lobbying the U.S. House of Representatives to pass the Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA), which is scheduled for a vote Wednesday night. The U.S. Senate passed the treaty in June.Similar to the existing North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) among the U.S., Canada, and Mexico, CAFTA would create a free trade zone putting an end to most trade barriers between the United States and six additional countries, including Costa Rica, El Salvador, Honduras, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic.The free trade agreement faces stiff opposition among Democrats. Many Republicans who represent agricultural Corn Belt or industrial Rust Belt and southern textile states in Congress also have stated opposition to the bill. But with a Republican majority in the House large enough to ensure passage of CAFTA, party leaders are trying to shore up enough votes to ensure CAFTA's passage.This has prompted last minute action by the President to lobby individual members of the House, reminding them that Central American countries have committed troops and other resources to fight the U.S. War on Terror. Other Republican leaders have been using the party's traditional pro-business message and linking it to homeland security issues."Trade creates jobs and lifts people out of poverty and there's nothing like a stable society to fight terrorism and strengthen democracy, freedom and rule of law," Dennis Hastert, Speaker of the House, reportedly said at a news conference Tuesday. But the opposition disagrees. CAFTA is "a bad deal for Central Americans and also for Latinos in this community... (with CAFTA) the exploitation of workers will continue in Central America," Democrat Representative Hilda Solis of Los Angeles said. Her views are common among Democrats, who are overwhelmingly against the treaty.According to opponents of CAFTA, the current trend of American jobs being sent to foreign countries, particularly in the information technology sector, would greatly expand under the treaty."This will be a vote in the middle of the night. They'll keep the vote open for several hours, in violation of the rules. If it passes, it will be by fewer than five votes," predicted Rep. Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from Ohio, according to a Washington Post report.The California Controller's office reports that eleven state agencies have given US$13.3 million in pay and travel advances that have not been collected.Governor Jerry Brown issued an executive order to recover uncollected loans by the agencies. A press release from the governor's office states, "The Governor’s Executive Order seeks to recover taxpayer dollars by directing state agencies and departments to clear salary and travel advances within 30 days through an expense claim." Any outstanding balance will be deducted from employees' paychecks under the governor's order after the 30 days.Under California state law, state employees are permitted to receive advances for hardship, travel, and other circumstances. These advances cannot be collected by agencies after three years without the employee's consent.State Controller John Chiang said in a statement, "The state’s poor debt collection and accounting practices are fleecing public coffers at a time when vital public programs are being decimated by unprecedented budget cuts." Chiang's office expects there will be more money unaccounted for, including some from the California Highway Patrol (CHP). California state law mandates that anyone convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol is required to pay for the investigation. The CHP has not collected this money.The California Department of Transportation, also called Caltrans, has the largest debt of the eleven agencies: $3.2 million. Cal Fire, or the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection, "had an outstanding balance of $1.44 million as of June 30, 2008. An overwhelming portion of that balance was related to employee salary and travel advances," according to a controller's office audit.Chiang's office had informed former California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger there were outstanding debts, but Schwarzenegger's administration did not take action.All eleven agencies have agreed to hand over any delinquent accounts to the controller's office, who will collect these debts.California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger unveiled a new budget plan for California on Friday, claiming that the Californian economy faces growth and budget problems like eurozone countries such as Greece and Ireland.Schwarzenegger said in a Sacramento press conference that California must cut spending to US$12.4 billion.To achieve this goal, the governor proposed cutting the CalWorks welfare system; however, state lawmakers quickly rejected this. Schwarzenegger said cutting the state welfare system for low-income families would save the state government $1.6 billion.The governor also proposed freezing funds to local public schools and cutting state workers' incomes.He wants to cut programs for the treatment of narcotics addiction for those using Medi-Cal and cut state mental heath services by 60%.California is set to receive monetary aid from Washington, D.C. worth $3.4 billion.California State Senate president Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat, said, "The cuts are absolutely unacceptable," and the governor should focus on delaying business tax cuts.QLogic manufactures many important components that are used in servers, PC's and various  networking products by companies such as Dell, Cisco, and HP.The CEO of QLogic, Mr. H. K. Desai, said of the companies decision to locate in Ireland "We chose Dublin as we believe it will best service our long-term needs, enable us to recruit the calibre of people we require and facilitate the timely delivery of product to our customers overseas.”Ireland has continued to attract large amounts of FDI in recent years despite the slowdown in the world economy in 2002. Recent additions to Ireland's list of multinationals include Amazon.com, eBay, Bell Labs and Yahoo.Judge James A. Stoelker of Santa Clara County, California Superior Court was disqualified from hearing a case on predatory lending practices the day before Christmas, on a technicality.  The case was filed by David and Salma Merritt of Santa Clara County against multiple defendants, including Countrywide, Bank of America, and First American Title, among others.The Merritts had challenged Judge Stoelker's involvement in the case, claiming many of his rulings had favored his former clients even when law would have indicated otherwise.  Some of the defendants are Judge Stoelker's former clients.The events leading to this case began in 2006 when the Merritts accepted a home loan from Countrywide.  At that time, Countrywide was advertising 30-year mortgages at between 1 and 3 percent interest.  The Merritts received a "good faith estimate" consistent with those advertisements.  They claim that Countrywide representatives tricked them into signing loan documents that were subsequently altered to appear to commit them to an obligation they had not agreed to.  A review of similar predatory lending cases filed by individuals in California found that all had been settled in at most 9 months, usually in favor of the banks.  Merritt v. Mozilo has continued in the courts for much longer, celebrating its third anniversary last Saturday.  The Merritts' claims are consistent with published statements by Eileen Foster, former Executive Vice President of Fraud Risk Management at Countrywide, that fraud was endemic to certain parts of Countrywide.  Theirs was the only case heard in Department 9 that morning in recognition of Christmas.  That hearing was scheduled, because the Sixth District of the California Court of Appeals (case number H038883) required the Santa Clara County Superior Court to (a) give all parties an opportunity to be heard regarding the possible disqualification of Judge Stoelker and (b) reply to the appellate court by December 26.  This appellate ruling was only issued on November 26, and Judge Mark H. Pierce did not schedule the required hearing until December 12.  The notice for this hearing required parties to file responses ten days before, which meant that the parties only had two days to prepare their replies.  On August 16, the Merritts learned Judge Stoelker had represented defendants in this case on numerous occasions before he was appointed to the bench in December 2010 and had not disclosed this fact to the Merritts.  The next day they filed a Verified Statement of Disqualification asking Stoekler to recuse himself.  The California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) 170.3(c)(3) and (4) [confirmed in the 1988 appellate decision in Lewis v. Superior Court] give a judge ten days to respond to to such a motion.  Stoelker replied on the eleventh day.  "All Rise" was heard at 9:04 AM local time Monday morning, whereupon Judge Pierce entered the courtroom.  Attending by phone were attorneys James Goldberg representing Bank of America and Brian Craft representing First American Title.  David Merritt was present representing himself.  Goldberg had filed a brief asserting that the Merritts' Verified Statement of Disqualification was served upon Judge Stoelker on August 17 but was not filed, as witnessed by the fact that it was not listed on the docket.  Judge Pierce reported that he had checked the files and found that this Statement had indeed been filed, and he didn't know why it was not on the docket.  Attorney Goldberg suggested that the fact that the Statement was not on the docket may have contributed to Judge Stoelker's failure to respond within the ten day limit.  Judge Pierce replied, "That's a stretch." Attorney Craft asked about next steps, since all action in this case had been stayed by the appellate court pending resolution of this issue.  Judge Pierce then replied that Judge Manoukian would be handling discovery in this case, replacing Judge Stoelker in that capacity.  He further stated that a reply to the appellate court had been prepared concurring with the appellate court's disqualification of Judge Stoelker and asked Mr. Merritt to retrieve that order from the clerk in the courtroom  and file it as usual with the clerk's office.  He also noted that this action would lift the stay.  Other actions in this case could now proceed with the next steps being scheduled January 22, 2013, or later.   This is the second appellate reversal of decisions by this superior court in this case.  The first reversal came on December 19, 2011, when the appellate court reinstated Wells Fargo as a defendant.A California jury in a Humboldt County courthouse ordered nursing home operator Skilled Healthcare (SH) to pay $671 million (about €531 million) in a class action lawsuit from patients of SH's 22 California facilities and their families. The jury found that SH failed to properly staff its facilities to comply with California state law.The jury has not heard the case for punitive damages; however, it awarded the plaintiffs $613 million (about €484 million) in statutory damages. The remaining $58 million (about €46 million) was in restitution.After the verdict was issued, Skilled Healthcare stocks plunged over 75% to a record low.An official statement from SH says it "strongly disagrees" with the jury's verdict. SH plans on filing an appeal to the decision. The company could possibly face bankruptcy because of this verdict.One of the lawyers for the nearly 32,000 plaintiffs, Timothy Needham, claimed that inadequate staffing levels put SH's patients at risk. He said, "The company knows that this lack of staffing causes a higher risk of problems for patients. Call lights don't get answered, persons don't get proper hygiene, persons don't get their medications on time or the care they need." This lawsuit does not apply to SH's facilities in Arizona, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nevada, New Mexico, and Texas.In a press release today, California-based Hallmark/Westland Meat Packing Co. indicated that it has voluntarily recalled just over 143 million pounds (65 million kilograms) of raw and frozen beef products, which is considered to be the largest single recall of beef products in U.S. history. The move follows an investigation by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) into allegations of animal cruelty and mishandling of cattle destined for the human food chain.The USDA's Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) had determined that beef products produced by the Chino, California company were unfit for human consumption as the cattle had not received "complete and proper inspection."The recall has been designated as Class II, which the USDA describes as "a health hazard situation where there is a remote probability of adverse health consequences from the use of the product."On Friday, Secretary of Agriculture Ed Schafer indicated that charges had been laid against employees of the plant alleged to have taken part in the mistreatment of cattle. "Today [Friday], the San Bernardino District Attorney filed felony animal cruelty charges against two employees who were terminated by Hallmark/Westland Meat Packing Company," said Schafer. "It is regrettable that these animals were mistreated and I am encouraged and supportive of these actions by the San Bernardino District Attorney in response to this mistreatment."The USDA learned of the possible inhumane handling of non-ambulatory (disabled) cattle at the packing plant on January 30 and has since suspended activities at the plant. "We continue to conduct a thorough investigation into whether any violations of food safety or additional humane handling regulations have occurred," said Secretary Schafer in a press release. "On February 8, our Office of the Inspector General took the lead on the investigation. At that time, USDA extended the administrative hold on Hallmark/Westland Meat Packing Company products for the National School Lunch Program, the Emergency Food Assistance Program and the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations while the investigation continues," said Schafer.The FSIS reported that Hallmark/Westland had not contacted the FSIS public health veterinarian, as required, when cattle became ill or disabled after undergoing ante-mortem (slaughter) inspection, putting the company out of compliance with FSIS regulations. "Because the cattle did not receive complete and proper inspection FSIS has determined them to be unfit for human food and the company is conducting a recall," explained Secretary Schafer. The cruelty charges stem from an undercover video that reportedly showed sick cattle being moved by crews using forklifts."Words cannot accurately express how shocked and horrified I was at the depictions contained on the video that was taken by an individual who worked at our facility from October 3 thru November 14, 2007," said Steve Mendell, President, Westland Meat Co. and Hallmark Meat Packing. "We have taken swift action regarding the two employees identified on the video and have already implemented aggressive measures to ensure all employees follow our humane handling policies and procedures. We are also cooperating with the USDA investigators on the allegations of inhumane handling treatment which is a serious breech of our company’s policies and training."The USDA stressed that it is "extremely unlikely" that the cattle involved were at risk for Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) or mad-cow disease due to the employment of multiple safeguards. The USDA felt the recall was required, however, as the plant had allegedly violated USDA regulations.The recall involves raw and frozen beef products produced on various dates from February 1, 2006 to February 2, 2008. For further information about the recall, consumers, media, and distributors are encouraged to contact Hallmark/Westland's Plant Manager Stan Mendell or Food Safety Consultant Steve Sayer at (909) 590-3340 or the FSIS website, www.fsis.usda.gov.The California Department of Justice on Wednesday released the warrant and affidavit of a criminal investigation of the Wells Fargo bank.  The State of California served the warrant on October 5 to search the San Francisco headquarters of Wells Fargo for felonious activities related to identity theft.The warrant said property to be seized at the bank's San Francisco headquarters was related to the unauthorized creation of accounts by Wells Fargo employees including the names of individuals for the accounts; account information and fees; the names of employees and their managers who created accounts without the consent of the Wells Fargo customers in question; and all communications including emails referencing the unauthorised accounts.California Attorney General Kamala Harris's criminal probe is part of an increasing list of officials nationwide questioning the business practices of Wells Fargo such as California State Treasurer John Chiang who announced a one-year suspension of State investment with the bank on September 28; Illinois State Treasurer Mike Frerichs followed suit with a year-long ban on October 3; and Democratic United States Senators Bob Menendez of New Jersey, Jeff Merkley of Oregon, and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who wrote to the U.S. Security Exchanges Commission (SEC) suggesting investigation on September 29.In an ongoing labor dispute from May of this year in California, United States, Teamsters Local 952, which represents the Orange County Transportation Authority's 1,200 coach operators, went on strike at 12:35 a.m. (0035 hrs) PDT Saturday morning after a cooling-off period declared by State Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger expired.Sanctioned picket lines have been formed outside Authority facilities in Garden Grove, Anaheim, and Santa Ana. About 200,000 regular passengers are affected. Major sticking points in the negotiation appear to be related to cost-of-living increases and pension funding allocations. The strike was declared after the Authority's bargaining agent said he lacked authority to approve a union counter proposal, which he said had to be taken before the OCTA's board of directors, who will not be available to meet until Monday the 9th at the earliest.Tangent Computer, a computer services and hardware company based in Burlingame, California has filed a lawsuit against Microsoft. The lawsuit filed on February 14, 2006 claims that Microsoft continues to breach federal antitrust laws.Tangent alleges that Microsoft fosters tactics "to prevent and destroy competition" while raising prices of its software to "supra-competitive levels." Tangent is arguing that the tactics are a violation of section 2 Sherman Antitrust Act, a federal law prohibiting unfair business practices and monopolies.The lawsuit details legal issues which have faced Microsoft since the 1980s, and requests that an amount of monetary damages to be determined by a jury at a trial.Tangent is an original equipment manufacturer who has purchased and installed Microsoft operating systems since 1995. In addition to their hardware business, they also provide Internet content monitoring, spam filtering, anti-spyware and adware solutions, network vulnerability assessments, active directory tools and migration services.Electrical power generator Calpine Corporation declared bankruptcy on Tuesday. The San Jose, California based company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in U.S. Federal Court, to facilitate debt restructuring and to allow for normal operations to continue. Calpine has obtained secured debtor-in-possession financing from Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse First Boston totaling $2 billion. The company announced that some of its Canadian subsidiaries would also file for creditor protection under the Companies' Creditors Arrangement Act. Calpine and its subsidiaries operate natural gas and geothermal electricity generating plants in 21 U.S. states and 3 Canadian provinces.The recent rise in natural gas prices due to Hurricanes Rita and Katrina has pushed Calpine's cost significantly above the locked in selling price for its long-term contracts. Calpine has asked the court to void eight long term contracts, including a 20-year contract entered into with the State of California's Department of Water Resources and Pacific Gas and Electric Company in 2001.The company received permission on December 21 from the Federal Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York to use $500 million of its financing to continue operating and to keep paying its employees' salaries and benefits.After finding out that he will not have to service a troublesome brand of British-made planes, RJ-100, at the airport, Şükrü Can, the manager of Turkish Airlines maintenance service, decided to slaughter a camel right on the tarmac of Istanbul's Ataturk Airport.Airport manager Vedat Muftuoglu was quoted to say:Turkish minister of transportation Binali Yildirim has characterized the sacrifice an "example of tactless behavior."After the managerial staff at the airport heard about the incident, Can's sacrifice claimed his job. Animal slaughter is not a rare incident in Turkey. Sheep and other animals are frequently slaughtered, especially during the Islamic Sacrifice Feast. However sacrificing a camel is highly unusual in Turkey, and not a common practice.Bell Canada Enterprises (BCE)'s most recent bid to buy Astral Media's television and radio services for CAD$3.4 billion has been approved on Thursday by the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), the Canadian regulatory body which supervises broadcasting and telecommunications.The CRTC rejected BCE's initial bid for Astral in October, citing concerns over market competition. According to Jean-Pierre Blais, Chairman of the CRTC, BCE's most recent bid protects Canadians' interests because BCE will have to invest in new Canadian programming to the tune of $246.9 million in addition to selling almost two dozen of Astral's services. The CRTC said they will also be imposing a number of competitive safeguards. For example, BCE is required to adhere to certain sections of the CRTC's code of conduct for commercial arrangements, the purpose of which is to limit potential behaviour which would stifle competition as well as to treat independent programming services and distributors fairly. It must also provide to its competitors "reasonable access" to advertising opportunities on its radio stations.When the deal is completed, BCE's share of the English-language and French-language market will grow to 35.8% and 22.6%, respectively. BCE will be required to keep running all of its local TV stations while maintaining their current levels of local programming.Ottawa announced several proposed amendments to the Canadian Copyright Act, including signing onto two World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) treaties and requiring Internet Service Providers to keep records on users who transfer many files online.According to the announcement, the changes would "clarify that the unauthorized posting or the peer-to-peer file-sharing of material on the Internet will constitute an infringement of copyright."Recording industry representatives were ecstatic with the news. "This is terrific news," said Graham Henderson, who heads the Canadian Recording Industry Association. "Clearly, once we get implementation there will be no doubt ... it will be illegal to engage in unauthorized file-sharing."The government of Canada is demanding that the United States stop applying duties on Canadian lumber and refund the C$5 billion in duties that has been collected. As reported earlier a NAFTA panel rejected Washington's claims justifying those duties, but the U.S. is not abiding by the NAFTA decision.Canada had asked the WTO for permission to retaliate. Jacqueline LaRocque, a spokeswoman for Canadian Trade Minister Jim Peterson, said that Canada is considering imposing C$5 billion in duties on imports from the U.S. in retaliation.  "Canada has wanted to make it very clear that we are not happy with the position of the United States to simply ignore what is a clear NAFTA ruling in Canada's favor," Canadian Finance Minister Ralph Goodale was quoted as saying.The U.S. is still dealing with a 4 billion dollar ruling against it by the WTO relating to its practice of helping large American companies set up "Foreign Sales Corporations" offshore in order to have a competitive edge in Europe. That dispute resulted in the U.S. having to change its laws last year.The Alberta Energy and Utilities Board of Alberta, Canada, will increase oil output by between 18,000 and 30,000 barrels a day to help the U.S. in the wake of Hurricane Katrina.  This is being done by temporarily suspending limits on oil production. The increase was requested by Alberta's Premier, Ralph Klein.The comparatively small size of the increase has led industry analyst Peter Linder to call the increase "more of a token gesture" and a "drop in the bucket" by comparison to normal production levels.The increase in production levels is temporary, but no date has been set for when the output levels might again be capped. Analysts say that 10% of the U.S. Gulf States' oil production was affected by the hurricane.Canada has a budget surplus of CA$13.8 billion for the 2006–2007 fiscal year, totaling 1% of Canada's gross domestic product (GDP), Finance Minister Jim Flaherty announced today. The record surplus was boosted by revenue from government corporations to $14.2 billion, far exceeding the government's projections of $9.2 billion and surpassing the record set by the previous year's $13.2 billion surplus.By federal law, all surplus must be used to pay down Canada's debt, and is not available for spending. $90 billion in debt payments over the last ten years have reduced its debt to $467 billion or 32.3% of national GDP, its lowest level in a quarter century. The announced debt payment is the largest in Canadian history.The payment also reduced Canada's annual interest payments by $725 million, which the government pledged to pass on to taxpayers through tax returns and reduced income taxes. The Conservative's "Tax Back Guarantee", proposed in the March budget, promises that money saved on interest payments will be deducted from Canadians' taxes. The Globe and Mail predicts the tax returns will be 30–40 dollars per taxpayer.Canada has posted ten consecutive budget surpluses in the last decade. The Canadian economy, the 8th largest in the world, has benefited from rising global demand for its export commodities, particularly oil and copper, as well as record corporate profits. This surplus was further increased by a $700 million drop from expected government spending.Prime Minister Stephen Harper cautioned that the Canadian economy is still facing "tough times" in its forestry, manufacturing, and some export industries. Critics point out that the Conservative government had said Canadians were overtaxed when they took office, and had vowed to eliminate "surplus surprises".Canadian Astral Media Inc. will buy out Standard Radio Inc., which runs many radio stations in Canada. Standard Radio Inc. is the largest privately owned multimedia company in Canada.Montreal based Astral Media Inc. will buy all of the assets from Standard Radio Inc. for about CAN$1.2-billion. Standard Radio Inc.'s 52 radio stations, and Astral's 29, will be brought together by Astral Media Inc. This will give Astral 81 radio stations in total. This makes Astral the largest radio operator in Canada of FM and AM radio."With the acquisition of Standard Radio, Astral Media will not only be acquiring the best performing radio stations in the country, we will at the same time acquire a company with similar values and culture. said Ian Greenberg, President and CEO of Astral Media. "Over the past four decades the Slaight family has built a remarkable collection of strong radio brands and has contributed meaningfully in shaping the Canadian radio industry as we know it today. We are delighted with the prospect of welcoming Standard Radio's employees into our team."Gary Slaight, President and CEO of Standard Radio also commented on the deal."We are looking forward to becoming a part of the Astral Media family," said Gary Slaight, President and CEO of Standard Radio. "We are pleased to see our legacy live on with a company such as Astral that has such a strong track record and commitment to its employees and to the Canadian radio and television industries."All of Astral's radio stations are run in Quebec and Atlantic Canada and it also runs various television stations across Canada. Astral also has two french channels that broadcast on Sirius satellite radio Canada.The company hopes to finalize the deal in or before April.With a fourth-quarter investment earnings of $3.9 Billion CAD, largely driven by stock market rises, the Canada Pension Plan's (CPP) assets rose to $140.1 Billion reported the CPP Investment Board on Thursday.Rate of return for the quarter netted three percent, bringing the first nine months of the fiscal year to 8.3%. The fund's broad exposure to equities, in concert with a good quarter for stocks both in Canada and internationally, was largely to be credited according to CEO David Deneson.The assets value rose from $127.6 Billion March 31st 2010, to $138.6 B on September 30th, to  $140.1 B December 31st. The $3.9 B investment earnings, 3.58 of which came from the 54% of the portfolio in equities, was partially offset by seasonal outlays of $2.4 B to plan members.The fund was very active throughout the calendar year, and particularly active in infrastructure, real estate, and private equity. As part of a consortium they completed the $4.8 B purchase of UK-based Tomkins plc, as well as purchasing Australian-based Intoll for $3.4 B thus acquiring a 30% stake in the 407 Express Toll Route (ETR) near Toronto — which they expanded purchasing a further 10% stake from Spain’s Concesiones de Infraestructuras de Transporte, S.A. (CINTRA). They acquired a 25% equity stake in Westfield Stratford City, a retail complex adjacent to London's Olympics venue, among many real estate ventures.The CPP fund covers every province except Quebec, whose Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec is the only larger pension fund in Canada. The five-year annualised investment rate of return for the CPP reserve fund was 3.5%, its 10-year rate of return was 5.6%, at the close of 2010. The fund was established in 1997.Jetsgo, Canada's third largest airline, has ceased all operations because of spiralling oil prices and a federal safety investigation. The low-cost carrier had been expanding rapidly in recent months, having added four new routes in December alone. However, the sharp increase in oil prices has forced the airline to ground all flights. The airline, which has 1,200 employees and 29 planes, lost C$55 million (US$49 million) in the past 8 months alone.The move has stranded over 17,000 passengers across its routes. A spokesperson from Canada's transport department commented, "They'd grown too fast and it was putting strains on senior management."No arrangements were made with Air Canada or other airlines to take care of their customers. The Air Canada web site stated that "no arrangements were made by Jetsgo that would enable Air Canada to accept Jetsgo tickets."The Honourable Gail Shea, Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, opened the Canadian seal hunt amid protests by animal rights groups, at a time when bans on seal product imports are becoming more prevalent internationally.Seal hunters along the coast of Newfoundland and Labrador, and the Gulf of St. Lawrence are allowed to catch a maximum of 270,000 Harp Seal pups from a total estimated population of 5.5 million.  8,200 is the allowable catch of Hooded seals from an estimated population of 600,000, and seal hunters may catch 50,000 grey seals from an approximate population of 300,000. The Harp seal pups may be killed as soon as they have molted their white pelts, which occurs 10 to 21 days after birth.It is reported that Russia has shut down the seal hunt on its shores.  The United States, Netherlands, and Belgium ban the import of seal products.  The European Parliament committee has endorsed a ban on seal product imports by the 27 European Union (EU) member states, in the form of a proposed  bill that would still allow the Canadian Inuit to trade in seal products for first nation cultural purposes. All members of the EU must approve the bill for it to become law."While we are extremely disappointed that the European Parliament has called for a ban of the trade of seal products, our position remains that any ban on a humanely conducted hunt, such as Canada's, is completely without merit. We will continue to explore all legal and diplomatic options and we will exercise our rights to their fullest extent under international trade laws if and when it becomes necessary and appropriate." "Sealing is a significant source of income in many small, isolated coastal communities throughout Atlantic Canada, Quebec and the North, and creates critical employment opportunities for processing plants, as well as fuel, food and equipment suppliers in coastal communities," said Minister Shea."Our government will continue to defend the rights of Canadian sealers to provide a livelihood for their families through our humane, responsible and sustainable hunt," she said. "It represents as much as 35 per cent of a sealer’s annual income and is important for thousands of families at a time of year when other fishing options are limited at best."The first area to open up to the seal hunt was the Gulf of St. Lawrence, where 30 percent of the catch is allowed.Sixteen observer permits have been issued. "The majority of the observers are people who protest against the seal hunt, but there are journalists and other observers as well. We try to make sure there's an even proportion of sealing activity and observer activity,"  Mr. Jenkins, Department of Fisheries and Oceans spokesman said. The International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) is going to observe and record the commercial seal hunt."It's devastating to be here, to know the commercial seal hunt has started again.  It's clear that a change is on the horizon with the European Parliament voting on a proposal to ban seal-product trade in the EU and many people in the Canadian sealing industry believe that could spell the beginning of the end of the commercial seal hunt," commented Rebecca Aldworth, director of the Canadian chapter of Humane Society International.Police are now searching Canada-wide for 25-year-old Adam Spencer, a man with ties to the Oakville, Ontario and Toronto areas. He is a motivational speaker, and the founder/chief executive (CEO) of Emexis Integrated Solutions, an upstart information technology company.First off, Spencer told investors between September 2005 and May of last year that he was making Emexis a public company, located in downtown Toronto. He allegedly took CAN$8 million from Canadian investors, defrauded 100 investors out of amounts ranging from CAN$5,000 to as much as CAN$2 million each in a couple of cases, and is on the run with their cash.Police don't even know if he is still in Canada. They suspect that he could be in England because he has a passport there.Spencer travels to car race events all around the world.Wikinews will continue to follow this story as updates are known.Adam Spencer, 26-years-old, and former (CEO) of Emexis Integrated Solutions Inc. turned himself in yesterday morning. His family and his lawyer were with him.This came after a Canada-wide police search was started on January 12, 2007. The Oakville, Ontario man disappeared last year after asking for money from Canadian investors to help his company Emexis go public. However, Spencer did not take Emexis public as promised.Eighty-nine investors, who, at the time, believed Spencer, have come forward to police."The long and the short of it is that he did not meet his obligations in terms of what he promised his investors," Mr. Peter Leupen, one of the investors who helped Spencer, said. "He promised us a dividend on an initial investment and that never happened.""He's genuinely dishonest, I think he's immature and putting the best gloss on it, he let the money he was collecting go to his head. He was spending it like a drunken sailor on boats, houses, race cars, everything but what he was supposed to be spending it on," Mr. Symon Zucker, a Toronto lawyer who the investors sought help from.Spencer was last seen before Christmas and recently returned to Canada. Detective Jeff Thompson said Spencer was in Chicago, Illinois for the weekend."It appears that he was not in any hurry to face the music," said Thompson.Spencer will go to a Toronto court on Monday.Skyservice, a Canadian charter airline, has cancelled several flights from Toronto's Pearson International Airport, with reports that the airline has ceased operations.The company cites debt levels and changes in the vacation travel market with its decision to shut down operations and file for receivership. At the time of the filing in Ontario Superior Court, Skyservice is said to owe almost $9 million CAD to long-term partner and Thomas Cook subsidiary Sunquest Vacations. This situation exacerbated the debt load already put on the airline by a leveraged buyout in 2007 by Vancouver-based private equity firm Gibralt Capital Corporation. That placed more debt than was workable on the troubled airline, along with Roynat Capital calling in their loans to Skyservice earlier in the year.Skyservice has stated that it will work with its partner companies and other providers to ensure customers stranded by the airline's sudden shutdown are dealt with effectively, according to a company representative. In addition to customers impacted by the cancellation of flights for the month of April, approximately 860 jobs are expected to be lost as a result of this shutdown.Tour operator Signature Vacations, under a contract with Skyservice until 2013, has stated that they were prepared for the airline's receivership, having joined forces with rival service Sunwing Airlines.Last year, operator Conquest Vacations declared bankruptcy, allegedly due to the economic downturn and reduced revenues throughout the industry.File:CAN Loonie.jpgThe rising value of the Canadian dollar briefly matched the falling United States dollar for the first time since 1976, before closing at 0.9987 US dollars on Thursday. The Canadian dollar has risen 62% since bottoming out at 0.6179 US dollars in 2002, following a steady decline since the 1976 electoral victory of separatist René Lévesque in Quebec which triggered economic fears about Canadian stability.As a result of their rising currency, Canadians have enjoyed cheaper imports from the US and tourism in the US, while export industries have suffered. The Canadian dollar's recent rise is partly due to the soaring prices of oil, gold, copper, and wheat, which Canada exports in great quantities. The Canadian economy has also benefited from Canada's large budget and trade surpluses.The value of the US dollar has also fallen in relation to other currencies in the past year: while the Canadian dollar rose 16%, the Euro gained 6%, the Japanese yen about 4%, and the British pound 2%. The US dollar took a sharp hit this week due to a higher-than-expected half-point cut in interest rates by the US Federal Reserve, intended to mitigate the effects of a deepening housing slump and turbulence in the credit market.The average retail price of gasoline in Canada surpassed the psychological barrier of CAN $1 (US$0.84) per litre during the past week, according to the Calgary firm M.J. Ervin & Associates.According to Ervin, the average price for a litre (.26 gallon) of regular unleaded gasoline is now C$1.04 (US$0.87, €0.71)Fuel remains under a dollar a litre in some parts of the country, with retailers in Edmonton offering the cheapest prices of all the major cities at 93.3 cents/litre.  Drivers in Montreal were paying $1.14/litre, the highest price in the country.The surging price of crude oil has been cited by Ervin as the reason for the unprecedented prices.  Rising demand coupled by ongoing political problems in the Middle East have pushed crude prices to new records at the close of each day of trading.  The price at the New York Mercantile Exchange is now averaging over US$65 per barrel, a full $20 a barrel higher than one year ago."The biggest factor playing into the current pump price is, without a doubt, the high crude oil prices," according to Ervin's Cathy Hay.  But she added, "Layering in on top of that is very strong gasoline demand and a decline in inventories."Hay's remarks echo the view of many analysts that despite the record prices, there is not yet any sign of major changes in Canadians' driving habits.  "(Canadians) will basically grin and bear it. Well, maybe they won't grin, but they'll bear it." Bank of Montreal economist Doug Porter said.  "So far we really haven't seen any response whatsoever on the consumer spending front."The rising fuel prices have prompted the country's major airlines, Air Canada and WestJet to levy fuel surcharges.  Analysts expect the rising fuel costs to trigger a rise in the price of many goods and services as shipping costs rise.  Concerns regarding the long-term effect of higher fuel prices are prompting demands by the Canadian Taxpayers Federation, the Canadian Automobile Association and others that the federal and provincial governments either lower or eliminate gasoline taxes.Nova Scotian Finance Minister Peter Christie is considering such requests, although he emphasized that such steps would not be taken quickly.  Nova Scotian New Democrat leader Darrell Dexter said the province's Harmonized Sales Tax should be removed from gasoline, asserting that since there are already both federal and provincial excise taxes on fuel, it is therefore immoral to charge what is effectively a double tax by adding HST (or the Goods and Services Tax and provincial sales taxes outside Atlantic Canada).However, federal cabinet ministers were quick to reject calls to lower the federal excise tax to exempt GST.  Federal Natural Resources Minister John Efford said the price of gasoline was being driven up by demand for crude oil, not taxes.Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty announced a five-year program that could reduce taxes by a total C$60 billion. The planned tax reduction measures include:Low-end personal income tax rates would be reduced from 15.5% to 15%, taking retroactive effect to the start of 2007;The basic personal exemption, the amount at which income is taxable, is raised from C$8,929 to C$9,600, also backdated to January 2007;Business tax rates are expected regularly drop from the current 20.5% to 15% in 2012;The Goods and Services Tax that applies to most purchases would be reduced from 6% to 5% as 2008 begins. This rate was previously reduced from 7% July 2006, shortly after Prime Minister Stephen Harper took office.These measures will be brought before the House of Commons in Ottawa on Wednesday as a confidence motion. In Canada's minority government situation, opposition parties could defeat these measures and likely prompt an election. However, opposition leader Stéphane Dion has expressed an unwillingness to defeat the government on this matter.The Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) announced today that computer systems involved with the processing of tax returns for individuals are back online.Tax processing had been halted on March 6, 2007, due to a computer glitch. The source of the problem had been traced back to software maintenance performed on March 4.In an update on the CRA website, dated March 14, Michel Dorais, Commissioner of the Agency, stated that all of the databases had been restored and CRA employees are processing the backlog of returns and payments.Tax processing for businesses had not been affected by the computer shutdown.In his statement, Dorais thanked taxpayers "for their patience and understanding" during the service outage. He also stated that "the integrity and safety of personal data was never at risk".The CRA suggests that it would work quickly to process the resulting backlog of tax returns.Robert 'Bob' Edmonds, who sued the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation (OLG), died Monday in hospital at age 83 of cancer."He'll be remembered as the guy who just wouldn't go away," said Ontario Ombudsman André Marin speaking of the loss. "I was the speakerphone and he was the speaker – I merely amplified what he had to say. He deserves the credit for the entire thing."Edmonds of Coboconk, Ontario first came to fight the OLG in 2001 when he was "robbed" of his lottery winning of CAN$250,000 by a store clerk. He asked the store clerk's wife Phyllis LaPlante to check the tickets and she said he did not win but won a free ticket (when someone wins a lottery prize in Canada a small sound goes off in the store). Days after, the couple who owned the store were in the local newspaper saying they had won the jackpot of $250,000. When he contacted the OLG they denied the allegations, and when the couple were arrested for fraud they refused to return his winnings. He sued the LaPlantes for the winnings and settled for $150,000.In 2002, Edmonds sued the corporation and signed a confidentiality agreement on behalf of the OLG after a judge asked them to rightfully give him the money he won. They gave him $200,000 three years later. Last Friday they gave him $50,000 dollars more, for a total of $250,000.In October 2006, CBC's The Fifth Estate showed that more retailers from 1999 to 2006 were winning instead of the customers. After the broadcast OLG's former CEO called him and personally apologised and the company started to create more security measures for customers.Following the allegations, 1,000,000 scratch tickets were recalled and on March 23, 2007 CEO Duncan Brown announced he resigned his position. Days later Ontario Ombudsman André Marin sparked up an investingation into the OLG however it is still ongoing.Edmonds leaves his wife, daughter, and two sons.Canadian media company CHUM Limited has announced that it has agreed to be acquired by larger rival Bell Globemedia Inc. for $1.7 billion CAD cash, bringing the CTV and Citytv broadcast-television networks and such specialty channels as MuchMusic, TSN and Bravo! under the same corporate umbrella.Shareholders will receive $52.50 per common share of CHUM and $47.25 per Class B (non-voting) share. The estate of the late Allan Waters, who died late last year, has agreed to tender all its shares to the bid, netting the Waters family nearly $450 million.In a joint statement, CHUM's chairman, Jim Waters, said, "In Bell Globemedia's offer, we not only found value for shareholders, but confidence that we would be placing CHUM in the hands of an owner with the financial resources and track record to continue to grow and build on our collective legacy."Globemedia CEO Ivan Fecan added, "We are able to make this premium offer because Bell Globemedia is clearly the most logical buyer of CHUM. There is a unique strategic fit to our operations that can make the united company a stronger national champion in broadcasting. We intend to maintain and build the valuable CHUM brands and develop more opportunities for Canadian programming." He added that CTV and Citytv will remain separate networks and "will maintain separate and independent news divisions in order to ensure a continued diversity and competition in news coverage."In a separate release, CHUM announced it would be cutting 281 jobs at its stations across the country, particularly at its Citytv stations in western Canada. Effectively immediately, evening newscasts at CKVU-TV Vancouver, CKEM-TV Edmonton, CKAL-TV Calgary and CHMI-TV in the Winnipeg market are being eliminated, with plans for a new newsmagazine tentatively titled In Your City at the three Prairie stations, and more resources being put into each station's local version of Breakfast Television. Less drastic changes are planned for its A-Channel stations in smaller markets. The company said these changes will result "in a significant reduction in staffing and operating costs."The companies said that they expect to sell CHUM's A-Channel stations, as well as Alberta educational broadcaster Access, to third parties, despite CTV's historical ties to several of them. Many of the A-Channel stations were originally acquired by CHUM from Baton Broadcasting, the predecessor of Bell Globemedia, in 1997, as part of a trade that sent CHUM's ATV and ASN assets in Atlantic Canada to Baton and allowed Baton to acquire the CTV network itself.Despite CHUM's ownership of MuchMusic and CTV's recent launch of MTV Canada, the companies claim their specialty channels are "complementary" and did not indicate any sale plans.Bell Globemedia is currently majority-owned by BCE Inc. but is awaiting regulatory approval for a restructuring involving the Ontario Teachers Pension Plan, Torstar Corp., and the Thomson family. In the interim, the takeover offer will be made by a new company owned by the proposed new shareholder structure.Noted Toronto resident and Canadian merchant and theatre owner Ed Mirvish has died. On July 11, 2007, the Mirvish family released a statement confirming his passing earlier that morning at St. Michael’s Hospital, Toronto. "Honest Ed", as he was known, was two weeks away from reaching his 93rd birthday."Mr. Mirvish did pass away this morning at around 1:30a.m. at St. Mike's Hospital," said his friend Russell Lazar.The mayor of Toronto, David Miller, told CBC News that, "His store was about making sure that everyone could afford to live with some dignity and decency. His theatres were about bringing some joy and passion into people's lives."Mirvish was known for his landmark discount store, Honest Ed's, and as a patron of the arts who helped revitalize the theatre scene in Toronto.The PM and Quebec premier Jean Charest have announced a $1 billion highway development in Montreal. This project would be one of Canada's largest ever public private partnerships. It will be a 35 kilometer (21.8 mile) four-lane toll road Highway 30 project, in Montreal."It opens up a new horizon in Quebec's economic development," Stephen Harper said in a speech in Lery, Quebec. "As prime minister of Canada I am very proud and welcome this latest example of the fruitful collaboration between our government and that of Quebec.""Since we formed the government of Canada, I have wanted to practice an open federalism, inspired by the spirit which gave birth to the Canadian confederation," said Harper. "That includes respecting provincial jurisdictions and the sharing of responsibilities.""You know that open federalism is not a constitutional theory or an electoral slogan," the prime minister added. "It's a new approach that allows partners in the Canadian federation to work better together in the realization of projects."Completing the highway will allow through traffic to bypass Montreal, reducing traffic congestion and air pollution in the area."The announcement today speaks to the willingness of both governments to work together to better serve the interests of the population," said Charest, who is expected to head into an election next year. Bank of Canada Governor David Dodge and other public officials have endorsed agreements between governments and private companies to invest in roads and hospitals."Just like they told us that our bridges were safe, they also want us to swallow that our power grid is in no danger of a system-wide, no-power-for-weeks crash", said tenured power grid expert Donald McCormick, a senior contractor with Hydro One, an Ontario, Canada based electricity provider.Mr. McCormick indicated that in reality though, there’s no question that the system of grids that supply power throughout the continent are in much worse shape than the majority of bridges, levees and borders in Canada and U.S.  He has over two decades of experience in all aspects of power grid construction, infrastructure, maintenance, and distribution. During a recent interview, Mr. McCormick compared the ten major interconnected power regions that comprise the "North American Grid", to a string of Christmas lights that’s been active non-stop since the 1950s. Mr. McCormick's qualifications include being a licensed red seal interprovincial/interstate electrical engineer and he's worked at numerous power generating stations mainly in Canada, but also across the U.S.  He's participated in building regional infrastructure related to both generation and distribution. Additionally, Mr. McCormick is Orange Level qualified as an Atomic Radiation Worker (ARW) registered in Geneva, Switzerland.Mr. McCormick offered his candid assessment of today’s continental "power grid" by making several observations about this critical, civilization-supporting industry. His power plant experience includes both nuclear and coal, and he’s a certified expert in alternative fuel technologies such as wind, solar and hydrogen. He said that, from nuclear to coal, the majority of power generating plants operating across North America have momentous deficiencies, and the collective 10-region “power grid” has not been maintained properly (across the board) since the 1960s. Population growth has created a state in which North American power consumption is far greater than what is being yielded by current technological capacity to generate consumable energy. Mr. McCormick indicated that the infamous August 2003 blackout, in which the Northeastern U.S., Mid-Eastern U.S. and most of Ontario suffered stifling, life-interrupting blackouts, was just the beginning of something much more significant. In reference to the North American Power Grid Initiative, he said that it’s nothing more than a case of, "too little, too late"."You’re frequently seeing substandard parts and equipment being employed, on sites across the continent, and being used for sensitive construction projects, often related to components integral to the grid system itself. North American nuclear energy generating plants are among the worst when it comes to safety violations, not only endangering on-site employees with blatant disregard but also literally thousands of people with regard to unregulated, unnoticed pollution and waste being dumped in rivers, lakes and oceans, into the atmosphere and, more specifically, our entire ecosystem," said McCormick.Mr. McCormick strongly feels that another major breakdown of the grid system may occur by the end of this year, and he further stated that he’s also concerned that domestic power grid system is in grave danger of being undermined by terrorists.ExxonMobil Corp. chairman and chief executive Rex Tillerson has warned residents of Alberta, Canada that they risk endangering investment and growth of the province if they change the royalty scheme to increase revenue returned to the province from its oil sands.  Currently, oil companies pay a one per cent royalty on their revenues until their initial investment is paid off, when the royalty is then increased to 25 percent of revenues. Alberta received CA$14 billion in oil sands revenue the last fiscal year.Described as one of the most powerful oilmen in the world, Tillerson made it clear that should the province of Alberta seek a larger portion of the profits, Alberta could suffer a decrease in economic growth. Tillerson suggests that royalties represent interventionist policies similar to those associated with the (much maligned in Alberta) National Energy Program.  In contrast to the warning from Tillerson, CIBC World Markets recently released a report stating that the oil sands are one of the few petroleum resources that can be "expanded significantly" and will be an increasingly important source for future demand. The statement comes at a time where a large and growing number of Albertans associate the province's economic growth with high inflation, housing shortages and a strain on schools and infrastructure. A report on recommendations to the scheme was scheduled to be released September 12, but was delayed until September 16 to verify data.The Toronto Stock Exchange experienced one of its biggest one-day point losses in the wake of a major (9%) stock sell-off in China. The S&P/TSX Composite Index dropped 2.7%, falling 364 points eventually ending the day at 13,040. Despite this 'dramatic' drop, the main Toronto index is still above where it was eight weeks prior at the end of 2006.   It was the biggest one-day percentage drop since April 2004. At its worst point, the index was down 457 points. Every sector was in negative territory, with resource stocks leading the charge down. – CBC NewsRecently, the TSX set seven record highs in nine trading sessions. Its benchmark index doubled since October 2002 as well as experienced a steady rise in commodity prices. The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) witnessed even larger drops; the Dow Jones Industrial Average saw a loss of 3.3%, fallling 416 points, making it its worst day in almost four years. At its lowest point of the day it dropped 4.3%, falling 550 points. The Nasdaq composite index dropped similarily 96 points to 2,432 for a 3.8% loss.In total, 498 of the 500 U.S. companies represented in the S&P 500 index fell including all 30 Dow stocks.CBC Television's hit show Little Mosque on the Prairie is set to debut in France, Switzerland, and French-speaking African countries.The show, which is owned by WestWind Pictures, is a comedy about a Muslim family living in Canada's Prairies, in a largely Muslim populated fictional town called Mercy, Saskatchewan. It deals with day-to-day life between the North American culture and Muslim culture and has been featured around the world with reviews from The New York Times to The Daily Telegraph.French television company Canal+ Group will distribute the show's first season in July to non-subscribers of Canal+, a channel which viewers must subscribe to watch. French voice-actors will dub the show in all three regions' local French dialect."Little Mosque On The Prairie's international success is a testament to the quality of Canadian talent and how it is embraced around the world," said Kirstine Layfield, executive director of network programming with CBC Television.Mary Darling of Westwind Pictures said the show creates a good understanding between both cultures."When people came in the booth and sat down to talk to us, the first sentence wasn't: 'Hey, hilarious show, love the jokes, what a laugh.' Instead, it was viewed as a show that's needed beyond comic relief. People are looking at it to break down barriers, build bridges, create understanding, and find a voice for people who are unheard or unrepresented," Darling said.The series premiere gained 2.1 million viewers; it gained an average of 1.2 million viewers for the first season. The second season is already in filming and is set to air this fall.Garth Drabinsky and Myron Gottlieb, founders of Live Entertainment Corporation of Canada, Inc. (Livent) in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, were sentenced Wednesday to concurrent prison terms for corporate fraud and forgery which resulted in millions of dollars in losses to their investors for close to a decade.  Drabinsky received four years on one count and seven years on a second count.  Gottlieb got four years and six years on two counts of fraud."No one is above the law.  No one gets to write his own rules," said Ontario Superior Court Justice Mary Lou Benotto. "Corporate fraud such as this results in tangible losses to employees, creditors and investors."File:Freddyphantom.jpgSenior executives Drabinsky, Gottlieb, Robert Topol, and Gorden Eckstein were all charged by the RCMP in 2002.  Eckstein pleaded guilty to fraud and testified at the court cast against Drabinsky and Gottleib.  Topol had his trial stayed due to adjournments and delays.The Livent company had produced plays such as The Phantom of the Opera, Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, Show Boat, and Ragtime in Toronto, before its sale to Michael Ovitz in 1998.  Ovitz ordered an audit of the company following which it went bankrupt by the year's end. Livent filed a CA$225 million lawsuit against the former chairman Drabinsky and former president Gottlieb, who were summarily dismissed. Drabinsky and Gottlieb are also facing charges in the United States for misrepresentations of financial worth to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.Canberra CBD Limited (CCBD) released data this week about a urinal trial in the Australian Capital Territory (ACT)'s Central Business District (CBD) this past weekend that showed the temporary urinals collected 220 litres of urine in a four day period between 7pm and 7am on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday nights. Estimates showed that 1,200 men relieved themselves in this period, with 450 of them doing so on Saturday night. A number of businesses in the CBD had complained about men using storefronts and streets to relieve themselves despite the possibility of AU$200 on-the-spot fines. 277 people have been fined in the territory in the past year, with 228 of them being fined for public urination in the CBD.The urinals were placed in a number of public places including Verity Lane, at the bus interchange on the corner of Alinga Street and Verity Lane, and on City Walk near the corner of Saraton Lane.  They have small doors at hip level to provide some degree of privacy despite their very public location. Barcham, writing on The Riot-ACT, notes the privacy afforded to men is limited as the doors appear to be for very short men, saying "The doors sit well below 'business' level, meaning they won’t actually provide privacy to anyone over 5 foot tall."The urinal trial is scheduled to continue over Easter weekend.  In a press release issued by CCBD, CCBD's chief executive officer is quoted as saying, "Canberra CBD is focussed on providing a clean and safe city for the broader Canberra community. [...] This urinal trial is not a permanent solution, rather a trial to provide data for decision making purposes."  Before the start of the trial, CCBD said if the trial proved successful, the ACT government could consider making the urinals a permanent fixture in the CBD.  Kros Urinals is maintaining the urinals.A survey on the Canberra Times website found 43% of respondents liked the idea of the urinals and wanted them to become permanent while only 13% thought the answer was not urinals but more policing for public urination.Canon Inc. announced the initiative to start production of new generation flat-panel television on its own. The sole production will occur after Canon Inc. buys the stake of Toshiba Corp. in their joint venture, SED Inc.The companies are expected to make an official statement concerning their joint venture.In order to start production of the new flat-screens based on the SED technology, Canon Inc. had to clarify the situation with the Texas-based Nano-Proprietary Inc. The latter has brought a lawsuit against Canon in 2005 on the basis of the two sided agreement concerning the patent on SED technology. The agreement didn't allow Canon to make any other ventures on this technology, but Canon joining forces with Toshiba was the reason for the mentioned lawsuit.The dispute with Nano-Proprietary was the ground for Canon and Toshiba to delay the construction of the $1.7 billion plant for SED-based flat-panels. Earlier the companies agreed to contribute with 100 billion yen each in the SED plant.Toshiba's stake in the joint venture SED Inc. is about Yen$10 billion, or, approximately, US$83 million.This new SED (surface-conduction electron-emitter display) technology is meant to replace the existing LCD and plasma screen due to their smaller sizes and lower energy consumption. At the end of this year the companies planned to start mass production of these new displays.New York - Carly Fiorina was ousted by the board of directors of HP yesterday, much to the delight of Wall Street. Ms Fiorina's resignation was the result of a disagreement with the board over the future of the company. Often cited as America's most powerful businesswoman, Ms Fiorina presided over the multi-billion dollar merger between Hewlett Packard and Compaq Computers in 2002. The move comes after several months of intense speculation about her future with the company. Having promised billions in annual savings to the company from the 2002 merger, the combined company failed to keep pace with competitors such as Dell, or to deliver any significant increases in profits, particularly in the personal computer market. A recent investigation by Fortune magazine highlighted the fact that the firm's highly profitable printer business supported the lower-margin computer business. After the announcement, HP shares surged 10% on Wall Street against a generally poor performance by the major indices.India's recently launched satellites, the 1560 kg Indian Remote Sensing satellite, CARTOSAT-1 for stereoscopic cartographic applications and 42.5 kg HAMSAT will have a longer life as per the Project Director, PSLV, N Narayana Murthy.Murthy told reporters that the additional fuel in the satellites for putting them into the right orbit can now be utilized for orbit maintenance maneuvers. This is due to their precise injection into the orbit by the PSLV-C6 Launcher.PSLV-C6 was launched by Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) on May 5, 2005 10:15 IST (May 05, 04:45 UT). PSLV-C6 placed both the satellites in polar Sun Synchronous Orbit (SSO) at an altitude of 632 x 621 km with an inclination of 97.8 deg with respect to the equator. The solar panels of CARTOSAT-1 were deployed soon after its injection into orbit.CARTOSAT-1 is the eleventh satellite in the Indian remote sensing satellite series and is intended for cartographic applications. It carries two panchromatic cameras that take black-and-white stereoscopic pictures in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum.HAMSAT is a Micro-satellite for providing satellite based Amateur Radio services to the Indian as well as International community of Amateur Radio Operators (HAM).Cathal Ryan, an early board member of Irish non-designated flag carrier, and son of late co-founder Tony Ryan, has died. He was 48, and had been diagnosed with cancer.Cathal bacame one of Ryanair's first pilots, having trained as one in the 1980s in Sri Lanka, when his father set up the airline in 1985 in trust for his three sons, of which Cathal was the eldest. He left the Far East specifically to join the airline.In 1986 he became the head of London European Airways, a business in which Ryanair had bought an 85% stake. This position, however, quickly disappeared as the carrier became Ryanair UK and was then merged entirely with Ryanair.Over the next decade, Cathal worked both on the executive board of the airline and as a pilot, although he resigned from the latter by 1996. He remained with Ryanir until leaving the board 2002, by which time he was a multi-millionaire due to the success of the airline.He continued to be actively involved with business ventures, taking an active role in running his family's stud farm, as well as being a director for Irelandia, a family-owned investment company. With Irelandia he was involved in the launches of such airlines as Tiger Airways and AeroBus.Cathal died yesterday at his home in Celbridge, Co Kildare, in the company of his children Cillian, Claudia, Danielle and Cameron, his mother Mairead and brothers Declan and Shane.Friends and colleagues expressed surprise at his passing, commenting that at the funeral of his father, who had also been diagnosed with cancer, ten weeks previously he had "seemed fine." Cathal had also recently begun regular trips to Italy, where he had become interested in the performing arts.Ray MacSharry, a long-serving Ryanair director, described Cathal as "invaluable" to the air carrier's "continuing success". Michael O'Leary, CEO of the company, called him "one of life's originals". "He was bright, charming, witty and tremendous company," Mr O'Leary went on. "He was also an extremely skilled pilot, having become one of the youngest ever captains on the Boeing 747 aircraft, which he flew for Air Lanka in the early 1980s. Cathal's vision, his expertise and his dedication to aircraft safety was pivotal to the development of Ryanair, and to our 22-year safety record. "Cathal was one of Ireland's aviation pioneers. He was a comet who shone brightly in our lives and has passed away at a tragically early age. We will all be much the poorer for the loss of his talent, his ability and his friendship," Mr O'Leary concluded. "His vision, his expertise and his dedication to aircraft safety was pivotal to the development of Ryanair."His former fiance Michelle Rocca, mother of Claudia, expressed her sadness at his passing: "He was a wonderful father to Claudia; he and I had a very good relationship over the past number of years and he will be greatly missed by all of us."Others described him as a "well-heeled chap", and one of the few members of Ryanair early in the airline's history to be able to afford expensive items, such as his luxury car and his high-quality suit. Cathal's prosperity had often helped Ryanir through financial problems in it's early stages.Several colleagues recalled one famous incident where airport authorities had refused to allow an aircraft he was piloting to be refueled unless it was paid for up front due to an unpaid bill. When Cathal was informed of the issue, he produced his gold credit card to pay for the fuel.A British man, held in Thailand for e-mailing threats to executives of United Kingdom retailer Tesco, has admitted to the scheme and apologized."What I did was very misguided, a silly idea that I took so far," Alexander Winstone's statement reads. "I would like to stress that it was never my intention to cause anybody any harm or hurt, and as I was working alone it was impossible for me to do so."Lastly, I would like to apologize to Tesco Plc and its staff for the distress that this must have caused and to the members of the Royal Thai and British police forces for wasting their time and resources."Winstone, 36, sent e-mails to Tesco in May, demanding £2 million (about US$4 million) in exchange for not tampering with products sold by the U.K.'s biggest retailer.Scotland Yard traced the e-mails to an Internet cafe in the Nana area of Sukhumvit Road in Bangkok. Winstead was present in surveillance videos in the cafe, and he was captured in another Internet cafe nearby.How Winstone planned to implement his scheme is unknown. Tesco operates 57 Tesco Lotus hypermarkets in Thailand, as well as 309 Tesco Express convenience stores. Winstone was brought in yesterday for questioning by Royal Thai Police. He faces up to five years in jail in Thailand, or he could be extradited to the U.K."We take this to be a serious crime and no laughing matter. We will be happy to put this man on trial in Thailand for attempted extortion if the British authorities do not ask for his extradition," Police General Issaraphan Sanitwong na Ayutthaya was quoted as saying by the Bangkok Post.The new CBS Corporation began trading on the New York Stock Exchange once again on January 3 after officially finishing its split with Viacom two days earlier. The split had been in the works since around March 2005 when Viacom announced it was breaking into two publicly traded companies due to stock price stagnation. In June 2005, Viacom's board approved the split and saying the CBS Corporation name would be revived for one of those companies. One of these units would receive most of Viacom's broadcasting and mass-media portion of subsidiaries (CBS, UPN, Infinity Broadcasting, now CBS Radio) along with Viacom Outdoor (now CBS Outdoor), Showtime Networks, and Paramount's television studio and a few other operations and announced long-time excutive Leslie Moonves would head that new company.The split is filled with twists and turns. Viacom was founded in 1971 as CBS' television syndication division and was spun off in 1973. Westinghouse Electric Corporation bought CBS and changed its name to CBS Corporation. In a ironic twist, Viacom accquired their parent company in 1999 and CBS' stock symbol was de-listed as it became a division of Viacom. Ironically, the new CBS Corporation is actually the original Viacom. A new Viacom was founded and spun off containing MTV Networks (which contains CMT and Spike TV, two cable networks originally owned by CBS) along with BET, Paramount's film studio and home entertainment divisions, online virtual pet game Neopets, and a music publisher. It also partially owns Sega of America along with the Sonic the Hedgehog trademarks and is currently in the process of acquiring DreamWorks.CBS unveiled its logo, the iconic CBS eye, and launched the corporation's official wesbite, cbscorporation.comThe officials from CBS stated on Monday that the company is going to invest in virtual world content developer Electric Sheep Co., which develops 3D properties in several virtual worlds like the one called Second Life.In recent months corporate investors are paying more attention to virtual worlds. This is mainly due to the fact that the audience is shifting from TV to Internet. Another advantage of virtual worlds is that they can help in marketing products and promoting brands.The Interactive President of CBS, Quinsy Smith, sees the virtual worlds as platforms for the next generations. The Chief Executive of Electric Sheep, Sibley Verbeck, mentioned in an interview that the company has the goal of helping entertainment companies to gain their clients from virtual worlds like Second Life. Then Electric Sheep will provide more entertainment experiences for clientèle. With money invested by CBS, Electric Sheep plans to develop software that will create virtual worlds for mainstream consumption.Electric Sheep developed several projects for CBS, including "The L-Word in Second Life". CBS also filmed a commercial within Second Life in order to promote its show called "Two and a Half Men."Currently Electric Sheep is developing inside Second Life a Star Trek-themed area for CBS.Several central banks in Europe and North America announced joint efforts to provide liquidity to the credit markets in the wake of the 2007 subprime mortgage financial crisis. The banks will hold coordinated auctions "designed to address elevated pressures in short-term funding markets." The announcement came simutaneously from all of the banks at 9:00 a.m. EST (UTC-5).The banks involved are the United States' Federal Reserve System (Fed), the European Union's European Central Bank (ECB), the United Kingdom's Bank of England (BoE), Canada's Bank of Canada (BoC), and Switzerland's Swiss National Bank (SNB).The auctions will run through the end of 2007. The first auction  is scheduled for Monday, December 17 and will be a "Term Auction Facility" of US$20 billion.In its statement the Federal Reserve said: "The Federal Open Market Committee has authorized temporary reciprocal currency arrangements (swap lines) with the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Swiss National Bank (SNB).  These arrangements will provide dollars in amounts of up to $20 billion and $4 billion to the ECB and the SNB, respectively, for use in their jurisdictions.  The FOMC approved these swap lines for a period of up to six months."The Bank of Japan (BoJ) is not participating in the intervention, but welcomed the action. In its official statement, the BoJ said: "The Bank of Japan welcomes these measures and hopes that they will contribute to maintaining the functioning of the international financial markets."In an effort to reduce the effect of the ongoing financial crisis, six central banks worldwide have reduced their interest rates by 0.5% in an unexpected move which took place today. The banks involved in the deal are the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the Federal Reserve, Sveriges Riksbank, and the Swiss National Bank."Throughout the current financial crisis, central banks have engaged in continuous close consultation and have cooperated in unprecedented joint actions such as the provision of liquidity to reduce strains in financial markets," said the banks in a joint statement. "Inflationary pressures have started to moderate in a number of countries, partly reflecting a marked decline in energy and other commodity prices. Inflation expectations are diminishing and remain anchored to price stability. The recent intensification of the financial crisis has augmented the downside risks to growth and thus has diminished further the upside risks to price stability. ""Some easing of global monetary conditions is therefore warranted. Accordingly, the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank, the Federal Reserve, Sveriges Riksbank, and the Swiss National Bank are today announcing reductions in policy interest rates. The Bank of Japan expresses its strong support of these policy actions."Japan expressed support for the move, although it did not cut its own interest rate by 0.5% as that would mean bringing its interest rate down to 0% from 0.5%.The US interest rate was lowered to 1.5% as part of the move, while the UK rate was lowered to 4.5%. The European rate was lowered to 3.75%.The new rate of the Swiss National Bank is 2.5%, while Sveriges Riksbank, the Swedish central bank, lowered its rate to 4.25%.In a New York press conference at 16:15 UTC, June 1st, Fritz Henderson, the Chief Executive Officer of General Motors, which filed for bankruptcy and Chapter 11 protection from its creditors earlier today, outlined a plan for what he called a "New GM".Speaking to the press under safe harbor provisions of U.S. law, Henderson described the events of today as a "defining moment" in the history of General Motors.  Speaking to the public he said that "The GM that let you down is history," and described a "New GM" that he expected to result from the bankruptcy process.Henderson stated that he envisioned the bankruptcy process would take between 60 and 90 days.  He stressed several times his view that the process would be one that is executed quickly, saying that not just a sense of urgency but "pure unadulterated speed" was his expectation of the process.  He emphasized that "GM remains open for business" during the bankruptcy period, continuing to sell and to support its products, and that day one motions had been filed in the bankruptcy court in order to allow this.Regarding the bankruptcy process he said, "We will do it right. And we will do it once."He stated that the plan for General Motors had the support of the United Auto Workers union, the Canadian Auto Workers union, the GM VEBA, and a majority of the unsecured bondholders of GM.  He also mentioned that GM had already received €1.5 million in bridge financing from the German government.In response to questions about the possibility of the United States federal government, a majority shareholder in the restructured company, dictating future product development and strategy, such as the sale of more fuel-efficient and green vehicles; he first observed that the federal government had already stated to him that it had "no real interest in running our business" and that he expected that still to be his job.  Of the specific hypothetical scenario where the management of GM wants to make one type of car, because it thinks that it is the right thing for the business, and the U.S. government wants to make another type of car, he stated that "I don't think it's going to happen."  Expanding on that point he stated that he expected the "New GM" to focus upon "highly fuel-efficient and green technology", and that operating both in accordance with U.S. environmental laws and in response to customer demand would naturally result in the New GM producing the types of vehicles that the U.S. government would encourage.The "New GM" he also expected to focus on "four core brands", and will size its dealership to match that.  He stated that GM would offer a "deferred termination" package to dealers, to allow them to cease dealing in GM vehicles in a managed and gradual way.He stated that the bankruptcy filings did not cover General Motors' businesses in Latin America, Europe and the Middle East, and Asia and the Pacific. Of GM's profitable ventures in China, specifically, he stated that they were "a critical part of the New GM". In response to questions of whether the New GM would import cars from China to the U.S., he stated the formative company's core principle that "We build where we sell" applied in both directions, with GM building in China to sell in China and building in the U.S. to sell in the U.S., stating that this shortened supply chains.He declined to predict when the New GM would return to profitability, stating that the goal was rather to lower the break-even EBIT point for the company.  He also declined to speculate upon when the U.S. government would sell its stake in the company, saying that that was a question "better addressed to the U.S. Treasury", and merely saying that he expected it to be "years, not months" when the U.S. Treasury felt it would give "the right return for taxpayers."The US-based Cessna Aircraft Company, a subsidiary of Textron Inc., is expected to statically display seven of its aircraft and a mock-up of its latest business jet large cabin concept at the 47th International Paris Air Show, dubbed the LCC.The seven aircraft expected to be on display are the Citation CJ2+, Citation Encore+, Citation XLS, and Citation Sovereign business jets, a Grand Caravan, a 206 Stationair, and a 172 Skyhawk single engine piston aircraft.Cessna Chairman, President and CEO Jack Pelton said of the exhibit, “There is so much synergy now with other companies under the Textron corporate banner – companies like Bell Helicopter and Textron Systems – that we felt it made sense for us to return as an exhibitor to the Paris Air Show... We are particularly excited to have our large cabin mockup as the highlight of our exhibit."Cessna originally announced plans for a new large model of business jet for the Citation range at last year's annual National Business Aviation Association meeting, and the idea has been in development since, culminating in the new large cabin concept design. The mock-up at the Paris Air Show includes a large galley, seating for nine passengers, a toilet and a dummy flight deck.Cessna claim the new design, which outsizes their previous large cabin and long-range business jets, would "set a new standard for performance, cabin comfort, passenger amenities and environmental friendliness," if launched.Cessna refuse to release details such as exact internal design specifications and manufacturers of avionics and engines unless the new model actually enters production. Cessna Senior Vice President of Sales & Marketing Roger Whyte told reporters that preliminary wind tunnel testing had "fully met... expectations" and that they had "received extremely positive reaction to the performance parameters as well the cabin design of the proposed aircraft from our customer base", although he warned that there are still a number of processes to be completed before Cessna actually decide whether or not to launch the new model.Unlike some parts of the US Federal Government, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) has been open during the federal government shutdown and recording a record-low number of complaints submitted by consumers against mortgage companies, credit card companies, student loan providers, banks, money transfer providers, companies who provide credit reports, and other companies providing consumer loans.  With data not available for yesterday, the first four days of the shutdown had daily totals of 37, 16, 13, and 3 complaints.  With the exceptions of September 29 with 15 complaints and September 28 with 23, it is the lowest daily total since March 16 of this year when 36 total complaints were recorded and February 23 of this year with 14. The total complaints are also down from the same dates last year, when the total complaints per day for the first four days of October 2012 were 272, 298, 288, and 225.Of the 69 filed complaints recorded so far this month, 27 were complaints about mortgage companies, 21 were about bank accounts and 10 were about credit card companies.  40% of credit card companies complaints, 42.9% of bank account complaints and 48.1% of mortgage complaints are currently listed as still in progress.  Most of the rest have been closed with an explanation.Bank of America leads all companies in terms of total complaints filed this month with 9. Bayview Loan Servicing, LLC andJPMorgan Chase have 7 complaints each. Ally Bank, Sovereign Bank, and Wells Fargo have 4 each. Flagstar Bankand Equifax have 3 each.  Citibank, Nationstar Mortgage, TD Bank, Amex, and FirstMerit Bank have 2 complaints each. 18 financial services companies have 1 complaint each filed against them.During the government shutdown, some CFPB staff have voiced their opinions on Twitter. Dan Munz, deputy assistant director for consumer engagement at the CFPB, tweeted, "Boy, shutdown week has really created a sudden bumper crop of amateur federal management experts."; "Also, seems like Boehner is singlehandedly undoing whatever progress he'd made in portraying this as a Dem [Democratic Party] shutdown."; and "Basically, there's now a strong incentive to fill legislation with minor symbolic things you can bargain away later to protect the core."The agency has been able to stay open during the government shutdown because it is funded by the Federal Reserve.  According to Amanda Terkel at the Huffington Post, Republican members of the United States House of Representatives have put closing the CFPB on their wish list of items in negotiating for a new debt ceiling limit. Party members have previously stalled the appointment of Richard Cordray as the CFPB boss as a way of hindering it from engaging in oversight of financial organizations in the the US.The President of Chad, Idriss Déby has ordered the US oil company ChevronTexaco and the Malaysian Petronas to leave the country in 24 hours for non-payment of taxes. Associated Press quotes a government official saying that three ministers, including the Oil minister who was involved in negotiations with the consortium have been suspended. Spokesmen for both the companies said that they have not received any official intimation of the expulsion orders, and a Chevron spokesperson said that the company was fully compliant with its tax obligations. The two companies account for 60% of the 160-170 thousand barrels of oil currently produced  per day in Chad. Déby announced that the government has asked the companies earlier this month to honour their corporate tax obligations, but the companies had not responded. The Associated Press reports that the government has asked the company to pay $450 million in taxes owed."From tomorrow, representatives of Chevron and Petronas must leave Chad and close their offices for not respecting their commitment in accordance with clauses relating to the payment of taxes on the companies," said Deby on Saturday.ChevronTexaco, Petronas and ExxonMobil formed a consortium in 1988 to exploit oilfields in the Saharan region. On Wednesday, Déby had asked his government to renegotiate the 1988 contract signed with the consortium, under which Chad would get 12.5% of the wellhead-value of the oil produced, minus transportation costs and a "quality discount". Déby has also said that three ministers involved in making the deal would be removed and will appear before courts. Déby said that after 3 years of production, the consortium had earned a $5 billion return on a $3 billion investment, while the government of Chad has received  $588-million as oil revenues. A source in the oil ministry said that the state owned Chad Hydrocarbons Company would be brought into the consortium. There is also speculation in the media that Chinese oil companies may enter the field, with Chad recently resuming diplomatic ties with China. Chad was involved in a dispute over oil revenues earlier in the year. Last December, the Chad government relaxed laws it had earlier passed, which mandated that 80% of oil revenues must be spent on developmental works. The spending restrictions were demanded by the World Bank when it helped finance an oil pipeline linking oil fields in Chad to Atlantic ports. The World Bank responded to the change in laws by withholding payment of revenues. In June, an agreement was reached to spend 70% on developmental works.  The restrictions were meant to combat corruption and mismanagement in government spending - Chad was labeled the world's most corrupt state by a Transparency International survey last year.The Channel Tunnel, which runs between France and Britain, has resumed limited services after an earlier fire. Of the two tunnels, only the South tunnel has been reopened to the trains that run the route, the blaze having seriously damaged the North tunnel.The fire started on a freight train loaded with lorries. It burned for 16 hours and at its hottest was at 1,000°C. 27 lorries, six freight cars and a locomotive have been damaged. Significantly, the damage to the tunnel itself runs along a 700m stretch and exceeds the damage caused by an earlier fire last decade. The other fire required £200 million and a six month closure before the tunnel could be reopened.The incident required 32 people, mainly lorry drivers, to be evacuated from the train, which was heading to Calais. Fourteen were taken to hospital, some suffering from smoke inhalation. Several of those who escaped have said that they had expected to die. The fire's cause is unclear. The Guardian reports the fire started on board a vehicle carrying chemicals, but the BBC reports that the origin is unknown. Both sources confirm a lorry carrying carbolic acid was on board and French authorities say it is overturned near the seat of the fire, but it is unclear if this is the lorry the Guardian meant.Eurostar are operating some passenger trains through the tunnel, and limited freight services have also resumed, but long delays are expected. Car trains have not yet resumed.Conservative transport spokesman Timothy Kirkhope commented that he felt the fire was worrying, saying "[w]hile thankfully nobody was killed in this incident, two significant fires in 11 years should act as a wake-up call."However, operator Eurotunnel, who run regular evacuation drills, was pleased with the response by its staff.French authorities are investigating the accident as it occurred at the French side, seven miles from the French exit of the 32-mile tunnel.Apple's new 3G iPhone was introduced to consumers in 21 nations on Friday, but its first sales day was marred by minimal supplies and sluggish phone activations.Systems which enable the iPhones for service had difficulty due to network failures and insufficient capacity to meet the demand for first-day sales, particularly in the United States at Apple and AT&T stores, and in Canada. Long lineups of customers were waiting at Australian stores for the first day of iPhone sales there, where the phone is supported by Telstra, Optus and Vodafone. Crowds also lined up in Japan where the iPhone was unavailable for sale until now. New Zealand also joined the list of iPhone nations.The iPhone was sold to Canadians for the first time through Rogers Wireless stores. Rogers has exclusive rights to the iPhone in Canada since it is the only national wireless carrier that supports the iPhone's transmission standards. Earlier complaints about high iPhone rates did not deter hundreds of would-be Canadian iPhone buyers who lined up hours before store opening times. They soon learned, however, that the new phones were in short supply, and like other countries experienced delays in activating the phones.A CBC News survey found that the most expensive basic iPhone service was in Italy for Vodafone customers at an equivalent US$2554 for a two-year contract. Canada's Rogers was the second most expensive at US$2176 for a three-year term. Swisscom customers in Switzerland will enjoy the lowest monthly service fees (US$34).On Thursday, Charles Lazarus, the founder of United States toy retailer Toys "R" Us, died in Manhattan, New York, New York of respiratory failure. He was 94. His death came a week after Toys "R" Us announced that all of the stores were closing.Toys "R" Us issued a statement in which they said, "There have been many sad moments for Toys "R" Us in recent weeks, and none more heartbreaking than today's news about the passing of our beloved founder, Charles Lazarus. He visited us in New Jersey just last year and we will forever be grateful for his positive energy, passion for the customer and love for children everywhere. Our thoughts and prayers are with Charles' family and loved ones."Michael Goldstein, who was a close friend and former Toys "R" Us chairman, said: "He was the father of the toy business. He knew the toys and loved the toys and loved the kids who would shop in the stores. His face lit up when he watched kids playing with toys." In a phone interview Goldstein said that Charles Lazarus died in Manhattan.Lazarus no longer held a stake in the chain, CNN reported. Lazarus took over his father's bicycle repair shop in 1948 at the age of 25 and changed it to baby furniture. He opened the first Toys "R" Us store in 1957. Lazarus had remained its CEO until 1994.Yesterday, English capital football club Chelsea FC announced a long-term deal with US sports company Nike. Currently, German company Adidas made the kits for The Blues, a deal worth £30 million annually. Chelsea's contract with Adidas runs till 2023. Chelsea is obliged to pay about £40 million to the German firm. Chelsea's termination of Adidas's contract was announced in May.Per the contract with the US company, Chelsea would receive a reported sum of £60 million each year. Announcing a long term contract, Nike Brand president Trevor Edwards said, "The partnership with Chelsea reinforces our leadership position in football. We are excited to help grow the club's global reach, serving players and supporters with Nike innovation and design."Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia, for the team's part, said, "This is an incredibly exciting and important deal for the club."Chelsea won the Premier League in 2014–15 under Portuguese manager José Mourinho but they finished tenth last season. Adidas and Spanish club Real Madrid signed a ten year contract earlier this year and the German sports brand sponsors other football giants like FC Bayern München, Juventus F.C., A.C. Milan, and Manchester United F.C.Global chemical manufacturer LyondellBasell — the third-largest private chemical company in the world — has collapsed.  The firm filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States, as well as the Dutch equivalent.  They had failed to meet a January 4 deadline on postponed debt payments, and talks with creditors failed.Headquartered in The Netherlands, LyondellBasell is owned by private equity tycoon Len Blavatnik, who had already refused the company a loan to help deal with debt resulting from a $12.7 billion merger between Basell International Holdings and Lyondell Chemical to create LyondellBasell Industries.The company had already appointed Kevin McShea from Alix Partners to restructure the firm. McShea was assigned speculatively prior to the bankruptcy filing. Access Industries, Blavatnik's company, refused to extend credit as part of a loan deal brokered in March, a decision Lyondell Chemicals Company, a subsidiary of LyondellBasell, stated they were unhappy with.LyondellBasell had postponed $280 million worth of interest payments, which Standard & Poor said placed it in "selective default" with a "rapidly weakening liquidity position". S&P also said that LyondellBasell have debts of $26 billion in a report on the company prior to the firm's collapse. LyondellBasell responded with a press release, issuing the following statement: "Standard & Poor's definition of 'selected default' related to our corporate credit rating should not be misinterpreted to suggest that LyondellBasell is currently in default of its bank agreements. As they stated in their press release, 'This is a default in our opinion according to our definitions and criteria.' LyondellBasell is not currently in default according to its agreements with its lenders."The company met with high oil prices shortly after the expensive merger. This was followed by a general tail-off in demand caused by the ongoing financial crisis. Investors were continuing to bet before the collapse that the firm would restructure under bankruptcy protection, leaving lenders with big losses, potentially over 90% of their investments. The cost of credit protection for LyondellBasell bonds had soared. The creditors include Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs, Citigroup, ABN Amro and UBS.On Thursday, an interim allowance was made by a judge for LyondellBasell to seek up to $2.167 billion of loans. There is also an emergency loan paid out of $100 million. As well as LyondellBasell, 79 affiliates have become insolvent. Citigroup has said the collapse will set them back $1.4 billion in unpaid debts.Chevron Corporation, the US oil producer, has announced that it would be cutting some of its oil production in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria after security officials said one of their pipelines was attacked by rebels."Chevron Nigeria Limited [...] confirms that there was a breach on its Makaraba-Utonana pipeline in Delta State, Nigeria on Friday," Chevron commented.In total, Chevron is to cut 20,000 barrels per day (bpd) from platforms supplying the pipeline with oil.On Friday, reports said that gunmen in the Niger Delta, an oil-rich area, attacked the pipeline, which had been sabotaged in the past. No group has yet claimed responsibility for the attack. Previous violence by rebels has stopped Nigeria from using more than about two-thirds of its maximum pumping capacity of three million bpd, costing it about US$1 billion per month.Chicago's Metra is currently considering the possibility of selling the naming rights to its train stations, rail lines, and even bridges to generate more revenue. The regional rail system for Chicago and its surrounding suburbs has been experiencing revenue shortfalls, along with other public transportation agencies such as the Chicago Transit Authority and Pace. They all rely on sales taxes and fares to fund their services, but the recent recession has reduced sales tax revenues, and unemployment has caused ridership to fall. Compared to 86.8 million trips in 2008, Metra reported that only 82.3 million trips were provided in 2009. As spokeswoman Judy Pardonnet said, "We're looking at any opportunity to increase non-fare revenue."A law approved by former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich in 2008 granted free rides to all seniors regardless of income, adding to the decreasing fare revenues as well. State lawmakers are trying to restrict the free rides to low-income seniors; Metra has not yet commented on the issue, however. New designs put on the agency's website last September has attracted more traffic, and Metra is considering selling advertising space online. In addition, advertising space could be sold on the outside of train cars as well. As for the naming rights to stations and routes, Metra plans to hire a consultant that would figure out the details of such a proposal. Spokesperson Meg Reihle did not know how much money Metra could gain from the sale or which organizations would be interested in buying. According to Ms. Reihle, public transit agencies in other cities have sold naming rights as well, such as the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority in Cleveland and Long Island Rail Road in Long Island. TECO Energy sponsors a rail line in Tampa's Hillsborough Area Regional Transit for US$1 million over ten years. Throughout its 26-year history, Metra has named several of its locomotives and renamed two stations: Ogilvie Transportation Center, which was previously named North Western Station, and Millennium Terminal, which was previously called Randolph Street. No transactions were made in renaming those two stations, however. There is also a  Station named after the candy maker Mars, but that station was named before Metra took it over, and the company doesn't pay Metra for any naming rights. Execuive Director Phil Pagano sees the proposal as a way for businesses to advertise themselves. "I think the business community recognizes that transit is positive for their advertising benefit," said Mr. Pagano at a board meeting. In addition to businesses, hospitals located near the train stations could purchase naming rights as well. However, Mr. Pagano has also stated that "the agency would be selective about the type of businesses it partners with."Metra has said that it will be sensitive to the wishes of the communities near the stops, and town names will not be removed from station names. Rather, both the municipality and the sponsoring organization would share the naming rights, such as in renaming Naperville Station to "Naperville Boeing Station". "I'm not sure whether [the old name] is first or second, but definitely it's going to have to be there," said Mr. Pagano.Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) riders on the subway portions of the Red and Blue lines may see relief of the slow zone in the coming months. So-called "slow zones" are locations where trains travel at restricted speeds because of track work or deteriorating conditions.The CTA is putting nearly US$15 millions towards renovation of the O'Hare to Clark/Lake portion of the Blue Line and Chicago to Belmont portions of the Red Line. Work will happen during off peak and overnight hours. The CTA says that one track operations and delays may occur."We have heard our customers' frustration with slow zones and today we are acting to address their concerns,” said Chicago Transit Board chairperson Carole Brown. "I am pleased that we are able to leverage existing contracts to begin this work and I look forward to working with state lawmakers to increase transit investment to bring our entire system to a state of good repair."On July 16, 2009, the largest skyscraper in Chicago, Illinois was officially renamed Willis Tower.  Willis Group Holdings became a major tenant of the building in March, 2009.  As part of the deal whereby they agreed to lease 140,000 square feet of the building, they were given the naming rights to the tower, which had been known as the Sears Tower since its opening in 1973.  It is the largest skyscraper in the United States and was for a time the largest skyscraper in the world; though it has since been surpassed.Sears, Roebuck and Company owned the building from its conception until it sold it in 1994.  It is currently owned by American Landmark Properties of Skokie, Illinois.  Sears had mostly moved out of the building by 1992, and closed its last offices there by 1995.  However, they retained the naming rights until 2003.  Since no deal had been worked out to rename the building by that date, it retained the Sears Tower name until Willis Group Holdings negotiated the naming rights as part of their lease on the building.  The naming rights did not cost Willis any additional money, and they will retain those rights until at least 2024.Willis Group Holdings is a London-based insurance company, incorporated in Bermuda.  They are leasing 140,000 square feet of the building at a rate of $14.50 per square foot, and are consolidating their five Chicago-area offices to the new space.  Though lettering on the building had been changed on July 15, the official change did not occur until July 16, during a private ceremony involving 500 Willis employees and invited guests.  The date and time name change was kept quiet until the actual lettering was changed, though the change was anticipated for several months.  The tourist areas to the building, which includes a 103rd floor observation deck, will retain its current name, Skydeck Chicago.The renaming has received some criticism from columnists in local papers, such as the Chicago Tribune, as Willis has almost no name recognition in the Chicago area.  Several local residents have expressed their displeasure in the renaming, including one who started the website www.itsthesearstower.com.  Chicago Historical Society senior curator John Russick has stated of the name change, "The Sears Tower has been an icon here for the last quarter of a century. For the generation that grew up calling it the Sears Tower, it'll be hard for people to shift and start calling it something else."China and Russia has signed billions of dollars worth of deals during Russian Prime Minister Vladimir Putin's visit to Beijing on Tuesday. The trip was aimed at bolstering business, political and military ties.Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Ma Zhaoxu said that Putin came to Beijing to mark the 60th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries. He said that the Russian leader would also meet with Chinese President Hu Jintao. The two sides are to sign a joint statement of regular high level meetings between the two countries.Earlier in the day, Russian officials told reporters Russian and Chinese companies signed US$3.5 billion worth of deals. They include a $500 million loan from the Agricultural Bank of China to Russia's second biggest lender, VTB.Gazprom, the Russian gas company, also had signed a deal to sell China 70 billion cubic meters of natural gas a year. Projects to build Gazprom pipelines to China have been delayed because of disagreements over gas pricing."It's the first time, perhaps, that such large commercial deals are being sealed in such volume between Russian and Chinese enterprises," said Alexander Zhukov, the Russian deputy prime minister. "Naturally, the Chinese are interested in getting [ownership] stakes."Zhukov said that there were another forty or so projects, including two banking deals worth $500 million apiece, that were anticipated to be signed during Putin's visit.Russia and China share more than 4,000 kilometers of border. Official Chinese media say annual trade between the two countries has increased from several billion dollars in the early 1990's to nearly $57 billion in 2008. China is particularly keen to secure supplies of oil and natural gas to fuel its rapidly expanding industries.VIENTIANE, Laos — The People's Republic of China has signed an agreement with ASEAN to establish the world's largest free trade area. Japan, South Korea, New Zealand, India and Australia are considering joining. ASEAN members include Myanmar, Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei Darussalam, Singapore and Indonesia.In the last four years China has become a major importer of oil and commodities, and a major exporter of finished goods. China has also strengthened relationships with oil suppliers in the Middle East and Africa. This pact lifts trade restrictions and removes tariffs from many imports and exports.  It also allows China to continue manipulating the value of its currency in its own interests. The yuan is currently undervalued, making Chinese-made goods artificially cheap for foreign importers. Stated in the agreement is ASEAN's intention to create a unified economy--and by implication polity--similar to the EU. This agreement will cement China's role as the center of the South Asian regional economy, and at the same time strengthening bonds between China and other countries in the region and ease their suspicions over a growing superpower.Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi and South Korean President Roh Moo-Hyun separately adopted accords with the 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations, agreeing to launch the talks early next year. Both agreements aim for trade pacts within two years. Australia and New Zealand are expected to sign similar agreements with ASEAN before discussions close later Tuesday, although ASEAN remains wary of Australian Prime Minister John Howard's refusal to sign its nonaggression treaty. Howard played down these concerns but said on record that he reserves the right to preemptively act against terrorists on foreign soil if they threaten Australia.China Eastern Airlines stated on Thursday that it had signed a contract to purchase a score of Airbus A320 passenger jets for 9.9 billion yuan (about US$1.4 billion).The airline, which is the third largest in China, signed the agreement in Paris on June 15. The company said that the planes would meet additional demand for domestic passenger routes.The deal was approved unanimously by China Eastern's board of directors. The China Daily newspaper reported that the deal is waiting for an approval by Chinese aviation authorities.The planes are expected to start delivering in 2011 and end two years later.The Airbus A320 is a single-aisle airplane, and Airbus' best selling jet. It can seat up to 150 people and is used primarily for medium- and short-haul routes.China's first private airline Okay Airlines (奥凯航空 Aòkǎi Hángkōng) took off on its maiden flight today from Tianjin (200km north of Beijing) to Changsha (in Hunan province, central China) to Kunming (in Yunnan province).The airline tried to start last Saturday, but it had problems with the paperwork from the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC). The price of a ticket was CNY 1,180 (US$ 143), but customers for the first flight got a 40% discount.According to China Daily, three more private airlines will exist: Shanghai-based Spring International Airlines, Chengdu-based Eagle Airlines, and Gansu province-based Huaxia Airlines.After an oil pipeline in China exploded and spilled around 1,500 tonnes of oil into the Yellow Sea near the city of Dalian, the government has launched a cleanup operation consisting of more than 800 vessels.The spill occurred on Friday, after a pipeline at the port exploded. The oil terminal at the port has been closed ever since.  Authorities have been using 24 ships designed for cleaning up oil, and today ordered around 800 civilian fishing boats to join the operation.The spill has been halted, although an oil slick which measured 50 square kilometers at its height remains in the harbor, and ships are using absorbent foam to remove oil from the water, as well as barriers to keep oil from reaching the shore. Despite their efforts, parts of the coast reportedly have a slick of oil evident on beaches and rocks.Although rough seas have affected the cleanup, authorities expect to have completed the operations within ten days.According to domestic media, concerns over safety at the port have been raised in the past; a government study in 2006 noted that five projects at the port were at risk of accidents.The spill has caused ongoing disruptions to the port's operations, with several ships, including six oil tankers carrying a total of around twelve million barrels of oil, having been diverted to other ports both in China and other countries.China has loaned Ethiopia US$349 million worth of funds for the construction of the the country's first modern expressway, making Ethiopia among the first beneficiaries of the recently implemented China-Africa development funding plan.The road is to be close to 80 kilometres long, and will connect Nazaret (also called Adama), the country's second-largest city, with the capital, Addis Ababa.Funds from the Export-Import Bank of China are to be used to give the loans, according to the agreement. The deal was signed by Li Ruogu, the president of China’s Export-Import Bank, and Ahmed Shide, the Ethiopian state minister of finance and economic development. According to the Ethiopian News Agency, the motorway is to be completed by 2014. The country has also agreed to other financial deals with China, mainly in the telecommunications and energy sectors.China has offered Africa concessional loans worth US$10 (€6.5) billion as part of a host of new measures aimed at improving the economy of African nations. The announcement was made at the opening of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) in Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt. Leaders of nearly 50 African countries are attending the two-day conference. China had already stated today at the 3rd Conference of Chinese and African Entrepreneurs, held immediately before the FOCAC, that Chinese firms would be encouraged to invest in Africa, while both sides would work together to improve the tourism, telecommunications and finance industries. China also said that governments should work with businesses to ensure co-operation between China and Africa.As well as the loans, made over three years, China will write off the debt of Africa's poorest countries, build 100 African green energy facilities and systematically lower import duties on 95% of all African products exported to China. Another promise is a loan of one billion dollars aimed at small and medium sized businesses in Africa. There will also be efforts to promote each other's culture and increased medical assistance to Africa. Medical assistance comes in the form of 500 million yuan (US$73.2 million) of goods for the 60 hospitals and malaria centers China has already built, as well as 3,000 doctors and nurses. Roads will also be improved.China also plans to assist with satellite weather monitoring, to help combat desertification and work within the urban environment, all aimed at reducing global warming. The new energy facilities will focus on solar, biogas and small-scale hydroelectrical installations. Another new measure is a promise to aid African farmers to ensure the continent is fed, increasing the number of demonstrations of agricultural technology in Africa to 20 and sending 50 teams of agricultural technology experts to the continent. Training in agricultural technology will be provided to 2,000 people. "The Chinese people cherish sincere friendship toward the African people, and China's support to Africa's development is concrete and real," said co-chair Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao as the FOCAC opened up, adding "Whatever change that may take place in the world, our friendship with African people will not change." He described this friendship as 'unbreakable'. Two years ago China pledged US$5 (€3.37) billion at the last FOCAC in Beijing and now, according to Jiabao, "China is ready to deepen practical cooperation in Africa."China has fulfilled its 2006 pledge, investing a total of US$7.8 (€5.26) billion in Africa last year alone. 49 African countries are represented at the FOCAC, which was created in 2000, although Jiabao noted that relations between China and Africa go back fifty years. China had already forgiven or reduced the debt for thirty nations at that FOCAC summit.According to Chinese state-owned paper China Daily, trade between China and Africa increased by 45% last year, to give a total value of US$107 (€72.1) billion, a tenfold increase since 2001 and up from US$491 (€331) million in 2003. The Chinese have a 9.8% market share, the largest of any nation, according to the U.S. Commerce Department. China has paid for schools, hospitals, malaria clinics and Chinese scholarships for African students. 50 more schools are to be built and 1,500 people trained to staff them.Since 2006 Chinese energy firms have committed to spend at least US$16 (€10.8) billion securing African oil and gas. China's Sinopec Group, an oil giant, bought up Addax Petroleum Corporation from its Swiss owners that year, gaining control of oilfields in Nigeria, Cameroon and Gabon. China promised earlier this year to spend US$9 (€6) billion on infrastructure in the Congo in exchange for mineral deposits for mining operations.Jean Ping, leader of the African Union, said the told those at the conference that the money is coming at an opportune time, because African growth was "totally compromised" by the global financial crisis. Ping said one of the lessons learned is that the world is paying for "the irresponsible and lax behavior" of large financial companies whose philosophy was to make short-term profits.Not all Africans are happy with China's increasing involvement in their continent. Trade practices are a concern for some, with a view that China exploits Africa for raw materials before selling back finished goods. Among these are Egyptian Trade and Industry Minister Rachid Mohamed Rachid. Egypt is the richest nation in the Middle East and is discussing this perceived issue with China. Rachid told Bloomberg "What is a worry for me is if competition is unfair. That is where we are unhappy." Jiabao described the trade as being based on "win-win programmes... and transparency."Others in Africa are delighted with the situation. "We want more investment from China," Tanzanian President Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete told the forum. Egypt's own President Hosni Mubarak talked of "peace, security and growth," and of "boosting cooperation between China and Africa."Jiabao also used his speech to respond to criticisms that China worked with nations regardless of their human rights record, such as Sudan, whose President Omar al-Beahir is wanted on a warrant issued by the International Criminal Court for war crimes. "Africa is fully capable of solving its own problems, in an African way," he said, adding that "China has never attached any political strings […] to assistance to Africa."Beshir thanked China in a speech for diplomatic work in Sudan, including working to defuse the Darfur conflict, which the United Nations says has left 300,000 dead. "We express our deep appreciation for China's efforts in backing the comprehensive peace agreement in Sudan and its peace efforts in Darfur," he said, referring to a peace deal between the northern and southern parts of his country. "We thank China particularly for backing efforts by our countries to achieve peace and stability in Africa's zones of conflict." Jiabao said China was willing to work towards "the settlement of issues of peace and security," in Africa.A further criticism has been that China has brought in Chinese workers and used their own knowledge, instead of training locals. Jiabao's speech indicated an intention to co-operate better in the fields of science and technology, as well as improve training for African students on technical courses."Why do some only criticise China?" asked Jiabao. "Is this a view representing African countries, or rather the view of Western countries?"Chinese officials have said that their country's exports surged last December to edge out Germany as the world's biggest exporter.The official Xinhua news agency reported today that figures from the General Administration for Customs showed that exports jumped 17.7% in December from a year earlier. Over the whole of 2009 total Chinese exports reached US$1.2 trillion, above Germany's forecast $1.17 trillion. Huang Guohua, a statistics official with the customs administration, said the December exports rebound was an important turning point for China's export sector. He commented that the jump was an indication that exporters have emerged from their downslide."We can say that China's export enterprises have completely emerged from their all-time low in exports," he said.However, although China overtook Germany in exports, China's total foreign trade -- both exports and imports -- fell 13.9% last year.China is now the world's largest consumer of resources, passing the United States.China's consumption exceeds the U.S.'s in grain and meat, coal, and steel, with the U.S. only still using more oil a year.China uses more wheat and rice than the U.S. every year, with the U.S. only taking more corn. In total, China consumed 382 million tons of grain in 2004 while the U.S. used 278 million tons.The world's most populous country also eats more meat, consuming 64 million tons a year compared to the U.S.'s 38 million, despite the average Chinese person eating 49 kg a year (the U.S. average is 127 kg). However the U.S. still uses three times as much oil, consuming 20.4 million barrels a day in 2004 while China uses only 6.5 million. But China's oil consumption doubled between 1994 and 2004, while the U.S.'s only increased by 15%. Japan is the world's third largest oil consumer. Car sales doubled in China over the last two years.China is rapidly heading to being the largest producer of carbon dioxide, the gas responsible for the greenhouse effect. Two-thirds of China's electricity is generated by burning coal, using 800 million tons a year.China has a population of 1.3 billion people and its increases in consumption are being driven by a booming economy. However, the country only had an average per-capita income of $5,300 in 2004, one-seventh of the U.S.'s $38,000. The U.S., with its population of around 295 million being about four times less than China's, still consumes considerably more per person than does China, despite the differences in raw values.The country now imports large amounts grain, soybeans, iron ore, aluminum, copper, platinum, phosphates, potash, oil and natural gas, forest products for lumber and paper, and cotton. In order to feed its demand for raw materials, the country has formed economic relationships for long term imports from major exporters such as Russia, Brazil and Australia.The country is also growing rapidly in economic strength; along with Japan, it buys most of the U.S. Treasury's securities that allows the US to run its huge financial deficit.China has said it is prepared to support eurozone countries during the financial crisis that has hit the sixteen member states. The country's foreign ministry spokesperson Jiang Yu said: "We are ready to support the eurozone to overcome the financial crisis and realise economic recovery." Several of the eurozone's member states have been impacted with increasing debt levels. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) and European Union (EU) have signed deals to hand a €110bn aid package to Greece, and an €85bn rescue package to Ireland. Industry commentators have said there are fears Portugal and Spain may soon also have to accept assistance from the IMF. Jiang said China had an interest in supporting the region, saying eurozone member states would, in the future, become "a major market" for Chinese foreign exchange investments. China reportedly has massive reserves of foreign currency, mostly made up of United States dollars. Analysts have suggested China plans to purchase more euros in the future. Other reports suggest China is preparing to buy between four and five billion euros to help Portugal fend off pressure in bond markets.China is questioning a decision by the U.S. Commerce Department that seeks to re-impose trade quotas on Chinese textiles. The three-decade long system of quotas was lifted on January 1."This is not reasonable," Foreign Ministry spokesman Qin Gang told reporters. "This is unfair. This is protectionist."The U.S. administration justified their decision by presenting data which showed increases of over one thousand percent for cotton knit shirts and cotton trousers. The administration also cited a 300 percent increase of imports of underwear.Qin disputed the U.S. reasoning for the decision."The major reason for this issue is that the United States has over-protectionist, irrational and unreasonable arrangements," he said."Other countries that are more competitive will still take over from China, and the US can't impose safeguards on those countries," Peter Liu, chairman of the textiles and apparel committee at the American Chamber of Commerce, told the Financial Times in Hong Kong. "Obviously, the US textile industry has concerns about job elimination, but on the other hand there are a lot of US industries that like to do business with China by exporting to China. If this escalates into a trade war, that's to nobody's benefit," he said.The U.S. Association of Importers of Textiles and Apparel (AITA) also supports China's product imports."There is no reason to believe that imports of these products from China are causing market disruption," AITA spokeswoman Laura E. Jones said.The U.S. administration cited a need to avoid "market disruption.""Free trade must be fair trade, and we will work to ensure that American manufacturers and workers compete on a level playing field," read a statement issued by U.S. Commerce department spokeman Carlos M. Gutierrez. "The decision is the first step in a process to determine whether the U.S. market for these products is being disrupted and whether China is playing a role in that disruption." The statement also said the administration was "providing assistance to our domestic textile and apparel industry consistent with our international rights and obligations.""We are very pleased that the government is taking this action," Lloyd Wood, a spokesman for the American Manufacturing Trade Coalition told The New York Times. "It sends a strong message to China that predatory trade practices will be investigated."The U.S. Committee for the Implementation of Textile Agreements issued its decision on Monday, under the rules of the World Trade Organization (WTO). China joined the WTO in 2001.Shirts, trousers, and underwear are one of the few remaining types of clothing manufactured in the United States. The United States is running an all-time high trade deficit with China of US$162 billion.China has pledged US$10 billion in credit to back joint projects with Central and Eastern European countries. Visiting Chinese Premiere Wen Jiabao announced the deal at a business forum in Warsaw, Poland, and said he hopes the deal will facilitate the two sides' cooperation.To boost business and trade, Wen said that China wants to help with infrastructure projects, including new technologies and green economy sectors. Also discussed at the Economic Forum was a new investment cooperation fund which would initially boast US$500 million to assist Chinese investments in the region. He also announced a plan to expand the Chinese market with other countries with hopes to build trade exchange to US$100 billion before the year 2015. "China will work with countries in Central and Eastern Europe to mutually open the markets and to increase the trade exchange to $100 billion before 2015," Wen said.He said trade volume between China and central and eastern European countries reached 52.9 billion US dollars in 2011 and had grown 27.6 percent a year on average since 2001, when it was only 4.3 billion US dollars.Thus far, the largest Chinese investment has been a €1.2 billion (US$1.6 billion) deal made by China's Wanhua Industrial Group that gained full control of Borsodchem, a Hungarian chemicals firm. Other recent investments were made in Serbia, where a €170 million (US$225 million) bridge was built over the Danube river in Belgrade.Prime Minister Donald Tusk of Poland happily welcomed the Chinese investment, noting the country's uprising economy and European leadership role. Both Wen and Tusk enthused about the potential they say their partnership has and encouraged others in the region to form similar agreements. The Chinese are "very pragmatic" in business, Andrzej Pawelec of Agrihortus company said, who is seeking new partners in China to sell its beverages. "If they see a good and honest business proposal, they are always open."Wen started his official visit to Poland on Wednesday. Poland is the last leg of a four-nation Europe tour that included visits to Iceland and Sweden and the opening ceremony of the Hannover Fair in Germany.As Chinese premier Wen Jiabao continues his tour across South Asia, visiting first India and now Pakistan, it has been announced that Pakistan will purchase frigate warships from China. China has also previously declared its hope of cooperation with India's government.A frigate is a warship typically used to protect other naval vessels or merchant marine ships and to combat enemy submarines.Pakistan and India have traditionally been considered rivals. Both nations, however, have garnerned favor and support from the US in recent times. Pakistan has granted much support to the American campaign against terrorists in Central Asia. The United States has recently announced its intention to help India, a past rival of China, become a "superpower." India has also been planning military expansion/modernization. The United States has also declared its willingness to supply F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan as well.The Chinese economy is likely to overtop the Japanese economy and become the second largest in the world. Li Daokui, Director of the Center for China in the World Economy (CCWE) at the Tsinghua University, states that there is no doubt about what the numbers or the statistics show. China's GDP growth was 9.6% in 2008. Despite predictions about China's GDP being at around 8.6% to 9%, it rose to 9.6%, as stated by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The International Monetary Fund (IMF) projected previously that China will overtake Japan soon since the latter's GDP dropped this year.“The big underlying factor propelling China’s growth is the continued migration of people from the agricultural sector to the more modern economy—industry and services,” said economist David Cohen. In 2007 China became the third largest economy in the world when it overtook Germany. In 2009, the economic stimulus program assisted China in attaining 8% growth.Under criticism from its Western trading partners, China is working toward an effective resolution of issues regarding illegal downloading of movies and videos protected by  copyright law. Reports state that 205 websites were closed recently because of their illegal Internet activity.Chinese officials state that in the period between September and January they have investigated 436 cases of Internet piracy and ordered 361 Internet offenders to stop infringement of the copyright law.  Overseas organizations requested investigation of 130 cases. Yan Xiaohong, who is currently the deputy director of the National Copyright Association, mentioned at a news conference that Internet piracy in China caused serious damage to the interests of the copyright owners. This, he says, leads to a number of disputes, which, in their turn lead to disruption of the orderly functioning of the Internet.Most of the investigated cases involved sites that offered a free download of software, movies, music and textbooks. The main reasons why Chinese people actively download pirated works are the high prices on authorized copies and restrictions on cultural imports set by the Chinese government.According to the numbers provided by Chinese officials, China has around 843,000 websites and 140 million users, which means that China is the second largest Internet market in the world. Mr. Yan Xiaohong outlined the fact that due to the quick pace of China's development, it may take some time to effectively fight Internet piracy.Speaking in Washington Tuesday at the conclusion of the China-U.S. trade summit, Chinese Vice Premier Wu Yi warned the U.S. not to pursue a 'blame game' in continued trade negotiations. "We should not easily blame the other side for our own domestic problems," Wu said, speaking through an interpreter. "Confrontation does no good at all to problem-solving."The valuation of the Chinese Yuan has been closely tied to the U.S. Dollar for years. Critics charge that this resulted in a relatively low value, making Chinese goods cheaper in the U.S., contributing to the current trade imbalance that favours China. Although the Chinese government expanded the band in which the Yuan can float (relative to the U.S. Dollar) from 0.3 percent to 0.5 percent last Friday, critics say the measure doesn't go far enough to address the U.S. trade deficit. Members of the U.S. Congress have blamed China's policy of currency manipulation for the rising trade imbalance and a 16 percent drop in manufacturing jobs since 2000. In 2006, U.S. imports from China exceeded exports by US$232.5 billion, almost one third of the total trade deficit of US$765.3 billion.In April, the U.S. Department of Commerce filed a WTO piracy complaint against China. Subsequently, China has agreed to talks and has issued some internal guidelines to address the issue. Wu said that both sides should "firmly oppose trade protectionism." She said that any effort to "politicize" the economic relationship between the two nations would be "absolutely unacceptable.""The Chinese government will agree to U.S. demands" on piracy, predicted Albert Louie, in April, about the upcoming talks. Louie is the managing partner of A. Louie Associates, an anti-piracy company in based in China. "There is no question the government wants to crack down on counterfeiters. What remains in question is the consistency of enforcement," he added.The U.S. delegation also highlighted food safety as a concern with imports from China. The example of melamine-tainted pet food ingredients imported from China recently was used as an example of weak health and environmental controls in China. U.S. trade delegate Susan Schwab said the issue of food safety was raised by Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns and Health and Human Services Secretary Michael Leavitt. "This is not necessarily reflective of more protectionism or anti-Chinese sentiment, but rather that there are concerns there and we need to be responsive," said Schwab.It is hoped that breakthroughs will be reached on issues such as U.S. complaints of high Chinese import duties on U.S. energy technology products and the restriction on U.S. airline flights to China.In the US Congress, a number of potential bills that would impose trade restrictions on China, are being pursued. Recently, a trade panel voted to impose a 44.3 percent tariff on polyester imports. Meanwhile, the Bush administration increased duties on certain types of glossy paper from China. A bill imposing 27 percent tariff on all Chinese goods has been proposed in Congress but hasn't yet passed."The frustration that I and many of my colleagues in the Senate feel is that China is not satisfying its obligations as a member of the WTO and as a major beneficiary of open trade," wrote Charles Grassley, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, in a letter sent to Wu in advance of the summit.Lai Changxing, dubbed the Bandit King, has been given a life sentence for years of smuggling and corruption that added up to billions of US dollars or Pounds sterling. The Chinese court described the values as "massive".Lai smuggled goods worth more than £2 billion into Xiamen, bypassing more than £1 billion in import duty. He paid 64 local officials a total of almost £4 million in bribes, giving him effective control of the city from 1995 to 1999. He fled China after becoming a wanted man in 1999 and went to Canada via Hong Kong; the following year, Premier Zhu Rongji said "If Lai was executed three times over, it would not be too much".As head of the Yuanhua Group, Lai smuggled in cars, chemicals, oil, cigarettes, and other goods. He distributed bundles of cash to the poor, owned and played for his local football team, built stadia, owned a bulletproof Mercedes that once belonged to President Jiang Zemin, and attempted to construct a tower that would have been the nation's tallest building. He attained local popularity for funding construction projects including schools, hundreds of tower blocks, and the local airport.As well as money, officials were offered alcohol and prostitutes. Many were offered time at Lai's seven-storey brothel, the Red Mansion, and feasted at a replica of the Forbidden City.State TV has broadcast footage depicting a banquet table with a tiger skin laid upon it, cars given to officials, a young woman alleged to have been donated as a lover, and a sackful of gold rings. The case's prominence was such that Liu Liying, boss of the national Central Discipline Inspection Committee, took charge of bringing Lai down.Subsequent investigations have examined more than 1,000 suspects with police at one stage turning over an entire hotel to the probe, filling rooms with suspects. National newspaper The People's Daily has suggested it is the most serious economic crime in modern Chinese history. He was the nation's top car importer and one of the main traders in oil and imported cigarettes.Hundreds of officials have been convicted and it is estimated hundreds more remain. Fellow life-sentence prisoners from the case include the city's deputy mayor and its head of customs. The nation's former vice-minister for security, Li Jizhou, has a suspended death sentence. Other suspects have killed themselves.Upon his escape from the nation Lai became China's most-wanted fugitive. Twelve years of negotiations ended with a Chinese promise Lai would be spared the death penalty, and Canada extradited him last year. Numerous lower-ranking members of Lai's empire have already been given life imprisonment or death sentences. With execution off the table, the court gave Lai the highest sentence possible: in addition to the life term, he received fifteen years for bribery and had all his possessions confiscated.The court justified the "double sentence" on the grounds "the sums involved are unusually large, and the details are extraordinarily serious". "The crimes involve massive sums and particularly serious circumstances," court officials told Xinhua. Lai had denied corruption at his trial, although he accepted exploiting loopholes to avoid import duty."I don't have a good family background," Lai said previously in a press interview. "I have to do things step by step by myself. That's how people came to respect me. I never fussed about big money." Lai was born as one of eight siblings in the midst of famine.China's National Bureau of Statistics released data Saturday showing that the consumer price index (CPI) for June climbed 6.4% from a year ago. That compares with a 5.5% rise in May, which was the largest since a 6.3% increase in July 2008.  The major factor contributing to this figure was the steep rise in food prices which climbed 14.4%. Pork is a major food staple in China, and its price rose 65% from last year.Analysts predicted that China's inflation would peak in June, but particularly worrisome was the steep rise in the cost of food from the same time last year and up from 11.7% in May, indicating that Beijing may have difficulty in controlling inflation. China is the world's second largest economy, having grown robustly in the last two years driven by a 2009 governmental stimulus package of $586 billion and low interest rates offered by  state-owned banks. These were directed at promoting investments in real estate construction and government infrastructure projects, enabling China to lead the global recovery after the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market led to a worldwide recession.Now Beijing is attempting to slow its fast pace of growth, fearful of inflation, by restricting bank lending and raising interest rates. High inflation along with high property values could hurt the economy. Since October, China’s Central Bank has raised interest rates five times. Many factors are contributing to China's inflation, including higher wages for migrant workers, increases in the prices of food and gasoline, as well as diminished output from crucial agricultural areas cause by droughts and flooding this spring. Today, China's Premier Wen Jiabao indicated that the war on inflation was continuing and controlling inflation was a top priority for the government, increasing expectations that interest rates would be further increased."We must treat stabilising overall price levels as the top priority of our macro-economic controls and keep the direction of macro-economic adjustments unchanged," Wen said today in comments reported on the central government's website. He had said in March that the ruling Communist Party is worried that a  continuing rise in food prices could result in public protests.Wen said the government would boost the supply of hogs  to keep the price of pork stable, the price of pork being the major contributor to China's food inflation index and the most closely watched item on it."If they signal any comfort with inflation, and inflation is as high as it is now, they could create an environment in which people would panic, and they can have a real problem on their hands," said Tim Condon, Asian researcher at ING. As markets worried about the news of Chinese inflation as well as concerns about the European debt crisis, oil dropped below US$95 a barrel today.China's economy surpassed Japan's during the second quarter of 2010, and now is the second largest world economic power. China's economy already is larger than Japan's in the fourth quarter of most years, and many expect that the world's most populous country will soon cement its place as the world's second largest economy all year round.From April to June of this year, China's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) was USD 1.337 trillion, bigger than the Japanese GDP at USD 1.288 trillion. But Japan's GDP still remains larger than the Chinese one in the first half of 2010. China's annual GDP was $4.9 trillion, less than Japan's $5.07 trillion. Japan's growth is slowing, because of the drop of the sales and the private investments. Meanwhile, China is showing resistance against the financial crisis and grew more than 10 per cent last year. However Japan's per capita GDP still is ten times bigger than the Chinese one, and the United States has a per capita GDP 12.5 times larger than China's comparable figures.During the last three decades, despite officially remaining a communist state, China has developed a market economy. The first economic reforms were made under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping. Since then, China's economic size has grown by 90 times. For the first time, last year China exported more cars than Germany and surpassed the United States as the biggest market for this industry. China's GDP could be larger than the United States within two decades.China's military spending will increase by 7.5% for 2010, the first single-digit increase since 1989, a spokesman for the Chinese parliament, Li Zhaoxing, said.Mr. Li said that China would spend 532.1 billion yuan ($77.9 billion) on the country's military over the course of 2010, an increase of about 36.9 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) over 2009's spending.  Regardless of the increase, China still spends significantly less on its military as a proportion of its gross domestic product (GDP) than other countries around the world.  China spends about 1.4% of its GDP on the military, while the United States spends about 4% of its GDP on the military.  The US, which accounts for 48% of the world's military spending, has frequently encouraged China to be more transparent about its military spending, a challenge which China said it was meeting.At a press conference, Mr. Li said that the increase was in response to various security threats to China, although the nature of the threats were not specified.  He did, however, say that, "The only purpose of China's limited military strength is to safeguard China's sovereignty and territorial integrity."  He also said that the government has limited military spending to the best of its ability, and had tried to ensure a balance between the military and other needs.According to US military analysis and official Chinese reports, China has been steadily increasing military spending since the late 1980s, when the country began a program of improving its entire armed forces, including developing and producing weapons and equipment. The US Pentagon issued a report in 2009, saying that military spending had increased by an average of 12.9% annually since 1996. Based on this, analysts say that the earlier large spending increases could explain the slower increase for 2010. China in the past few years has seen dramatic spending increases in other sectors, especially costs related to the global financial crisis, and these sectors have complained about the amount of military spending.  As one analyst, David Shambaugh from George Washington University, put it, "There have been complaints from some other sectors that it has been distorting expenditures. Maybe some of those arguments have come home to roost."China and the European Union agreed to unblock 80 million pieces of Chinese textiles impounded at European ports. The deal was announced during a one-day EU–China summit in Beijing by Tony Blair, prime minister of the United Kingdom, which is currently holds the EU presidency, and Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.According to the agreement, 50% of the impounded clothing will be allowed into the EU unconditionally, while the rest will be counted against 2006 quotas.Today's deal ended the so-called European–Chinese "bra wars", which have split the EU member states: those with a strong retail sector support the agreement, while those with large clothing industries want to set up a protectionist policy against China.The agreement now must be approved by the 25 EU members.Chinese President Hu Jintao met with the European Union's leaders Jose Manuel Barroso and Fredrik Reinfeldt in Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China. The EU leaders were in China to attend Monday's twelfth China-European Union (EU) summit. Barroso said China-EU relations are "more mature, deeper" then before. China-EU trading relations have grown over the last 35 years. The volume of trade between the pair reached US$425.58 billion  in 2008, an increase of 19.5% over the prior year. Bilateral relations are far closer now than in previous years.  Swedish Prime Minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, said the Lisbon Treaty would help strengthen EU-China relations. Summit attendees also talked about nuclear non-proliferation, disarmament, human rights, climate change, combating financial crisis and financial investments. Before the twelfth China-EU summit, Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao met with EU delegates in Nanjing, and the trading partners celebrated the 35th anniversary of diplomatic relations.Officials from the People's Republic of China have agreed to purchase 60 Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft in a deal worth US$7.2bn.In China, airliners are selected and purchased by the government, which then distributes them to different airlines. The preliminary agreement will see Dreamliners delivered to six airlines - Air China, China Eastern Airlines, China Southern Airlines, Hainan Airlines, Shanghai Airlines and Xiamen Airlines. The deliveries are scheduled to be in time for the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games.The aircraft was once named the 7E7 but was renamed at the same time the deal was announced. Boeing will begin production in 2006 and the aircraft should enter airline service in 2008. It will seat 200 to 300 people and will have a range of 3,500 to 8,500 nautical miles. Through the use of the latest materials and designs it will be 20% more fuel efficient than the equivalent aircraft today.A Chinese cargo ship was fired on and sunk by a Russian cruiser last Sunday near Russia's far-eastern port of Vladivostok. Eight out of 16 crew members on board were saved while the others remain missing. According to Natalia Gelashvili, a spokeswoman for the Far East Transport Prosecutors office in Nakhodka, the cargo ship New Star fled on Feb. 12 after the shipment of rice it unloaded was rejected by the buyer, who then requested the court to seize the ship while suing for damages. But the Beijing based Global Times reported that the ship was sequestered for alleged smuggling.Russian Federal Security Service spokeswoman Natalya Rondaleva confirmed that the ship was fired upon by Russian vessels. An unnamed source asserts that warning shots were fired before more direct shots were taken.The ship began sinking while being escorted back to the port.The sinking of the boat forced all 16 crew members to abandon the ship by taking two life boats. One boat carrying eight people was saved by Russian sailors while the other was engulfed in the waves. The missing crew include seven Chinese and one Indonesian. The Canadian Press reports that they are presumed to have drowned."The cause of the sinking isn't clear because the incident occurred during a storm," said Captain Veniamin Ivanichev of the Marine Rescue Center in Vladivostok.China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs today said it asked Russia to investigate the "mishap" and identify the cause as soon as possible.All the rescued crew members have gone back to Nakhodka while the Russian keep looking for the missing sailors. The Russian News Agency said the coast guard found only an empty boat in a three-day search. China's foreign spokeswoman Jiang Yu declined to comment on the Russians' opening fire on the ship.The ship was registered in Sierra Leone, and the owner is a shipping company based in Hong Kong.The Chinese National Development and Reform Commission approved today the plans by Nanjing Automobile Group to revive the MG Rover brand. Nanjing Automobile are planning to annually produce 200,000 cars, 250,000 engines and 100,000 gearboxes on the assembly lines purchased from MG Rover.The first MG produced in Pukou in Nanjing in the east of China will be the sedan version of MG-75, in the first half of 2007.China's president, Hu Jintao, held a press conference on Wednesday with United States president Barack Obama at the White House. The two leaders spoke about relations between their countries.Topics included human rights, trade between the US and China, and climate change. Obama noted that China's position on human rights was occasionally a "source of tension," although  it did not "prevent [the U.S. and China] from cooperating."Standing next to each other at the White House, the pair took questions from reporters on the scene. One asked how "[the US can work with] a country known for treating its people so poorly, using censorship and force to repress its people."  Obama replied "China has a different political system than we do. China is at a different stage of development than we are. We come from very different cultures and with very different histories. But as I've said before and I repeated to President Hu, we had some core views as Americans about the universality of certain rights, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly that we think are very important and transcend cultures. I have been very candid with President Hu about these issues."Hu did not initially respond to this question, blaming technical problems. However, upon being asked later, he stated "a lot still needs to be done" with human rights in the country. Hu stated that both China and the United States must appreciate their individual interests. According to CBS News, the Chinese president was in an "unfamiliar setting"; BBC News noted that the meeting was "rare".In trading Wednesday, the Chinese stock markets plunged after the government tripled a tax on securities transactions. The so-called stamp tax was raised from 0.1% to 0.3% in an effort to cool the rapidly rising market.The Shanghai Composite Index of A-shares fell 6.5%. The CSI 300 fell 6.8%, with over half of the listed companies falling the single day limit of 10%.The market has already doubled in value this year, after rising 130% in 2006. It is estimated that some 300,000 new brokerage accounts are opened on an average day. Novice investors are reportedly sinking their life savings into the market.Meanwhile, the World Bank raised its forecast for GDP growth for China in 2007, from 9.6% to 10.4%."The stamp tax is the latest gesture by the Chinese government to warn investors," Phil Chen of Grand Cathay Securities Investment Trust Co. told Bloomberg. "The trouble is, Chinese investors probably won't care if a few breadcrumbs are dropped in the transaction as they have such extraordinary returns on their investments."The government of China has decided to stop its currency peg to the U.S. dollar. The country will revalue its currency, the yuan, for the first time in a decade. This comes after international pressure from Western countries, especially from the United States. The yuan will now be linked to a variety of different currencies.The People's Bank of China has announced a 2.1% revaluation increase which will allow the yuan to fluctuate +/- 0.3 yuan in daily trading. This means, like other currencies, that closing prices one day become opening prices the next day.University of Cambridge security expert Professor Ross Anderson has blasted the EMV system used worldwide for credit and debit card transactions, and known in the UK as Chip and PIN, after his research team discovered a serious vulnerability.  The group were able to carry out purchases using a card, even without knowing the associated personal identification number (PIN), by using a "man-in-the-middle" attack.Retail terminals at the point of sale require the cardholder to insert their card and enter their secret PIN before a transaction can be authorised. They then communicate with the microchip built in to the card itself, which holds the PIN. If the correct number has been given, this chip returns a standard verification code (0x9000) to the terminal.In the researchers' attack they inserted a genuine card into a second reader, connected to a laptop. The laptop is linked by thin wires to a fake card, which is inserted into the retailer's terminal. The laptop relays the communications between the terminal and the stolen, but genuine, card, up until the stage where the PIN is to be checked. At this point it intercepts and responds with the verification code, no matter what number was entered. The retailer's terminal then believes that the correct PIN has been entered, and the card can be told that a signature was used to verify the cardholder instead.Their technique has been tested successfully on cards from six different issuers: Bank of Scotland, Barclaycard, Co-operative Bank, Halifax, HSBC and John Lewis.The group say that not much technical skill is required for the attack, and suggested the equipment needed could be kept in a backpack, with the wires to the fake card running down a user's sleeve. They believe the equipment could be miniaturised to the size of a remote control."In practice how this attack would work is that one reasonably technically skilled person would build a device that carries out the attack and then sell this equipment on the internet just like criminals already do," said Dr Steven Murdoch who worked on the project.Professor Anderson claimed that the attack could already be in use by criminals. "We have many examples of people who have had their cards stolen and then purchases made using the chip and pin," he said. "They are adamant they didn't use it but if the banks say chip and pin has been used you have to pay. I think many of these people would have been victim of the kind of technique we have developed."He was scathing about bank claims that the system was secure. "The banks are wrong. All the banks are lying. They are maliciously and wilfully deceiving the customer. If there was any justice then the police would be looking into this. The system is not fit for purpose."Consumer group Which? have also called for an investigation, stating that in a recent survey one in seven people said that money had been taken from their accounts without authorisation. Around half of these did not have the money refunded by the bank."We want the banks to look into these potential flaws," said Cathy Neal from Which? Money, "because we have had many examples where the banks have said a pin was used and the customer said it hasn't."Over 90 percent of UK card transactions at point-of-sale use chip and PIN, according to the UK Payments Administration. The attack does not affect ATM transactions, which use different standards. Mark Bowerman, a spokesman for the group which represents card companies, said that there was no evidence the attack was in use and emphasised that card fraud had fallen with the introduction of chip and PIN."We are taking this paper very seriously, as maintaining excellent levels of card security is paramount," he said. "However, we strongly refute the allegation that chip and PIN is broken."The research paper has been made available as a working draft, and is due to be published at the IEEE Security and Privacy Symposium in May 2010. Members of the banking industry were informed of the vulnerability in early December last year.The American auto company Chrysler filed for bankruptcy Thursday, however a deal with European auto maker Fiat went through. The emerging Chrysler will be owned 55 percent by the United Auto Workers, eight percent by the United States Government, two percent by the Canadian Government and Fiat would begin with a 20 percent share.Chrysler Chief Executive Robert Nardelli will step down when the bankruptcy proceedings are finalized.Initially, the Italian company, Fiat, will appoint three members on the emerging Chrysler's new board, and the United States government will appoint six. Fiat can assume the majority of the ownership upon repayment of American loans.Chrysler administrators expect that the bankruptcy should take a couple of months."We expect this to be a very short, 30-to-60-day bankruptcy process, during which the company will function normally," a top administration official said, "People will be able to buy cars, they will have their warranties honored, and everything should go on normally." The bankruptcy filing indicated that Chrysler was in debt to 20 creditors to a tune of more than $10 million each.Meanwhile, the deal with Fiat did go through, and Chrysler should have cars designed by Fiat out on the market by 2011."It's a partnership that will give Chrysler a chance not only to survive, but to thrive in a global auto industry," said American president Obama, "Fiat has demonstrated that it can build the clean, fuel-efficient cars that are the future of the industry."However, automotive analyst Erich Merkle has hesitations."History would show that alliances really don't work that well," Merkle said, "even though, no matter how good they may look on paper."The restructuring has been managed by Steve Rattner, a former investment banker, and the U.S. Government auto task force.Obama has set three ultimatums before Fiat. Fiat should produce a 40 mile per gallon vehicle while managing the new Chrysler, transfer fuel efficient Fiat technology to Chrysler factories in the United States, and produce cars in Chrysler factories and distribute them in Europe.The San Diego, California suburb of Chula Vista has responded to the recent housing crisis with an aggressive blight control ordinance that compels lenders to maintain the appearance of vacant homes.  As foreclosures increase both locally and throughout the United States, the one year old ordinance has become a model for other cities overwhelmed by the problem of abandoned homes that decay into neighborhood eyesores.  Chula Vista city code enforcement manager Doug Leeper told the San Diego Union Tribune that over 300 jurisdictions have contacted his office during the past year with inquiries about the city's tough local ordinance.  Coral Springs, Florida, and California towns Stockton, Santee, Riverside County, and Murietta have all modeled recently enacted anti-blight measures after Chula Vista's.  On Wednesday, 8 October, the Escondido City Council also voted to tighten local measures making lenders more accountable for maintenance of empty homes.Under the Chula Vista ordinance lenders become legally responsible for upkeep as soon as a notice of mortgage default gets filed on a vacant dwelling, before actual ownership of the dwelling returns to the lender.  Leeper regards that as "the cutting-edge part of our ordinance".  Chula Vista also requires prompt registration of vacant homes and applies stiff fines as high as US$1000 per day for failure to maintain a property.  Since foreclosed properties are subject to frequent resale between mortgage brokers, city officials enforce the fines by sending notices to every name on title documents and placing a lien on the property, which prevents further resale until outstanding fines have been paid.  In the year since the ordinance went into effect the city has applied $850,000 in fines and penalties, of which it has collected $200,000 to date.  The city has collected an additional $77,000 in registration fees on vacant homes.Jolie Houston, an attorney in San Jose, believes "Lenders will respond when it costs them less to maintain the property than to ignore local agency requirements."  Traditionally, local governments have resorted to addressing blight problems on abandoned properties with public funds, mowing overgrown lawns and performing other vital functions, then seeking repayment afterward.  Chula Vista has moved that responsibility to an upfront obligation upon lenders.  As one of the fastest growing cities in the United States during recent years, Chula Vista saw 22.6% growth between 2000 and 2006, which brought the city's population from 173,556 in the 2000 census to an estimated 212,756, according to the U.S. Census Bureau.  Chula Vista placed among the nation's 20 fastest growing cities in 2004.  A large proportion of local homes were purchased during the recent housing boom using creative financing options that purchasers did not understand were beyond their means.  Average home prices in San Diego County declined by 25% in the last year, which is the steepest drop on record.  Many homeowners in the region currently owe more than their homes are worth and confront rising balloon payment mortgages that they had expected to afford by refinancing new equity that either vanished or never materialized.  In August 2008, Chula Vista's eastern 91913 zip code had the highest home mortgage default rate in the county with 154 filings and 94 foreclosures, an increase of 154% over one year previously.  Regionally, the county saw 1,979 foreclosures in August.Professionals from the real estate and mortgage industries object to Chula Vista's response to the crisis for the additional burdens it places on their struggling finances.  Said San Diego real estate agent Marc Carpenter, "that kind of measure will add additional costs to banks that have been hit really hard already and ultimately the cost will be transferred down to consumers and investors."  Yet city councils in many communities have been under pressure to do something about increasing numbers of vacant properties.  Concentrations of abandoned and neglected homes can attract vandals who hasten the decline of struggling neighborhoods.  Jolie Houston explained that city officials "can't fix the lending problem, but they can try to prevent neighborhoods from becoming blighted."  CEO Robert Klein of Safeguard, a property management firm, told the Union Tribune that his industry is having difficulty adapting to the rapidly changing local ordinances.  "Every day we discover a new ordinance coming out of somewhere", he complained.  Dustin Hobbs, a spokesman from the California Association of Mortgage Bankers agreed that uneven local ordinances are likely to increase the costs of lending.  Hobbs advised that local legislation is unnecessary due to California State Senate Bill 1137, which was recently approved to address blight.  Yet according to Houston, the statewide measure falls short because it fails to address upkeep needs during the months between the time when foreclosure begins and when the lender takes title.The president of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez, warned that the price of crude oil could reach $200 per barrel "if the United States committed the madness of invading Iran", or attacked his country.Chávez made this statement in the act of opening the third Summit of Chiefs of State of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).Mr. Chávez pleaded that OPEC should adopt a more political agenda and requested "that thethreats against the countries" of the organization should stop. He said that $100 dollars per barrel was a "fair" price and remembered that when he assumed presidency of Venezuela in 1999, the price went up to about ten dollars.The prices of raw oil approached $100 last week before settling down again. Some observers think it is possible that the $100 barrier may be broken. During the trading session following this two-day summit, that is expected to result in the "Declaration of Riyadh", the price of petroleum rose $0.80 in the New York market and $0.66 in London.The iPhone only made its appearance as a prototype and there have been controversies aroused.The dispute has come up between the manufacturer of the iPhone (which was resented on Wednesday for the first time) - Apple Inc. - and a leader in network and communication systems, based in San Jose - Cisco. The company claims to possess the trademark for iPhone, and moreover, that it sells devices under the same brand through one of its divisions.This became the reason for Cisco to file a lawsuit against Apple Inc. so that the latter would stop selling the device.Cisco states that it has received the trademark in 2000, when the company overtook Infogear Technology Corp., which took place in 1996.The Vice President and general counsel of the company, Mark Chandler, explained that there was no doubt about the excitement of the new device from Apple, but they should not use a trademark, which belongs to Cisco.The iPhone developed by Cisco is a device which allows users to make phone calls over the voice over Internet protocol (VoIP).On Saturday March 18, citizens in Buffalo demonstrated to make their voices be heard. The protest mounted by people opposed to the Elmwood Village Hotel proposal took place on the proposed site at Forest and Elmwood Avenues.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a 72-room, seven-million-dollar hotel proposed by Savarino Construction Services Corporation. The hotel would require the demolition of at least five buildings (1109-1121 Elmwood), which house several shops and residents. Karl Frizlen, an architect with Frizlen Group, designed the hotel. Although the properties are "under contract," it is still unknown if Savarino Construction actually owns the buildings. It is believed that Hans Mobius, a resident of Clarence, New York and former Buffalo Mayorial candidate, is still the owner. The hotel is expected to be a franchise of the Wyndham Hotels group.Despite the cold weather, at least 40 people showed up to walk the picket line for 2 two hours.Clarence Carnahan, a Buffalo resident, supplied signs that citizens could use during the protest. Some of the signs said, 'No vacancy, No hotel,' 'No tell hotel,' 'Hans off' and 'Our neighborhood, our choice, no hotel.'"The concern is they are going to tear down established businesses that have been here for years," said Charles Leist, a protester."We're fighting to the bitter end. We're hoping that we can squelch this. We don't think we can, but we're going down kicking and screaming," said Patty Morris, co-owner with Nancy Pollina of Don Apparel at 1119 Elmwood. Don Apparel is a vintage clothing and collectible shop and has been at the same location for nearly 14 years.The city's Common Council is expected to vote on the proposal on Tuesday, March 21, 2006 at 2:00 PM in Council Chambers, on 13th floor in City Hall.The Planning Board is expected to vote on the proposal on Tuesday, March 28, at 8:00 AM in room 902 on the 9th floor of City Hall.Even if the Common Council approves the proposal, the Planning board will get the final say in the matter.So far, no other protests are scheduled. Organizers say they will wait until the Common Council votes before organizing any more protests.Councilmember Joesph Golombek has responded to the lawsuit filed against the city of Buffalo for allegedly 'fast-tracking' a hotel that will be built on the corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo. The lawsuit, filed by Attorney Arthur J. Giacalone, was filed in New York State Supreme Court on April 21, 2006.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a 72-room, seven-million-dollar hotel proposed by Savarino Construction Services Corporation and designed by architect Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group. Its construction would require the demolition of at least five buildings, currently at 1109-1121 Elmwood, which house several shops and residents. Although the properties are "under contract," it is still not known whether Savarino Construction actually owns the buildings. It is believed that Hans Mobius, a resident of Clarence, New York and former Buffalo mayoral candidate, is still the owner. The hotel is expected to be a franchise of the Wyndham Hotels group. Buffalo's Common Council, Planning Board, Mayor of Buffalo, Byron W. Brown, Savarino Construction Services Corporation, Hans J. Mobius and his son Hans S. Mobius owners of the properties at stake, Pano Georgiadis, owner of Pano's Restaurant on Elmwood, and Cendant Corporation, the parent company of Wyndham Hotels are among those named in the suit.Councilmember Joesph Golombek said that the Law Department is "fighting the lawsuit because they believe that we did everything fairly and properly (as well as legally)."Golombek also stated that the lawsuit "could delay the start of the project" and that if he were "Mr. Savarino I would counter sue for any damages a postponement could bring.""Except for the lawsuit the city is finished with the project. In my opinion I believe those opposed to the project are simply use to the city procrastinating on projects.  This one was passed quickly by comparison. Thus part of their frustration." said Golombek."I understand the frustration of some of the people opposed to the project. But, in order for Elmwood to grow and thrive it will need to change. This change is a positive for that community," he added.Golombek also said that he is looking into "helping the displaced businesses."At least five businesses, Six Nations Gift Shop, Don Apparel, H.O.D. Tattoo, Skunk Tail Glass Company, and Mondo Video, will be forced to close their doors or relocate. Many of the buildings are also home to residents who will also have to move."I have personally contacted adjacent and nearby business associations and property owners to ask about the possibility of helping the displaced businesses.  Hopefully the project will go through in a timely fashion and the displaced businesses will be able to relocate," said Golombek.A preliminary hearing is scheduled to take place at 9:30 a.m. on June 8, 2006 in the Supreme Court building at 50 Delaware Avenue in Buffalo, on the 8th floor, part 31.==Related Wikinews=="Others named in lawsuit against Buffalo, N.Y. hotel proposal" — Wikinews, April 26, 2006"Lawsuit sends Buffalo, N.Y. hotel proposal to New York Supreme Court" — Wikinews, April 25, 2006In an unanimous vote, the City of Buffalo's Planning Board voted to table the Elmwood Village hotel Proposal, postponing voting on legislation for up to 30 days.The Board said its decision was due to the lack of public involvement, saying that there have not been enough meetings.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a proposed project by Savarino Construction Services Corporation and was designed by Karl Frizlen of The Frizlen Group.  The hotel would be placed on Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo, New York. In order for the hotel to be built, at least five buildings, that include both businesses and residents, must be demolished.The Forever Elmwood Corp. is a Buffalo-based non-profit organization founded in 1994. Justin Azzarella, the Executive Director for the organization voiced support for the proposal, stating: "I am here today to lend Forever Elmwood's support the hotel project. Particularly, Forever Elmwood is encouraged by the fact that this building follows the more stringent Elmwood Village Design Guidelines. We have been speaking with Savarino Construction, and they have promised us [Forever Elmwood] that they will engage the community further, including the surrounding Block Clubs and businesses. For that reason, while Forever Elmwood is in support of this project and the type of project that it is, we are asking also that the project be tabled so that the community can be further engaged. Specifically the surrounding Block clubs which include the Granger, Claremont, Asland and The Lincoln Parkway Block Clubs.""Because of the excellent work that Karl does and the game plan that they have, I think its an ideal use of this particular location. I think that this particular type of development needs to be encouraged and promoted as opposed to roadblocked," said a man who owns five properties near the proposal site.However, Evelyn Bencinich, a resident of Granger Place and whose house would be located directly behind the hotel said, "My property value will be depreciated or non-existent because no one is going to want to live behind a multi-story hotel. We are facing up to a year of noisy and dangerous demolition and construction. Children, pets and even drunk rebellers could wander on site and get hurt. Traffic tie-ups caused by large machinery and garbage bins is inevitable. Where will pedestrians walk? We could experience increased unsanitary flooding in our yards and basements due to the digging and cementing for the underground parking garage. Rats will be displaced into the immediate neighborhoods and be in great abundance. Once we get past the year of nightmare construction, what if you build it and they don't come? We could ultimately have a seven million dollar rooming house on our corner."Patty Morris, co-owner of Don Apparel with Nancy Pollina at 1119 Elmwood also asked that the project be tabled saying, "this has only been public knowledge for less than two weeks and the public never saw the redesign. How can you vote on anything that no one has seen yet? The Board cut off Morris saying, "so specifically you don't have any problem with it [the design] you just..." Morris then said, "Oh I am totally against this project, but thats besides the point isn't it."Senior Editor for Australia's Cleo magazine Sharri Markson confirmed on Wednesday  that she will not be competing for the role of editor between the sudden merger of Dolly and Cleo titles. The news came only days after German-based Bauer Media announced the merger of two of their most popular Australian magazines, with an expected loss of half the production staff by early next year.The production team was informed of the merge in a staff meeting on Monday. Chief executive Matt Stanton and publisher Sebastian Kadas explained the merger process, which will see the separate mastheads continue under the one production team and half the size of the normal magazine printing dimensions.Both current editors Sharri Markson and Tiffany Dunk, along with the entire production team, were required to re-apply for their positions and compete against one another to secure a position. However, according to The Australian, after only three days of consideration, Markson informed staff that she is not prepared to accept the role given it would mean producing two magazines with half the staff. Former editors of both Dolly and Cleo are turning to Twitter to show support for the staff in danger of unemployment. Mia Freedman posted; "Sad for all the girls who dream of working in magazines. The dream is sadly very much over. No joy today. Thinking of Dolly & Cleo staff", and Lisa Wilkinson posting "Very sad to hear news that Dolly & Cleo magazines are merging, with expected losses of half the staff. End of an era. And a personal one ..." Wilkinson told The Sydney Morning Heald. "I just hope the magazine publishers in this country have been mentoring that new talent otherwise it simply will not work".Bauer Media have released a statement addressing the situation, claiming to be “continually reviewing every aspect of its business, looking at new opportunities for growth and investment, whilst ensuring all divisions are working as efficiently and effectively as possible”. Bauer’s CEO who addressed the staff on Monday continued, saying "it makes sense to bring the staff creating these young women’s lifestyle titles together. The single publishing unit enables us to tap the synergies and expertise between the mastheads to further enhance the reach and relevance of these two much-loved Australian magazine brands."The production staff along with popular media personalities are publicly questioning the efficiency of the merge, as both titles have distinctly different audiences; with Dolly aiming at teenager readers and Cleo at women in their 20s and 30s. This combined with the ever increasing stress of publishing will only maximise the pressure on the new production team. Ita Buttrose highlighted the concern, telling Crikey, "I know everybody is cost-cutting at the moment, but this seems a bit extreme. You'd have to be a very experienced, very talented editor to put out both titles. I ran the women's division at ACP Magazines, but all the titles had their own clearly defined editors. For one person to edit two magazines — that may be something they do in Germany, but it's new for me ... I'd like to see their business plan."The move comes closely after Bauer discontinued women's magazine titles Madison and Grazia in Australia earlier this year due to continuing financial pressures.In a quarterly news release on Thursday, state-owned Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) said Canada's housing market is highly vulnerable, especially in Toronto and Hamilton in Ontario, Vancouver and Victoria  in British Columbia, and Saskatoon in Saskatchewan. It also identified a growing concern of overbuilding in Calgary and Edmonton in Alberta.The release said Calgary and  Edmonton, the largest and second largest cities in Alberta, have a large inventory of unsold homes. The CMHC expressed concern this may drive down prices of homes in the area.Vancouver, which is now reportedly less affordable than Manhattan in the US; Toronto; Victoria; and Hamilton were all assessed by the  CMHC's quarterly report  as highly overvaluated.The housing markets of Winnipeg in Manitoba, Ottawa in  Ontario, Montreal and Quebec in Quebec, Moncton in New Brunswick, Halifax in Nova Scotia, and St. John's in Newfoundland, were all assessed as low or moderate risk.As an experiment in the use of wiki technology for news, CNET News has launched a web site where readers can collaborate with other readers to predict the future of India's technology industry, collectively supplementing a CNET report on India published on June 27, 2005. The wiki uses Wikipedia's software, MediaWiki, with a custom design. Editing is not restricted. The wiki was set up by Andrew Lottmann of the technical production team at CNET News.com. "I would love to know if readers feel this wiki is a good medium for feedback or even 'citizen journalism' on News.com", Lottman stated in his user profile.As of July 2, 2005, the wiki was still relatively inactive, with only one "legitimate content page" and 176 page edits according to the site's statistics. [1]Ted Turner, the founder of CNN, last Tuesday accused Fox News of being a propaganda mouthpiece for the Bush administration. He likened the network's current popularity to Adolf Hitler's rise to power in pre-war Germany, and criticised the "dumbing down" of news which left the public uninformed of crucial issues.Turner said, "Adolf Hitler was more popular in Germany in the early 1930s than people that were running against him."Fox News in turn accused CNN of simple sour grapes.In a statement, the channel claimed that Ted was "understandably bitter having lost his ratings, his network and now his mind - we wish him well."Turner resigned from his post as Vice President of AOL Time Warner in January 2003. He remains one of America's largest private landowners, possessing approximately two million acres of land.Fox News remains the highest rating 24-hour news channel on US cable - but has been highly criticised for its perceived right-wing bias.Recent House Committee on Government Reform figures by the US Democrats show that the US Administration spent over $US88 million on public relations contracts in 2004, of which 41 per cent were awarded on a non-competitive basis.The China National Offshore Oil Company,(CNOOC), has submitted to U.S. Government regulators the details of its proposed US$18.5 billion purchase of California-based Unocal.  The bid comes against a US$16.5 billion offer of cash and stock from Chevron Corporation.  CNOOC, which is 70% owned by the Chinese Government, has placed a request for review with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS.  Both Chevron and CNOOC have been readying their lobbyists to try and get favorable consideration for their side in Washington.  If there is determined to be no threat to national security as a result of the merger, the review of CNOOC's offer could be completed in as little as 30 days.  While typically such reviews are not undertaken until after a takeover bid is formally accepted by the target companty, there is precedent for such review to be done before that happens.The government of Kerala, a state in southern India, has banned the production and sale of both Coca-Cola and Pepsi after the Centre for Science and Environment, a NGO, found high levels of pesticide residue in the popular soft drinks. Kerala is the first state to impose a complete ban on the production and sale of the drinks, but five other states have said they will introduce partial bans in hospitals, schools and colleges. Chief minister V. S. Achuthanandan, CPI(M), said the two companies had been asked to wind up their operations, meaning the closure of a Pepsi and a Coca-Cola plant in the state.The Indian Soft Drinks Manufacturers Association issued a statement saying: "Our products manufactured in India are absolutely safe and meet every safety standard set by food health and regulatory bodies in India and all over the world."Three people have been charged in the United States for trying to sell Coca-Cola trade secrets to PepsiCo. The main suspect, administration worker Joya Williams, tried to sell documents and a liquid sample of a new Coca-Cola product to the rival, prosecutors said.When being offered to buy the trade secrets in May, PepsiCo immediately contacted the FBI. A person calling himself "Dirk" wanted to meet a PepsiCo representative at Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport in Atlanta in June. Instead, an undercover FBI agent met with Ibrahim Dimson, the man posing as "Dirk".During the meeting it is said the undercover agent gave Dimson $30,000 for the trade secrets and promised to pay an additional $45,000 later. Then later that month, another agent later offered to buy the remaining trade secrets for $1.5m. The same day the suspects were arrested.A third person, Edmund Duhaney, was also arrested.PepsiCo said in a statement that "competition can sometimes be fierce, but also must be fair and legal".Coca-Cola said that it would review its security measures. The corporation's top-secret formula of its main drink was not affected in this security breach.Coffeeheaven, based in Warsaw, and opening its first store in 2000, is one of the largest coffee house chains in Central Europe and its surrounds. It currently has 28 outlets in Poland, 7 in Latvia (trading under the brand name Coffee Nation) and 3 in the Czech Republic.Rumours in London and Merseyside have linked Paul and Oliver Collyer, creators of the football management series Championship Manager, with a possible bid for Premiership football team Everton.The Goodison Park club, under the chairmanship of former Coronation Street actor Bill Kenwright, were subjects of a failed takeover bid in August 2004. After suffering the blow of failing to get beyond the qualifying stage of the Champions League, Kenwright is known to have recently sought additional investments in the club.While a move is not thought to be imminent, the recent takeover of the brothers' games development company Sports Interactive by game giant SEGA could well prove the catalyst for action by the lifelong Evertonians. The company's PR guru Miles Jacobson was forced into an official denial of the story soon after the takeover news broke on Tuesday morning. The Collyers themselves have as yet been unavailable for comment.President Alvaro Uribe signed, on December 30, 2005, a law that ratifies a FTA with Mercosur and gives Colombian products preferential access to a market of 230 million people. Colombian entrepreneurs will also be able to import materials and capital goods from Mercosur at lower costs due to reduced tariffs resulting from the agreement.The agreement’s asymmetry clauses favor Colombia because it allows the gradual and progressive reduction of tariffs and likewise gives Colombia the opportunity to gradually reform its production system to adapt it to the requirements of future negotiations within the scheme of Mercosur and the South American Community of NationsThis agreement along with previous treaties signed with the Andean Community, Mexico, Chile and the  FTA with the United States currently under negotiation, highlight the geographic position of Colombia as a center for investment.The workers of Coca Cola in Colombia reiterated their accusations against Coca Cola for violations to the collective agreements after denying that the world wide campaign they are moving forward has political interests. Javier Correa, president of SINALTRAINAL, the National Union of the Food Industry, denounced that Coca Cola continues to violate the worker’s right of association. He declared that of 8,700 employees only 2,300 have a direct contract with the company and that contractors and sub-contractors have no right to join the union organization. In addition, SINALTRAINAL denounced that there is a persecution campaign against its members that has resulted in attacks by paramilitary groups.The co-pilot and the widow of the pilot of Comair Flight 5191 have sued the United States Federal Aviation Administration, Blue Grass Airport where the crash occurred, and Jeppesen Dataplan Inc, the manufacturer of the airport charts the pilots were using and a subsidiary of Boeing.The co-pilot was the only survivor in the disaster, which killed 49 people one year ago on August 27, 2006. The aircraft crashed after attempting takeoff on the wrong runway, which was only for general aviation and therefore not long enough for use by commercial airliners.The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) determined last month that the primary cause of the accident was most likely pilot error. However, First Officer James Polehinke and Amy Clay, widow of Captain Jeffrey Clay, allege that all three organisations they are suing were also negligent.Despite this, one lead investigator has named other contributing factors, including staffing deficiencies in the control tower, an air traffic controller suffering from fatigue, airport charts that were out of date and the fact that vital documents warning pilots of a route change due to construction work did not reach the aircraft's flight crew.In addition to the other three companies, Polehinke is also suing the company that designed the lighting system in use at the airport.The NTSB's official probable cause for the disaster is as follows: "The National Transportation Safety Board determines that the probable cause of this accident was the flight crewmembers’ failure to use available cues and aids to identify the airplane’s location on the airport surface during taxi and their failure to cross‑check and verify that the airplane was on the correct runway before takeoff. Contributing to the accident were the flight crew’s non-pertinent conversations during taxi, which resulted in a loss of positional awareness and the Federal Aviation Administration’s failure to require that all runway crossings be authorized only by specific air traffic control clearances."Major British charity Comic Relief has invested money in arms, alcohol and tobacco firms, according to a BBC Panorama investigation to be broadcast this evening.The probe discovered evidence of hundreds of thousands of pounds going towards shares in weapons firms like BAE Systems and alcohol company Diageo. It is also alleged to have pledged upwards of £3 million into tobacco firms.Ethical fund manager Helen Wildsmith told Panorama: "If people who've been giving them money, after watching the television, next year think twice and don't give that money, because they're concerned about their investment policy, then that could be argued to be a breach of fiduciary duty. They're risking their reputation, and a charity's reputation is very precious."Comic Relief was founded in 1985, and since then has taken in nearly £1 billion in donations. It funds charitable organisations in the United Kingdom as well as overseas. It uses a range of managed funds, which invests the money in the charity's name - including on the stock market - in order to maximise return.A spokesperson for the charity told the British newspaper The Daily Telegraph: "We put the money into large managed funds, as many other leading charities and pension funds do. On balance, we believe this is the approach that will deliver the greatest benefits to the most vulnerable people."The controversial investments were made between 2007 and 2009, Panorama explains. Peter Bennett-Jones, former chair of the company, defended the investments in a post on The Guardian's website.He said: "The Charity Commission guidance is quite clear that trustees must invest for the best possible financial return, while taking a level of risk appropriate for money in their care. They should only adopt an ethical investment approach with specific justification and not on the grounds of individual moral views. This sounds counterintuitive, but it is the law."The New Zealand Commerce Commission has fined the Bank of New Zealand (BNZ). It has been forced to pay NZ$5 million in compensation to its customers, $500,000 in fines and $80,000 in costs to the Commerce Commission. The money will be placed into a bank account to be monitored by an auditor, and if there is any money left over it will be donated to a consumer organization.BNZ has been forced to pay these fines for failing to disclose that they were charging their customers for the exchange of foreign currency during February, 2002 until May, 2004 on its credit and debit cards, which is a breach of the Fair Trading Act. They pleaded guilty to 21 counts of breaching the act. The BNZ say that they will contact their affected customers and that they should get their compensation by November this year. The bank is responsible for contacting all their customers.The BNZ is the third bank to be charged, the two others were ANZ and the National Bank, which were charged $11.325 million combined as they had since become a single company. There are still other ongoing prosecutions on these other financial services: Westpac, ASB, TSB, American Express, Diners Club and The Warehouse Financial Services. The Commission would not comment on these cases.Paula Rebsotck, Commerce Commission Chairperson, said "the result was a victory for New Zealand consumers, many of whom would have unknowingly paid the currency transaction charges. While fees like these remain hidden, banks have no incentive to offer lower fees."Common Sense Advisory, Inc., an independent business globalization, internationalization, and localization and translation research and consulting firm, announces the release of its list of the top 20 language service providers (LSPs) and its estimate of the size of worldwide translation and software localization market. The list, which includes Lionbridge (LIOX) and L-3/Titan (LLL) is based on the firm’s Human Delivered Service Company (HDSC) Index, a sophisticated assessment model that evaluates the business fundamentals, market strength, and service offerings of companies that depend on people to produce most of their revenue. The ranking of translation companies reflects recent industry mergers and acquisitions including Lionbridge’s acquisition of Bowne Global Solutions, a unit of Bowne & Co, (BNE).Common Sense Advisory also estimates the current worldwide translation and localization market at US$ 8.8 billion, reaching a total of US$ 12 billion in 2010. “This figure is particularly relevant at a time where the market seems to be entering a new wave of consolidation,” comments analyst Renato Beninatto.Explains Common Sense Advisory founder and CEO, Donald A. DePalma, “Many language services companies want to get bigger. Our certification model lets us benchmark one company against comparable language services firms, against offshore providers providing a full range of engineering and localization offerings, and against the service firms that make up our own innovative HDSC Index. This information is valuable to any procurement department – not to mention to any LSP thinking about where it fits in the marketplace relative to its competitors.”Ranking of Top 20 Translation Companies is now available for free download.Ian Narev, the CEO of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, this morning "unreservedly" apologised to clients who lost money in a scandal involving the bank's financial planning services arm.Last week, a Senate enquiry found financial advisers from the Commonwealth Bank had made high-risk investments of clients' money without the clients' permission, resulting in hundreds of millions of dollars lost. The Senate enquiry called for a Royal Commission into the bank, and the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC).Mr Narev stated the bank's performance in providing financial advice was "unacceptable", and the bank was launching a scheme to compensate clients who lost money due to the planners' actions.In a statement Mr Narev said, "Poor advice provided by some of our advisers between 2003 and 2012 caused financial loss and distress and I am truly sorry for that. [...] There have been changes in management, structure and culture. We have also invested in new systems, implemented new processes, enhanced adviser supervision and improved training."An investigation by Fairfax Media instigated the Senate inquiry into the Commonwealth Bank's financial planning division and ASIC.Whistleblower Jeff Morris, who reported the misconduct of the bank to ASIC six years ago, said in an article for The Sydney Morning Herald that neither the bank nor ASIC should be in control of the compensation program.James Hardie Industries has signed a final agreement designed to ensure that compensation will be received by victims who suffer health consequences due to their exposure to the company's asbestos products.  The deal, signed on Thursday, is expected to cost the company $4.5 billion over the next 40 years, and James Hardie is obligated to pay 35 per cent of its free cash flow during each of those years to fund a compensation trust. The Australian corporate watchdog ASIC (Australian Securities and Investments Commission) is gaining ground on James Hardie Industries corporate members.  It is understood that the company's agreement with the NSW Government will not provide Hardie directors and executives with the immunities from civil prosecution sought by the company.  The possible charges for the members range as high as jail terms of up to five years. According to The Weekend Australian, a source said, "this arrangement suited ASIC because rather than channelling its efforts into cases that could provide compensation, it can concentrate on alleged offences that could result in criminal prosecution or banning officers from holding directorships or management positions." NSW Special Commissioner David Jackson QC said that former Hardie chief executive Peter Macdonald engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct when he told the stock exchange that the asbestos compensation trust Hardie set up in 2001 with $293 million would be "fully funded". At around the same time, James Hardie share holders voted for the relocation of its corporate base from Australia to the Netherlands.Another alleged issue is a controversial $1.9 billion share cancellation, which a NSW MP said attracted ASIC to look at the activities of Hardie chairwoman Meredith Hellicar. The ASIC task force plan to collect and analyse documents and interview witnesses into at least the middle of next year. Until then, any possible new charges are unlikely.A complaint made against Internet service provider (ISP) iHug by M. McNatty has been upheld by the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA). McNatty complained that he was not told of the special conditions of banner adverts he saw on the iHug website.McNatty said: "I signed up [to iHug] but discovered I had shot over my limit and iHUG had reduced my download speed from 100 to 64kps. I rang iHUG and they explained that I had gone over my 1 GB traffic allotment by 230%. I explained I was on the 3 GB plan and they went on to tell me that 2 of the 3GB can only be used between the hours of 2 a.m. and 10 a.m." He then went on to talk to the manager of iHug but was told there was nothing he could do so he asked to be upgraded to the more expensive option of the 15 GB plan.iHug replied to the complaint by saying: "It appears that M. McNatty has briefly looked at the front page of our broadband section without either reading down the page to the what you get section or clicking on the info or join now links on our website. If he had, he would have found information about the peak and off-peak split of data allowances. He has then rung the iHug call centre, where our call centre personnel have been instructed to inform customers of the details of data allowances because many customers don't understand how much data they will need. If the customer service representative has failed to explain how the data allowances work then that is a mistake on our part, for which I am sincerely apologetic. iHug has taken steps to resolve this by stressing to Customer Service Managers that they must remind their teams to fully explain data allowances during the sign up call."iHug then went on to apologize to McNatty if felt he had been misled but said: "I think it is unreasonable for M. McNatty to expect all information pertaining to a broadband application to be contained in detail on a small banner advert which is clearly design to capture interest only and lead the customer to further information."The ASA complaint board then reviewed the advertisement and noted that the advertisement clearly identified that information related to the offer was available on other pages and that a customer would most likely know that plans varied and would ask for clarification before subscribing.But then said, referring to the 3 GB plan advertisement; "However, nowhere in the main offer or the immediate conditions headed, "ihug broadband – what you get", did it inform the consumer that 2 of the 3 GB could only be used between the hours of 2 a.m. and 10 a.m., one third being peak user time, two thirds being off-peak user time. This, in the Complaints Board's view, significantly diminished the offer of '3 GB data', to the extent that the offer could be considered to be 'exaggerated'. As such the Complaints Board said that it would be likely to mislead the consumer."They also noted that the wording "generous peak download allowance" was a hyperbole and overstated the product offered, which amounted to misleading the customer.The Complaints Board said: "A website advertisement was not limited by a time constraint such as a television advertisement, or restricted by space available, and thereby there was no apparent reason why this paramount condition could not be more obvious in relation to the offer."The complaints board then said that if special condition reduced the offer in value then those conditions need to be obvious. They noted that the ad does say conditions do apply. "However, as the condition in this instance diminished the offer in a major way, the Complaints Board was unanimously of the view, that it should have been disclosed in an obvious manner, as part of the initial offer or in close proximity to it," said the complaints board.The board then noted that the advertisement was in violation of the second rule in the Code of Ethics which states "Truthful Presentation - Advertisements should not contain any statement or visual presentation or create an overall impression which directly or by implication, omission, ambiguity or exaggerated claim is misleading or deceptive, is likely to deceive or mislead the consumer, makes false and misleading representation, abuses the trust of the consumer or exploits his/her lack of experience or knowledge. (Obvious hyperbole, identifiable as such, is not considered to be misleading)." The board did uphold the complaint.Six of the world's largest computer companies are seeking to have a patent held by the Australian Government's Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) revoked. Microsoft, Dell, Hewlett Packard, Intel, Apple and Netgear are taking legal action against the CSIRO to have its U.S. patent broken.In 1996, the CSIRO developed technology to allow computers to be networked together wirelessly. The technology is now built in to most laptop computers and manufacturers currently pay the CSIRO a licence fee to use it.According to CSIRO Chief Executive Dr Geoff Garrett, the system enables the speed of Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) to be increased by a factor of five.This isn't the first time that the CSIRO has been involved in legal action surrounding this patent: in February 2005, it commenced legal action in the United States against Buffalo Technology, a Japanese-owned company, which had ended negotiations with CSIRO about obtaining a licence.The Australian Government's research arm has announced that it will fight the legal action to protect its intellectual property, the income of which it uses to fund its research. It has come under increasing pressure following the Australian Government's cutting its funding in 2003, which has only been recently restored."As part of our business we create high quality intellectual property and we are prepared to defend it," Garrett said."We actively encourage the utilisation of the results of research in industry and communities, both nationally and globally, and any royalty income will be reinvested in further research."The patent in question is U.S. Patent 5,487,069 Wireless LAN.The case also raises issues about the recent signing of a Free Trade Agreement between Australia and the United States.  Per the agreement, Australia plans to introduce American-style intellectual property law.Computer systems used by the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) for the handling of tax filing data for Canadians have been temporarily shutdown due to infrastructure problems. A March 7 article in the Toronto Star states that due to errors in the electronic filing system, Canada Revenue Agency will be unable to accept any tax filings electronically or corrections to prior filings.A fact sheet from the CRA  states that "until the problem is resolved, we cannot process returns filed on paper, or returns filed electronically before the system interruption. Refunds will be delayed until processing is resumed". A check of the taxing authority's website regarding the issue states "We have temporarily shut down public access to electronic services to ensure the integrity of taxpayer information." and that "We have now traced the source of the problem to software maintenance conducted on March 4, 2007. We are currently working to bring all systems back online gradually."A CRA press release dated March 6  states "Commissioner of the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) Michel Dorais today instructed some computer applications related to personal income tax filing to be temporarily halted." he also said,  "there is no indication that this situation was caused by intrusion, hacking, or computer virus".  Further, "These applications include online services like Efile, Netfile, and My Account. Mr. Dorais said that he instructed that this preventative measure be taken following indications that CRA computer systems have run into infrastructure problems. In order to safeguard existing systems and to maintain the integrity of CRA's taxpayer information holdings, Mr Dorais ordered tax filing processes halted."  An article in The Globe and Mail  states that taxpayers "can wait for Netfile to return to service, or they can print their returns and mail them to the CRA", which will be processed when the computer glitch is resolved.The deadline for Canadians to submit tax returns is April 30. The CRA indicates it is too soon to speculate on whether the filing deadline will be extended. They expect to restore all services, including EFile and Netfile, well in advance of the filing deadline.The shutdown also affects third-party companies that prepare tax returns and electronically file the data using the EFile facility on behalf of clients. According to the CRA, millions of individual Canadians use the Netfile service each year.The Agency will provide updates daily to the media until the situation is resolved.Martin Bionics, a company based out of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, was awarded the patent to a computer-controlled ankle.  The  Oklahoma Center for the Advancement for Science and Technology funded $573,000 towards the development of the device.The computer-controlled ankle functions similar to how the brain controls a real human ankle.  Although prosthetic ankles allowed for some basic performance, the technologies remained limited in where and how they may be used.Vice president of research and development, Jay Martin, said "This design grants a greater sense of security and confidence to the amputee. Functioning at a higher level, walking with a smoother step and dressing without limits will provide the patient with greater self confidence."Martin Bionics plans to have the ankle commercially available within the next two years.Global stock markets fell steeply on Thursday on investor concerns about the growing sovereign debts of European Union member states Greece, Portugal, and Spain.  A report of a rise in weekly jobless claims in the United States contributed to the market gloom.  The MSCI World index fell the most in over nine months.  Currency and commodities markets also posted major moves.The euro fell more than one percent against the US dollar to an eight-month low; against the yen it fell 2.2%, approaching a one-year low. The price of crude oil fell 5% to US$73.14 per barrel and gold slid 4.4% to US$1,063 per ounce.Greece's Prime Minister, George Papandreou, announced an austerity program, but that is now threatened by plans by the largest trade union for a national strike. In 2009, Greece's budget deficit was 12.7% of the nation's gross domestic product (GDP). Papandreou's plan called for that to drop to 3% by 2012.Gary Jenkins of Evolution Securities told the Financial Times, "[t]he risk aversion trade is back on as the debt problems of Europe are for the first time bringing down global markets. Corporate earnings may come in strongly [in the US], but investors are more concerned about the possible default of a sovereign European nation.""This is a sovereign problem, and it's hitting everything," said Keith Springer of Capital Financial Advisory Services to Reuters. "If other European countries are having trouble like Greece, then it's a big problem for banks, and the banks are the foundation for everything. European banks will be in trouble and that will carry over to all stocks.""The focus is shifting toward Spain and Portugal, where the deficit-reduction plans have been far less ambitious than Greece," said Kornelius Purps of UniCredit Markets & Investment Banking to Bloomberg. Concerns in Portugal centered on political tension surrounding a regional spending bill. In Spain, the source of worry was reportedly because the government backed down from promised pension reform.European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet sought to ease investor fears, in part by noting that the deficit in the US is expected to hit 10% of GDP in 2010, compared with about 6% in the eurozone. He said that he was "confident" that Greece is moving in the right direction.Trichet did admit that it is of "paramount importance" for Greece, Portugal and Spain to get their public finances under control.At a U.S. House Armed Services Committee meeting broadcast on CSPAN, former CIA Director Woolsey talked about the 18.5 billion dollar bid by the government-backed China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) for the purchase of Unocal Corporation. He said this is definitely a strategic energy power move by China, and it was not for economic gain. Others are still worried about EMP.U.S. Treasury Secretary John Snow heads a committee that can block the takeover. The U.S. House of Representatives passed a measure in June by a wide margin to form the committee under Snow. U.S. national security concerns are at stake according to analysts and many conservatives.The United States reluctance to allow China's unsolicited bid for an American oil company surprises some. When Russia claimed their own oil companies could not be bought by Americans for both "strategic" and "national security" reasons, the United States was vehemently opposed to that position.Houston - The major oil company, ConocoPhillips, today announced that it is to buy back up to $1bn worth of common stock over the next 2 years. The major aim of the repurchase is to ensure existing shareholders do not have their stakes in the company diluted over the coming years as a result the company's stock compensation program. The purchase of stock will be done over the next two years at manager's discretion at prevailing prices as permitted by securities laws and other legal requirements. The company also announced a quarterly dividend of 50 cents per share which is to be payable on March 1, 2005, to stockholders of record at the close of business Feb. 15, 2005.On Wednesday, a United States federal appeals court upheld convictions of fraud and obstruction of justice against media mogul Conrad Black, along with three other executives from his former press corporation, Hollinger International.Black, born in Canada and bearer of the title Baron Black of Crossharbour in the United Kingdom, was found guilty in July 2007 of three counts of wire and mail fraud for giving himself and others millions of dollars in illegal bonuses taken from Hollinger holdings, and for obstruction of justice based on surveillance footage of his moving 13 boxes of documents out of his Toronto office to his home the day after he was informed that he was being investigated. He was sentenced, and from March this year he began a 6 1/2-year prison term. Peter Atkinson and John Boultbee were convicted on the same fraud charges, and were sentenced to terms of 24 and 27 months respectively, while Mark Kipnis, who was implicated in the fraud, was given probation with 6 months of home detention.The appeals panel from the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, who heard the defence attorneys' oral arguments, presented its opinion in a 16-page document in which they rejected arguments against the fraud and obstruction charges. They noted that while the defence had presented a "no harm-no foul argument", in which it was argued that the accused were owed the money appropriated, "such arguments usually fare badly in criminal cases". They also dismissed claims that instructions given to the jury by the judge had been incomplete, or unclear, stating that "the defendants proposed a misleading statement as an alternative", and that in such situations the judge is allowed to stay with the original instruction, and in particular is not required "that a submitted charge be technically perfect to alert the court to the need for a particular charge".The appeals judges also discounted arguments from the defence regarding the defendants being unaware of the illegality of the transactions, making reference to an "ostrich argument", based on the urban legend that ostriches sensing danger stick their heads in the sand. It was noted that choosing not to investigate the suspicious nature of the payments was equivalent to accepting their illegality. An argument from Black's defence regarding the obstruction charge, that in moving the documents he was not in fact escaping scrutiny, was similarly rejected, as "all that needed to be proved is that the document was concealed in order to make it unavailable in an official proceeding," according to the ruling as written by Judge Richard Posner.Andrew Frey, the defence attorney for Conrad Black, said that the court's decision was based on "a number of factual misunderstandings", and that the defendants were considering a request for a rehearing of the appeal.Constanţa Shipyard (SNC) registered total revenues of €38.4 million in 2004, 63.5% higher than in 2003. The shipyard also had a net profit of €1.7 million, which was assigned to reserves linked to fiscal facilities, as well as to the coverage of the previous years' losses and the legal reserve.Constanţa Shipyard, located in the Romanian port of Constanţa, on the Black Sea coast, is the largest shipyard in Romania. The shipyard was privatised in April 2002, when Resource International, a company based in the Marshall Islands, bought stocks in it worth US$17.4 million, from the Romanian government. The other shareholders in the company are Histria Shipmanagement SRL (Constanţa), Technical Shiprepairs and Maintenance SRL (Constanţa).The pipeline will run from Constanţa, Romania's largest port on the Black Sea, through Romania, Serbia, Croatia, Slovenia before ending up in Trieste, northern Italy. Tapu named Chevron Texaco, British Petroleum and OMV among the companies interested in the project.The oil pipeline is expected to cost Romania 1.9 billion euro.TJX Companies, a U.S. chain, that owns big box stores Winners, a fashion outlet, and HomeSense, a home accessories store, has revealed they had their computers hacked back in mid-December.It also affected the U.S. and Puerto Rico stores Marshalls, T.J. Maxx, HomeGoods and A.J. Wright, which are also owned by TJX Companies. The intrusion could also affect stores in the United Kingdom and Ireland.They discovered the hacking in mid-December and revealed the information to the public on Wednesday."The company is committed to providing its customers with more information when it becomes available," TJX Companies said in a statement.The computers contain credit card, debit card, check, and merchandise return transactions information. The hacker could have accessed transactions during 2003 and from May through December 2006.Jefferies analyst Timothy Allen said the chain should use this as an opportunity for excellent customer service. He added that they should offer coupons to customers to get them back to shopping in stores owned by TJX.Customers with questions can call one of the help lines at 866-484-6978 in the United States, 866-903-1408 in Canada, and 0800-77-90-15 for the United Kingdom and Ireland.An annual survey done by the New Zealand Consumers' Institute has shown that there has been a dramatic decline in satisfaction with the respondents' Internet service providers (ISP).Of the over 10,000 Internet users who participated in the survey, only 66% said they were either satisfied or very satisfied with their current ISP. This is compared to the 2005 survey which was at 82%. The reason, according to the Consumers' Institute, is because of national ISP, Xtra dragging down the ratings. Xtra users made up 51% of the respondents.Only 55% of Xtra's customers said they were satisfied or very satisfied with Xtra, it was 78% last year. Xtra rated worst in every single category. Nick Brown, spokesman, said: "Xtra will be working to improve its ranking. The rapid growth in the broadband market at the moment means you don't get things right all the time. [Xtra is] disappointed with the results and will be going through the details with a view to making improvements."The best ISP, as voted by the survey respondents, was Inspire, the third consecutive time they have won. 97% of Inspire's users said that its performance was either good or very good.David Russel, chief executive of the Consumers' Institute, said: "The wonderful world of cyberspace has a long way to go in New Zealand in terms of providing customer satisfaction. Providers must sharpen up on their advertising and improve the performance of their service desks. The big ISPs are promising too much. Broadband speed and the price people are paying are the biggest bones of contention."Mr. Russell added: "Support, both online and offline is a key factor in satisfaction with your ISP. However, price is still key."United Airlines and Continental Airlines shareholders yesterday approved a US$3.2 billion merger that would create the world's largest airline. 98% of shareholders approved of the deal.In the deal, United stockholders will hold 55% of the company, while Continental stockholders will get 1.05 new shares for each Continental share and will hold the remaining 45% of the company. The deal was earlier approved by United States antitrust regulators. The new company, which keeps United's name but Continental's globe logo, has little overlap in its route network, and will be headed by Continental CEO Jeff Smisek.The new company surpasses rival Delta Air Lines, which merged only a year ago, to become the world's largest.The airlines expect to complete the merger by October 1 of this year, and customers can expect to see major changes in spring 2011, when the new United will rebrand their kiosks, worker uniforms and airplanes. The new company is calling the day when they rebrand "Customer Day One"."Our stockholders recognized the value of bringing together Continental and United to create a platform for increased profitability and sustainable, long-term growth," Smisek announced after the merger.Some analysts agree. "No further obstacles to the merger are likely at this point," Jim Corridore, Standard & Poor's equity analyst, said to investors. Corridore also said that "we are positive on the planned merger, which we think creates an extremely strong global route network with opportunities for cost and revenue synergies." Other people were less positive about the merger. Rick Seaney, CEO of FareCompare.com, said that "losing a major competitor is likely to make prices rise — all things equal on the economy and fuel prices." Also, a lawsuit in California accusing the merger of monopolizing the market and raising fares has been filed by lawyer Joseph Alioto, who claims that he represents consumers. United and Continental have defended themselves against accusations of monopolizing the airline industry by stating that they compete with low-cost carriers such as Southwest Airlines on three quarters of their US network. The airlines have also said that the low overlap and the low-cost competition will bring fares to heel.Continental Airlines and United Airlines officially announced Monday their plans to merge after both companies' boards of directors approved the plan on Sunday afternoon. The joint company, branded as United Airlines, will take its livery from both airlines, acquiring the United name and using the Continental Globe and colors, giving it a co-branded look. This merger will allow Continental and United to surpass the recent Delta and Northwest merger, becoming the largest airline in the world when the merger is finalized.The two airlines failed to reach an agreement on a separate merger several years ago when Continental dropped out of the talks. Some experts cited United's poor financial status as being one of the contributing factors for the breakdown in talks. This led United to begin merger talks with alliance partner US Airways, which also failed to come to fruition.File:N775UA.jpgThe stock price of both companies rose when news of their merger was announced. Unlike most mergers, this one is relatively even in terms of what each company receives as a result. United Airlines is taking 55% control of the combined company and keeping its name, as well as becoming the main base for the group in Chicago. Continental’s Chief Executive Officer will become the CEO of the combined company, known as United Continental Holdings Inc, and will gain control of the other 45% of the new airline. Since base operations are moving to Chicago, the city of Houston recently submitted proposals arguing for not cutting Continental’s over 1,000 jobs in Texas. Little has been said as to what will happen to regional carriers, like ExpressJet Airlines, that work closely with the two companies. For now, the companies will remain operating independently pending a United States Department of Justice anti-trust review which will set the stage for finalization of the merger later this year.Sam Savarino, CEO of Savarino Companies, the development company to be in charge of building the Elmwood Village Hotel at Forest and Elmwood Avenues in Buffalo, New York has told Wikinews in an exclusive interview that the contract to buy the properties from 1109-1121 on Elmwood Avenue in Buffalo has been "extended," but would not elaborate on how long the extension would last."We have extended our agreement to purchase the property and will have it under contract for what we hope is a sufficient period of time," said Savarino.The hotel would require the demolition of the five properties on Forest and would cause several businesses to relocate or close their doors. The hotel will be 72 rooms and will cost at least 7 to 10 million dollars to build. Wyndham Hotels is expected to be the owner/operator of the hotel. The properites are still owned by Hans Mobius. Two other properties, 605 and 607 Forest might also be part of the proposal, but lawsuits have so far stopped any development from taking place.Savarino also stated in a recent interview with Wikinews that his company may be "about ready for round two" in the process of resubmitting the hotel proposal to the City of Buffalo's Common Council and Planning Board."If we were to go through the re-zoning process again it could be arduous," said Savarino.In July, Savarino "withdrew" the proposal which is undergoing a "do-over," according to Vice President of Savarino Companies, Eva Hassett.In related news, several residents around the area of the proposed hotel were speculating that current roadwork to repair and add sewer lines on Forest Avenue were part of the construction process for the proposed hotel. Savarino has denied those claims."We are certainly not doing any work on the site nor is any work being performed on our behalf or at our direction [in relation to the hotel]," said Savarino.So far, the proposal has not been resubmitted to the City's Common Council or Planning board and there is no word on when the proposal will be resubmitted.Wyndham Hotels, which is owned by Cendant Corporation, has not commented on the proposal despite several attempts to contact them.A controversial development training course called "Landmark Forum" is cited in religious discrimination lawsuits in United States federal courts in New York and Washington, D.C. The seminars are run by a San Francisco, California-based for-profit training company called Landmark Education. The company evolved from Erhard Seminars Training "est", and has faced criticism regarding its techniques and its use of unpaid labor. The sperm bank and surrogacy company Los Angeles-based Growing Generations is named as a defendant in the New York lawsuit, and the Democratic political action committee Twenty-First Century Democrats is a defendant in the Washington, D.C. case.In separate lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in Manhattan, New York, and in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in Washington, D.C., former employees are suing their employers for monetary damages and claiming religious discrimination after their employers allegedly mandated that they attend courses at Landmark Education.In the US$3 million federal lawsuit filed in New York, Scott Glasgow is suing his former employer Growing Generations and its CEO Stuart Miller. Growing Generations maintains sperm banks and also arranges surrogacy for gay couples who wish to have children. The company has offices in New York and Los Angeles, and has done business with celebrities including actor B. D. Wong of Law & Order: SVU. Glasgow was marketing director of Growing Generations, and claims he was fired in June 2007 after refusing to continue attending Landmark Education seminars. Glasgow is also suing for sexual harassment, and claims Miller came on to him in September 2006. He made approximately $100,000 per year as the company's marketing director, and was the company's only employee based out of New York City. The company's main offices are in Los Angeles."I was shocked when I was fired. It took me months to right myself. I want them to stop imposing Landmark on the employees, and I want an apology," said Glasgow in a statement in The Village Voice. Brent Pelton, one of Glasgow's attorneys, stated that: "The Landmark philosophy is deeply ingrained in the culture of the company". Glasgow said that the Landmark Education training courses were "opposite" to his Christian beliefs. According to Glasgow he was questioned by Miller in May 2007 after he walked out of a Landmark Education course, and was fired shortly thereafter. "We stand by the allegations contained in the complaint and we look forward to proving them at trial," said Pelton in a statement to ABC News.Ian Wallace, an attorney who represents Growing Generations, claimed that Glasgow wasn't fired but walked away from his position. "Growing Generations and Mr. Miller are very confident that these claims will be dismissed ultimately, and there's no factual basis for them whatsoever," said Wallace in a statement to The Village Voice. Lawyers representing Growing Generations and Stuart Miller declined comment to The New York Post, and did not immediately return a message from ABC News.In Glasgow's complaint, entered into federal court record on April 18, he asserts that Landmark Education constitutes a "religion", and "perceived their philosophy as a form of religion that contradicted his own personal beliefs". He states that when he was promoted to Director of Marketing, he asked Miller if he could stop attending the Landmark sessions but was told that they were mandatory for all of the company's executives and that Landmark is "very much the language of the company." Glasgow said his performance at the company was assessed based on how he was "touching, moving and inspiring" others, a phrase from the Landmark philosophy, as opposed to his business accomplishments at the company. The complaint claims that the actions of Miller and Growing Generations violated Federal, New York State and New York City civil rights laws.The lawsuit filed in federal court in Washington, D.C. deals with a separate plaintiff and company, but the plaintiff in the suit also claims that religious discrimination took place for allegedly being mandated to attend Landmark Education courses. Kenneth Goldman is suing the United States Democratic political action committee Twenty-First Century Democrats (also 21st Century Democrats) and its former executive director Kelly Young. Goldman was formerly the communications director of 21st Century Democrats. According to Goldman's complaint, three employees of 21st Century Democrats were fired after refusing to attend the Landmark Forum course. The complaint asserts that Landmark Education has "religious characteristics and theological implications" which influenced the mission of 21st Century Democrats and the way the organization conducted business. Goldman's complaint states that in addition to himself, a training director and field director were also fired after they made it clear they would not attend the Landmark Forum. Goldman says executive director Young infused Landmark Education jargon terms into staff meetings such as "create possibilities", "create a new context", and "enroll in possibilities". He also claims that Young "urged" staff members to participate in Landmark Education events outside of the workplace, drove employees to and from Landmark functions, and used funds from 21st Century Democrats to pay for employees to attend those functions. Goldman's complaint asserts that he was discriminated against in violation of the District of Columbia Human Rights Act. In a statement in The Washington Times, the executive director of 21st Century Democrats, Mark Lotwis, called the lawsuit "frivolous" and said: "we're going to defend our organization's integrity". Landmark Education spokeswoman Deborah Beroset said that the Landmark Forum "is in no way religious in nature and any claim to the contrary is simply absurd," and stated: "While we are not a party to this lawsuit and have no firsthand knowledge of it, we can only assume that we are being used as a legal and political football to further the plaintiff"s own financial interests."The New York lawsuit was filed April 14, and is still in early filing stages. A conference with the federal court judge in the case has been scheduled for June 17. The Washington, D.C. suit began in November 2007, and entered mediation this past March. As of April 15 the parties in the case were due back to court on July 11 to update the court on the mediation process. Landmark Education is descended from Erhard Seminars Training, also called "est", which was founded by Werner Erhard. est began in 1971, and Erhard's company Werner Erhard and Associates repackaged the course as "The Forum" in 1985. Associates of Erhard bought the license to his "technology" and incorporated Landmark Education in California in 1991.This is not the first time employees have sued claiming mandatory attendance at "Forum" workshops violated their civil rights. In a lawsuit filed in December 1988 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, eight employees of DeKalb Farmers Market in Decatur, Georgia sued their employer claiming their religious freedom and civil rights were violated when they were allegedly coerced into attending "Forum" training sessions. "Many of these training programs, particularly at large corporations, claim to be purely psychological, aimed at improving productivity and morale and loyalty. But in fact they are religious," said University of Denver religious studies professor Carl Raschke in a statement to The Wall Street Journal.The DeKalb Farmers Market employees were represented by lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union. Consulting Technologies Inc., an affiliate of Transformational Technologies Inc., was named as a party in the lawsuit. Transformational Technologies was founded by Werner Erhard, and was not named as a party in the suit. The "Forum" course that the employees claimed they were mandated to attend was developed by Werner Erhard and Associates. Employees said that they were fired or pressured to quit after they objected to the Forum courses. The workers claimed that the Forum course contradicted with their religious beliefs. The plaintiffs in the suit included adherents of varying religious backgrounds, including Christianity and Hinduism. "The sessions put people into a hibernating state. They ask for total loyalty. It's like brainwashing," said Dong Shik Kim, one of the plaintiffs in the case. The plaintiffs said they lost their jobs after objecting to a "new age quasi-religious cult" which they said was developed by Werner Erhard.The DeKalb Farmers Market denied the allegations, and an attorney for the company Edward D. Buckley III told The Wall Street Journal that employees were encouraged, not coerced, to attend the training sessions. According to The Wall Street Journal, The Forum said it would not sanction workers being coerced to attend its training sessions. The parties in the DeKalb Farmers Market religious discrimination case came to a settlement in May 1989, and the case was dismissed with prejudice in June. The terms of the out-of-court settlement were not made public, but the employees' attorney Amy Totenberg told The Wall Street Journal that the case "has made employers come to grips with the legitimate boundaries of employee training".According to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, employers must "reasonably accommodate" their employees' religious beliefs unless this creates "undue hardship". In September 1988, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued a policy-guidance notice which stated that New Age courses should be handled under Title VII of the Act. According to the Commission, employers must provide "reasonable accommodation" if an employee challenges a training course, unless this causes "undue hardship" for the company.In October 2006, Landmark Education took legal action against Google, YouTube, the Internet Archive and a website owner in Queensland, Australia in attempts to remove criticism of its products from the Internet. The company sought a subpoena under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in an attempt to discover the identity of an anonymous critic who uploaded a 2004 French documentary of the Landmark Forum to the Internet. "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" (Voyage to the Land of the New Gurus) was produced by Pièces à Conviction, a French investigative journalism news program. The Electronic Frontier Foundation represented the anonymous critic and the Internet Archive, and Landmark withdrew its subpoena in November 2006 in exchange for a promise from the anonymous critic not to repost the video.Landmark Education itself has come under scrutiny for its controversial labor practices. The company has been investigated by the United States Department of Labor in separate investigations originating out of California, Colorado, and Texas. Investigations focused on the heavy reliance of unpaid labor in the company's workforce, which Landmark Education calls "assistants" and deems volunteers. An investigation by the U.S. Dept. Labor based out of Colorado found that activities performed by Landmark Education's "assistants" include: "office, clerical, telephone solicitation and enrollment, as well as greeting customers, setting up chairs, handling microphones during the seminars and making coffee. Additionally, a number of volunteers actually teach the courses and provide testimonials during and after the courses." The Colorado investigation's 1996 report found that "No records are kept of any hours worked by any employees." According to a 1998 article in Metro Silicon Valley: "In the end the Department of Labor dropped the issue, leaving Landmark trumpeting about its volunteers' choice in the matter." Metro Silicon Valley reported that Landmark Education at the time employed 451 paid staff, and also utilized the services of 7,500 volunteers.After an investigation into Landmark Education's labor practices by the U.S. Dept. Labor's offices out of California, the company was deemed to have overtime violations. According to the Department of Labor's 2004 report on the investigation, back wages of $187,569.01 were found due to 45 employees. An investigation by the U.S. Dept. Labor in Texas which concluded in 2005 stated: "Minimum wage violation found. Volunteers (Assistants) are not paid any wages for hours worked while performing the major duties of the firm. The assistants set up rooms, call registrants, collect fees, keep stats of classroom data/participants, file, they also are answering phones, training and leading seminars." The Texas investigation also discovered an overtime violation. Landmark Education agreed to pay back wages for the overtime violation, but did not comply with the overtime violation found by the U.S. Dept. Labor for the "assistants". Landmark Education denied that the "assistants" are employees, though the Department of Labor report concluded: "Interviews reveal that the employees are taking payments, registering clients, billing, training, recruiting, setting up locations, cleaning, and other duties that would have to be performed by staff if the assistants did not perform them."According to the 2004 investigative report by Pièces à Conviction in the "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" program, Landmark Education was investigated by the French government in 1995. In the "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" program volunteers were filmed through a hidden camera and shown performing duties for Landmark Education in France including manning phones, recruitment and financial work for the company, and one volunteer was shown cleaning a toilet. Le Nouvel Observateur reported that after "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" aired in France, labor inspectors investigated Landmark Education's use of unpaid volunteers. According to Le Nouvel Observateur, one month after the labor investigation took place the French branch of the company had disbanded. A former "Introduction Leader" to the Landmark Forum, Lars Bergwik, has recently posted a series of videos to YouTube critical of the company and its practices. Bergwik appeared on a 2004 investigative journalism program on Sweden's Channel 4, Kalla Fakta (Cold Facts). According to Bergwik, after the Kalla Fakta program on Landmark Education aired, "Landmark left Sweden".A medical center, once the site of intense controversy over abortion in the 1990s, which has been vacant for nearly 10 years, was imploded in Buffalo, New York at 6:00 a.m. [eastern time] today.Several streets in about a 2 block radius were shut down until the implosion occurred and the dust settled. At least 200 people watched in nearby parking lots and on rooftops of buildings to get a good look at the implosion. The ground and the walls of buildings shook as the dynamite detonated and a brief shock wave could be felt as far as 1 1/2 blocks away. Witnesses even reported small pieces of bricks and concrete falling out of some buildings, but no one was injured.The building, owned by Kaleida Health, once housed several medical offices, including an abortion clinic. Hundreds of people protested about the abortions outside the center during the Spring of Life Movement in 1992, but other medical procedures and treatments were also part of the center's services. It was built in 1965 and was 14 floors tall.Kaleida Health had the building imploded so that the current Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus can be expanded. Several other major medical facilities are also in the same area including Roswell Cancer Institute and Buffalo General Hospital."This implosion of 50 High Street will continue the explosion of growth on the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus. This event will ensure future opportunity for investment, development and growth," said the CEO and President of Kaleida Health in a statement on Thursday.==Sources== Melinda Miller & Sharon Linstedt. "Onlookers watch from rooftops as 50 High St. implodes" — Buffalo News, May 26, 2007 "50 High Street Gone in a Flash" — WGRZ, May 26, 2007 "Medical campus building to go boom" — MSN Money, May 24, 2007According to one Buffalo, New York Common Council member, David Franczyk, the City of Buffalo Police force is staging a "sickout" on the weekend of St. Patricks Day and the NCAA Basketball Tournament, or somewhere around March 17, 2007.A sickout means that officers in the entire city would all call in sick during that weekend.Franczyk says that he received a call from at least one person that claimed he was an officer of the Buffalo police force and that he was warning Franczyk that the sickout was going to take place. The caller also claimed, according to Franczyk, that his intentions are to get "the nation's attention.""He explained that because the wages are frozen that this would be a work action to get the attention of the Nation essentially," said Franczyk. As of the moment, Franczyk has been the only Common Council member to be informed about the sickout.Mayor of Buffalo, Byron Brown said if this were to take place, it would be "catastrophic" for the city, but also said that he thinks the sickout "will not happen" and also added that it would be "illegal.""How catastrophic would it be if they were to ever do that?  Again, I don't believe that it would happen. Those kinds of behaviours..those kinds of actions are irresponsible and illegal. We have a Police Department that is very responsible," said Brown.Brown also said that he believes that police officers "will do the right thing" and that they will "do their jobs, even if they are frustrated."The name of the officer who called Franczyk is not known and it is not known if he was actually a police officer.Wikinews attempted to contact Franczyk regarding the sickout, but he has yet to respond.The preliminary hearing for a lawsuit filed against the Elmwood Village Hotel proposal in Buffalo, New York as well as the City of Buffalo has been postponed indefinitely and will take place "as needed" pending the resubmission of the proposal by Savarino Construction also of Buffalo. A request was made to New York State Supreme court Judge Justice Rose Sconiers, the judge to preside over the case, to discuss a "timetable" for resubmission, but the court "decided not to," said attorney Arthur Giacalone who represents the plaintiffs in the lawsuit.The hotel would require the demolition of at least five properties, 1109-1121 Elmwood and would cause the closure of several businesses. Already, two businesses, Skunk Tail Glass and Six Nations Native American Gift Shop have relocated, outside the Elmwood Strip. Don apparel, H.O.D. Tattoo and Mondo Video still remain on Elmwood; however, Mondo Video is planning on moving to a new location. The hotel will be 72 rooms and will cost at least 7 million dollars to build. Wyndham Hotels is expected to be the owner/operator of the hotel. The properites are currently owned by Hans Mobius. Two other properties, 605 and 607 Forest might also be part of the proposal. 605 Forest is owned by Pano Georgiadis, owner of Pano's Restaurant on Elmwood Avenue in Buffalo. 607 Forest is owned by Mobius."There's no new [court] date. The next appearance will be as needed," said Giacalone.The proposal was withdrawn by Savarino on July 13, 2006 to undergo "a do-over" and according to the Buffalo News, "shed the lawsuits" against the proposal; however, so far the proposal has "not yet" been resubmitted, but could be in about a "week.""With Council being out of session we have a bit of time [before resubmitting]. [We will] Probably resubmit] in a week or so," said Sam Savarino, CEO of Savarino Construction."We welcome some discourse on this project and while we realize that, in all likelihood, we will not make everybody happy, we hope we can develop a consensus that what we provide on that corner will be something that is an enhancement to the neighborhood and the community. Better to have that decided (again?) in a public forum and through the approval process than through a debate over points of law in a courtroom," added Savarino.Despite the withdraw of the proposal, Giacalone states that the lawsuit his clients filed is still in effect due to the re-zoning of the properties, which he says are still in place and that he is "frustrated" that his client's "day in court" has been delayed continuously by Savarino and the city.Savarino believes that the re-zoning of the properties are "not in effect" because the proposal was withdrawn. He also stated that he is "unsure" on a decision to request the rezoning again because the "city suggested" the rezoning "last time.""We have pulled the request [proposal] so I would suppose it [the rezoning] is not in effect. We are as of yet unsure of whether or not to request rezoning of all the parcels. We are communicating with the City on this. You may recall that the City suggested this to us last time. We want to make sure we are doing the correct thing – and the proper thing. I am not sure whether I have a clear indication of that at this juncture," said Savarino.Savarino was asked if the proposal was going to be resubmitted or not, but did not answer the question.Giacalone states that there may be several resons as to why "a new application has not been filed. Is Savarino having a hard time coming to an agreement with Mobius? Has Wyndham Hotels backed out? Is Savarino negotiating with Pano to buy the [605] Forest Avenue property?"Buffalo's Common Council is scheduled to meet on September 9, 2006 after Summer recess.In a unanimous decision, a US federal appeals court issued a ruling Friday against the federal government, in favor of Massey Energy Co, owner of the Upper Branch Mine in West Virginia, the location of last year's mine disaster that killed 29 workers. The court ruled the company may appeal the restrictions placed on it by a government order hindering the company's ability to conduct its own internal investigation of the disaster. The order controlling Massey's investigations into the disaster was placed on Massey immediately after the incident by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) when it seized control of the coal mine six hours after the blast on April 5.MSHA's controls prohibited Massey from "taking or retaining photographs, collecting and preserving mine dust samples, employing mine mapping technology, and participating in or objecting to any destructive testing of materials gathered underground." Massey said MSHA's restrictions prevented the company from evaluating the accident site before it was altered by investigators, and denied Massey the chance to gather evidence to use in the company's defense.Massey's appeal to the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (the commission that decides disputes over mining regulations) to void the order by MSHA was denied by the commission. It based its decision on its interpretation of the Mine Act that it had no authority to consider Massey's appeal. The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit set aside this decision, finding the commission's interpretation of the act was "simply untenable" and the government's actions had denied Massey the opportunity to gather "potentially important exculpatory evidence".The court rejected the commission's position that the Mine Act's language was ambiguous, allowing the government flexibility in its implementation. Rather, the court said, "No matter how you parse it, [the act] is a model of near-perfect clarity. Indeed, it is hard to imagine a clearer expression of congressional language." It also rejected the commission's position that the case was moot: "This case is not moot. Indeed, even the [Labor] Secretary's counsel recognized the near-frivolity of this argument, and made only a half-hearted attempt to persuade us."The court's ruling comes after a state government-comissioned report issued on May 19 by investigators found Massey Energy responsible for the deaths of the 29 workers. The workers were killed in an explosion that could have been avoided, the report said, if Massey had put in place standard safety procedures."The story of Upper Big Branch is a cautionary tale of hubris. A company that was a towering presence in the Appalachian coal fields operated its mines in a profoundly reckless manner, and 29 coal miners paid with their lives for the corporate risk taking," the report read. "The company's ventilation system did not adequately ventilate the mine. As a result, explosive gases were allowed to build up." The report detailed claims Massey threatened miners with termination if they stopped work in areas that lacked adequate oxygen levels and listed numerous other state and federal safety standards that Massey failed to follow. Also blamed in the report was MSHA for failing to enforce federal regulations.The report was considered by the those in the mining industry as especially direct and "hard hitting". It firmly rejected conclusions reached by Massey officials that the incident was caused by an unexpected, massive, and uncontrollable methane bubble eruption, an occurrence that Massey said it could neither predict nor manage.  The company immediately challenged the report and issued its own report on June 3, blaming the blast on an act of nature and denying the company's safety culture was at fault. MSHA also have an as-yet unreleased report in the works.According to The Wall Street Journal, the U.S. Department of Transportation has analyzed data from the vehicles involved in accidents caused by sudden acceleration, which led to Toyota, the world's top automaker, recalling a large number of automobiles. Early analysis showed that the throttle was wide open and the brakes weren't engaged when the cars crashed, and suggests that the accidents may have been caused by drivers unintentionally flooring the accelerator instead of the brakes. The U.S. Department of Transportation did not confirm this report.However, Toyota is still under federal investigation for a number of known issues with its cars' acceleration.  The accelerator is known to not return to idle after it has been released, and the floor mats are known to trap the accelerator pedal.  Toyota is also suspected of having electronic glitches in its computer-controlled throttle systems, but released a statement on Wednesday saying that its investigations found no problems in the throttle systems.Over the years Toyota has received more than 3000 complaints about sudden acceleration.  These may have caused up to 75 fatal crashes that led to 93 deaths.  Due to these accidents, Toyota provided the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) with ten event data recorders from cars involved in accidents.  However, the NHTSA has only managed to confirm that one of these accidents was caused by malfunctions in the car – an accident in California this August that was caused by the floor mat trapping the gas pedal in a depressed position.The NHTSA, in conjunction with NASA, has begun a broader study into what caused these accidents, however conclusions aren't expected for months. The ongoing lawsuits against Toyota could result in more than $10 billion of damages.Net income was $15.9m, $0.18 a share; down from $57m or $0.68 a share a year earlier. Sales were $333.8m. The results show the extent of Creative's current price war with rival Apple Computer. Both firms have dropped prices on key products on numerous occasions in recent months in an attempt to steal market share in the fast growing digital audio market. Creative, based in Singapore, has thus far sold 2m MP3 players worldwide, making it the number two player in the market.According to the Christian Post, Don Levine, the creator of the G.I. Joe, will be creating a line of action figures based on characters from the Old Testament. Released this month are action figures of Samson, David, Noah, Moses, and dolls of Queen Esther and Deborah the Warrior. The toys come with their own Bible storybook. By the fall, the line will expand to 35 products. Levine has began developing a DVD series and television show.While certainly not the first action figures, dolls, or animated programs based on Biblical characters, it is perhaps the first to launch with a full-fledged licensing program. Already a comic book, narrated CDs, wallet, flashing pins, dog tags, and necklaces have been released.Levine created G.I. Joe for Mattel in 1963, after a licensing agent suggested soldier figures might have the same success as their Barbie line.The British Parliament approved the first stage of the new Crossrail underground railroad through London as a £15 billion construction project earlier this month. Crossrail is the first major new train line to be built in London in decades. The rail line being implemented as a hybrid bill in Parliament. After a second reading in Parliament, it was voted upon and decided that the government will commit to the project so that the line will be built.The next issue before Parliament of to ensure that the implementation of the bill so it is consistent with private interests of neighborhoods to be affected by Crossrail. This is when residents can petition Parliament to change the way the line is constructed.As a result of construction of the Crossrail line, hundreds of homes will have new tunnels excavated beneath them. On contacting Crossrail, they have indicated approximately £50 will be offered to each landowner to buy all the land rights-of-way to build the train tunnel more than 9 meters below the residential buildings. The average value for properties in the affected areas is £350,000. Under UK compulsory purchase laws to be used in this bill, the residents are entitled to the difference in the value of the whole property with and without a tunnel under it. If the offer given by Crossrail is not accepted by any of the residents, the residents can take the case to the Land Tribunal, where the fair value will be established. This however, could be cost prohibitive. Crossrail does not indicate that it will attempt to assign a fair value in the original offer and instead is only going to offer around £50 per property in the hope that not many people take the matter to the Land Tribunal.The £16 billion Crossrail Scheme, that will run through London, Berkshire and Essex was given the go ahead; construction will begin by 2010 and it is expected to be finished by 2017. The line, that will provide 24-hour trains to the centre of London from the east and the west, will provide a better rail link to the West End.UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown said "It was a great day for London, Crossrail and the economy" with the project expected to add £20 billion a year to the UK economy.The government is providing a third of the money with the rest made up from borrowing against future fares and a levy on London business rates.The news was also welcomed from the railway union RMT, who had been protesting to the government to go further for a new north to south high speed rail link.Crossrail is also hoped to reduce the overcrowding to airports such as Heathrow and many others.Australian actor Russell Crowe and businessman Peter Holmes a Court have succeeded in their bid to take over the South Sydney Rabbitohs, an Australian National Rugby League (NRL) Club. The men required that 75% of the club's members vote yes on the $3 million takeover bid for it to pass; and it narrowly won, by just 32 votes (0.8%). Former Souths player and manager, George Piggins, has vowed never to attend another game of his former club.Supporters of the bid have said it gives the Rabbitohs a chance to return to their glory days after last year's finish of 13th in the 15-team competition. The team has not won a Premiership in 35 years but still retains the record for most Premiership wins, with 20 on the record books. Those against the bid objected that the club is selling out 98 years of heritage.Another record has been set in crude oil prices. The price of oil soared past US$94.00 a barrel. New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) crude oil for December delivery closed at US$94.23 per barrel, after peaking at $94.74, the highest price on record. In after hours trading futures have crossed over the $95.00 per barrel mark.On the IntercontinentalExchange (ICE), December Brent Crude also rose to a record $90.63 after touching an all-time high of $90.94 with current futures are trading at over $91.00 a barrel.Today's rise is said to be mainly caused by the United States Department of Energy's inventory report that showed an unexpected drop in crude oil stockpiles. Last week, U.S. stockpiles were down nearly four million barrels of oil.Tropical Storm Noel is also believed to be a cause of rising prices. Because of the storm, one-fifth of Mexico's oil production was suspended while the storm passed, but production is expected to resume by the end of today.Crude oil prices in New York rose to a new record of US$102.59 per barrel on Thursday, although the figure increased even more during after hours trading. In less than a month, prices have risen $10, leading the inflation adjusted prices above the record highs set during the 1980s. Information provided by the International Energy Agency has said that the previous record was $102.53, with the figures being adjusted according to inflation levels.While the weak dollar is seen as a major cause of this rise, Congressman Ron Paul of Texas, pointed out to Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke in a committee meeting this week that despite the rapid ascent the of price of oil, it had remained flat when compared to the price of gold.Increasing demand for oil has also been cited as the cause for this increase. Violence in Nigeria earlier this year has led to a drop the country's production by almost a quarter. The most recent information produced by the Energy Information Administration has shown an increase in gasoline prices for all but one of the areas surveyed.There have also been suggestions that reports of a fire at a National Gas Terminal may have contributed to the rising oil price. Tim Evans from Citigroup Futures said he believes "that this fire at the UK natural gas terminal is creating a strong push in the European market, and that is translating here [the US]."Prices for crude oil reached a one-year high on Friday, as increasing industrial production in the United States raised hopes that the economic recession might be easing.US Crude oil futures gained for the seventh straight day, and has increased by 12.9% since October 7, and is now just above US$78 a barrel. The move came after a report released by the US Federal Reserve indicated a 0.7% rise in factory output.Brent crude oil was also up, gaining 76 cents to reach $76.99.Paul Crovo, an oil analyst based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania for PNC Capital Advisors, said that there were increasing hopes that the economy would rebound. “There continues to be optimism about an economic rebound. Prices have been rising on speculation that this will lead to a tightening of the supply-demand balance going forward,” he said.In an effort to boost its troubled agricultural sector, Cuba announced a major shift in the management of the country's farms, which are to be placed under the control of over 150 local delegations rather than the national government. The move was announced in Granma, the official newspaper of the Cuban Communist Party.On Thursday, Granma reported that the management of the farms has moved from the national government's Agriculture Ministry to the municipal level. The decision-making will now be handled by 169 new local delegations. The reform also involves the elimination of 104 departments which have been deemed unnecessary.  "The municipal agriculture delegations — an organizational process that has just concluded — will assume the responsibility for the functioning, development and control ... of agricultural production," Granma said. The move is intended to "stimulate agricultural production, perfect its sale and increase the availability of food and, in this way, substitute imports."President Raúl Castro, who succeeded his brother Fidel in February, has made agriculture one of the top priorities for Cuba. At a meeting with Communist Party leaders earlier this week, Raúl called food production "a matter of maximum national security." In past weeks, Raúl has said he wants to promote the decentralizing of food production, which he believes will decrease the country's dependency on foreign imports.Officials estimate that government mismanagement has resulted in 51 percent of Cuba's arable land becoming underused or uncultivated. Also, Cuba imported $1.7 billion worth of food in 2007, a number that is expected to reach over $2 billion this year.The announcement came as hundreds of thousands took to the streets in Havana for the annual May Day parade. Raúl Castro attended the parade, but did not speak, instead choosing to smile and wave from a podium as marchers streamed past. The event lasted only 2 hours, a large departure from previous years. Before Raúl's presidency, Fidel Castro's speeches themselves sometimes lasted close to 2 hours, and the parades often featured singing or skits.Although Raúl did not speak at the parade, Salvador Valdés Mesa, head of the Cuban Workers Confederation, used his speech as an opportunity to promote economic efficiency and productivity. "It is fundamental to concentrate efforts on increasing production and productivity, above all of food," he said.Raul Castro, the brother of Cuba's leader, Fidel Castro and Cuba's defense minister, has asked that negotiations be reopened with the United States as long as the U.S. "accepts that we Cuba are a country." Raul took over the country's leadership after Fidel became ill in July."Let me take this opportunity to express our willingness to settle the long US-Cuba disagreement at the negotiating table. Of course, that is, as long as they accept that we are a country that does not tolerate any reduction of its independence, and based on the principles of equality, reciprocity, non interference and mutual respect," said Castro during a military parade in Cuba honoring Fidel's 80th birthday, which he failed to attend."Until that happens, after almost half a century, we are prepared to wait patiently for the moment when common sense takes root in the halls of power in Washington," stated Castro.The U.S. has said that they would like to see a "democratic change" and that a "Castro dynasty" is "certainly not a solution that we think is viable," said a spokesman for the U.S. State Department, Tom Casey."We think the Cuban people need to be given the opportunity to see and have democratic change. We believe that is what the Cuban people would like to have. The creation of some sort of Castro dynasty simply by transferring power to Raul Castro and having him continue to operate the same undemocratic, repressive policies as his brother is certainly not a solution that we think is viable," said Casey who also stated that the U.S. "is ready to help."Raul was given the position of Cuba's leader on July 31, 2006.The U.S. has not had any dialogue with Cuba and has had a trade embargo imposed on the country since 1962.Cuba has reformed its wage system to pay workers on the basis of productivity. The communist state had previously paid all workers the same, and has done since the 1959 revolution.The move, announced by Vice-Minister for Labour Carlos Mateu, is one of a series of changes introduced by Raul Castro, who took over from ill brother Fidel Castro. Mateu stated in Granma, the Communist Party of Cuba's newspaper, that workers who met targets would get a minimum bonus of 5%, that there would be no maximum salary and that managers whose teams increased production could receive a 30% bonus.He said that there was previously no incentive for workers to work hard since they were always paid the same. Curently, the average wage for any profession is around US$20 (~€13) per month. It has been suggested by the media that this reform marks a possible break away from socialist and marxist principles, since previous reforms only lifted restrictions on ownership of luxury goods."It's harmful to give a worker less than he deserves, it's also harmful to give him what he doesn't deserve," commented Granma.The government of Cuba decided to change the OS on thousands of its computers. These will run on GNU/Linux instead of Windows. This step made by the Cuban government raises tensions between the country and the U.S. - based company Microsoft. The idea was welcomed by several Cuban ministers. This includes Ramiro Valdez, communication minister, who at a technology conference stated his position towards moving to free software. Richard Stallman, heading the Free Software Foundation, criticized the proprietary software saying that today it is rather insecure, and that unlikeproprietary software, free software develops democratically under the control of its users.Heading one of the largest universities in Cuba, Hector Rodriguez also showed his positive attitude towards the migration of the country to free  software. He outlined that Cuban customs service has already moved to Linux and several ministries are still to migrate. Among them are the ministries of culture, of higher education and of communication.Although it will take some time for Cuba to move to free  software, Rodriguez, as quoted by the Associated Press, declined to state the time it will take for the government of Cuba to move entirely to GNU/Linux. The pace of migrating to free software and open source software is very fast in Cuba. GNU/Linux has been adopted as an operating system by millions of computer enthusiasts around the world, and a number of local, regional and national governments have also advocated its adoption.One of Cuba's leading cigar makers, Alejandro Robaina, died at the age of 91 of cancer, with which he was diagnosed last year. His death was announced by Jose Antonio Candia, spokesman for the cigar company Habanos S.A. Robaina was the only Cuban tobacco grower to have a brand of cigars named after him. Robaina was known as the “Godfather” in Cuba. His face was seen on all sorts of advertising including the packet of Vegas Robaina cigars. Vegas Robaina’s can fetch as much as US$500 internationally.  He lived on his farm in Pinar del Rio and continued to survey his fields until the cancer began to affect him severely. During an interview with CNN in 2008 he said, "The first thing is to love the land, take care of the land." The farm he grew his tobacco on had been owned by the family since 1845, and with that land Robaina turned the plantation into a successful business with a strong reputation in the Cuban tobacco industry. As an ambassador for Cuban tobacco, Robaina spoke out against the trade embargo enforced by the United States. He said in an earlier interview that he hoped the embargo would end in his lifetime.Blogger George Vaccaro is a customer from the US who apparently purchased wireless network connection from Verizon, thinking that he was getting a good deal. Instead, he says he was charged about 71 dollars instead of 71 cents: 100 times more than what his bill should have been at the rate quoted. When he called the Verizon customer service, he said he also found out that several Verizon representatives think 0.002 cents is equal to 0.002 dollars. According to the phone conversation recording he posted to his blog, Vaccaro also posted on his blog the text of what he said was an e-mail reply from a Verizon Wireless customer service representative on December 8, stating:The return of Michael Dell as the Chief Executive Officer of computer making giant Dell marked a series of changes. In his memo to the employees of the company he founded, Michael Dell said that there will be no bonuses and that the company will reduce its management in an effort to cut costs.2006 was not a financial success for Dell. It lost its leading market position to Hewlett-Packard, and the SEC started investigating Dell for possible accounting improprieties. Several executives also left during recent months. The daily newspaper Austin American-Statesman reported the Rollins memo and posted on its website a copy of the e-mail. The e-mail was confirmed by Dell's spokesman for the Associated Press. Michael Dell's memo also outlined the fact that all bonuses would be replaced by so-called "limited discretionary awards". The beneficiaries of such awards will be all but senior management. There will also be a shortening in the period of stock investing.File:CyanogenMod Cid.svgThe developers of CyanogenMod, an open source free Android-based operating system for smartphones, announced yesterday their incorporation following a successful venture capital campaign which netted the open-source project a US$7 million nest egg, and plan to roll out a simple installation app on Google Play for their Android firmware.Android runs nearly 80% of new mobile devices; CyanogenMod operates on at least 7 or 8 million of those. CyanogenMod replaces the read-only-memory image in android devices which have been 'rooted' —control acquired of the device's superuser account— allowing continuing development for, and backporting abilities of new generations of the operating system to, older devices. Investor Mitch Lasky wrote on his blog "We believe that CM is poised to become one of the largest mobile operating systems in the world." Benchmark Capital and Redpoint Ventures are part of the capital providers to form Cyanogen Inc."The only limitation we have right now is with the number of engineers and designers we currently have. As we hire more people and build this company, we’ll be able to work on so many cool things", said Koushik 'koush' Dutta, who took questions alongside Steve 'cyanogen' Kondik and team social media manager Abhisek "ciwrl" Devkota in a Reddit Ask Me Anything event shortly after making the announcement on the CyanogenMod blog. The team of 17, including Boost co-founder Kirt McMaster as CEO, are in Palo Alto, California and Seattle.Kondik says Cyanogen mod is named after him. "I'm terrible with names, so I just slapped 'mod' onto the end of my handle and ran with it", he explained in the incorporation announcement.An early question raised in the Reddit event concerned profit-making: "Monetization isn't an immediate concern and our investors [...] feel the same", said Dutta, adding "Creating disruption in a multibilion dollar market is enough to make any investor raise their eyebrow." This means CyanogenMod would continue to be free. Follow questions asked if the company was planning to release their own model of android device. "We certainly couldn't take on the monumental task of building/testing hardware [right now]. Hardware would be one of many potential very long term paths we could take", said Dutta.The firm's first announced step is to improve the process of installing the software on owner's devices, which Kondik described as "hideous".  A new installer app is planned to be released "in the coming weeks" on Google Play. The installer app will not require rooting the device, instead installing by simply clicking a button.A further step, broadly described without any details, is a project with an unnamed original equipment manufacturer (OEM). "We have a least one OEM partnership in the works, there will be an announcement next week regarding our plans there", said Kondik. The team mentioned OEM licensing several times during the Q&A session on Reddit.In addition to these corporate steps, there were questions regarding the roadmap for development of the ROM, which already has improvements regarding privacy and security over the native android loader. With "plenty of things in the product pipeline already" Dutta lists additional security features, AirPlay mirroring, screen recording, and Voice+ as upcoming. The mood throughout the event was jovial, with humourous questions such as "can you guys PLEASE release a CM build for my toaster? I'm not sure what model it is, but it's white and I got it at Savers." Kondik promised "Ship it to me and I'll duct tape a G1 running CM to it". Dutta said his "10 of your favorite lines of source code" are "The ones that worked when they shouldn't have."Today at midnight, the Republic of Cyprus and the Republic of Malta, both small island states in the Mediterranean and former British colonies, adopted the euro as their official currency; less than four years after their accession to the European Union. Because Cyprus and Malta are in different time zones, Cyprus adopted the euro one hour before Malta did the same. In both countries the euro was welcomed with outdoor celebrations, including a fireworks display in Malta's capital Valletta. According to the BBC Cypriot Finance Minister Michalis Sarris has said the euro "will benefit consumers and businesses alike because of the eurozone's low inflation, low interest rates and large market."The BBC reports that Cypriot and Maltese leaders "made symbolic withdrawals of euros from cash machines just minutes into the New Year." TIME reports that Maltese Prime Minister Lawrence Gonzi had to wait a little while before getting his hands on the new currency because "an automated teller machine did not work when Gonzi tried to withdraw euros, and he was obliged to use a different ATM."The Cypriot pound (CYP) and the Maltese lira (MTL) will remain in use during a dual circulation period that will last until the end of this month, at which point they will cease to be legal tender. However, it will still be possible to exchange them for Euro free of charge after the end of this period. Commercial banks in Cyprus will exchange Cypriot pounds for Euro until 30 June, but only for amounts up to CYP 1000 per customer and per transaction in banknotes and up to CYP 5O in coins. The Central Bank of Cyprus will exchange coins until the end of 2009 and banknotes until the end of 2017. Maltese commercial banks will exchange Maltese lira for Euro until the end of March, with a limit for non-customers of MTL 250, whereas the Central Bank of Malta will exchange coins until 1 February 2010 and banknotes until 1 February 2018.The single currency has replaced the Cypriot pound and the Maltese lira at a rate of one euro to 0.585274 Cypriot pound and 0.4293 to the Maltese lira, or 1.71 euro per Cypriot pound and 2.33 per Maltese lira. This conversion rate had been fixed on 10 July 2007 by Ecofin, the council comprising the finance ministers of the EU Member States.Cyprus and Malta are the 14th and the 15th country to join the Eurozone, which already includes Austria, Belgium, the Netherlands, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain, Greece and Slovenia. All EU Member States are required to join the Eurozone once certain conditions are fulfilled, except Denmark and the United Kingdom which have negotiated a so-called opt-out that allows them not to adopt the single currency.The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the de facto independent Turkish-controlled area in the north of Cyprus, will not join the Eurozone. Northern Cyprus is not part of the European Union and is recognised only by Turkey. As a result, the Turkish lira will remain the official currency in the north of the island; however, TIME reports that "many Turkish Cypriot merchants will also accept euros along with Turkish lira." Cypriot Euro coins are inscribed in both Greek and Turkish.The euro will also be legal tender in the Sovereign Base Areas, British military bases in Cyprus.The national sides of the Cypriot Euro coins feature three separate designs for the three series of coins. The 1, 2 and 5-cent coins feature the mouflon, or wild sheep, the 10, 20 and 50-cent coins feature the Kyrenia ship, the wreck of a 4th century BC Greek merchant ship discovered in 1967 and salvaged closed to Kyrenia, and the €1 and €2 coins feature the Idol of Pomos, a prehistoric sculpture from the village of Pomos, three national symbols of Cyprus. The designs were jointly created by Tatiana Soteropoulos and Erik Maell.The Maltese euro coins' national sides will also feature national motifs. The 1, 2 and 5-cent coins will feature the altar of the Mnajdra temple grouping, a complex of three Neolithic temples on the southern coast of Malta and one of the oldest free-standing temple groupings in the world, the 10, 20 and 50-cent coins will feature the Coat of Arms of Malta, and the €1 and €2 coins will bear the Maltese cross, a symbol associated with an order of Christian warriors known as the Knights Hospitaller or Knights of Malta, which was based on Malta for more than 250 years after they had been given the islands by Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. The designs of Maltese engraver Noel Galea Bason were selected after two rounds of public consultations in which people were invited to vote via SMS.Both Cyprus and Malta have taken a number of steps to address fears of undue price rises. 7,130 Cypriot companies have subscribed to a Fair Pricing Code launched by the authorities and the Cypriot government urged companies to round their prices down. In Malta, the FAIR initiative, a fair pricing scheme, was put in place in January 2007. This scheme, which provides for administrative fines for those failing to respect their commitment, now involves 80% of all retail outlets. Malta, according to the BBC, has also signed 12 price stabilisation agreements with importers, which will last until March 2008.In both countries, the authorities will monitor retailers to ensure they do not exploit the changeover for unfair gain by rounding up their prices, contributing to inflation.The European Union's Council of Ministers has approved the entry of Mediterranean islands Cyprus and Malta into the Eurozone. They will begin to use the euro from January 1, 2008.European finance ministers (collectively known as Ecofin) set fixed rates of one euro to 0.585274 Cypriot pounds and 0.4293 to the Maltese lira. Slovenia was the first new country to join, which adopted it in January of 2007. No other country has yet met the strict entry criteria into the Eurozone, including inflation, which prevented the entry of states such as Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.The news comes amid a rising value of the euro, on the same day it reached a new all-time high of 1.37 U.S. dollars.Cypriot Finance Minister  Michael Sarris resigned yesterday due to public discontent with his handling of the negotiations over a bailout from international lenders and a state investigation into the circumstances that pushed the country close to a financial collapse. According to Cyprus based media organizations, Sarris has been succeeded by the current Labor Minister Haris Georgiades Sarris attributed his resignation to the probe announced earlier today, admitting that he may also be targeted by judges as they try to find out why the country was forced to seek a bailout. "I believe that in order to facilitate the work of [investigators] the right thing would be to place my resignation at the disposal of the president of the republic, which I did," said Sarris, who was appointed as minister only in February.Sarris's resignation came shortly after he signed a €10 billion (US$13 billion) rescue deal with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund that could see depositors with €100,000 lose up to 60% of their savings. An earlier version of the deal, which called for all Cypriot bank depositors to sacrifice part of their savings, was later scrapped following a wave of popular outrage.The bailout deal includes measures that strip Cyprus of its status as a financial hub and force the local government to impose limits on cash transfers lest depositors try to channel their money to banks abroad.Cyprus today became the fifth member state to seek access to funds from the European Union's bailout fund. The Cypriots join Spain, Ireland, Portugal, and neighbours Greece.The move was triggered after the Cyprus Popular Bank, the nation's second-largest bank, asked the government for recapitalisation. The bank has been hit hard, as has the wider Cypriot banking sector, by exposure to Greek economics. A Greek restructure of €200 billion in debt has caused the bank a €3.65 billion loss, and money is being lost on loans domestically and to Greek customers.Cyprus Popular Bank chairman Michalis Sarris today revealed talks are also underway with China about a possible loan. Low taxes and regulation have attracted large amounts of foreign money to Cyprus, including much Russian money, producing a banking sector far larger than most nations that size. Russia and China are both viewed by officials as possibilities to seek loans from, and Russia last year agreed to a €2.5 billion loan to allow Cypriot financial restructuring.The bailout request comes within days of Cypriot president Demetris Christofias giving an interview to Greek newspaper To Vima in which the EU's only communist leader criticised international bailout policies. He complained the European Commission, European Central Bank, and International Monetary Fund acted like a "colonial force" by forcing nations receiving bailouts to agree to austerity measures.Cyprus, due to take over the rotating EU presidency this week, hopes to limit the scope of its bailout to the banking sector. This is similar to Spain, and unlike the other bailed-out nations. Ratings agency Fitch today relegated Cyprus to "junk", a reflection of how much money may be required."The purpose of the required assistance is to contain the risks to the Cypriot economy, notably those arising from the negative spillover effects through its financial sector, due to its large exposure in the Greek economy," read a government statement. Former President George Vasiliou, an economist, recently claimed markets were failing to recognise the differences between Greece and Cyprus: "Cyprus’s problems are the result of a Greek tragedy, and the ratings agencies are not distinguishing between Greek-speaking people, whether we are in Athens or Nicosia".Cyprus has recently discovered large natural gas fields, and unemployment at 10% is below the likes of Greece (22%) and Spain (24%). Cypriot officials predict a growth in the economy, although the International Monetary Fund expects a contraction. There are also concerns a Greek withdrawal from the euro would damage confidence in investors, but Vasiliou predicts "if Greece has to exit the euro, it will not be the end of Cyprus."Cyprus, Latvia and Malta have joined four other countries already in ERM II: Denmark, Estonia, Lithuania and Slovenia. Denmark joined ERM II in 1999 but has since not wished to adopt the euro, while Estonia, Lithuania and Slovenia joined the Exchange Rate Mechanism in June 2004, and are expected to adopt the euro by late 2006 or early 2007. Other new European Union member states are also expected to join ERM II soon.Out of the European Union of 25 member states, 12 countries currently use the euro, which they adopted in January 1, 2002. The only EU members that remain either outside the Eurozone or ERM II are the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovakia, Sweden, Poland and the United Kingdom.Britain's tabloid Daily Sport newspaper and its sister title, the more commonly known Sunday Sport, have ceased publication in the UK effective yesterday.  Owners Sport Media Group (SMG) made the announcement the paper was ceasing operations immediately, following warnings back in December 2010 they had experienced "an insufficient recovery".Rescued from collapse by former owner David Sullivan in 2009, The Daily Sport, first published in 1991, followed on from the Sunday Sport, first published in 1986, which became known for its use of unbelievable and most often untrue headlines, and the more-than-gratuitous use of Page 3 girls throughout the newspaper. If the publications close entirely it will be the first loss of national newspapers in the UK since the disappearance in November 1995 of Today owned by News International.Previous editors of the newspapers include BBC Radio 5 Live presenter Tony Livesey, and it was while he was editor that the reputation for the utterly bizarre making it to the front page was earned.  With headlines claiming such strange things as a London bus being found in Antarctica and a World War II bomber being found on the moon, for most of their existence, the Daily Sport and the Sunday Sport were not seen as particularly reliable news outlets.At their peaks, both papers barely passed circulation of 190,000 per issue.  The titles were withdrawn from media audits in 2009 following a disastrous drop in sales.In a press release on their website, Sport Media Group says the closure is due to an "inability to meet certain creditors as they fall due".  Trading in SMG shares was suspended yesterday morning pending clarification of their financial position.  "The company is in the process of appointing administrators and will update the market once an appointment has been confirmed," they stated.International car company DaimlerChrysler announced today it would cut 13,000 jobs in North America. It could part ways with the loss-making business.It also plans to cut two Chrysler plants in an attempt to make Chrysler business profitable by 2008.About 9,000 production jobs will be cut in the U.S., 2,000 production jobs in Canada, and 2,000 salaried jobs."It's hard to say if it's enough ... but the stock is reacting nicely, which is further verification that this is a favorable restructuring move and a much-needed one at Chrysler," said chief investment officer at Solaris Asset Management, Tim Ghriskey.Following some speculation that the companies Daimler-Benz (Mercedes-Benz) and Chrysler, which merged together in 1998 to make DaimlerChrysler, would split, chairman Dieter Zetsche denied allegations."We do not exclude any option in order to find the best solution for both the Chrysler Group and DaimlerChrysler."The DaimlerChrysler Corporation has announced that the corporation is divesting itself of the Chrysler Group by selling it to New York City-based private equity firm Cerberus Capital Management for US$7.4 billion. The companies' names are announced to be changed to Daimler AG and Chrysler Holding LLC. DaimlerChrysler has sold 80.1% of its stake in Chrysler, retaining the other 19.9%, for joint ventures and other agreements and partnerships.Cerberus has agreed to take on billions of dollars in pension and retiree health care costs at Chrysler. Cerberus also led a consortium that acquired the majority stake in April of last year in GMAC, the financing arm of GM, and is said to planning to invest in auto parts giant Delphi.Buzz Hargrove, the president of Canadian Auto Workers said he had been assured that the collective bargaining agreement with Chrysler would remain and that jobs would not be eliminated.The name change of the German company DaimlerChrysler to Daimler AG is pending shareholder approval at the next meeting, scheduled for fall 2007.Giving a cow a name and treating her as an individual with "more personal touch" can increase milk production, so says a scientific research published in the online "Anthrozoos," which is described as a "multidisciplinary journal of the interactions of people and animals".The Newcastle University's School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development's (of the Newcastle University Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering) researchers have found that farmers who named their dairy cattle Ermintrude, Daisy, La vache qui rit, Buttercup, Betsy, or Gertrude, improved their overall milk yield by almost 500 pints (284 liters) annually. It means therefore, an average-sized dairy farm's production increases by an extra 6,800 gallons a year."Just as people respond better to the personal touch, cows also feel happier and more relaxed if they are given a bit more one-to-one attention," said Dr Catherine Douglas, lead researcher of the university's School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. "By placing more importance on the individual, such as calling a cow by her name or interacting with the animal more as it grows up, we can not only improve the animal's welfare and her perception of humans, but also increase milk production," she added.Drs Douglas and Peter Rowlinson have submitted the paper's conclusion: "What our study shows is what many good, caring farmers have long since believed. Our data suggests that, on the whole, UK dairy farmers regard their cows as intelligent beings capable of experiencing a range of emotions." The scientific paper also finds that "if cows are slightly fearful of humans, they could produce [the hormone] cortisol, which suppresses milk production," Douglas noted. "Farmers who have named their cows, probably have a better relationship with them. They're less fearful, more relaxed and less stressed, so that could have an effect on milk yield," she added.South Norfolk goldtop-milk producer Su Mahon, one of the country's top breeder of Jersey dairy herds, agreed with Newcastle's findings. "We treat all our cows like one of the family and maybe that's why we produce more milk," said Mrs Mahon. “The Jersey has got a mind of its own and is very intelligent. We had a cow called Florence who opened all the gates and we had to get the welder to put catches on to stop her. One of our customers asked me the other day: 'Do your cows really know their names?' I said: I really haven't a clue. We always call them by their names - Florence or whatever. But whether they really do, goodness knows,” she added.The researchers' comparative study of  production from the country's National Milk Records reveals that "dairy farmers who reported calling their cows by name got 2,105 gallons (7,938 liters) out of their cows, compared with 2,029 gallons (7,680 liters) per 10-month lactation cycle, and regardless of the farm size or how much the cows were fed. (Some 46 percent of the farmers named their cows.)"The Newcastle University team which has interviewed 516 UK dairy farmers, has discovered that almost half - 48% - called the cows by name, thereby cutting stress levels and reported a higher milk yield, than the 54% that did not give their cattle names and treated as just one of a herd. The study also reveals cows were made more docile while being milked."We love our cows here at Eachwick, and every one of them has a name," said Dennis Gibb, with his brother Richard who co-owns Eachwick Red House Farm outside of Newcastle. "Collectively, we refer to them as 'our ladies,' but we know every one of them and each one has her own personality. They aren't just our livelihood, they're part of the family," Gibb explained."My brother-in-law Bobby milks the cows and nearly all of them have their own name, which is quite something when there are about 200 of them. He would be quite happy to talk about every one of them. I think this research is great but I am not at all surprised by it. When you are working with cows on a daily basis you do get to know them individually and give then names." Jackie Maxwell noted. Jackie and her husband Neill jointly operate the award-winning Doddington Dairy at Wooler, Doddington, Northumberland, which makes organic ice cream and cheeses with milk from its own Friesian cows.But Marcia Endres, a University of Minnesota associate professor of dairy science, has criticized the Newcastle finding. "Individual care is important and could make a difference in health and productivity. But I would not necessarily say that just giving cows a name would be a foolproof indicator of better care," she noted. According to a 2007 The Scientist article, named or otherwise, dairy cattle make six times more milk today than they did in the 1990s. "One reason is growth hormone that many U.S. farmers now inject their cows with to increase their milk output; another is milking practices that extend farther into cows' pregnancies, according to the article; selective breeding also makes for lots of lactation," it states.Critics claimed the research was flawed and confused a correlation with causation. "Basically they asked farmers how to get more milk and whatever half the farmers said was the conclusion," said Hank Campbell, author of Scientific Blogging. In 1996, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs provided for a complex new cattle passport system where farmers were issued with passport identities. The first calf born under the new regime were given names like "UK121216100001."Dr Douglas, however, counters that England doesn’t permit dairy cattle to be injected hormones. The European Union and Canada have banned recombinant bovine growth hormone (rGBH), which increases mastitis infection, requiring antibiotics treatment of infected animals. According to the Center for Food Safety, rGBH-treated cows also have higher levels of the hormone insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), which may be associated with cancer.In August 2008, Live Science published a study which revealed that cows have strange sixth sense of magnetic direction and are not as prone to cow-tipping. It cited a study of Google Earth satellite images which shows that "herds of cattle tend to face in the north-south direction of Earth's magnetic lines while grazing or resting."Newcastle University is a research intensive university in Newcastle upon Tyne in the north-east of England. It was established as a School of Medicine and Surgery in 1834 and became the "University of Newcastle upon Tyne" by an Act of Parliament in August 1963.The School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development is a school of the Newcastle University Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering, a faculty of Newcastle University. It was established in the city of Newcastle upon Tyne as the College of Physical Science in 1871 for the teaching of physical sciences, and was part of Durham University. It existed until 1937 when it joined the College of Medicine to form King's College, Durham.Former CBS Evening News anchor Dan Rather has filed a US$70 million lawsuit against CBS, three former co-workers and the "corporate parent" of CBS. Rather resigned after a scandal in 2004 involving faked government documents about United States President George W. Bush's service to the U.S. National Guard.CEO of CBS Leslie Moonves and Viacom are also listed as defendants in the lawsuit. According to reports, Rather is suing CBS because after they made him resign his position, they did not grant him sufficient time on-air while he hosted 60 Minutes. In regards to the fake document scandal, Rather also claims that CBS "committed fraud [and tried to] pacify the White House" when they "commissioned a biased and incomplete investigation" which "seriously damaged" his reputation as a journalist.According to reports, Rather states that if successful in receiving a judgment in his favor, he will donate nearly all of the money to "causes that will further journalistic independence."Daniel Carasso, for whom his father, Isaac Carasso, named the famous yoghurt-producer Danone in 1919 in Spain, died on Sunday aged 103. "Danon" is a diminutive form for "Daniel" in Catalan.Daniel Carasso moved the company to France in 1929. Later, with the onset of World War II, Daniel Carasso, a Sephardic Jew in occupied France, emigrated to the United States to build a new company — Dannon. He returned to Europe after the end of the war and rejoined his first company in 1951. The companies later teamed up.He then inspirited the merger with Gervais company in 1967 and with Antoine Riboud's BSN Group in 1972 — a major step in the internationalization of the group.He was involved in company-related activities until the very end of his life, including the recent 90th anniversary of the Danone's brand name.Today, Danone is a world-wide producer of fruity and nutty yogurts, mousses, cream desserts, fromage frais and various dairy specialities, all claimed to have healthy benefits."We all know how much our group, which carries his first name, owes to Daniel Carasso, who dedicated all his boundless energy and optimism to its success ever since 1929," chief executive officer Franck Riboud said in a statement released by Groupe Danone.A recently created Danish clothing company is selling on the internet T-shirts in order to support the clandestine radio station of the Colombian guerrilla group Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and the graphical workshop of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP). In fact the money will be used by these groups to carry on their terrorist activities. FARC activities include kidnappings, masacres, bombs, extortions and the drug trade.Fighters and Lovers is selling the T-shirts at 170 DKK (US$27.6), from which 35 DKK (US$5.7) are to be destinated to support both armed groups.Anna Duever, Fighters and Lovers PR chief, said to Spanish news agency EFE that their objective is to "defend freedom and social justice, which is FARC and PFLP are fighting for". Duever believes the fact the FARC has been included by the EU in its terrorist group list is a "political game". "We pay our taxes in Denmark, and that money is used for financing the troops our government has sent to Iraq. That's terrorism. Besides, in Colombia there's a regime oppressing population and torturing and killing its people", she said.Colombian Foreign Affairs Minister, Carolina Barco, said to local media that "financing terrorist groups is unacceptable and goes against all the international norms. Yesterday [Tuesday 19] our ambassador contacted the Danish government, we sent a protest note and have demanded an explanation." A year ago, a Danish NGO named Oprør ("Rebelion") stated it had donated money to the Colombian guerrilla. A new antiterrorism law in Denmark may punish it.Anders Fogh Rasmussen, the Prime Minister of Denmark, said on Tuesday that he will seek broad parliamentary support for a national referendum on joining the euro, the common currency of the Eurozone."I'm convinced that we need broad support in parliament to hold a referendum, because it's about the Danish currency and about stability and safety," he said, speaking at his weekly press conference. "Recent events have shown the necessity to give the population the opportunity to vote on Denmark joining the euro."Berlingske Tidende is reporting that Rasmussen is meeting with political leaders to negotiate support for the referendum.In 1992, Danish voters rejected the Maastrict Treaty in a referendum. It was only able to pass the following year after the Edinburgh Agreement granted Denmark an opt-out of the third stage of the Economic and Monetary Union of the European Union (EMU).In 2000, Denmark again rejected the common currency in a euro referendum. The current currency of the Scandinavian country is the Danish krone. As part of stage two of the EMU, the exchange rate of the krone is allowed to fluctuate within a ±2.25% range to the euro.In order to maintain this peg Danmarks Nationalbank, the central bank, adjusts interest rates and performs foreign exchange operations by buying and selling currency. To do this, Danmarks Nationalbank has had to raise rates twice, even as other central banks, including the European Central Bank (ECB), were lowering rates to deal with the current economic crisis.As a result, interest rates in Denmark are now 175 basis points higher than the ECB's rates. As recently as May, the difference was only 25 basis points.Rasmussen heads the Venstre party which leads a minority coalition government. The main opposition party, the Social Democrats, also support adopting the euro as the nation's currency.While there has long been support among the politicians, the euro has failed when it has been put before the voters. However, recent opinion polls have shown a growing support for the euro among Danes. The most recent of these have seen those in favor just topping the 50% level needed to pass a referendum.Rasmussen has said he wants a referendum put before voters before 2011. His government had originally planned to hold a referendum this past September to abolish the EMU opt-outs, but that was scrapped when Ireland voted down the Treaty of Lisbon.On October 30, while in Stockholm, Sweden, Rasmussen said: "The euro ensures political and economical stability in Europe and the current financial turmoil makes it evident that Denmark has to join the Euro."Analysts consulted by Berlingske Tidende have said that an endorsement from the Socialist People's Party (SF) could prove to be the tide-turner."If there was a vote, then I would vote Yes. But I am of the opinion that it is stupid to hold a vote unless we first have a real debate. We haven't had a debate in eight years and all arguments need to be tested," said Margrete Auken of SF.The United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling, yesterday announced the 2009 budget. The budget is an annual audit of the nation's finances, and decides what should be done with taxpayers' money.The chancellor fell under scorn for his GDP growth forecasts, which are considered to be too optimistic in predicting that Britain will bounce back from its weakest economic performance since the end of the second world war. Darling forecast GDP growth of 3.5% in 2011, even after he was made to downgrade his predictions. He expects a record expansion of 1.25% next year, but chief UK economist Howard Archer disagrees, calling Darling's predictions "mildly optimistic in the near term and much more optimistic in the long term."His plans for savers and pensioners, however, were commended by many, though was also criticised by a large portion of the populace. In the budget, Darling increased the amount that savers can put into an Individual Savings Account (ISA) from £7,200 to £10,200, of which £5,100 can be saved in cash. These increased limits will be available only to people aged over 50 from 6 October this year, and will not be available to everyone until 6 April next year. A number of financial experts described the move as being "too little, too late", and Rumina Hassam, of price comparison website uSwitch.com, said: "The government's decision to increase the cash ISA limit by £1,500 to £5,100 for the over 50's is a just another kick in the teeth for the majority of savers as they will have to wait even longer to benefit. There is no doubt that savers have been sacrificed as a result of the plummeting base rate, bringing savings rates to an all time low."Information on 650,000 credit card holders held by United States retail stores is reported to be lost. The lost data includes 150,000 social security numbers.Card holder data from J.C. Penney and other major retailing outlets was being stored on a backup computer tape owned by GE Consumer Finance and went missing in October. Theft or foul play is not believed to be involved.The tape's last known whereabouts was a storage facility operated by Iron Mountain Incorporated. There are no records of the tape being signed out, but no one is able to locate it. The location of the facility is not yet known.None of the accounts have been compromised and GE says that the tape does not contain enough information on one individual to open another card account. GE will offer all of those affected 12 months of free credit monitoring.Iron Mountain says that only an individual with "special skills" could access any of the data on the tape, but they regret the incident because they have made mistakes in the past.The Communication Workers Union (CWU) has confirmed that Royal Mail workers are to hold a 24 hour strike on June 29, the first national post strike in the United Kingdom in 11 years.In a statement, Dave Ward, CWU Deputy General Secretary, said that Royal Mail are "intent on cutting services, cutting jobs and cutting pay" and that "the Union remains committed to reaching an agreement" to resolve the issue. CWU members voted 77% in favour of taking strike action.Royal Mail chief executive Adam Crozier said that the organisation was "very disappointed" to hear news of the announcement and explained that "we are losing business because we have failed to change and modernise."Dave Ward of the CWU said that "We have tried to reach an agreement but Royal Mail are refusing to negotiate" and that he wanted to "put the record straight about the way that Royal Mail have been deliberately misleading the public on what this dispute is about. The Union has never asked for a 27% pay rise and we are not opposed in any shape or form to modernisation."A Québec Superior Court judge has approved the sale of troubled Davie Yards to Ontario-based Upper Lakes Group in a decision handed down today in Québec City.Davie has been in creditor protection since February 2010 and had been planning a bid for one of two contracts to be handed down as part of the Government of Canada's National Shipbuilding Procurement Strategy (NSPS).  This plan had historically been cast into doubt as a condition of the bidding process was that the yards involved be financially solvent.The deadline to submit bids is 14:00 Eastern Time (19:00 UTC) on July 21. Vancouver-based Vancouver Shipyards, and Halifax-based Irving Shipbuilding are also bidding for the NSPS contracts.A new report by the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) documents 129 cases where media workers have been killed because of their work during 2004. They expect the number to increase as more information reaches them. This could make 2004 the deadliest year ever.49 casualties (close to 40%) occurred in Iraq, making it by far the deadliest country for journalists. At least 20 of those appeared to be cases were journalists were directly targeted because of their profession.Another country that deserved special attention was the Philippines where 13 journalists appears to have been asassinated in separate incidents because of their reporting. None of the murderes have been apprehended by the police. In Nepal two journalists were killed by security forces and one by the rebels. Another journalist was killed by land mines.Dell's share price has been in a sharp decline as the company has struggled to deal with declining PC and server revenues.  Now it has been forced to delay its 2Q financial report as it deals with state and federal accounting investigations.  Dell revealed last month that the SEC was looking into its past financial statements.  As a result, it has been forced to put its stock buyback programme on hold until the market can be confident the share price is right.  To correct its course, Dell has also announced in the past week:Dell Inc., a global leader in computer hardware manufacturing and sales, announced yesterday that it will delay filing of its annual performance report, the Form 10-K, required for compliance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Nasdaq listing rules.In a press release, Dell explained that an audit committee of the company's board of directors is carrying out an investigation into accounting and financial reporting issues. The company stated that it would delay filing of the 10-K since the investigation had not been completed.The internal investigation has found evidence of accounting errors, misconduct, and deficiencies in areas of financial control.The chairman of Dell's audit committee, Thomas Luce III, indicated that the delay in filing would extend past the April 3, 2007 deadline as well as an April 18, 2007 extension date. "As we move toward the conclusion of our investigation, we are committing the time and resources required to ensure a thorough and comprehensive review and resolution of all identified issues and the implementation of appropriate remedial measures,” said Luce.The investigation is to determine whether the restatement of any financial disclosures are warranted, based on the accounting errors identified. The probe will also assess whether there are deficiencies in Dell’s internal control over financial reporting.Dell Inc. announced on Tuesday that it will partner up with the Microsoft-Nortel Innovative communications alliance (ICA) team to sell Unified Communications and VoIP products.The announcement on Tuesday the 16th of October 2007 includes Dell selling VoIP, data and wireless networking products from Nortel and the Microsoft Office Communications Server 2007 and other unified communications products.The partnership with both manufacturers should allow Dell to provide a pre-integrated solution.In March 2007, competitors IBM and Cisco announced they would join in the competition for developing unified communications applications and the development of open technologies around the unified communications and collaboration (UC2) client platform an application programming interfaces (APIs) offered by IBM as a subset of Lotus Sametime."We want to make it simple for our customers to deploy unified communications so their end users can get access to all their messages in one place – whether its e-mail, phone or mobile device. This will pave the way for more business-ready productivity tools," said vice president of solutions, Dell Product Group, Rick Becker.Customers have four options:Core Office Communication Server 2007 – provides instant messaging and on-premise Microsoft Live Meeting.Office Communication Server: Telephony – enables call routing tracking and management, VoIP gateway and public branch exchange (PBX) integration.Audio and Video Conferencing – allows point-to-point conference, video conference and VoIP audio conference.Exchange Unified Messaging – provides voicemail, e-mail and fax in Microsoft Outlook, and anywhere access of Microsoft Outlook Inbox and Calendar.An Intel spokesperson confirmed Thursday that Dell would no longer be offering servers with Intel Itanium CPUs.  The spokesperson said "Losing Dell as an Itanium customer is unfortunate but frankly, we see their impact as negligible."  Servers with Itanium CPUs are no longer promoted on Dell's website, though a few can be found by searching.Dell is the largest seller of computers with Intel processors. Dell currently sells 10.5 percent of all servers worldwide. The majority of Dell servers use an IA-32 (colloquially "x86") chip, but a growing number use the 64-bit Intel Xeon. Sales of Itanium servers have been very poor; last year Dell sold only 1,371 Itanium servers, up from 12 the previous year. In February, IBM also phased out Itanium-based servers, replacing them with IBM Power CPUs. Fujitsu, HP, Hitachi NEC, SGI and Unisys are the only major manufacturers to still offer Itanium-based servers.The Intel Itanium was designed in the early 1990s. It was intended to be the processor of choice for 64-bit computers, but the processor suffered from several major flaws preventing widespread adoption. Unlike competing AMD64 chips, the Intel Itanium uses a different instruction set from IA-32 chips. An emulation feature allows them to run IA-32 code, but only very slowly; users were forced to choose between accepting greatly-reduced performance and expending time and programmers' salaries porting their software.  Even Intel has acquiesced to AMD's leadership in this field, designing chips with a compatible EM64T technology.Dell Inc. (Dell) announced Tuesday that, due to public demand, they will be offering an alternative to Microsoft Windows on a selection of their desktop and laptop computers. Dell will partner with Canonical Ltd. to pre-install the recently released Ubuntu 7.04 distribution of the Linux operating system.Until recently, Linux distributions have not been adopted by mainstream computer makers due to concerns over ease-of-use. Newer distributions, such as Ubuntu 7.04, have become much more user-friendly, with features such as automatic updates and software installation.Ubuntu director of business development Chris Kenyon told the BBC that one of the reasons Ubuntu was selected was its support features and hardware compatibility. "Dell are going to work with us to make sure Ubuntu works fully on its hardware," said Kenyon. A Dell representative suggested that the Ubuntu distribution was chosen due to public demand as expressed on a Dell-run forum website, IdeaStorm. "It was overwhelming, the response we got to the survey," said Jeremy Bolen, a Dell spokesman. Tuesday's announcement was not the first for Dell's Linux offerings. They have offered servers and workstations with an optional enterprise version of Red Hat Linux for some time now. The chairman and CEO of Dell, Michael Dell, is reported to have Ubuntu installed on his own laptop. Perry Donham, an analyst with Aberdeen Group of Boston, suggested that the Dell-Ubuntu partnership will benefit Ubuntu more than it will Dell. "It's going to be a small part of [Dell's] market," said Donham. "But it's a great win for Ubuntu and for Linux in general."Dell indicated that the Ubuntu-based computers would be available in the next few weeks, from Dell USA only for the time being. The pricing structure has not been revealed, or when such computers would be available in countries other than the United States.PC manufacturer and Apple Computer competitor Dell, Inc. has stated that it is interested in shipping computers running Apple's Mac OS X.  Michael Dell, founder and chairman of Dell Computers, made the comments while talking to David Kirkpatrick of Fortune magazine."If Apple decides to open the Mac OS to others, we would be happy to offer it to our customers," Dell wrote in an email to Kirkpatrick.  Apple recently announced that it would begin using Intel x86 microprocessors in its computers next year, but has continued to deny reports that they will allow their OS to be run on non-Apple hardware.Delta Air Lines may enter merge discussions with one of two other major United States air carriers - Northwest Airlines or United Airlines.It is known that Chief Executive Richard Anderson has asked for authorisation to begin talks, and believed executives have held a meeting at which permission was sought to enter discussion with one of the two airlines, but the results are yet to be confirmed.Ajc.com reported that airline spokesman Kent Landers refused to confirm even the existence of the meeting, saying "Delta has a longstanding policy not to comment on board meeting dates or agendas. Our board is working with management to look at all strategic options to remain a leader in the industry, including potential consolidation transactions. [Delta] won't provide updates on the board's process."The airline has been in exploratory talks with both Northwest and United since late 2007, and it is believed that the purpose of the New York meeting was to select which airline offered Delta the better deal and authorise moving talks on to the next level. If a deal goes ahead and survives regulatory checks and potential opposition from politicians and consumer advocates then a merge with either airline would be the biggest between two US airlines, and would result in the biggest airline in the world.Rapidly rising costs in the aviation industry are driving airlines towards merges. In particular, the price of jet fuel jumped 58% in 2007, driven by the rapidly increasing price of oil. When Anderson joined Delta in early September, he commented that he was not interested in potential merge deals. However, as prices rise and shares fall for airlines, he publicly changed his stance to being open to Delta-led mergers. Shares in all three companies shot up amid the news of a potential deal, although they have begun falling again, and did not hit last year's highs. Delta has a current market value of around $4.2 billion, less than half the amount US Airways offered last year in an attempt to buy Delta, which failed.Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines announced plans to cut 7,000 to 9,000 jobs by the end of 2007, approximately 17% of its employees. CEO Gerald Grinstein will take a 25% pay cut. Executives have their pay cut by 15%. Other employees will have their pay reduced by 7 to 10%. Employees that make less than $25,000 a year will not be affected by these pay cuts.Delta has already cancelled leases on 40 aircraft and they plan to reduce its fleet by at least 80 more. They plan to reduce domestic capacity by 15 to 20 percent and increase international capacity by 25 percent.Delta is the third-largest airline in the US. They have lost 10 billion dollars since 2001 and are 14 billion dollars in debt.  Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last Wednesday, joining United Airlines and US Airways. Four of the seven largest US carriers are operating under bankruptcy protection. Chapter 11 protection gives companies time to rearrange its finances while continuing to operate.Delta CEO Gerald Grinstein said they intended "to move from being an unprofitable airline today to a profitable airline in just over two years". "This means we will become a smaller, more cost-efficient airline, with a strengthened network and a stronger balance sheet." These cuts should help save Delta up to $3 billion dollars.Delta Air Lines emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy Monday, following a 19-month restructuring that left it with 6,000 fewer employees, US$3 billion less in annual costs, and a different mix of international and domestic routes.While cutting back on domestic service, Delta has expanded into "over 60 new international routes," according to its website. It is not known exactly what domestic service was cut or by how much to achieve the cost savings that allowed it to expand internationally.Delta has faced pressure from low-fare airlines domestically and is hoping to benefit from the higher profit margins on international flights, which have not yet felt the same competitive pressure.To reflect the airline's new international focus, Delta unveiled a new logo Monday, with an updated Web site launched the following day. They are also in the process of re-painting their airplanes with a new livery, a process that could take up to four years.As of Monday Delta's shares were trading on a "when issued" basis at just above $20, giving it a market value of over US$8 billion, second only to Southwest Airlines among United States carriers. Shares are expected to begin trading Thursday, May 3.Demolition work is set to resume at the former Deutsche Bank Building in New York after work was halted last August over a fire that killed two firefighters. The city's Department of Buildings lifted an order to cease work imposed at the time as the buiding's owners have installed fire control systems at the condemned 26 storey office block.The building was seriously damaged in the September 11, 2001 attacks as the south tower of the World Trade Center collapsed, filling the building with debris, much of it toxic. In subsequent years fragmental remains of hundreds of victims from the disaster were removed from the building and regulators had lengthy debates over how the tower should be demolished.After the fire, work immediately halted and a grand jury criminal investigation followed. The fire is thought to have been triggered by a cigarette discarded by a worker on the site, which will ultimately home one of five new towers planned for the area devastated by the attacks. Of major importance were polyethylene and plywood decontamination barriers which both fueled the blaze and hindered the movement of firefighters. It is thought they may have blocked escape for the two who were killed by the fire.The Lower Manhattan Development Corporation, who owns the property, says 300 asbestos removal workers are set to begin shifts of six days per week are set to clear toxic material remaining on 19 floors of the tower. This means the work force has increased by one hundred. Decontamination chambers will now be present across all floors instead of merely the ground floor.Amongst the new safety measures are fire-proof sheetrock decontaminaton chambers, improved safety within the actual chambers and two fire-rated interior stairways. The modifications were made by LVI Environmental Services with work commencing in February this year.The tower at 130 Liberty Street was originally intended to be gone by 2005, but the deadline was expanded to 2008. The fire means the work has been delayed a year with a revised estimated time of completion being 2009.Anti-globalization protesters in Hong Kong began a series of demonstrations on Sunday to denounce this week's World Trade Organization (WTO) meeting. Around 3,000 protesters with signs reading "Junk the WTO" and "Life is not for sale", took to the streets in a carnival atmosphere. "We feel very frustrated with multinational enterprises," said Kenzo Sasaki, owner of a 20-cow dairy farm north of Tokyo. "Our main message is for food sovereignty. Junk the WTO."Some 10,000 anti-globalization protesters, including groups of South Korean farmers angry at the prospect of more agricultural imports, are converging on Hong Kong. Police hope to avoid the violent clashes that marked the last WTO conference in Cancun, Mexico, in 2003, where a protester was killed by police. Supporters of the talks say a trade deal may generate billions of dollars in benefits and possibly lift millions out of poverty, but many opponents say it would largely benefit rich nations at the expense of developing countries.Deep divisions between developed and developing countries, particularly over agriculture, have forced WTO states to lower their goals for their sixth ministerial conference, which is being held this week amid tight security.To avoid trouble, Hong Kong has blacklisted some people. Officials have also glued down loose pavement stones and welded shut sewer grates to prevent protesters from using them as projectiles and pedestrian overpasses have been covered in mesh to prevent objects being thrown.Elizabeth Tang, head of the Hong Kong Peoples' Alliance coordinating the demonstrations, said she expected any violence to be on a very small-scale and easily handled by police. "People all over the world are feeling that the WTO and the way it has been functioning so far has failed to lift the poor out of poverty," Tang said.Han Dongfang, a fellow marcher who led workers at the 1989 Tiananmen Square pro-democracy protest, said workers' rights had languished. "The WTO is a double-edged sword for China," said Han. "Chinese workers have no right to organize unions, so how can you protect yourself or get benefits."Spokespeople for the group of 1,500 South Koreans protesters said they would demonstrate legally and peacefully, according to a statement by the Korean Struggle Mission, which represents several activist groups. The Koreans oppose the WTO's aim to lower trade barriers for agricultural imports, saying such moves will flood the Korean market with cheap rice and bankrupt Korean farmers. Joo Jei-jun, general coordinator of the Korean Struggle Mission, on Monday told reporters, "We will be escalating the level of struggle on December 17. "Any hindrance to our freedom of expression - either by the Hong Kong government or the police - will be dealt with in an affirmative manner," he added. Yang Kyeong-kyoo, of the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions, said the groups were still discussing protest tactics. "But generally, we will mobilize as many people as we can because December 17 is the last day to make decisions," he said.Large clashes erupted in Istanbul, Turkey on Tuesday between protesters and security forces, near the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank. The protests came as the head of the IMF warned policymakers from 186 countries of social upheaval as the world economic crisis continues.Demonstrators — chanting against the World Bank and IMF — marched to Taksim Square, in the heart of Istanbul.  The protests drew several thousand people — mostly leftists, anti-globalisation groups, liberal democrats and trade unionists.  Analysts say that the IMF and World Bank do not have a good reputation among many people in Turkey, because they have been associated with austerity programs and hardship.Monday's announcement by the Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan that his government is close to signing a new agreement with the IMF made some demonstrators angry.  "We are angry, but we know that we are right.  We want just to protect our rights — and for this, we are here," said one man.The demonstration was largely peaceful until protesters attempted to march to where the World Bank and IMF meetings were being held. Police moved in, using water cannons, tear gas and baton charges. The demonstrators responded by setting fires and throwing rocks at the police in the narrow back streets of Istanbul. The center of the city turned into chaos, with both shoppers and protesters running for cover.Armored cars were dispatched to restore order in the city, spraying water and tear gas at the protesters. The police also sent out several helicopters. Shops pulled down their shutters and banks closed. A taxi driver was reported to have had a heart attack from the effects of tear gas.While the clashes were ongoing, the IMF's Managing Director, Dominique Strauss-Kahn, warned of the danger of social unrest in emerging economies due to the global economic downturn."Nineteen million people are about to be put into extreme poverty because of the crisis. What we are talking about is not only higher unemployment or lower purchasing power in the lower income countries; it is about life and death. We could see in those countries, social unrest, political instability, or even war," he said. However, Strauss-Kahn said the crisis could be worse and said international cooperation has prevented a more serious global recession. He said leaders should now try and take the opportunity to shape what he called "the post crisis world".Denny's 1,600 chain restaurants across North America, Puerto Rico and Canada, were slammed for eight hours Tuesday with hungry patrons standing on sidewalks for nearly two hours to take advantage of the $5.99 "Grand Slam Breakfast" giveaway.Denny's, a dining chain with annual revenue of about $900 million, has advertised in a TV commercial Sunday during the Super Bowl XLIII that it would give away its signature breakfast from 6 a.m. until 2 p.m. local time Tuesday, at all its restaurants in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico, while supplies lasted. Denny's Diner has promoted the iconic dish giveaway heavily, with a bold 30-second appeal ad that aired during the third quarter of the Super Bowl 43 on Sunday, plus another 15-second ad during the post-game show, offering a free breakfast to some 90 million viewers. In addition, it has placed a full-page ad in USA Today's Monday edition. The promotion was further announced on The Today Show and notices were also sent out to the chain's "Denny's Breakfast Club" members. The NBC ad, which was bought to unveil a new promotion for customers squeezed by the recession, may have cost as much as $3 million, said Nelson Marchioli, CEO of Denny's Corp. Super Bowl XLIII's 30-second commercial time slot costs $2.4 million–$3 million for the airtime alone, excluding production and talent costs. The game was televised live by the US NBC Sunday Night Football and Canada's CTV Television Network. BayTSP has reported that, "as of 10 a.m. Wednesday, commercials that initially aired during NBC's Super Bowl XLIII broadcast subsequently had been watched online more than 28 million times.""The promotion has a total cost of $5 million U.S., which includes $3 million for the commercial on NBC," said a Denny's spokesman, noting also that the company received about $50 million in news coverage, most of which was positive. According to a Denny's representative, two million people walked through the restaurant chains’ doors Tuesday, and each Denny’s restaurant served an average of 130 Grand Slams per hour.With the "Denny's Feeds America" promotion, the company has reported 14 million hits on its Web site between Sunday night and Monday morning. Denny's shares rose 6 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $1.98 in afternoon trading. The stock has traded in a range of $1.18 to $4.10 over the past 52 weeks. "Denny's free Grand Slam" has ranked in the top 10 Google searches early Tuesday and fell to No. 18 by the end of the promotion, while “denny s locations” was #9 on Google Trends, which tracks fast-rising searches. It has also held spots No. 1 (Denny's) and 7 (Grand Slam) on Twitter's trending topics. It has generated much chat on Twitter, garnering 1,700 tweets on Tuesday, compared with its average of 59. Doritos, winner of the USA TODAY survey for best Super Bowl spot ad, had 933 mentions after reaching a peak of almost 3,300. The idea of the TV ad was to get people to come in and re-evaluate Denny’s Diner. “A lot of people have forgotten what Denny’s is, or they think they know, while we’ve come out with a whole lot of new products. We felt like we needed to jump start the brand,” Denny’s Chief Marketing and Innovation Officer Mark Chmiel said. "We're celebrating the Grand Slam this year," Chmiel said. According to the company's financial data,  on January 15 Denny's reported systemwide comparable-store sales for the fourth quarter were down 6.1 percent, compared to a 0.2 percent decline from the same period in 2007.According to Robert Gonzalez, public relations company Hill & Knowlton spokesman, Denny's has expected at least 2 million people to eat a free Grand Slam by the end of the promotion. "Every restaurant is packed with people and lines," Gonzalez said. "Everything today is about fast. People are on the go, and they're eating fast food. It's cutting into sit-down dining," he added. "Each of the more than 1,500 Denny's were planning to make about 100 Grand Slams an hour," Denny's spokeswoman Cori Rice said. It had predicted it will have served about 1,400 people per location, more than five times the normal volume. "Grand Slam  Breakfast" is a four-item option on its menu, consisting of two pancakes, two eggs, two strips of bacon and two sausage links. It weighs in at 44 grams of fat, 56 carbohydrates and 770 calories.Nationwide, Denny's expected to sell about 2 million Grand Slams — about 15 percent of the annual tally. According to Mark Chmiel, chief marketing operator and executive vice president, the diner chain has reported approximately 2 million meals worth more than $12 million were given away nationwide and each Denny’s restaurant served an average of 130 Grand Slams per hour. It estimated it has earned about $50 million worth of public relations following the free Grand Slam campaign, Chmiel said. The company is also experimenting with a Grand Slam Burrito and also has introduced for this year, a Grand Slamwich, which includes eggs, bacon, sausage and cheese between two slices of bread, with a teaspoon serving. "It already has shown strong consumer appeal," said Chmiel. The company has received flood of e-mails and letters proving the positive impact of the Grand Slam campaign and commercials on its customers.Chmiel also announced he's planning a third major promotion in this year's third quarter, which happens to include another major sporting event, the World Series. "That's one we're definitely looking at," he said.Jobless Paris Winslow of downtown San Francisco, California has joined the long line which stretched from the front door on Mission Street, between Fourth and Fifth streets, to the corner of Fourth and up the block. "The economy is getting kind of scary. This line looks like those pictures of soup kitchen lines during the 1929 Great Depression," Winslow said."I came all the way from San Francisco for a free $6 meal, Isn't that pathetic? A year ago, I never would have done this. These days I'm willing to put my ego on the back burner," said Stephen Weller, a jobless contractor who waited with his dog, Emmett. California Denny's restaurant managers have  issued rain checks (for free chilled meals, as security backed by actual bacon) to anyone who failed to get in by the 2 p.m. deadline. A big eater could also "Slam It Up" by adding any two additional items for 99 cents each to their meal. Customers on Tuesday were also handed "bounceback" coupon books that include offers for additional free menu items with purchases. Chicago Tribune reporter Kevin Pang has eaten five free Grand Slams on Tuesday at five different Denny's Diners in four hours. He claims to have consumed 4,100 calories at Harwood Heights, 5:36 a.m, at Schiller Park, 6:22 a.m., at Franklin Park, 7:08 a.m., at Melrose Park, 7:41 a.m. and at Grand Slam No. 5 Oak Park, 8:57 a.m."The Grand Slam has always been a Denny's favorite. This free offer is our way of reacquainting America with Denny's real breakfast and with the Denny's brand," Denny's CEO Nelson Marchioli said in a statement. In 1977s, the Grand Slam started as a baseball-related promotion in Atlanta, Georgia. Its normal price averages around $5.99. Marchioli said the event was also a way to kick-off its "Year of the Grand Slam" promotion. Denny's claimed it has sold 12.5 million Grand Slams a year. "The economy's tough and people are jumping all the way to fast food to try to figure it out. We all use fast food, whether it's for time or convenience or for money. But you can go to Denny's and you don't have to give up a real breakfast and that was the whole focus of our commercial," Marchioli explained. McDonald's (MCD, Fortune 500) has done well during this economic meltdown since the global recession pushes people toward less expensive dining options. McDonald's has announced plans Wednesday to open 175 new restaurants in China this year despite the global economic crisis, thereby increasing the number of outlets in China by 17 percent, from 1,050 currently. Last month, McDonald's 2008 net profit has risen 80 percent from 2007 to 4.3 billion dollars.Marchioli has also introduced Denny's $4 Weekday Express Slam, which is a streamlined version of the Grand Slam. "I want to take back share. For too long, we have allowed others to take share, whether it was Starbucks or McDonald's. They're fine competitors and I don't expect to take all their business from them, but I'd like a little bit back," Marchioli noted.According to Rafi Mohammed, author of "The Art of Pricing," people love free. "It triggers a Pavlovian response in people," said Mohammed. If Pavlov's dogs salivate when a bell rings, Denny's free Grand Slam breakfast has attracted 2 million hungry customers. "I believe free maximizes trial and doesn't devalue a product as long as it is a rare event. Aside from the cost, the major downside is that it attracts customers who truly have no intention of coming back," he added.According to University of Portland consumer psychology professor Deana Julka, people flock to free promotions amid just a few dollars saving because there's nothing in life for free. "So when there's something out there that costs nothing, it creates a psychological rush. Especially in these times when people feel overtaxed or overburden, there's an internal reward people feel by getting something for free," she said. "It's being thrifty and feeling like you beat the system. Free really hits the spot for a lot of people," Julka added."Free is an emotional hot button. When free is concerned, there is no downside - or, at least, we don't see the downside immediately. So we overvalue everything that is free. People love free stuff, particularly when money's tight," said Dan Ariely, a business professor at Duke University, author of "Predictably Irrational: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions."Experts, however, explained these moves need to be done sparingly, since giveaways can teeter in the balance between desperation and a well designed marketing ploy. "Giving your product away for free is not worth it because it undermines your brand value," said branding expert Rob Frankel, saying people are attached to the idea of it being free, than the actual product itself. Free giveaways are not anything new in the food industry. "It just feels good when you can get something for free and not have to worry about it coming out of your wallet," Frankel noted. Dunkin' Donuts and Panera Bread all have had free coffee and food promos last year. "In November, Starbucks gave away free cup of coffee to anyone who came in on Election Day. Have you taken a look at how Starbucks is doing now?" Last week it has announced it would shut down 300 stores, in addition to the 600 it already planned to close.On February 24, IHOP will be offering a free shortstack to every customer to encourage donations (in place of the cost) for Childrens Miracle Network. The International House of Pancakes (IHOP) is a United States-based restaurant chain that specializes in breakfast foods and is owned by DineEquity. The chain had more than 1950 restaurants in all 50 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Canada and Mexico. Since 2006, IHOP's National Pancake Day celebration has raised over $1.85 million. In 2008, over 1.5 million pancakes (12 miles high if they were stacked) were given to customers for donations.Denny's ("Denny's Diner") is a full-service diner/family restaurant chain in the United States. It operates over 2,500 restaurants in the United States (including Puerto Rico), Canada, Curaçao, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Jamaica, Japan, Mexico, and New Zealand). The resto chain is known for always being open, serving breakfast, lunch, dinner, and dessert around the clock.Today, Denny's operates about 1,600 restaurants in all 50 U.S. states, Canada and Mexico. There are also about 578 Denny's restaurants in Japan operated under a license by a subsidiary of Seven & I Holdings, seven Denny's locations in New Zealand, and approximately 38 Denny's diners in the United States. Denny's headquarters is now located in Spartanburg, South Carolina, headquarters of the parent company Trans World Corporation that acquired Denny's in 1987.Denny's was historically notable for offering a free meal to anyone on their birthday. The offer included a limited number of meal options from a special birthday menu. The promotional ritual ceased in 1993, though occasionally individual franchises will continue the tradition. In 2008, Denny's has ceased to be in the ranks among the top diner chains in the $83 billion breakfast market, whose top five firms -- McDonald's, Starbucks, Dunkin' Donuts, Burger King and IHOP -- accounted for 22 percent of the volume. "A lot of consumers have written Denny's off their let's-go-there list," said Ron Paul, president of Technomic, a consulting firm. Super Bowl XLIII was an American football game between the American Football Conference champion Pittsburgh Steelers (15–4) and the National Football Conference champion Arizona Cardinals (12–8) to decide the National Football League (NFL) champion for the 2008 NFL season. It was played on February 1, 2009, at Raymond James Stadiumin Tampa, Florida. It has an attendance of 70,774 and 98.7 million viewers. Pittsburgh earned its sixth Super Bowl win, thus securing sole possession of the record for most Super Bowl wins.Dermot Mannion has been named the new Chief Executive of Ireland's national carrier, Aer Lingus. Mr. Mannion, 47, will take up the post in August 2005.Aer Lingus almost went bankrupt in 2002, but a major cost-cutting effort by former CEO Willie Walshe lead to a dramatic turnaround in the airline's fortunes, posting its largest ever profit in 2004. However, Willie Walshe left after a dispute with the government over  privatization. He has since landed the top job at British Airways.Mr. Mannion, an accountant, has extensive experience of aviation, having worked for the Dubai based airline Emirates since 1995. There he worked as Finance Director and later President of Group Support Services. He originally comes from County Sligo and is a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin.Despite the passage of a 700 billion USD bill by the United States House of Representatives on Friday and the Senate on Wednesday, two U.S. states may need loans totaling over 14 billion dollars.California and Massachusetts are seeking at least 7 billion dollars each from the federal government as loans. Officials and lawmakers in both states say that the loans would be temporary.According to Massachusetts' state treasurer, Timothy P. Cahill, the state was unable to borrow money last week on a short term loan. He also states that the state can afford to pay its bills and debts for the next few weeks, but not beyond that without a short-term loan from the government. Cahill has asked the federal government for a loan similar to the recent one passed by Congress and the Senate."That's all we would ask them to do: Treat us like the investment banks," said Cahill to the Associated Press.Officials in California say they need an emergency loan, or they will run out of money by the end of October. California's governor, Arnold Schwarzenegger said the state is "not out of the woods" and needs a short term loan from the government."California and other states may be unable to obtain the necessary level of financing to maintain government operations and may be forced to turn to the federal treasury for short-term financing," said Schwarzenegger in a letter to the Treasury Department, which is taking the letter under consideration.On Friday, the U.S. House of Representative voted to pass a revised bailout bill which included raising the FDIC insurance cap to $250,000, a move designed to please progressives. However, the $110 billion in tax breaks, earmarks and what has been called pork barrel spending is not offset by any increases in revenues and has added opposition to the bill from some Representatives in the House. Earmarks added into the bailout bill included $192 million in tax rebates for the Virgin Islands rum industry, $148 million in tax cuts for the wool industry, $100 million tax cuts to the auto racing industry, and $48 million in Hollywood tax incentives, among others.A majority of Detroit public schools were closed yesterday due to a coordinated "sickout" of teachers. This work stoppage was the latest in a series of showdowns with state government and was timed with an arrival by the President to attend an auto show. Activists used the opportunity to hold rallies to air their grievances publicly.Educators have staged several work stoppages to protest the dilapidated state of public schools as well as Governor Rick Snyder's plan for the schools, which involves spliting the school district in two. Yesterday's protest closed over 85 schools and followed last week's efforts which shut down more than 60 and prompted visits to school sites by Mayor Mike Duggan and inspectors. Detroit Public Schools is several hundred million dollars in debt and has been under the administration of emergency manager Darnell Earley for a year.The "sickout" strategy attempts to sidestep Michigan law which prohibits teacher strikes.  Schools have been found with mold in walls, crumbling infrastructure, and infestations.In response to the sickout, the school district has filed a lawsuit and sought an injunction against the union as well as individual activists and teachers.The owner of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, Deutsche Börse has said it is quitting the takeover of the owner of the London Stock Exchange, LSE. Its planned GBP 1,3 billion (EUR 2 billion) takeover (530p per share) was stopped by opposition for various shareholders from both parties. Its announcement is a setback for the chief executive Werner Seifert. This just leaves the Euronext NV as the sole bidder of the LSE. It owns the stock exchanges in Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Lisbon and the tiny London-based exchange Liffe.Anglo American PLC has negotiated a price of US$5.1 billion to buy 40% of diamond giant De Beers from the Oppenheimer family. Anglo's stake will jump from 45% to either 75% or 85%; the Botswanan government has an option to increase its own stake."This has been a momentous and difficult decision as my family has been in the diamond industry for more than 100 years and part of De Beers for over 80 years," said De Beers chairman Nicky Oppenheimer. The Oppenheimers are selling their entire remaining stake in the company they took over in the 1920s. They retain 2% of Anglo, founded in 1917 by Sir Ernest Oppenheimer. Until Nicky's resignation this year Anglo's board has always featured an Oppenheimer.As-of June De Beers assets totalled US$8.2 billion with US$1.2 billion pre-tax profit over the prior six months, compared to a US$863 million pre-tax profit last year. The firm owns two Canadian mines and one in South Africa, along with joint ownership with Botswana in two of the world's biggest diamond mines.Part of the sale deal promises the Oppenheimers will be given part of any value increase if the firm is floated within two years. Nonetheless, Anglo CEO Cynthia Carroll denied this means a flotation is planned. She also said there is no connection between the purchase, which is set to be finalised next year, and Chilean state-owned copper firm Coldeco's recent major purchase of 49% of various Anglo property. The Oppenheimers receive 20% of any price increase if a float occurs within a year, and 10% if one happens the year after.Los Angeles County prosecutors have brought three felony charges against Stephen Heller for stealing documents from his employer, the law firm Jones Day.The legal documents discussed the legal ramifications of activist allegations that Diebold Election Systems had used uncertified voting systems in Alameda County elections beginning in 2002. Jones Day represented the controversial electronic voting machine manufacturer at the time. The firm's lawyers concluded that if such uncertified systems were used, then Diebold could be sued by Alameda County for millions of dollars. The memos also discussed whether the California's secretary of state had the authority to investigate Diebold.Mr. Heller has been charged with felony access to computer data, commercial burglary and receiving stolen property.  He has pled not guilty.Blair Berk, Heller's attorney said, "It's a devastating allegation for a whistle-blower.  Certainly, someone who saw those documents could have reasonably believed that thousands of voters were going to be potentially disenfranchised in upcoming elections."< 1 - 12 January 2005 • Index • 18 - 25 January>Articles dated 14 to 25 December 2004 are included in the compilation below.< 26 December-31 December 2004 • Index • 11-18 January 2005 >Articles dated 1 to 10 January 2005 are included in the compilation below.Experimental Format< 29 November-5 December 2004 • Index • 14-25 December 2004 >Articles dated 6 to 13 December 2004 are included in the compilation below. Their status in the current proposed review policy at time of compilation is noted next to each date of articles of some length, with articles only in development being listed at bottom.The Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey recently published a job advertisement that asked for a male document officer. A member of SHP, a mainstream Turkish political party, criticized the ad, stating that Trying to defend their position, the Central Bank officials stated that the job of a document officer is not a desk job, that it requires physical power, and that it is not suitable for women. They stated that they published the ad as it was in order not to give false hopes to prospective female job applicants. Although the traditional, patriarchal approach in Turkey does not regard women's employment positively, feminist organizations are actively working to end gender discrimination in Turkey.The Walt Disney Company has finalized a US$7.4 billion deal to acquire its long-time partner Pixar in an all stock buy-out. The deal will make Steve Jobs, current Pixar and Apple CEO, Disney's largest shareholder with about 7% (valued at over $3.5 billion) and a member of the board of directors. The merger was speculated all day Tuesday on the stock market and the announcement came just after trading closed for the day. Terms of the merger include Pixar's John Lasseter becoming Disney's new chief creative officer in charge of animation at the combined Disney-Pixar Animation Studios, as well as principal creative advisor at Walt Disney Imagineering, the unit of the company responsible for research and development of Disney theme parks worldwide.Jobs purchased what became Pixar for $10 million in 1986 from George Lucas's computer animation division at Lucasfilm. Toy Story, its first feature film, came a decade later, and began a long string of animation hits, including Finding Nemo. Such successes proved to be increasingly elusive for Disney to manage on its own. The partnership between the two studios had become shaky in recent years, as former Disney head Michael Eisner clashed with Jobs over the renewal terms of their agreement. In 2003, prior to his dismissal from Disney, Eisner infuriated Pixar's creative team by predicting Finding Nemo would be a failure. Steve Jobs broke off negotiations in January 2004, having told one executive previously, "I don't see how the relationship can continue as long as Eisner is there."In a press release on February 22, 2007, Disney announced the expansion of its cruise line.  Disney plans to add two new ships to its current fleet of two.  This expansion is expected to more than double the cruise line's current passenger capacity.  By expanding, Disney hopes to meet the increasing demand for its cruise line.The two new ships are to be very similar to each other and will weigh about 120,000 tons. They are planned to be two decks taller than the two existing ships, the Disney Magic and the Disney Wonder and will have 1,250 staterooms. These two ships are scheduled for christening in 2011 and 2012.In the press release, Disney President and CEO Bob Iger stated: "Since our maiden voyage in 1998, Disney Cruise Line has been a huge success for our guests and for our shareholders alike.  It has brought our unparalleled family vacation experience to the high seas, and has also generated high margins and double digit returns on invested capital.  We're excited to announce the expansion of our fleet, which is a logical next step in what is a real growth business for us."Names have not yet been announced for the ships.The head of the World Trade Organization (WTO)  has called for trade negotiations to restart on the Doha Development Round, citing the need for the round to be concluded to help the global economy. Pascal Lamy, Director-General of the WTO, speaking at a United Nations conference, said "In the weeks to come, and depending on progress made by the negotiators, I am ready to call Ministers to Geneva to try and close the issues which remain open so that the scheduling process in both areas can commence." The Doha round of talks, named after Doha, the capital city of Qatar, where it was inaugurated in November 2001, focuses heavily on creating a fair system of trade for the benefit of developing countries, in particular for trade in agricultural products.The last major negotiations collapsed in July, after nine days of talks, over issues of agricultural trade between the United States, India, and China. Since then, a series of small negotiations have been held. Lamy called for a ministerial level conference, which would involve ministers from member states. The WTO believes that a completed deal will restore confidence in the global economy and improve the global outlook. Lamy said,  "A failure of the Doha Agenda would have serious implications on the ongoing efforts by all developing countries to address their challenges and in particular to meet the UN Millennium Development Goals. The reasons why we must conclude the Round are visible to all of us and are becoming more critical by the day as the economic and financial outlook continues to deteriorate."Since the collapse in July, there has been a willingness by member states to hold negotiations again. The United States has been willing to hold negotiations even though the U.S. presidential election will be held in November and a shift in policy on the Doha round might occur as a result of the election. Huang Rengang, a senior diplomat at China's WTO mission, told Reuters, "The problem now is that often in the negotiating rooms you find that some members are obsessed with market access rather than development, are obsessed with inventing new terms like 'key emerging countries'".The director-general of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Pascal Lamy, suspended negotiations in the Doha round of trade talks on Monday, after a meeting of six "core" negotiators India, Brazil, the United States, European Union, Japan, and Australia in Geneva failed to make any headway in reconciling differences over agricultural trade liberalisation.  The US wanted cuts in import tariffs for farm products, which were rejected by EU, Japan and India, who asked for cuts in agricultural subsidies. Peter Mandelson, the EU trade commissioner, told the Financial Times: "If the US continues to demand dollar-for-dollar compensation in market access [cutting tariffs] for reducing domestic support, no one in the developing world will ever buy that and the EU will not either." Brazil also identified the US stand on subsidies as the reason the talks failed. Susan Schwab, the US trade representative, said that the other countries sought exemptions from tariff cuts for a wide range of goods and that such exemptions would defeat the object of the talks - to expand trade. "As we went through the layers of loopholes . . . we discovered that a couple of our trading partners were more interested in loopholes than market access," she said.The Indian Commerce and Industries Minister, Kamal Nath said that developing countries could not allow their subsistence farmers to lose their livelihood and food security to provide market access to agricultural products from developed countries.Dollar General is the latest American company to recall unsafe Chinese-made products. All products affected by the recall contain "excessive amounts of lead" in the yellow paint.The U.S Consumer Product Safety Commission has just recalled "pull and release" toy cars, as well as yellow children's size sunglasses.Products affected are:a four pack of Super Wheels (UPC #400016576344)a two pack of Super Racer cars (UPC # 883788965002, 380000)"Time to Play Every Day" Fashion Sunglasses (UPC #400007860896, 51,000 units)The car toys were sold at the chain's stores from April through October; the glasses were sold from March 25 through to October 2007.Affected products should be taken from children immediately. Dollar General will provide full refunds on return.The Goodlettsville, Tennessee-based price-point retailer chain had 8205 stores, as of June this year.The U.S. Dollar fell to an all time low against the Euro after data from the U.S. heightened concerns regarding an economic recession. The U.S. currency traded at 1.444 versus the Euro and reached a 26-year low against the British Pound. An index that measures US consumer confidence fell in October to 95,6 points while in August U.S. home prices declined 4,4%, the biggest fall of the past six years. The data bolsters speculation that the Federal Reserve may cut interest rates in the next meeting. The U.S. central bank is set to decide on interest rates on the 31st of October and economists expect a 25 basis point cut to 4,50%According to analysts, the major earthquake and subsequent tsunami that hit on Friday is likely to have major economic impacts within Japan, though the global economy is unlikely to be significantly affected.Rolling blackouts are planned to start on Monday in addition to continuing through this summer and may have to take place next winter as well. According to an economist, Michala Marcussen, at Société Générale, a country's power supply "is a critical factor" to its economy. Marcussen said that if Japan's electrical infrastructure was severely damaged, then "that could have a durable [sic] impact on the economy."The overall negative impact of the earthquake on Japan's gross domestic product (GDP) is expected to be only a few tenths of one percent, though that is expected to be enough to push Japan's expected recovery from its current economic slump back by several months.  According to the Nomura Group, "[w]e had projected an April-June exit [from the slump]  but now forecast July-September or possibly October-December." It added that most of the economic effects of the quake will probably be felt early this summer.To fund the current rescue efforts, the Japanese government is reportedly considering raising taxes, as the estimated cost of rebuilding affected areas is as high as one percent of the total five trillion dollar GDP. Japan currently carries high levels of debt, estimated to be about ten trillion dollars, which is expected to make additional government spending for rebuilding efforts difficult.The Japanese stock market index Nikkei 225 dropped 1.7% at the end of the day Friday; it closed fourteen minutes after the quake and tsunami struck. Beginning on Monday, when trading resumes, the Bank of Japan is, according to its governor, prepared to inject money into the economy in order to stabilize the markets.Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the head of the International Monetary Fund, has been refused bail after appearing in court in New York charged with sexually assaulting a chambermaid at a hotel in Manhattan. The decision by the judge to remand him in custody yesterday will likely disrupt emergency talks over the European debt crisis, demolish hopes that he will challenge Nicolas Sarkozy for the French presidency, and spell the end of his political career.In court, Strauss-Kahn appeared sombre and tired. The judge agreed with the argument by the prosecution that the French politician was a flight risk after he reportedly tried to flee the country on a passenger jet for Paris. The defence said Strauss-Kahn denied the charges against him and offered $1,000,000 bail and said he would reside in Manhattan with an electronic bracelet, but the judge refused. Afterwards, defence lawyer Benjamin Brafman said: "This battle has just begun."The politician appeared in court charged with three crimes, including attempted rape, after a chambermaid told detectives she had been sexually assaulted by Strauss-Kahn in a luxury hotel near Times Square. "The maid described being forcibly attacked, locked in the room and sexually assaulted," a spokesperson for the New York Police Department said. Detectives said the politician was detained in the first class cabin of the passenger plane which was minutes from leaving for Paris. Strauss-Kahn had reportedly fled the hotel "in a hurry" after the attack, leaving a number of personal effects behind. Prosecutors have last night announced they are investigating claims made by a French author, Tristane Banon, that she was sexually assaulted by Strauss-Kahn in 2002. At the time, her mother—socialist councillor Anne Mansouret— persuaded her not to press charges against him, but yesterday she told French television that Strauss-Kahn had an "addiction" to "preying" on women, and had "a difficulty in controlling his impulses." The author's lawyer has announced he is planning to file a complaint with Banon to officials about the alleged attack. Kahn can be convicted and sentenced over the alleged attacks on the chambermaid and on Banon because he does not have diplomatic immunity.Strauss-Kahn was considered a serious contender and was expected to announce his candidacy against Sarkozy this month, but the allegations are expected to destroy the hopes of his supporters, increase infighting among the French left, and leave his political career in tatters. His arrest comes at a critical moment for the IMF, and will likely plunge efforts to stabilise the financial states of struggling eurozone countries into chaos. Strauss-Kahn was meant to discuss the bailouts of Greece and Portugal with European Union financial officials at a meeting in Brussels this week.Dominique Strauss-Kahn has resigned as the head of the International Monetary Fund after he was arrested and charged with sexually attacking a chambermaid at a hotel in New York. In a statement to the executive board of the IMF, he said he was resigning from his position "with immediate effect" to "devote all my strength, all my time, and all my energy to proving my innocence." Officials at the IMF said they would soon be releasing information about his successor.In the statement to the board, he said it was "with infinite sadness" that he had to resign, and paid tribute to the IMF. "To all, I want to say that I deny with the greatest possible firmness all of the allegations that have been made against me," he said. The politician is currently being held at the notorious Rikers Island, where he has been put on suicide watch, after a judge at a court in Manhattan denied him bail for fears he was a flight risk after he reportedly tried to flee the country on a passenger jet. In court earlier this week, where Strauss-Kahn appeared tired, he denied the charges against him and offered $1,000,000 bail, but the judge refused.Prosecutors allege Strauss-Kahn sexually assaulted a chambermaid at a luxury hotel near Times Square. "The maid described being forcibly attacked, locked in the room and sexually assaulted," a spokesperson for the New York Police Department said. Detectives said the politician was detained in the first class cabin of the Air France passenger plane which was minutes from leaving for Paris. Strauss-Kahn had reportedly fled the hotel "in a hurry" after the attack, leaving a number of personal effects behind. He was charged with committing a criminal sexual act, attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching.Investigators have this week continued to search the hotel room where the alleged attack took place, removing a piece of carpet in the suite which they hope will prove the allegation by the chambermaid that he forced her to have oral sex. Benjamin Brafman, the lawyer defending Strauss-Kahn, said forensic evidence found in the room at the Sofitel New York hotel "will not be consistent with a forcible encounter". Strauss-Kahn is to make another court appearance to plead for bail again this morning, Brafman said; the defence is reportedly considering telling the judge he will surrender his passport, wear an electronic tag, and remain under strict living conditions.The IMF has said it will soon release information about Strauss-Kahn's successor; John Lipsky, the deputy head, has been acting as head since the arrest at the weekend. The incident comes at a critical time for the IMF as it tries to the financial states of struggling eurozone countries. Strauss-Kahn was meant to discuss the bailouts of Greece and Portugal with European Union financial officials at a meeting in Brussels earlier this week. Before his arrest he was expected to announce his candicacy in the race for the French presidency, and analysts suggested he posed a real threat to Nicolas Sarkozy, but the charges will likely put and end to the hopes of his supporters.On Tuesday the 31st of January, Dr Don Brash, the leader of the New Zealand National Party gave his third state of the nation speech to the Orewa Rotary Club where he focussed on the economy. Brash predicted that the New Zealand economy is "...almost certainly headed for a recession." He later said "A recent survey in the Christchurch Press suggested [the] South Island was already teetering on the brink of recession."Brash said business confidence in New Zealand is at its lowest level in 30 years and almost every day there is another company closing its doors or sharply reducing its staff. He predicted that "many businesses will face very tough times, and that unemployment will rise steeply."Brash said the blame for any recession will lie squarely with the Prime Minister Helen Clark and Labour. "[The] Government is asleep at the wheel." He warned that people will lose their jobs and savings because of its incompetence.Brash also addressed immigration, health, and infrastructure issues.Brash said he had hoped to return as Prime Minister to give this speech. He also said that he intends to lead National in the next New Zealand general election (2008) and would be surprised if he is replaced before then. Finance Minister  Michael Cullen called Brash's speech "vastly underwhelming". He also claimed the speech was riddled with inaccuracies, particularly over Government spending.Brash's first speech at Orewa, delivered by Brash on 27 January 2004, was highly controversial. It addressed the theme of race relations in New Zealand, particularly the special status of Māori, New Zealand's indigenous ethnic group. Some regard the speech as a watershed moment in New Zealand politics.American multi-billionaire Donald Trump has announced plans to build a massive golf complex on an 800-acre site just north of Aberdeen, Scotland.Speaking last night from the Trump Tower in New York, Trump said that the development will be akin to a "homecoming" for him. The ginger-haired property tycoon's mother is from the Western Isles of Scotland. The £300m project at Menie in Aberdeenshire will include both a links course and an inland course, and a 400-bedroom hotel as well as a golfing academy and holiday homes. The facilities are being built with the intention of attracting the Open Championship to the site, officially dubbed Trump International Golf Links, Scotland.Fields and sand-dunes make up the landscape of the coastal site. Trump said of the location, "As soon as I saw it there was no question about it. I looked at 211 fantastic sites all over Europe, but here it is - the dune size and the ocean front. There is no piece of land that I have ever seen that is comparable to this." The billionaire claims that the complex, set to be his only development outside the United States, will be the "best course in the world."Local and national political figures, including Scottish First Minister Jack McConnell, have welcomed the announcement with open arms, as the project is expected to bring in an additional £157m to the region's economy within the first ten years. Scottish tourism company VisitScotland is also optimistic, expecting an influx of international visitors to play on (or simply visit) the site. Plans to expand the A90 road running past the site in the near future will enable more road traffic to and around the area. An £60m expansion of Aberdeen Airport will also allow for vastly increased international air links, akin to those operated using Boeing 767 aircraft.Work on the golf complex itself is set to begin in September this year, with the Trump Organisation hopeful for a Spring 2008 opening date.United States chemical giant Dow Chemical has announced that it is to buy Philadelphia-based rival Rohm and Haas.Dow is paying US$78 per share, a 74 percent premium, which makes the agreement worth around $15.3 billion, or $18.8 billion after adjustments are made for assumed debt.  The deal has been agreed unanimously by the boards of both companies, and will be partially funded by Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway and the Kuwait Investment Authority.  In the short term, Dow's share price may suffer as analysts downgrade the company's stock rating. However, the purchase of Rohm and Haas will help to expand Dow's presence in the specialty chemical market, which helps to provide more revenue stability through the entire business cycle.  Dow expects to see "significant revenue synergies", leaving it in "an excellent position in a number of industry segments that are poised for significant growth given long-term market megatrends, most notably in the electronic materials and coatings segments."  Dow plans to set up an advanced materials business unit at the Rohm and Haas headquarters in Philadelphia, and this unit will retain the Rohm and Haas name.  Two Rohm and Haas directors will join Dow's board, which will expand to 14.The Dow Jones Industrial Average, a stock market index used to gauge the performance of American stock exchanges, fell 344.65 at the close of trading Thursday.The exact reason for the drop is unknown, with different news agencies pointing to different causes. The New York Times cites a rise in unemployment numbers released Thursday by the U.S. Department of Labor and a fall in retail sales released by several large corporations.According to the Associated Press, the number of people claiming weekly unemployment benefits rose 15,000 last week to 444,000, which, according to The New York Times is near a five-year high.“This morning’s employment numbers continue to indicate that the labor sector remains soft at best and looks to continue to shed jobs throughout the remainder of the year,” Joseph Brusuelas, chief economist at Merk Investments, said in a statement to The New York Times.One major corporation that posted a gain in sales was Wal-Mart, with a 3 percent boost, which resulted in a one penny loss in their stock. Fellow retailer Target posted a sales loss. Shares of energy companies ExxonMobil and Chevron fell by 1.5 and 3 percent, respectively.The other two major American stock indices fell too. The S&P 500 fell 2.99 percent while the Nasdaq composite index fell 3.20 percent. The Dow's 344.65-point fall left the index at 11,188.23, a 2.99 percent decrease from the close of trading Wednesday.According to The New York Times, the drop is the largest since June of this year, but an expected announcement Friday of August unemployment data could cause the index to rise.The New York Times and the Associated Press both report that the number of jobs in the service sector rose in August according to research done by the Institute for Supply Management. This is the first rise in the number of jobs in several months.CNNMoney.com points to the rise in the price of Treasury bonds as a reaction to data released Wednesday that the American economy would continue to be slow in 2009.Lower oil and natural gas prices and a General Motors (GM) upgrade sent the Dow Jones Industrial above the 11,000 mark  for the first time since before September 11, 2001. The last time the Dow was above eleven thousand was June 13, 2001 when it closed at 11,012.40 before retreating slightly. The Dow's alltime record was set back on January 14, 2000 when it closed at 11,722.98.The impact of the Dow even getting to 11,000 is "psychological and hard to measure, but clearly you can't dismiss it," said Hugh Johnson, chairman of asset management company Johnson Illington Advisors. "If it wakes up investors then it is of some value."General Motors (up $1.09 to $21.89) was the Dow's biggest gainer, up five percent, after Goldman Sachs raised its rating on the automaker.Sirius Radio also added to the Dow's gain, up nearly 2 percent (to $6.65) as Howard Stern made his debut on the satellite waves.Oil prices, although still high, fell $1.21 to $63.05 a barrel.The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at a new all-time record high at 14,087.55 or up 191.92 points (+%1.38).Other markets closed up as well. the Nasdaq Composite closed at 2,740.99 which is +39.49 points (+%1.46), the highest close in almost seven years. The S&P 500 index also closed up +20.29 points (+%1.33) to close at 1,547.03.The last all-time high record for the DOW was 14,000.41 which was achieved on July 19. This is the second time the DJIA has ever closed above 14,000 since its debut on May 26, 1896.The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at its lowest level in over six years on Thursday, having lost 1.16%, or 89.68 points, bringing it to a level of 7,465.95. It had, at one point, set an intraday bear market low of 7,447.55. It was the lowest ending for the index since October 9, 2002.  The Dow has fallen almost fifteen percent since the start of this year.Two other US indexes also fell today: the Standard & Poor's 500 (S&P) fell by 9.48 points, or 1.20 percent, to 778.94 points. The Nasdaq Composite lost 1.71% or 25.15 points, closing at 1,442.82.The S&P had seen its fourth consecutive loss on Thursday, its longest losing streak since last October. It has lost almost fourteen percent since the start of 2009.Dan Cook, the senior market analyst at IG Markets, said that the Dow's descent is worrisome since without that level of support, investors may worry that the markets can fall even further. "It's kind of like if we're walking across a frozen pond. If that ice starts to crack a bit we're going to be very wary," he said.Other analysts, however, point out that despite the bad news, the stock market had not descended as quickly as it had been in October and November, and volume was low, suggesting a lack of conviction."There's not that panic that there was in November," said  Paul Nolte, the director of investments at Hinsdale Associates.Among some of the losers at the stock market today were Citigroup, which fell 13.8% to US$2.51 a share, and Bank of America, which dropped 14% to $3.93.In other markets, the British FTSE index increased by 0.3%, and Germany's DAX was up by a fifth of a percent.The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA), one of the main stock indices in the United States, has broken an all-time closing record, to close at 14,000.41 points which is up 82.19 points (0.59%) from its last close. Just 59 days before, the Dow hit an all-time high when it passed 13,000.This is the first time the DJIA has ever closed above 14,000 since its debut on May 26, 1896.The Standard & Poor's 500 Index closed at 1,553.08 points which was up 6.91 points (0.45%) and the NASDAQ Composite Index closed at a six-year high to 2,724.74 points, which was up 20.55 point (0.76%).Following a large fall at the start of the day, the Dow Jones Industrial Average has recovered by hundreds of points, with it climbing over  250 points again before dropping off to down 100 in just minutes.After going to down 100, it climbed to 12 up then three down. Following going three down, it kept going up and down between slightly up and below zero.Following this, the market went to sixty down, before recovering slightly to -36. That market then hovered for a few minutes between -30 and -60, before recovering slightly to -11, they going down to -82 again.The index fell to its lowest level in five years at 8,579.19, falling 679 points in one day. This, at 7.3%, is the eleventh largest percentage fall in the history of the index. The growth then continued, with the index being up over 150 points on the start of the day at one point.Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at Avalon Partners, commented on the current financial situation in the US. "What we've seen here was one big margin call that just kept feeding on itself, so the opposite could happen. But you need a catalyst," he said. "I'm more convinced now than ever that this market has made a bottom. The capitulation came when we breached 8,000," he continued. "It doesn't mean we can't go back and revisit that level."The Dow Jones industrials lost more than 400 points on the day today after news of record high oil prices and an increase in unemployment.Friday's nearly US$11 per barrel increase in the July contract for crude oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) is the largest singe-day increase in oil price history. The July contract hit $139.12, breaking the previous record. The July contract settled at $138.54, also a new record. The previous record for the July contract was $135.09 and was set on May 22. Trading in the July contract terminates on June 20.Stephen Schork, an oil industry analyst and editor of the "Schork Report," said, "The bulls are running rampant and the bears have panicked...It's pure hysteria, absolute panic."Morgan Stanley oil analyst, Ole Slorer, released a report this morning saying that he expected a "short-term spike in oil prices," as high as $150 a barrel by mid-July.Adding to the concerns of oil traders was a statement by Deputy Prime Minister Shaul Mofaz told Yediot Ahronot, the most widely circulated paper in Israel that "If Iran continues its program to develop nuclear weapons, we will attack it." Mofaz is considered a candidate as the next Prime Minister.The average price for regular unleaded gasoline has already passed the $4 a gallon mark in 12 states, as well as in Washington, D.C., according to AAA.Meanwhile, the Labor Department reported Friday that the unemployment rate rose to 5.5% last month. This was an increase from the 5% rate in April, and was the biggest monthly jump in more than two decades. Wall Street had only predicted an uptick to 5.1% for the month. According to the Labor Department, 49,000 jobs were lost in May, adding to four straight month of job losses.The Dow was not the only stock that fell today, the Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 43.37, or 3.09 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 75.38, or 2.96 percent.Also today, the American dollar declined against other major currencies, including the Euro.Businesses operating in downtown Beirut, the capital of Lebanon, are threatening to sue the government within the next two weeks, if it fails to resolve the current street protests being held by groups opposed to the government. Currently, about eighty shops had been forced to close down due to the protest.Large numbers of people took part in the Hezbollah-led protests held since the beginning of December 2006, along with the security measures imposed by the Internal Security Forces, cut off downtown Beirut from the rest of Beirut, thus strangulating most businesses in the area.Lawyers of affected firms have prepared a civil suit, and company owners and managers are now tabulating damage estimates, said Tony Salameh, chairman of Aishti, at a news conference Thursday at the Phoenicia InterContinental. He went on by saying that the Lebanese politicians are to be held responsible. He had also met with President Emile Lahoud and Prime Minister Fouad Siniora without achieving any tangible results.Late last month, the Tourist Associations have pleaded with General Michel Aoun, one of the opposition leaders, to find a new site for the round-the-clock Hezbollah-led protest that has crippled downtown Beirut since the protest began.According to reports, at least 35 people are dead while six are seriously injured in the northern Philippines after a bus plunged into a 100 meter deep ravine. The accident occurred early Wednesday near the city of Baguio, 200 kilometres north of the capital Manila.The accident happened when the brakes on the vehicle failed and it rolled down a hill into a ditch.  Officials say the death toll may increase.  There were a total of 47 passengers on board.The bus conductor, John Patrick Flores, survived the accident with only minor injuries by jumping out the door before the bus fell into the ravine. He said that "the driver tried to ram the bus into a mango tree to prevent it from falling, but failed."Marie-Laure Kawanda, the transport minister for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, has been sacked by the government after a series of boat accidents in the country. Kawanda was dismissed after a boat sank on Monday while sailing on the Kasai River left around 100 people missing.A spokesman for the government released a statement saying that Kawanda had failed to "ensure that regulations related to navigation are respected." Information minister Lambert Mende commented on Ms Kawanda's sacking, saying, "She should have introduced rules to prevent boats travelling at night and to stop cargo boats from carrying passengers. We don't have the exact number [of victims] but we think it is probably considerably higher than what has already been reported."He added that the government will be paying for the funerals of the victims.Fatal boat accidents are a common occurrence in DR Congo. On the same river where Monday's accident happened, up to 200 people died last year when a boat capsized. According to the Red Cross, 40 people died when an overcrowded boat sank on Lake Kivu last week.Dubai has announced the purchase of the British ocean liner RMS Queen Elizabeth 2 from Cunard Line for US$100 million, for conversion into a luxury floating hotel, starting in 2009. It is part of Dubai's ongoing plans to develop its tourism industry, and it intends one day to rival such destinations as Las Vegas.In a statement, Dubai World Chairman Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem said that "Dubai is a maritime nation and we understand the rich heritage of QE2. She is coming to a home where she will be cherished." Bruce Vancil, Regional Vice President of the West Coast Steamship Historical Society of America, expressed surprise and disappointment at the move. “We were kind of hoping she could find more nostalgic waters to call home,” he said. However, [Forbes.com] is reporting that the ship would likely have been scrapped had the deal not gone ahead. Vancil does say that he continues to hope that the vessel's new owners will respect the historic nature of the ship.The ship's new home will be the Palm Jumeirah, an artificial island created by the Dubai government where she will be permanently berthed, according to Istithmar, the investment section of Dubai World, a state-owned development company. Istithmar also announced plans for a refurbishment to recreate the QE2's original interior from her first year of service in 1969, and an on-board museum dedicated to the ship's history.Dubai World will take delivery of the ship from Cunard in November 2008. She is 963 feet (293 metres) long and weighs 70,000 tonnes. She has a combined passenger and crew capacity of 2,794. She is famous as Cunard's longest-serving flagship and for being launched by Queen Elizabeth II.The government of Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates has agreed to give US$10 billion to its neighboring emirate, allowing the state-owned Dubai World conglomerate to repay its immediate debt obligations. Dubai says more than $4 billion of the injection will be given to Dubai World's property firm, Nakheel, to repay its Islamic bond that matures Monday. The remaining funds will go towards additional expenses.News of the last-minute bailout caused Asian stocks to rebound and pushed European shares up, which saw gains for a third straight session. Markets in the UAE also rose, with Dubai's index moving up by 10 percent and Abu Dhabi's jumping by seven percent. Despite the good news, Algebra Capital Managing Director Dino Kronfol says Dubai is not out of the woods yet. "This is not something that is going to be resolved in a matter of weeks. It's going to take some time," Kronfol said. "It's going to involve restructuring and we'll have to see how that transpires. But nonetheless, this is a positive development today."The situation is completely different from just a few weeks ago, when Dubai World shook up global markets by asking for a standstill on its $26 billion debt. The government of Dubai made matters worse when it announced it would not guarantee the state-owned company's bills.Dubai World's creditors still need to approve the standstill and effectively have until December 28 to make a decision. That is when the grace period of Nakheel's bond ends. The government of Dubai has issued a new law allowing the conglomerate to file for bankruptcy if its restructuring is not successful. But Kronfol says, if the process focuses on necessary aspects, it will succeed."If the restructuring actually deals with Dubai's contingent liabilities," Kronfol said, "as a long-term solution, this actually really will help put the whole debt situation of Dubai behind us and really allow the markets to look more positively at 2010 and beyond."Government sources say Dubai World's restructuring process could include asset sales, but they would be limited to the Nakheel and Limitless companies and not include Istithmar World, which owns U.S. Luxury retailer Barneys.RMS Queen Elizabeth 2 (the QE2) will not be sailing to Cape Town, South Africa. Cape Town has refused the vessel permission to berth for use by owner Dubai World as a floating hotel.The Transnet National Ports Authority said that the famed vessel is much too large for Cape Town and that the facilites for the ship do not exist. Dubai World had hoped the ocean liner could serve as a hotel to accommodate football fans attending the World Cup and had previously told the Associated Press that Cape Town was among several possible destinations. No others have been named.Transnet National Ports Authority port manager Sanjay Govan commented that "It's the length of stay that was an issue ... They wanted to stay much longer than just the World Cup. You have to sacrifice a normal cargo-working berth for such an operation. You wouldn’t do that for such a long time." Dubai World has confirmed the trip to South Africa is off. South Africa's Protea Hotels were thought to have won a contract to perform the management of the hotel during its stay in Cape Town. Dubai World also considered private terminals but met the same issue.Dubai World's investment arm Istithmar World paid Cunard US$100 million for the British liner in 2007. Since then it has been moored off Dubai's Port Rashid, having arrived in the emirate in 2008. Original plans were to create a luxury floating hotel for tourists that would be moored beside an artificial island in the shape of a palm tree, but this idea was cancelled in the wake of global market uncertainty.State-owned conglomerate Dubai World is currently in severe financial difficulties. The firm is seeking an extra six months to pay at least US$22 million in debts and the government has supported a six month delay as the first step towards a restructuring plan. Dubai World's main units Nakheel and Limitless are the most indebted companies. World markets and media reacted sharply to the revelations on November 25 last year.Dubai World is rumoured to need to sell assets, including the Queen Elizabeth 2. The company has refused to confirm or deny this, only stating that "There are a number of options being considered for the QE2. Istithmar World is considering which option will best maximise value of the vessel."The same year as the Queen Elizabeth 2 the conglomerate also obtained Barneys New York, a luxury retailer based in the United States. Istithmar World paid US$942.3 million for the company. Istithmar World chief executive David Jackson resigned last week; he presided over the acquirements. In December a New York foreclosure auction sold off the W Hotel Union Square for US$2 million, which was owned by Istithmar World.The government of Dubai announced that it intends to provide $9.5 billion to Dubai World to allow the government-owned investment company to restructure its debt.The announcement comes as part of Dubai World's plan to restructure more than $23 billion of debt, including converting nearly $9 billion of debt into equity, after its collapse last fall.  The package includes $8 billion of funding to Nakheel, Dubai World's real estate subsidiary, as well as $1.5 billion to Dubai World as a whole.  The restructuring plan also seeks to, within eight years, repay all of Dubai World's creditors.According to the government of Dubai, $5.7 billion of the aid was from a former $10 billion loan to Dubai World, with the remainder being internally funded.  The plan would transfer ownership of Nakheel, formerly a subsidiary of Dubai World, to the direct control of the Dubai government.Response to the deal was largely positive, with one analyst saying the move "boosts sentiment because this is a strong commitment."  Christopher Davidson, author of books on Dubai and Abu Dhabi, said that while the new funding would "keep the wolves outside the gates a little longer," the government could not be the sole funder of Dubai World and Nakheel.Employees of two Thomas Cook travel agency offices in Dublin, Ireland have occupied their offices in response to management's announcement of earlier closure dates for the sites.  On Friday, July 31, 40 employees at the Thomas Cook store in Grafton Street began an occupation protest after the sudden announcement of the store's immediate closure; workers at the store had previously been told, when the closures were announced on May 12, that the businesses would remain open until September 6.  The day after, employees at the Thomas Cook-owned Direct Holidays store in nearby Talbot Street began their own occupation.  A third Thomas Cook store in the capital, in North Earl Street, closed without incident; according to one employee who spoke to Wikinews, this is because the North Earl Street store was closed up and stripped out while employees were at home, leaving the workers to find an empty space instead of an office when they arrived for work the next morning.Employees are demanding an improved redundancy package from Thomas Cook and allege a string of abuses by management. Thomas Cook management has offered the employees five weeks' redundancy pay for every year worked at the company, in excess of the minimum two weeks' pay per year worked required by Irish employment law, and says that the Grafton Street location had been losing money for five years. Employees, demanding eight weeks' pay, counter that the company realised a profit of £400 million in the past fiscal year, of which €4 million originated from Ireland; and that Thomas Cook's UK & Ireland chief, Manny Fontenla-Novoa, was given a bonus of €7 million earlier this year. 60 jobs would be lost in the closure of the two stores, which constitute all of Thomas Cook's retail operation in the Republic of Ireland; a further 17 jobs were lost in the closure of the North Earl Street store.Before the occupations began, workers at Thomas Cook's locations, who are members of trade union the Transport Salaried Staffs' Association (TSSA) had voted unanimously to strike, alleging that the closures were being done without sufficient consultation of staff by Thomas Cook management. Caroline Cullen, accounts assistant and TSSA staff representative at the Grafton Street location, characterises the behaviour of Thomas Cook management as "intimidation". When the consultation period had finished, she said, Thomas Cook management sent Simon Robinson, an executive director of the company, and a male colleague of his to close the office. The presence of the Thomas Cook executives, two high-ranking, business-suited men, in an office where forty-two of forty-four employees are women is itself intimidating, Cullen asserts; she says that Robinson furthermore attempted to "bully" the employees into accepting the five-week redundancy offer by saying that if they did not accept, they would receive only the statutory minimum. "You cannot live on 5 weeks", says Cullen. "Travel agents are closing every week. There's a hiring freeze at the banks. There are no jobs out there...We need 8 weeks to live on for the next two years while we look for jobs." The extra three weeks' redundancy pay would, she estimates, cost Thomas Cook €400,000.A series of TSSA demonstrations against Thomas Cook took place throughout July. Trade union Unite in Ireland has offered its support for the occupiers and says it will take place in demonstrations scheduled for Monday morning.Thomas Cook has accused the TSSA of making use of "dirty tactics", according to a statement from Thomas Cook UK & Ireland CEO Pete Constanti. A court order has been delivered to the Grafton Street office requiring the occupiers to turn the keys over to Thomas Cook management. The TSSA, meanwhile, says that Thomas Cook is "riding roughshod over the right to take industrial action by marching staff into a room and telling them they are going to close immediately".Cullen says that the occupation began spontaneously. "We didn't think it would go so far", she told Wikinews, but when the closure of the office was announced, the staff "opened the windows and started screaming, 'we're not moving, we're not moving'. We haven't moved since."Monday, August 3 is a bank holiday in Ireland. Both sides in the dispute have delivered ultimata: Thomas Cook management demands that all staff return to work on Tuesday morning as usual or else the offer of five weeks' pay will be reduced to the statutory two weeks' pay, while the TSSA says that if Thomas Cook management do not produce a better redundancy offer by Tuesday then the business will face a boycott by the TSSA's 800,000 members.Ireland's Socialist Party and Dublin MEP Joe Higgins have declared their support for the Thomas Cook occupiers, with a press release on Higgins' official webpage saying  Socialist Party members have been leafletting Dublin over the weekend promoting demonstrations in support of the Thomas Cook employees. The smaller Socialist Workers Party has also declared its support and conducted demonstrations for the occupiers.Cullen said that the support of the Dublin community has been "absolutely fantastic". People are bringing the occupiers fresh-baked scones and cakes and donating money, while morale inside the occupied store is "brilliant". In contrast to the occupation at Vestas in England, where employees have been inside the factory continuously for two weeks, Thomas Cook employees have a chance to go home for a few hours or sleep in one of five rooms at a nearby hotel, although many do sleep in the office overnight. Nearby businesses are providing the occupiers with food at discount prices and, again in contrast to Vestas, the police and security are not interfering with the arrival of food and drink. Thomas Cook management have cut off telephone and internet access to at least some of the affected offices, but employees stay in touch with the outside world via their personal mobile telephones.Cullen said that a chance for a peaceful resolution to the situation, without the involvement of the Gardai, was up to Thomas Cook management. "Thomas Cook have the chance to come to the table and talk to us. It's in their hands, they still have the chance to come back."Pauline McManigan, a TSSA member and employee at Thomas Cook subsidiary Direct Holidays' shop in Talbot Street, echoed Cullen's sentiments. "John Kinnane [Thomas Cook's managing director for Direct Holidays] has made things extremely difficult for all staff. He has intimidated staff, bullied staff and used abusive language toward female staff", telling one employee today to "fuck off" in response to a query. Kinnane refused to recognise the TSSA as representing the Direct Holidays staff; without union representation, Direct Holidays staff "were not in any position to consult with senior managers who had their own hidden agenda and proved this when they closed the consultation down when staff said there were other matters that needed to be discussed." Kinnane, she said, made threats similar to Robinson's in order to get employees to vote for the five-week redundancy package.McManigan says that Kinnane has demanded Direct Holidays' staff return to work on Tuesday as normal. "That's not gonna happen", she replies, noting that the Direct Holidays staff did not trust Thomas Cook management not to close and strip out the store while the employees were not present. McManigan gave the following statement:A worker at a Dunedin, New Zealand Subway has been sacked from her full-time job for "serious misconduct". Her manager sacked her when she shared some of her free Diet Coke with a friend in distress. After being sacked, she was also charged with the theft of two NZ$4.00 drinks by the New Zealand Police.Jackie Lang, the employee, was entitled to a free drink while she was working at the George Street franchise of Subway. "They are allowed endless amounts of soft drink if they work there. Her friend came in all upset and distressed, so Jackie took a break, poured a drink and sat down with her," Bill Clark, from the Autonomous Workers Union, said.Mr. Clark said it was the most vicious action that a company has done in relation to the offence that he has had to deal with, a view shared with Ms Lang. Ms Lang said, "I shared my drink with my friend. I was only trying to comfort her. Isn't it what most people would do? I mean, I wasn't trying to do anything wrong. I did what I thought any person would do in the situation."Ms. Lang was suspended for two weeks following the incident after management was shown video footage on March 19. After being suspended she filed a personal grievance case, at which point the franchise owners went to the police. She was subsequently arrested and put in jail for two hours 20 days after being suspended. The video shows that Ms. Lang took a break following her friend coming into the workplace. She then shares her drink, gets a free refill and leaves it with her friend while she continued her work.At 12.00 p.m. (NZST) the Otago University Young Labour branch organised a protest, starting at the university and finishing at the George Street Subway. President of the university's Young Labour branch, Ashley Murchison said, "I’m disappointed that any employer would treat their workers like this, especially over a matter this trivial, which could have easily been resolved internally."Before the incident, Jackie Lang had a clean employment history and no criminal record, which is why she is surprised the case wasn't handled internally. "It's a human thing to do to offer a drink as comfort. If Subway doesn't like it, they have internal procedures to deal with that," she said.Prior to the protest, Young Labour announced a nationwide boycott of Subway, though promoting a focus on Dunedin.The franchise co-owner, Rob Nicol, has refused to comment on the matter stating it is a matter between herself, her business partner, the police and the employee.Ms. Lang will appear in Dunedin District Court later this month.Dutch financial institution ING Group reported today in its quarterly results an impairment charge of €194 million euros (approximately US$285.6 million). However, as a result of selling an equity stake in rival ABN AMRO, the net profit of €2.48 billion, was 18% higher than last year. The impairment charge is a result of risky investments, including RBMS (mortgage) investments backed by subprime loans and Alt-A loans, which are made to borrowers with a slightly better credit profile than those in the subprime category, as well as from collateral debt obligations (CDOs).CEO Michel Tilmant said that "solid risk management" shields ING from the worst effects of the financial crisis. "ING's exposure to the riskiest assets is limited, and the RMBS investments we selected have a high level of structural credit protection to absorb significant losses as the U.S. housing crisis deepens," added Tilmant.Australia and East Timor officials signed a billion-dollar gas and oil accord, which is necessary because of a current maritime border dispute between the countries, which covers a major oil field. Although the accord has to be ratified by East Timor's parliament which is ruled by Fretilin with 55 seats the biggest block in parliament, but all the smaller parties are said to be working together to veto the deal.In 1975, Portugal abandoned East Timor and the people declared self-independence only to be invaded by Indonesia with out any intervention from Australia or the United States. Indonesia then agreed on no formal maritime boards but on a joint exploitation zone splitting profits 50/50. Indonesian rule in East Timor was marked by extreme violence and brutality and following a UN-sponsored agreement between Indonesia, Portugal and the US, East Timor held a referendum and gained independence, but violent Indonesian sponsored militia took hold. A peacekeeping force (INTERFET, led by Australia) then intervened putting a stop to the violence. The exploitation zone splitting profits was then changed to 60% in favour of Australia, but now a new deal has been proposed 90/10 in favour of Timor. In the mean time Australia has  been accused of profiting by up to 2 billion dollars between the deals by activist groups like http://www.timorseajustice.org/ whose campaigning saw Woodside suspended oil pumping in the affected area. Contemporary International law asserts that the area under dispute belongs to East Timor. Australia has withdrawn from the maritime division of the International Court of Justice, which could have settled this matter, instead opting to try to settle the matter without the court.The previous deal has caused political infighting within East Timor about why such a smaller percentage was accepted.Kuwait might finance a great number of public works in East Timor, in an investment worth 500 million to 600 million dollars, the East Timorese Prime Minister said today. José Ramos Horta leaves today for an official visit to Kuwait. "I want to start right now the negotiations process with the Development Fund of Kuwait for the construction of great projects for East Timor's roads, bridges, harbors and airports", Ramos Horta, East Timor's Prime Minister, said."For a project of this magnitude, to carry throughout several years, the amount of money to be spent is about 500 million to 600 million dollars or more. We are now waiting a preliminary study made by an Indian company, paid by Kuwait", Ramos Horta added.The East Timorese delegation is composed by the Minister of public works, Odete Victor, and the Minister of energy & mineral resources, José Teixeira.The visit is part of an invitation by Kuwait's Prime Minister Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah, and includes meetings with the Emir Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the crown prince Nawaf Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mohammed Sabah Al Salem Al Sabah and representatives of the Development Fund of Kuwait.This is the second visit to Kuwait in two years by Ramos Horta, an country with who the East Timorese Prime Minister maintains relations with several members of the royal family and of the government.London - Low-fares airline easyJet today announced that passenger figures for January rose to over 2.08m, a 23.8% rise on 2004. Load-factor dropped slightly to 76.4% whilst average yields only fell 2% between October and December. After what was expected to be a tough winter period for the airline industry--with the flamboyant Ryanair CEO Micheal O' Leary having stated in December that a "bloodbath" was to take place in the European aviation industry--the figures were better than expected.On the back of new restrictions being imposed on eBay users in the United Kingdom requiring that sellers offer PayPal payments for all sales, eBay Australia is mandating that only PayPal payments will be acceptable as of June 17.  PayPal is a wholly-owned subsidiary of eBay, and charges a 30¢ transaction fee, plus a commission between 1.1% for high volume traders, and 2.4% for low value or low volume traders.  These higher costs will be passed onto buyers.Cash payment on pick up will be the only other payment option, and it may only be offered in conjunction with PayPal.eBay has brought in this restriction under the guise of improving customer protection, bolstering its  "Paypal Buyer Protection" insurance programme to allow claims up to A$20,000 instead of the previous maximum of $3,000, however as of June 17 many of the items which would exceed $3,000 are no longer covered by the programme, such as services, vehicles, real estate and businesses.eBay Trust and Safety director Alastair MacGibbon said this change was not in response to the once-off fund established in March to refund eBay buyers who lost their non-existent holiday accommodation packages from the Melbourne eBay seller Robert Kobis.  Mr MacGibbon said "It is part of a much larger initiative".In addition to these measures, Paypal will be withholding funds from some sellers for 21 daysThe Australian Competition and Consumer Commission has held discussion with eBay, but declined to comment.  The Australian Consumers Association spokesman Christopher Zinn said the unique use of PayPal could give rise to competition issues, however if the costs charged stayed as they were, they had no further concerns.eBay's PayPal and cash on delivery policy was blocked on Friday by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) after it released a draft ruling citing that it was an "anti-competitive effect" and calling on eBay to postpone its policy which is due to take effect next week.ACCC's final ruling is still pending however it is unusual for the ACCC to reverse draft rulings once issued.In a statement eBay said that it was "disappointed" by the ruling and that "eBay believes the consumer benefits of this initiative are worth fighting for on behalf of its buyers which will ultimately benefit sellers."eBay and VeriSign announced an agreement late Monday for eBay to acquire VeriSign’s debit and credit card processing division. This division would become a part of eBay’s PayPal.eBay will pay VeriSign $370 million in cash and stock for this division. Starting in the coming year eBay will begin using two-factor authentication from VeriSign.  Two-factor authentication is a type of transaction protection that gives users digital certificates or one-time passwords helping to protect against identity theft."This acquisition allows PayPal to give our customers more choice in payment services and grow our merchant services business even more quickly," said president of PayPal Jeff Jordan."In working with PayPal and eBay, we are going to be offering them our security technology, allowing them to offer their users stronger forms of authentication," said VeriSign CEO Stratton Sclavos.Last year VeriSign's gateway business processed $40 billion in transactions. It is expected to generate an additional $100-million revenue for eBay in 2006. It is also expected to increase the customer base by 100,000. The acquisition is expected to close this quarter.Online US-based auction company eBay is in talks to acquire Voice-over-IP (VoIP) provider Skype for US$5 billion. Many believe that eBay intends to enter the rapidly expanding VoIP market and give recent entrants, Google and Microsoft, a run for their money.The speculation that eBay may buy the small Luxembourg-based company sent their shares down four percent on Wall Street.Last month, Rupert Murdoch, CEO of News Corporation, was in talks with Skype to possibly buy the company. The talks ended when Skype said the company was not for sale.VoIP is becoming an increasingly significant threat to traditional telephone companies, since most calls between computers are free and some users wonder why a separate land line is still needed.Skype was founded by the creators of the P2P file-sharing program KaZaA.Online US-based auction company eBay, the world's largest online marketplace, agreed to buy Voice-over-IP (VoIP) firm Skype, the company providing the most popular internet telephony service, for $2.6 billion USD in cash, stock, and rewards, and may pay a further $1.5 billion if the company's financial targets are met in 2007 and 2008.Skype technology is to be introduced on eBay's website, allowing sellers to receive calls or leads from the sites users, for a fee.It is the biggest acquisition in eBay's history. The company hopes to diversify its profit sources and gain popularity in areas where Skype holds a strong position, such as China, Eastern Europe, and Brazil.EBay expects to cut 2006 earnings per share by $0.12 due to the acquisition.According to an announcement on Monday by United States-based on-line auction website eBay, the option to accept payments via PayPal service will be mandatory for United Kingdom sellers beginning in April 2008, with the exception of auctions relating directly to the sale of motor vehicles.The announcement claims that the move will help improve confidence as well as further reducing the limited amounts of fraud which occur on some types of transaction. Sellers with low feedback, or who list specific items, such as computer software are already required to accept payment via PayPal.Under the new policy, sellers will however still be able to accept payments via other services, provided they are on eBay's approved list. Google Checkout, a competitor to PayPal in the field of retail payment services, is notably absent from the list of accepted payment methods.The UK division of eBay announced yesterday that it was removing all listings for sale of tickets for Live 8 from its eBay.co.uk site.  Whilst asserting that "resale of tickets is not illegal", it stated that it was banning them in response to community pressure, and it was "absolutely the right thing to do".  No similar announcements were made for any other of eBay's web sites, such as eBay.com, and no particular restrictions on the sales of event tickets with respect to Live 8 are included in eBay's resale policy.Bob Geldof had labelled the advertising for sale of the tickets "sick profiteering".  He described the community reaction as people realising that "the weakest people on our planet" were being exploited, and being "sickened by that".  In response to an earlier offer by eBay to hand over to the Live 8 charity its fees from the sales, Geldof had said "It is not acceptable that a giant electronic company that makes billions upon billions then morally says 'we will just hand over our take to a charity'.  It is filthy money made on the back of the poorest people on the planet. Stick it where it belongs."In a recent study released by the World Bank and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), economic opportunities for women are still lagging behind opportunities for men in the developing world. Improvements have been made in women health and education, according to the study. The study calls for investments totaling over US$13 billion a year to achieve gender equality and women empowerment.Danny Leipziger, World Bank Vice President for Poverty Reduction and Economic Management, said, "gender equality is key for poverty reduction and growth. Progress on women’s education is essential but not enough if we don’t improve women’s access to good jobs and credit lines, to land ownership and to income-generating activities." The study Equality for Women: Where Do We Stand on Millennium Development Goal 3? looks at the achievements made by the developing world as laid out by the Millennium Development Goals (MD).  These goals are eight international development goals that 189 United Nations member states and at least 23 international organizations have agreed to achieve by the year 2015. They include halving extreme poverty, reducing child mortality rates, fighting disease epidemics such as AIDS, and developing a global partnership for development.Education has improved in 82 countries out of 122 and are on track to meet their MD goals. However, 19 countries, 13 of which are in Sub- Saharan Africa, are seriously off track to meet their target. The United Nations will hold a conference on Thursday at the annual session of the UN in New York to discuss the Millennium Development Goals.This weekend, April 12–13, the joint Development Committee of the World Bank Group and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) held its annual Spring Meeting in Washington, D.C.The Group of Seven (G7), which is comprised of the economic policy makers from the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Canada, and Japan, held its annual meeting on Friday, April 11. This meeting, which rotates locations, was also held in Washington, D.C.The Development Committee meeting ended on Sunday, with a call from the economic leaders for assistance to the countries which been adversely affected by rising food prices. Economic growth has slowed to its lowest rate in five years, while the rising costs of food and energy have not slowed.Robert Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, said, "We have to put our money where our mouth is. Now. So that we can put food into hungry mouths. It's as stark as that." He called for US$500 million in emergency funds for the United Nations's World Food Programme by May 1, 2008."All that has been done [in the past decade] can be undone very rapidly by the crisis coming from the increase in food prices," said Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the managing director of the IMF."Children will be suffering from malnutrition, with consequences for all their lives," he said. He cited the growing use of land for biofuels as contributing to rising food costs. In the end growing violence and civil unrest could be a result.Strauss-Kahn further warned that eventually it could become "not only a humanitarian question," but could also affect developed nations by leading to trade imbalances.Specifically cited as a current example, was Haiti, where just this weekend, violence escalated resulting in the death of a United Nations peacekeeper and the ousting of Prime Minister Jacques-Édouard Alexis.United States Secretary of the Treasury Henry Paulson cautioned that affected countries "need to resist the temptation of price controls and consumption subsidies that are generally not effective and efficient methods of protecting vulnerable groups."Price controls and subsidies "tend to create fiscal burdens and economic distortions while often providing aid to higher-income consumers or commercial interests other than the intended beneficiaries," Paulson said.In their Friday statement, the G7 said "there have been at times sharp fluctuations in major currencies, and we are concerned about their possible implications for economic and financial stability." This marked the first time since the February 2004 meeting in Boca Raton, Florida, that the wording on foreign exchange has been altered.The G7 presented a plan to strengthen regulation of capital markets. They urged financial firms to "fully" disclose their at-risk investments and improve capital reserves. While the G7 did not outline new monetary or fiscal policies, it did promise action "as appropriate." The timetable for the plan is 100 days.The head of G7 Market Economics at Tullett Prebon, Lena Komileva, observed, "The implicit message is that the G7 is moving closer towards concerted action in the event that persistent volatility in the foreign exchange market presents new risk of systemic failure in the financial industry.""While action is unlikely in the short run, they are probably already considering a pre-emptive move in foreign exchange markets to slow the dollar's decline," added Komileva. Economists at Goldman Sachs told their clients, "After a period where the possibility of G7 policy intervention seemed very remote, providing no counterweight to the dollar depreciation forces, we are moving towards a regime where G7 intervention is a more real possibility."Nobel laureate Milton Friedman has died at the age of 94, his family announced. Friedman is considered to be one the most influential economists of the past century.Friedman won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 1976 and essentially defined the theory of Monetarism. He served on U.S. President Reagan's Economic Policy Advisory Board and significantly influenced post-WWII economic policy in the U.S.He was a leading figure in the Chicago school of economics.In its August 10 edition, The Economist magazine asserts that Saudi Arabia can continue producing oil at its current production levels for 70 years, without having to look for another drop. Further, the magazine claims that the nation could find "plenty more if they look", calling for privatisation of national oil companies to help increase oil production.The language is provocative - the world has plenty of oil, and only requires sufficient investment and exploration to find it. This is a line that The Economist has held for some time, certainly since before its now infamous March 1999 issue proclaiming that we were "drowning in oil" and featuring a prediction of US$5 per barrel. That issue was followed by an embarrassing retraction in December of that year, as oil started its steady climb. It now sits above US$70 per barrel.However, petroleum geologists and energy investment specialists maintain a different view of oil reserves. They say that there is a limit to what is in the ground, and further to that, a limit to how much of it we can retrieve even with advancing technology. Just how much is down there can't be said with any certainty, for a variety of reasons. A big one is the suspicious reserves figures given by producers in the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia. Since OPEC starting using a quota system based on reserves, the estimated reserves for member nations has magically risen, and even continued rising in the face of increased extraction from those reserves.Amongst those who deal with the physical realities of oil fields, forecasts of a peak in production vary between 30 years, as the USA's Energy Information Administration suggest, and now, as suggested by the Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas and other more pessimistic forecasters. A peak in production would then be followed by decline. Certainly, in the petroleum world, there is no serious suggestion of sustaining the current level of oil production for 70 years.In a speech in Texas on Wednesday, President George W. Bush discussed the trade deficit, saying:"We had a problem in our hemisphere about trade. I don't know if you realize it or not, but most of the goods from Central America came into this country duty-free. Yet eighty percent of our goods were taxed through tariffs in Central American countries. That didn't seem to make sense to me; it certainly wasn't fair. All I say to people is you treat us the way we treat you. If your goods can come into our markets duty-free, our goods ought to be able to go into your markets duty-free."According to the Bureau of Economic Analysis International Economic Accounts Balance of Payments,"The deficit on goods increased to $186.3 billion from $182.2 billion, as goods imports increased more than exports. More than half the increase in imports was in consumer goods. Much of the increase in exports was in industrial supplies and materials, inconsumer goods, and in capital goods."In the US, the DR-CAFTA (Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade Agreement, or simply CAFTA) bill passed by two votes. At present in contention is the Andean Free Trade Agreement."The House passed H.R. 304, to implement the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free Trade Agreement [CAFTA], by a recorded vote of 217 ayes to 215 noes, Roll No. 443." The bill passed by a slight majority in both the House and Senate.President Bush met for lunch with Colombian President Alvaro Uribe at the Bush Ranch in Texas and communicated his desire for the future prosperity of a Colombia free of drug trafficking and violence.Some service in the Greater Toronto Area continued through other transit services, but was of limited use without a link to downtown Toronto.TTC workers said they'd been locked out, but Toronto Mayor David Miller and the Ontario Labour Relations Board ruled yesterday afternoon that the walkout was illegal and ordered employees back to work. They complied with this order. They had not complied with a cease-and-desist order issued that morning.Service resumed sporadically during the evening (after rush hour) and is expected to continue as normal today.French Presidential candidate Nicolas Sarkozy has promised to address what he calls the French "moral crisis... of work". With unemployment for younger people running at alarming levels (15.5% in 2002 for those aged between 20 and 24 according to the OECD) and the memory of the 2005 riots still recent, Sarkozy promised to reign in government spending and implement tax policies that reward longer working hours.Once a matter of pride, the 35 hour maximum working week is seen by Mr. Sarkozy as contributing to the sluggish growth of the French economy. In previous years France's aversion to "anglo-saxon" economic and labour policies contributed to the rejection of the EU constitution in a referendum last year. However, such views are now being challenged by the French right's main Presidential candidate as he proposes to abolish tax on hours worked above the 35 hours limit as well as proposing to introduce new measures to increase share options for employees outside of the managerial elite.File:Segolene royal.jpgAs well as challenging France's work ethic he is planning to roll back the boundaries of the State by adopting policies that will reduce the size of State organisations to allow for tax reductions in the hope of kick-starting the economy. The effect of his tax and spend reduction plans on state social provision has not yet been explained.Reaction from Socialist candidate Ségolène Royal was immediate in describing his proposal as "scandalous" and that tax reductions on the richest on society would aggravate the already existing social divisions in the country. She argues that State spending on public services were essential at a time when such divisions existed in the country.Mr. Sarkozy is currently pulling ahead in the polls one week after announcing his candidacy for the May poll.At Edinburgh Airport, in Scotland on Thursday, numerous planes were delayed on the ground and several others were required to stay in a holding pattern in the sky, after damage to the main runway at the airport was found by airport maintenance staff.Debris was discovered around 9:20 a.m. BST from an unknown source, which caused the runway to be closed.A spokeswoman for the British Airports Authority (BAA) at Edinburgh Airport said, "Following an inspection, departing and arriving flights were allowed to continue to use the runway as normal. The impact on the airport's operation has been minimal." A report is expected to be released later detailing more information after further investigations have been carried out.Edinburgh Building Services (EBS) has won a national excellence award at a gala ceremony held in St Andrews last week (8 March 2007).  Promises Into Action, an EBS project, won the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities (COSLA) award for “Securing a Workforce for the Future”.  This award follows an innovative cultural change programme led jointly by Pinnacle and the City of Edinburgh Council, which focussed on improving communications and team-work and on recognising good performance and customer care.  Councillor Sheila Gilmore, Executive Member for Community Safety and Housing, said, "It is encouraging to see the hard work that has been done and the changes that have been made as a result of this project is being recognised on a national level.  I would like to congratulate the team and thank COSLA for recognising these achievements."Pinnacle’s Director, Steve White, and his team accepted the award at the prize ceremony.  He said: “When we first begun working with EBS, we would never have believed that within just three years, we would be winning national awards for excellence.  Through Pinnacle’s partnership with City of Edinburgh Council, we focused on changing cultures, nurturing talent and delivering outcomes and as a result, EBS has been transformed into a high achieving organisation with a culture that is inclusive, open and trusting.  “The EBS team should feel justifiably proud of such an outstanding achievement.”John Swinney, Chief Executive of Pinnacle, said: “EBS continues to go from strength to strength – this is the second national award for excellence that it has achieved in just six months.  It highlights, yet again, the real benefits of public/private sector partnerships working together to achieve sustainable improvements for communities and customers. Congratulations again to the EBS team.”EBS provides a range of building maintenance services for Services for Communities and other departments of the City of Edinburgh Council.  Pinnacle began work with Edinburgh Building Services in 2003.An attempt to cap the massive oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has hit yet another obstacle, reported officials from British Petroleum (BP).Friday night's attempt to install a 6-inch (15.2cm) tube into the leaking drill pipe was only the latest in a series of efforts by BP to stop or slow down the spill. Previously, the oil company had tried to enclose the pipe with a large container dome, and then lowered a smaller "top hat" container dome. The siphon tube method is designed to reduce the amount of oil flowing into the ocean, but is not a permanent solution to stopping the leak altogether. It will draw the oil from the broken pipe to a tanker at the surface, said BP.The tube was to be inserted into the broken pipe by robotic submarines, but the attempt on Friday to do so was unsuccessful, causing it to be taken back up for changes. The problem was a metal frame on the tube, which had changed position and this prevented the tube sent down from the drill ship Discover Enterprise from connecting. The tube had not been inserted into the leaking drill pipe before it was brought back up.BP said that it would try again Saturday night (local time) to slow the leak using a reconfigured tube. If this attempt is unsuccessful, they will use the smaller dome to cap the leak, and may also try to plug the leak by covering it with trash, mud, or concrete. The company is already in the process of drilling relief wells to completely stop the leak, but this is expected to take several more months. The amount of oil currently leaking from the pipe is disputed, and BP said it has spent several hundred million US dollars in response to the oil spill.BP was also given permission yesterday by the US Coast Guard and the Environmental Protection Agency to use chemical oil dispersants to combat the spill.According to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the termination of a natural gas contract between Egypt and Israel is a business matter and not a political issue between the two counties. Netanyahu's statement on Monday backs away from other officials' earlier responses to the action.Egyptian Natural Gas Company announced Sunday, April 22 that it will stop supplying Israel with natural gas over a disagreement about payments. The company's leader claims the other side is in "breach of contract" as Gasco has not been paid for what has already been delivered.In 2005, Israel and Egypt, under former president Hosni Mubarak, signed a 15-year trade deal whereby Egypt would supply natual gas at a discounted rate to the Israelis. Tensions between the two countries have made Israel cautious about relying on Egypt for its energy. Since the 2011 Egyptian revolution, the pipelines for transporting natural gas from Egypt to Israel have been damaged up to 14 times.When this decision was broadcast on Sunday night in Egypt, commentators for Egyptian news services discussed whether this decision was a blatant contractual infringement, a necessary commercial move, or an attack on the original peace treaty between Egypt and Israel made at Camp David in 1978.In Israel, Yuval Steinitz, the finance minister, said, "This is a dangerous precedent that diminishes the peace treaty [between the two countries]." Avigdor Lieberman, foreign affairs minister, had called on Egypt to reverse the decision and prevent the contractual dispute from escalating into a political issue. Since Netanyahu's more recent comment, Lieberman has also backed away from characterizing the issue as a political dispute.Egypt’s natural gas exports once made up 40 percent of Israel's natural gas reserves, but Israel has looked for other options as the political atmosphere in Egypt changed. Israel is developing its own offshore fields, and it has begun to import other types of “dirty fuels,” like gas and diesel. As a result, Israeli consumers have seen a nine percent increase in electricity costs and Israel is preparing for the possibility of blackouts.Standard & Poor's downgraded Egypt's currency rating for the second time in four months based on the country's shorfall in foreign reserves and shaky political transition. It's the latest development for a nation facing mounting economic diffuclties.Egypt's foreign reserves fell by over 50 percent last year to about US$16 billion. Egypt has requested US$3.2 billion from the International Monetary Fund to bolster its reserves and prevent a devalation but that could take months.Experts say that Egypt's problem of attracting foreign investment and tourists, which are two sources that would increase reserves, has already caused the Egyptian pound to lose 1 percent of its value and if the country doesn't solve the shortfall in foriegn currency, it could even lead to a further currency devaluation within the next two to three months.The long-term solution is to restore tourism and foreign investments but both are suffering because of the continuing unrest.Whilst US stock markets have not yet opened for business, Athlone based Élan has suffered a 22% drop on the Irish Stock Exchange and a 21.5% drop on the London Stock Exchange. That means that so far today the firms market value has dropped by over €400mm to €1.9bn. The firm was once valued at over €20bn before the failure of Tysabri and an accounting investigation.Élan was once one of Ireland's biggest business success stories. Élan still employs over 2,000 people in Ireland and reported revenues of $464.0 million in 2004.Élan, the largest Irish pharmaceutical company, and its US partner Biogen have withdrawn the multiple sclerosis drug Tysabri from clinical trials after the death of a patient. The drug was seen by many as a possible blockbuster drug with the potential to alleviate much of the suffering of the millions of multiple sclerosis suffers worldwide. However it is now quite unlikely that it will ever make it to market.The news has seen the shares of both companies fall steeply, with Élan having lost almost 70% of its value after Monday's announcement. Two years ago Élan was the largest Irish PLC, with a value in excess of $20bn, but an accountancy scandal saw its shares fall from over €73 to €1.50 within a few weeks. Since then the stock had risen back to trade between €16 and €18 a share on the back of good restructuring news. However the withdrawal of Tysabri leaves Elan with almost no potential future revenue streams.Biogen shares which had hit a 52 week high of $70 just two weeks before the announcement have since fallen to just $41.26. Combined equity losses on Monday for the two firms was over $17.8 billion.The paitent who died had been taken in combination with another drug - Avonex - for the last two years. If it emerges that the death was as a result of taking Avonex, then it is possible Tysabri could be re-introduced to the market. However for the moment rivals will be seeking to steal a lead in the potentially lucrative MS drug market.File:Minsk-Metro-Oktyabrskaya-08.jpgEleven people are reported dead and more than a hundred injured after a bomb went off in a Minsk Metro station in Minsk, Belarus on Monday evening.According to witnesses, the explosion happened just after a train entered the Oktyabrskaya station at about 1755 local time (1555 UTC).  The explosion reportedly damaged the station, with a section of the ceiling having collapsed. One witness said: "People are being treated on the spot, some are being taken away, some—those who are conscious and in a more or less normal state—are being helped into ambulances."A police spokesperson said security forces were placed in a state of "heightened alert" after the incident, and the area around the station was closed. President Alexander Lukashenko said police forces are to "turn the country upside down" to determine who was responsible.The cause of the explosion was not immediately clear, though police are saying that terrorist activity was responsible. "We must find out who gained by undermining peace and stability in the country, who stands behind this," Lukashenko said. "Who did not like the stability in Belarus?"Queen Elizabeth II, the British monarch, has today withdrawn and annulled a knighthood given to Fred Goodwin in 2004, heeding the advice given to her by a forfeiture committee. Goodwin is the former chief executive at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group (RBS) and was awarded his knighthood by the British government of the time for services to banking. The committee concluded "that widespread concerns about Fred Goodwin's decision meant that the retention of a knighthood for services to banking could not be sustained."Goodwin was chief executive of RBS when they purchased ABN AMRO, a Netherlands bank, in 2007. The British government subsequently bailed out RBS for £45 billion, amidst the late-2000s financial crisis.British prime minister David Cameron stated about the annulment: "The proper process has been followed and I think we've ended up with the right decision." Cameron and Ed Miliband, UK Leader of the Opposition, both believed Goodwin's knighthood should be removed. Miliband called it "the start of the change we need in our boardrooms."Liberal Democrat leader and Deputy PM Nick Clegg considered it to be the "right decision". "[A]ppropriate" was the word George Osborne, Chancellor of the Exchequer used to describe it. "RBS came to symbolise everything that went wrong in the British economy in the last decade," Osborne stated. Alex Salmond, First Minister of Scotland stated the title was given "for services to banking which could not therefore be sustained", calling the decision "correct".Goodwin does not have the right to appeal against the decision, nor had the right to provide the forfeiture committee with any representations. The monarch holds sole responsibility for withdrawing all knighthoods; on this occasion Elizabeth II followed the advice of the committee, who decided to recommend the withdrawal to her. The Cabinet Office announced the advice had been given to the queen on the understanding that "Goodwin had brought the honours system in to disrepute".Speaking of the "exceptional case", the committee explained: "In 2008, the government had to provide £20 billion of new equity to recapitalise RBS and ensure its survival and prevent the collapse of confidence in the British banking system. Subsequent increases in government capital have brought the total necessary injection of taxpayers' money in RBS to £45.5 billion." The committee understood that "Fred Goodwin was the dominant decision maker at RBS at the time."Until this announcement, criminal conviction and professional expulsion were the only causes for which individuals had their knighthoods revoked.According to the developer Savarino Construction Services Corporation, the proposed Elmwood Village Hotel which would be placed on the corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo, New York has been withdrawn from the city's Planning Board and Common Council and will undergo a "do over"; however, Eva Hassett, Vice President of Savarino says that the proposal will be resubmitted, from scratch by the end of next week.The hotel would require the demolition of at least five properties, 1109-1121 Elmwood and would cause the closure of several businesses. Already, two businesses, Skunk Tail Glass and Six Nations Native American Gift Shop have relocated, outside the Elmwood Strip. Don apparel, H.O.D. Tattoo and Mondo Video still remain on Elmwood; however, Mondo Video is planning on moving to a new location. The hotel will be 72 rooms and will cost at least 7 million dollars to build."We're lovers, not fighters. Our energies should be spent on developing a really wonderful project, not wasted in court. We'll start over with a clean slate and take as much time as necessary to hear people out and end up with a very positive project for the neighborhood," said President of Savarino Construction, Sam Savarino.The hotel will not undergo any major changes in its design says Savarino. "We would anticipate little if any physical change to the plans." He also alleges that the issues with the hotel were not with the design or the proposal and also says that the hotel is still right for the intersection. "The perceived problem was with the process, not the proposal itself. We believe this is the right thing to do on that corner," added Savarino.According to the Buffalo News, the projects resubmission is aimed to "shed the lawsuits" against the proposal. The Buffalo News also claims that the Common Council members are all still "in favor of the project." The proposal was unanimously passed by the council on March 21, 2006.Attorney Arthur J. Giacalone who represents the plaintiffs, Nancy Pollina and Patricia Morris, who operate Don Apparel (a vintage clothing and collectibles shop at 1119 Elmwood Avenue), Angeline Genovese and Evelyn Bencinich, owners of residences on Granger Place which abut the rear of the proposed site, Nina Freudenheim, a resident of nearby Penhurst Park, and Sandra Girage, the owner of a two-family residence on Forest Avenue less than a hundred feet from the proposed hotel's sole entrance and exit driveway, says that the hotel proposal was "inappropriately rushed," but some council members disagree. Defendants in the lawsuit against the hotel are, Buffalo's Common Council and Planning Board, Mayor of Buffalo, Byron W. Brown, Savarino Construction Services Corporation, Hans J. Mobius and his son Hans S. Mobius owners of the properties at stake, Pano Georgiadis, owner of Pano's Restaurant on Elmwood, and Cendant Corporation, the parent company of Wyndham Hotels, which will be, according to Savarino, the hotel operator. Attorney David State is representing the city, Planning Board, Mayor Byron Brown and the Common Council."I don't think it was a rush job," said Dominic J. Bonifacio Jr., the council's Majority Leader.He also alleges that the only way to make "it [the hotel] a better project and ease the concerns of some neighbors would be to find a way to provide more parking."In an exclusive phone interview with Wikinews, Giacalone states that the lawsuit against the hotel and the city "will not be moved [withdrawn] unless the Common Council resins their [prior] decisions in passing the proposal." Giacalone also says that Savarino has yet to submit any new plans for the proposal to the city. He also says that he "still plans to represent all plaintiffs" if they wish to continue with the suit and the use of his services.Giacalone rescheduled the preliminary hearing which is "still in place" for July 27, 2006. When asked if the properties are still owned by Mobius, Giacalone replied "yes" and that according to attorney Bob Knoer, the Lawyer representing Hans Mobius, the owner of the properties that could be demolished, there is "no contract between Savarino" and that Mobius "plans to put the properties back on the market." Mobius has not returned phone calls or e-mails and has not yet commented on the situation or the proposal itself. The city denies these claims. In an exclusive phone interview by Wikinews, area councilman Joseph Golombek states that the reason for the resubmission of the proposal was due to "a mistake in the Planning process" and that none of the council members have "indicated that they have changed their opinions on the hotel" and still remain in favor of the project."I still think the Hotel is a good idea for that part of Elmwood. For Elmwood to stay strong and vibrant it must continue to grow and adapt to change. It is a different community than it was twenty years ago and will be different in another twenty years. The opponents of the Hotel have the opportunity to challenge it and are doing that. Even though I disagree with them I am glad there is a safety mechanism for people who disagree with government. We need to keep moving forward," added Golombek.Supporters of the hotel proposal are planning on holding a rally to support the new development. WNYmedia.net claims that the first rally will be held to support the hotel proposal on July 17, 2006 at 5:00 p.m. on Elmwood and Forest, on the site of the proposed location. According to WNYmedia.net they "are tired of the anti development crowd in Western New York." They also blast opponents of the hotel proposal calling them "bananas" and "nimbys." People opposed to the hotel proposal are planning on "counter attacking" with their own protest on the same day and time.==Sources== Sharon Linstedt. "Elmwood hotel proposal to start over" — Buffalo News, July 12, 2006BuffaloWatchdog. "The Great BANANA Blackout Rally Monday on Elmwood and Forest" — WNY Media Network, July 12, 2006The 15th Annual Elton John AIDS Foundation (EJAF) party will mark the Academy Awards 2007 to take place this Sunday, February 25th. The event will be held at the Pacific Design Center in West Hollywood, Los Angeles. Sir Elton John and David Furnish will co-host the party. As for this year's sponsors -  Audi, Chopard and VH1 have offered the Elton John Foundation their support. The Grammy nominated rock singer, James Blunt, has been invited to perform at the event.The annually held gala is found among the major fund-raising events organized by the Foundation. Taking place on the Oscar Night, the party is also aimed to attract international attention towards the fight against AIDS and promote people's awareness of the terrifying disease. During the period of the last 14 years the event has raised about $ 125 million to support the Foundation in its activities against AIDS, in particular HIV/AIDS prevention and special direct service programs implemented in 55 countries of the world.  The party to be held for the 15th time this year will include a big expanded dinner, live auction and musical performance. Among the guests of the party there will be entertainment community celebrities, Hollywood stars and Oscar winners, as well as the music industry representatives. Antony Todd, the leading designer of Antony Todd Inc. based in the New York City and involved into special event-designing, has been commissioned to turn Outdoor Plaza of the Pacific Design Center into to a festive arena staged in a designer rectangular tent.MIT has announced that Elwood "Woody" Norris, inventor of potentially revolutionary technologies of Hypersonic Sound beams and AirScooter flying vehicles, will receive this year's Lemelson-MIT prize for invention this Friday, April 22.  The prize comes with an award of US$500,000, making it the largest single award for invention given in the United States.United Arab Emirates (UAE) developer Emaar Properties has claimed that their Burj Dubai commercial and residential tower, currently under construction, has become the world's tallest building, reaching a height of 512.1 metres (or 1,680 feet) and 141 storeys.The current official record holder, Taipei 101 of Taiwan, has a height of 508 metres and 101 storeys, and will retain the "tallest building" title for some time to come. The Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat sets the criteria for achieving height records for buildings, and will not evaluate the Burj Dubai until construction is complete in late 2008. Although final height details have been kept secret by the developer, the Burj Dubai is expected to reach nearly 700 metres in height, with approximately 160 storeys.The current record holder for the world's tallest free-standing structure is the CN Tower in Toronto, Canada. It has a height of 553 metres. The Burj Dubai, therefore, would claim both records when it is completed.Once the Burj Dubai is completed, it will have required 330,000 cubic metres of concrete, 39,000 tonnes of steel and 142,000 square metres of glass, according to Emaar Properties. The building will have 56 lifts (elevators) that can move at a rate of speed of 1.75 to 10 metres per second.Dubai is undergoing a construction boom currently with the Burj Dubai as the planned centrepiece of a $US20 billion project, which will eventually realize some 30,000 apartments and boast the world's largest shopping mall. There have been criticisms of the working conditions for construction workers in the UAE. A majority of the estimated 500,000 construction workers in the UAE are foreign workers from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh.In a 2006 report on the UAE's treatment of migrant workers, entitled Building Towers, Cheating Workers, Human Rights Watch documented abuses in UAE such as, "extremely low wages, several years of indebtedness to recruitment agencies for fees that UAE law says only employers should pay, the withholding of employees’ passports, and hazardous working conditions that result in apparently high rates of death and injury."In October of last year, Human Rights Watch delivered specific recommendations to the UAE government for improvement of working conditions. The UAE government acted swiftly on the report and put in place several improvements, which were applauded by Human Rights Watch.However, the salaries of migrant construction workers remain in the range from $106 to $250 per month, while the national average wage is over $2,000 per month. Trade unions remain illegal in the UAE.The United States Federal Aviation Administration has issued an emergency Airworthiness Directive to all owners and operators of certain Next Generation Boeing 737s to inspect their aircraft in light of recent developments in the investigation of the recent China Airlines explosion.The measures have been imposed due to the discovery that a structural bolt in the aircraft that exploded had come loose and punched a hole in the aircraft's right wing fuel tank.It is thought the bolt came loose after a worker failed to replace a washer after a routine maintenance procedure several months prior to the accident.Boeing spokesman Jim Proulx said "This was determined to be an issue of flight safety... It's very, very important."Operators must complete an initial inspection of the wing slat assemblies of the affected aircraft in ten days, and must ensure the fasteners are properly torqued within 24 days. They must then repeat the inspections every 3,000 flight cycles thereafter. The directive is believed to affect over 2,000 aircraft worldwide.On Friday evening, an explosion in Chengdu, China caused partial shutdown of a facility operated by Foxconn, one of the world's biggest electronics manufacturers and a major supplier to companies like Hewlett-Packard, Dell, Sony, Apple, Motorola and Nokia. Initial investigations now suggest the explosion was caused by poor ventilation, which lead to high concentrations of combustible dust.The blast happened at 7:18PM, around the time workers change shifts. A fire followed. Emergency services had control by 7:30PM. At least three people were killed, at least fifteen injured. Foxconn halted production to investigate, saying "All operations at the affected workshop remain suspended and production at all other workshops that carry out similar processing functions have also been halted pending the results of the investigation. All other production operations in our facilities in China continue operating normally."On Monday, city officials gave the cause as combustible dust in the air at a polishing workshop. Hong Kong-based labor rights group Students & Scholars Against Corporate Misbehavior said they reported aluminium dust problems in March when they reviewed working conditions at Foxconn. After the explosion, they commented that workers were complaining "the ventilation of the department is poor. Workers polish the iPad cases to make them shiny. In the process, there is lots of aluminum (aluminium) dust floating in the air. Workers always breathe in aluminum dust even though they put on masks. When workers take off their cotton gloves, their hands are covered with aluminum dust."Foxconn responded by saying the group was trying  to "capitalize on the tragic accident" and misrepresented "Foxconn's commitment to the health and safety of our employees."Foxconn is responsible for making iPads and iPhones for Apple. Research group IHS iSuppli said the explosion may cause loss of production of 500,000 iPads during this quarter of the year. They said there is a larger facility in Shenzhen, but it cannot cope with re-compensating the possible loss.At least 45,000 employees of the BEST, Mumbai's public transport provider, are going on strike indefinitely. Workers are unhappy with changes made to wages and are concerned about their working conditions. Union leaders say the strike will end when the company rethinks its decision. Nearly 3,300 buses will be taken off the road since talks with union leaders have drawn an inconclusive response; at least 450,000 commuters are expected to be affected by the strike. Another round of talks is expected to take place later today. An Industrial Court has termed the strike call illegal. BEST has warned employees participating in the strike that they would be faced with disciplinary action.Sharad Rao, General Secretary of BEST's workers union, said that "the management took this decision arbitrarily without even coming to the negotiating table. They moved to the committee to change the wages and other conditions on their own, and that is absolutely illegal. Three days ago, they have again moved to the BHT committee asking them to freeze the dearness allowance which no worker is going to tolerate". Dearness Allowance is an inflation-linked component of wages."I have been on the road for the last one hour. Normally I would have just hopped on to a bus," said commuter Mukul Chandan. Commuter Janki Patel reported, "I travel by bus everyday, but today because of the strike I have had to take an auto and its going to cost me Rs 200 just one way."According to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), the 2007 rate of employment in Brazil was 2.2% higher then figures for 2006. According to the IBGE the employment figures are at their highest since 2001.The IBGE reported growth in employment levels for all the 14 regions surveyed, with the highest rates of increase being recorded in the states of São Paulo (with an increase of 3.5%) and the state of Paraná (with an increase of 3.1%). Região Nordeste and Minas Gerais had increases of 1.4% and 1.5% respectively. According to the IBGE, the industries with the biggest increase in employment figures were food and drink, transport, metal and machinery. The biggest falls in employment figures were in footwear, woodwork and clothing.Reliant Energy and CenterPoint Energy–two local utilities in Houston, Texas–plan to increase consumer rates in response to increased demand and recent disasters.  Reliant Energy is expected to raise rates to effect a 14% increase on a 1,000 kilowatt-hour bill.  A typical customer could see an increase up to $20 per month.  Reliant has reached an agreement with the Texas Public Utilities Commission to raise rates in two steps, once at the end of October, and again on 1 January 2006.CenterPoint Energy must increase charges for services such as meter-reading and customer service.  The Texas Public Utilities Commission prohibits natural gas companies from buying wholesale product, raising rates, and reselling.  Wholesale prices of natural gas also continue to rise due to increased demand and declining domestic supply.  Natural gas cannot be easily shipped to other regions like oil.Consumer energy prices are expected to rise across the state, in some cases as much as 20%.The Texas Public Utilities Commission must approve rate increases before they go into effect, but approval is expected.A jury in Houston found Former Enron Corp. CEOs Kenneth L. Lay and Jeffrey K. Skilling guilty of 6 kinds of white-collar crime on May 25. Lay was convicted of all ten counts against him, while Skilling was convicted of only nineteen of the charged twenty-eight counts. The variety of charges on which both men were convicted was astonishing; conspiracy, wire fraud, false statements to banks and auditors, and others. Both men now face many years in prison.Outside the courtroom, Skilling continued to proclaim his innocence. "Obviously, I'm disappointed, but that's the way the system works," Skilling said after the verdict. He is expected to appeal. Lay did not immediately speak to reporters outside the courtroom.The verdict was reached on the sixth day of deliberations after a four-month-long trial and brings to a close the first of the wave of accounting scandals earlier in the decade. The verdict also represents another major victory for the government, which has successfully prosecuted a number of high-profile executives involved in accounting scandals, as well as obtained sixteen guilty pleas from former Enron executives.Sentencing has been set for September 11, 2006. U.S. District Judge Sim Lake ordered Lay to post a $5 million bond and surrender his passport before leaving the courtroom.Kenneth L. Lay, the Enron ex-chief executive and ex-chair, died early Wednesday morning at his vacation home at the age of 64 after a massive coronary attack, according to a family spokesperson.Lay was found guilty of six counts of fraud and conspiracy related to the Enron scandal on May 25, 2006 and convicted on four counts of bank fraud in a separate non-jury trial. He was awaiting a sentencing on October 23 and faced the possibility of spending the rest of his life in prison.In 2001, Enron went bankrupt with debts of $31.8bn (£18bn), and 4,000 people were left jobless. As a result of Lay's death prior to exhausting his appeals, his conviction is abated, and Lay is legally considered never to have been indicted or convicted of criminal charges.All-business transatlantic company Eos Airlines has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The United States based company ran flights between London Stansted Airport and New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport.Eos, named after Greek goddess of the dawn, flew what will likely be its last service on Sunday. Founded in 2005, the airline had had difficulty in securing investment to keep it going, starting last year. Plans had been aiming for securing funding to keep the service running up until 2009, but this failed and the business has insufficient funds to continue.Several other airlines have closed worldwide recently over difficult conditions in the industry, including all-business carriers like Eos. Last year the sudden collapse of MAXjet Airways left passengers stranded on Christmas Eve. The company offered services connecting London with New York, Los Angeles and Las Vegas. Eos had been considered by analysts as the most viable of the transatlantic all-business carriers.Monthly donors to the Greenpeace in the UK have received a shock recently, as their specified amounts were multiplied by 100. Thus, a "direct debt donation" of £2 monthly would have come out at £200, and donations of £50 became £5000.The environmental charity says that they will reimburse donors by January 3, and also pay any extra bank charges incurred.John Sauven, a director at the NGO said "We are still trying to find out how this glitch happened but for some reason two noughts seem to have been added, or the computer has converted pence into pounds. Our IT specialists are trying to work it out and rectify it to make sure it doesn't happen again. The only people who will be out of pocket are us."One supporter told The Herald that she'd no longer let Greenpeace access her bank account. Over 221,000 Brits support the organization; the number of those affected was unknown.In an odd move, ESPN's parent company, The Walt Disney Company, traded the contract of NFL play-by-play analyst Al Michaels to NBC Universal in exchange for various sports considerations and Oswald the Lucky Rabbit, a cartoon character Walt Disney created 79 years ago but lost to Charles B. Mintz when he created his own studio.  Oswald is generally understood to be the precursor to Mickey Mouse.Oswald the Lucky Rabbit was created in 1927 by Walt Disney for Charles B. Mintz, and distributed by Universal Studios.  Disney directed 26 Oswald cartoons before a budget dispute with Mintz forced Disney to leave and create his own studio.  Mintz, however, owned the rights to Oswald, and kept the character.  Oswald soon was bought by Universal, who would continue to create Oswald cartoons on a regular basis until 1938.  Most of the succeeding Oswald cartoons were directed by Walter Lantz, who would later become famous for Universal's most well-known cartoon character, Woody Woodpecker.Michaels, 61, will again join John Madden in the analyst booth for NBC's Sunday Night Football coverage beginning in the 2006 season.  This follows the announcement the previous day that Joe Theismann, Mike Tirico and Tony Kornheiser would be in the broadcast booth for ESPN Monday Night Football.  It was previously believed that Theismann and Michaels would announce Monday Night Football for ESPN.In consideration for releasing Micheals from his ABC contract, Disney received the rights to the early Disney-directed Oswalds, while ESPN received the following rights from NBC Sports:Friday coverage for the Ryder Cup golf tournaments in 2008, 2010, 2012 and 2014, and the right to re-air Saturday and Sunday coverage from NBC.Expanded coverage of the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes from 2006 through 2011.Expanded access to clips of Olympics coverage, beginning with the 2006 Winter Olympics in Torino and ending with the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.Expanded access to clips of Notre Dame college football games from 2006 through 2011.Promotion of ESPN Monday Night Football during NBC Sunday Night Football through 2011.At an information technology conference in Addis Ababa, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia vowed to offer universal Internet connectivity in the country within three years. The government is working with a United States technology company Cisco Systems to fulfill this promise.The government will invest US$40 million in the venture, which will lay nearly 10,000 km of fibre optic cable.  Ethiopia currently ranks low in Internet penetration, with just 30,000 connections available for its 71 million inhabitants. Part of the program is the installation of Internet access at 450 secondary schools throughout the country.Zenawi explained the change of heart that led to the decision to invest in this infrastructure project. "Not long ago many of us felt that we were too poor to seriously invest in information and communication technology," he said at the conference. "We were convinced that we should invest every penny we have on securing the next meal for our people. We did not believe serious investment in ICT had anything to do with facing the challenges of poverty that kills. Now I think we know better," he explained to the delegates.Not everyone thinks that the government knows better. Giovani Peri, Assistant Professor of Economics at University of California, Davis, specializes in macroeconomics and growth theory. Peri believes that the Ethiopian government may be misguided in its direct investment in the build-up of information technology, and should instead create incentives for the private sector to build such infrastructure.Professor Peri likened the Internet access project to previous failed attempts by African governments to stimulate growth via large-scale projects. "[African governments] in the past tried to build airports ... in the middle of desolation." — but people need to know that the environment is right for business, he said, not just a good airport. He said that the investment in Internet access might be too early for that country, and that before it is built, the country needs a good educational system to get the scientific community involved in the process of building technology infrastructure.Ethiopia's population is mostly rural, and over half of the population is illiterate. The country's GDP per capita is US$560.Ethiopian Airlines Flight 409, scheduled to fly from Beirut, Lebanon, to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia crashed into the Mediterranean Sea shortly after taking off Monday morning. Ethiopian Airlines report 83 people on board.Flight ET409, a Boeing 737, was set to leave at 2:10 am local time, but was delayed until 2:35. The passenger plane took off in stormy conditions, and it disappeared from radar five minutes later. Eyewitnesses reported a ball of fire as the plane went down. Debris has already been seen off the Lebanese coast.Rescue efforts are underway amid continuing heavy rains. However, it is unknown if there are any survivors. Among the passengers are 23 Ethiopian, 51 Lebanese, 1 Turkish, 1 French, 2 British, 1 Russian, 1 Canadian, 1 Syrian, 1 Iraqi nationals. The French embassy also stated that the wife of the French ambassador to Lebanon was on board.Lebanon's Transport Minister Ghazi al-Aridi said that the crash site "has been identified three-and-a-half km west of the village of Na'ameh".The European Union banned all of Indonesia's air carriers yesterday, none of which presently operate services to Europe, as well as several from Russia, Ukraine and Angola. They are the latest additions to the already extensive List of air carriers banned in the EU. The ban is scheduled to come into effect on July 6. Just hours after the ban a Boeing 737 operated by one of the blacklisted airlines, TAAG Angola Airlines, crashed into a house during landing, causing at least six fatalities in Northern Angola.Indonesia currently has 51 airlines, having grounded several and revoked the licences of others on June 25. The EU said that substandard maintenance and operation and a slow reaction by Indonesia to solve the problem were the main causes of the ban. EU holidaymakers who have booked flights with banned airlines via travel agents will be refunded for the services. EU transport commissioner Jacques Barrot said of the ban "Once more, the EU blacklist will prove to be an essential tool not only to prevent unsafe airlines from flying to Europe and to inform passengers travelling worldwide, but also to make sure that airlines and civil aviation authorities take appropriate actions to improve safety."Operations and safety editor at Flight International David Learmount commented that Indonesia, whose airline industry was deregulated the early 1990s, is one of a handful of cases where deregulation has lowered safety standards instead of improving them, saying of the move by the EU "Standards in aviation safety have been going up dramatically on a worldwide basis, but there are still places where they are [of the standards of] the 70s and 80s. In Indonesia the safety watchdog was told earlier this year to pull its socks up, but the EU is clearly convinced that it has not done so." One unnamed EU official was reported by The Guardian to have described Indonesia's civil aviation authority as "not very reliable", referring to a lack of reaction to warnings of an imminent ban and requests that Indonesia reassured officials that the problem was being dealt with. Indonesia has responded to the ban by saying that, according to information unseen by the EU, Indonesian safety standards are rising. Director-general of civil aviation at the Indonesian transport ministry Budhi Mulyawan Suyitno told Reuters new agency that, "Our data can show them that we have improved on every line. The US had already downgraded Indonesia's safety rating earlier this year.Also affected by the bans are Ukraine's Volare Aviation, while Russia has imposed bans on four of its airlines after consulting the EU and restricted six others, Bulgaria has revoked the licences of six cargo airlines and Moldova has banned eight airlines.Meanwhile, Pakistan International Airlines, subject of a controversial EU ban earlier this year, had restrictions on some of its aircraft lifted. The airline's fleet of Boeing 777s and some of their Boeing 747s and Airbus 310s will now be allowed back into European airspace.The announcements come after three accidents involving Indonesian airliners - the New Year's Day crash of Adam Air Flight 574, which killed 102 people, the subsequent accident involving Adam Air Flight 172, which cracked in half on a hard landing but held together, preventing serious injury, and the March crash of state-run Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, which claimed 23 lives. All the accidents involved ageing Boeing 737 aircraft.The European Union (EU) competitions commission has announced its decision to fine the Microsoft Corporation €899 million (US$1.35 billion), approximately 1/10th of the company's gross yearly earnings, for failing to comply with the 2004 antitrust order. It is the highest ever fine charged by the EU (also being the largest fine of its kind ever imposed upon a company), and the first time that the EU has fined a company because of non-compliance with an antitrust decision.The first decision in this antitrust case was given in 2004 citing that Microsoft withheld needed interoperability information from rival software companies which prevented them from making software compatible with Windows. The commission ordered Microsoft to provide this information. Microsoft agreed to this, providing the information for royalty fees of 6.5% of the licensee's revenues for the product on grounds of innovation (specifically, 3.87% for the patent license  and of 2.98% for the information license). The EU found these royalty fees unreasonable and Microsoft was ordered to lower them. Microsoft complied with this, adjusting the royalty rates to 1.2% (changing the rates for the licenses to 0.7% and 0.5%, respectively) in the European Union, while keeping the rate the same for the rest of the world. The EU still saw this as an unreasonable rate, and Microsoft, two month after lowering the rates, reduced the rates yet again to a flat rate of €10000 or a royalty of 0.4% applicable worldwide. Microsoft's royalty rates, which were deemed unreasonable for the period of 15 months between June 21, 2006 and October 21, 2007 are the cause for the fine. So far, the EU has fined Microsoft €1.68 billion in 3 separate fines in this case. This fine will go towards the European Union annual budget.The European Anti-trust commissioner Neelie Kroes stated that the fine was "reasonable and proportionate", as the figure could have gone up as high as €1.5 billion, the maximum that the EU commission can impose. She also said that it should act as "a signal to the outside world, and especially Microsoft, that they should stick to the rules" and that "Talk is cheap. Flouting the rules is expensive". Although she also expressed hope that "today's decision closes a dark chapter in Microsoft's record of non-compliance with the Commission".There is no certainty whether Microsoft will appeal this decision, a Microsoft Spokesperson has stated that Microsoft will review this latest fine, citing that "The commission announced in October 2007 that Microsoft was in full compliance with the 2004 decision, so these fines are about the past issues that have been resolved." Microsoft`s General Counsel Brad Smith commented "It's clearly very important to us as a company that we comply with our obligations under European law. We'll study this decision carefully, and if there are additional steps that we need to take in order to comply with it, we will take them." Microsoft had appealed to fines by the EU before, but all the charges were defeated. If Microsoft does not appeal the decision, the company will have 3 month (starting February 27th) to pay the fine in full. The fine must be paid in Euros.Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer stated that the company had news that the fine was pending. "We knew it was pending," Ballmer told interviewers. "We didn't know it was this week, but we knew it was coming at some point." This may not be the end of Microsoft's troubles with the European Union yet, as the commission is currently investigating two other complaints about the company's anti-competition practices.The decisions came after Microsoft announced they were disclosing 30,000 pages of previously secret software code last Thursday (February 21st). The EU  competition commissioner's commented that this move "does not necessarily equal a change in business practice."Microsoft was set to launch three new products: Windows Server 2008, SQL Server 2008 and Visual Studio 2008 at its "Heroes Happen Here" event today. Microsoft shares slipped 12 cents to $28.26 on NASDAQ after news of the fine.Microsoft was fined €280.5 million today by the European Commission for not complying to a 2004 antitrust ruling by the European Union. EU had ruled in 2004, asking Microsoft to provide its competitors information about its Windows operating system. This was to give the rivals a level playing ground for writing software for the Windows platform to compete with Microsoft's own offerings. The EU set a dead-line of July 21 for Microsoft to provide complete technical information to its competitors. If not, there may be further fines, up to €3 million a day.The commission is saying that Microsoft has not done enough on the issue and must provide the information by July 31. Microsoft however does not agree to this and believes that it has done no wrong, and has in fact complied to the 2004 EU ruling. The European Union's Commissioner for Competition Neelie Kroes has warned Microsoft to comply with these regulations for their upcoming Operating system, Vista which is scheduled to be released in 2007.The European Union budget for 2012 has been increased by two per cent, despite European authorities targeting a budget increase of approximately five per cent for next year. The budget will now stand at €129,000,000,000 (US$174,000,000,000 or £110,000,000,000).Negotiators at the EU reached this decision after fifteen hours of discussions on the matter. The European Commission had wished for a budget increase of 4.9% for 2012. At the same time, the European Parliament was aiming to achieve an increase of 5.2%. Such targets were objected to by the governments of various EU member countries; they were considered "unrealistic". The UK government welcomed the result, describing it as "excellent". British Financial Secretary to the Treasury Mark Hoban explained: "We have stopped the European Commission and European Parliament's inflation-busting proposals and have delivered on the government's promise to freeze the EU budget in real terms". One argument the British government has maintained for objecting to the European Commission and European Parliament's requests is, "with member states facing tough decisions on spending at home, we could not afford these unrealistic demands", according to Hoban.Janusz Lewandowski, EU Budget Commissioner, has described the outcome as "clearly an austerity budget" and has expressed concern about the "serious risk that the European Commission will run out of funds in the course of next year, and will therefore not be able to honour all its financial obligations towards beneficiaries of EU funds".Now, concern should be given towards the discussions about the long-term budget of the EU between the years 2014 and 2020, Hoban believes. BBC News Online has reported that the British government is anticipated to reject proposals from the European Commission to raise the long-term budget by five per cent. According to the Press Association, the Commission wants to increase the budget by eleven per cent in comparison to the seven years prior.An EU Commission-funded research studied costs and benefits of adopting open source software, such as Linux or OpenOffice.org instead of proprietary software such as Microsoft Windows or Microsoft Office. The study was conducted on six organizations from European nations. The study concluded that:In addition,The study also reported that they found "no particular delays or lost of time in the daily work due to the use of OpenOffice.org" (p. 283) instead of Microsoft Office. This is bad news for Microsoft, who is in a legal battle with European Union over its monopolist behaviors. It is also competing with a number of open source software distributors for the market. Microsoft recently released an update to its popular operating system Windows, as well as to its browser Internet Explorer and its office productivity suite Microsoft Office. These products are competing with distributors such as Red Hat, Firefox, and OpenOffice.org.On Thursday the European Commission threatened to fine Microsoft €2 Million per day if the corporation does not comply with a ruling made in March 2004, stating that Microsoft must provide interoperability with its protocols and other competing services. Microsoft has until January 25, 2006 to respond to the charges, and may also be fined for days after December 15, 2005 as well.The European Commission says Microsoft has failed to comply with an order to supply competitors with "interoperability information" for the protocols implemented in Windows Server operating systems. These include those used to "deliver fileand print services and group and user administration services, including the WindowsDomain Controller services, Active Directory services and Group Policy services" according to page 299 of the European Commission's decision. Microsoft argues that to do this breaches its intellectual property rights as it would be opening Windows Server up for cloning. It has previously appealed to the European Court of First Instance, a bid which failed and where Microsoft was given until December 15, 2005 to comply with the original decision. Microsoft has launched a second appeal attempt.The decision in March 2004 also forced Microsoft to provide a version of Windows XP without the eponymous Windows Media Player and to pay fines of €497 million (US$586 million).On Monday, France announced a rescue plan for its struggling automotive industry. The plan totals €6.5 billion (US$8.5 billion). The European Commission, which enforces European Union legislation, said the conditions may break EU rules.The plan calls for PSA Peugeot Citroën and Renault, the two largest French automakers, to receive a five-year loan of €3 billion at 6% interest, each. Meanwhile, Renault Trucks, which is owned by Volvo Group of Sweden, will receive a €500 million loan.French President Nicolas Sarkozy said that the funds should be invested in environmental technology. Sarkozy added that "Renault and PSA have also committed to not to close any production sites for the duration of their loan and to do whatever they can to avoid layoffs.""It's a commitment that I applaud because it ensures that this acute but temporary crisis will not destroy our industrial base and automotive know-how," the President concluded.The European Commission is concerned about the implied obligation to not close production facilities, which would go against EU rules."There are indications that carmakers will be obliged to maintain their center of production in France as a condition for government support," said Jonathan Todd, a spokesman for the Commission on Tuesday in Brussels. "The Commission will not authorize aid that would tend to undermine the single market."Conditions that violate these rules "would render the aid illegal and will not be tolerated by the commission," Todd said. "If there are measures that question the single market, the risk would be that the recession would be much worse, even becoming a depression as in the 1930s.""Today the Commission has written to the French authorities to ask for clarification of the plan," Todd explained at a briefing. "We have not actually reached any conclusions as regards the French measures. We have a few concerns with what we saw in the press."Slovakia has already said that it will appeal to the EC, if the loans amount to a distortion of competition law. "The philosophy of the EU is a single market without any barriers to transfer products and services," Ján Počiatek, the finance minister of Slovakia said.In Germany, Verband der Automobilindustrie executive director Klaus Braeunig said that the French plan is "a clear distortion of competition." He added, "We don’t want an international race in subsidies."The European Commission has warned Microsoft that features the company intends to include in its next version of Windows known as Windows Vista may breach the European Union's antitrust laws.The EU's commissioner in charge of competition, Neelie Kroes, wrote to Steve Ballmer, CEO of Microsoft, last week informally warning him that Microsoft's plans to include security features, search tools, copyright protection services and an application to create documents similar to Adobe's PDF files into Vista would violate European antitrust laws, according to her spokesman Jonathan Todd.Mr. Todd said that the commission was worried that features Microsoft plans to include in Vista may prevent customers from choosing their own software combinations. He emphasised that the letter was not a signal of a formal antitrust inquiry into Windows Vista.The commission wrote the letter following a letter from Microsoft asking them to indicate if there were any possible competition issues with the new system. Mr. Todd said: "We assume that Microsoft has its own interests at heart. It wants to launch another product without having to worry about the Commission instituting various actions under antitrust law." Microsoft's top lawyer in Europe, Horacio Guttierez, said Wednesday that adding such functions into the operating system was essential if Microsoft was to meet customer demand. "I know consumers want more secure computer systems," he said.Windows Vista includes software called Windows Defender, which seeks out and removes spyware and adware. Guttierez claims that forcing Microsoft to sell Windows without Defender "is a bit like forcing BMW to sell cars without airbags"."We have a responsibility to make our products better and more secure for our customers," he said.The European Union (EU) and Canada announced they will impose a 15% tariff on some United States (U.S.) imports. Permission for the sanctions was granted by the World Trade Organization (WTO) due to the U.S. maintaining a law known as the Byrd Amendment, which gives its companies billions of dollars collected from foreign rivals.U.S. Congress failed to repeal the four-year-old Byrd Amendment ruled illegal by the WTO in September 2002. The WTO gave the EU and Canada, in addition to Brazil, Japan, India, South Korea and Mexico the right to impose retaliatory tariffs on November 27. The tariffs will take effect May 1.The retaliatory tariffs will largely affect U.S. paper, clothing and machinery for the EU and live swine, cigarettes and oysters for Canada.In the 2004 fiscal year, U.S. based Timken received $40 million, and Lancaster Colony Corp. received about $26 million. The EU says that total payouts will rise as high as $1.6 billion in the fiscal year of 2005 unless the law is repealed. The U.S. Congressional Budget Office estimated that payouts for the fiscal year of 2006 will reach $1.15 billion.The European tariffs will collect near $26 million, while the Canadian tariffs will amount to near $11.6 million.The European Commission, in a statement, said the tariffs were caused by "the continuing failure of the U.S. to bring its legislation into conformity with its international obligations."According to Canadian Trade Minister Jim Peterson, the tariffs are "a strong message that we are all sending to the U.S. that international rule, those of the WTO, must be respected. We just cannot allow the U.S. to illegally disburse funds that are collected."A spokesman for the U.S. Trade Representative, Richard Mills, said "We're disappointed that this step is being taken. The U.S. is working to comply with the WTO decision."Other countries such as Japan and Mexico are considering a similar move.President Bush has called for congress to repeal the Byrd Amendment since February.Talks between the European Union Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson and Chinese Commerce Minister Bo Xilai, held today in Beijing, brought no compromise on unblocking 80 milion pieces of Chinese textiles impounded in the EU.The clothing is held in European warehouses due to overshoot of the China-to-the-EU export quotas. In June, the EU member states agreed to raise the limit by approximately 10%, but EU importers and Chinese producers continue to push for a greater amount of trade.Concerns on textiles imported from Asia have split the EU countries: those with strong retail sector support increasing the quotas, while others, which have large clothing industries (Spain, Portugal, Italy) want to keep, or even reduce, limits in the future.A similar dispute exists between China and the United States. On Friday, George W. Bush's administration announced new quotas on imports of Chinese bras and synthetic fabric, after negotiations between both countries broke down.Disney and Euro Disney SCA announced on Thursday that Euro Disney chief executive officer Andre Lacroix would step down and be replaced with Karl Holz immediately.Holz has had a long career with Walt Disney Parks and Resorts.  He has been president of the Disney Cruise Line and executive of operations at Walt Disney World. Holz was chief operating officer at Euro Disney before being promoted.Euro Disney is Europe's largest theme park operator, and oversees Disneyland Resort Paris in Marne-la-Vallee, France. Disney is Euro Disney SCA's major share holder.  Other share holders include the French government and a Saudi prince.On Tuesday, the Euro fell to a new record low in relation to the Swiss Franc, and to multi-month lows against the U.S. Dollar and Japanese yen; all considered by investors to be safe currencies during times of economic turmoil.The Wall Street Journal reported earlier that recent comments from the newly installed head of the International Monetary Fund, France’s Christine Lagarde, resulted in a sell-off of the Euro.  At a roundtable discussion in Washington, Lagarde noted that the IMF had not yet reached discussion of terms and conditions of a second Greek bailout plan.  In fact, a representative from the IMF is currently meeting with Eurozone policymakers to draft such a new proposal.  The yield differential between Italian bonds and German bonds has spread to more than 300 basis points, something not seen in over a decade and evidence of investors’ concern.Adding to the Euro’s woes is the upcoming release of the bank stress tests on Friday.  The European Bankers Association said that they expect the data release to shed new light on the Eurozone’s banking situation.  Representatives of several of the Eurozone’s governments, including Germany, have requested that the association consider releasing fewer specific details for fear that investor panic will ensue.  The inadequacy of the capitalization rates has been an issue with the European Central Bank, whose president recently called upon Eurozone banks to make every effort to put their balance sheets in order.  For the time being at least, an unsubstantiated rumor reported by the Wall Street Journal states that the Eurozone’s central banks' purchase of periphery debt has helped to quell the downward momentum of the Euro.The euro fell to a one-year low against the US dollar earlier yesterday, over fears that the bailout package proposed for the ailing Greek economy would not prevent financial troubles elsewhere in Europe.The currency reached $1.3088 against the dollar — a level not seen since April of last year — although it recovered slightly to end the day at $1.3094.  However, that was still lower than the $1.3212 it traded for on Monday.  The euro also lost 1.6% against the yen, to a trading level of Y122.81, and 0.3% on the pound, going down to £0.8632.The euro is losing strength as the Eurozone is struggling to prevent the Greek economy from defaulting on debts; a rescue loan package worth 110 billion euros (US$145.62 billion) is currently underway to help ease the crisis. Michael Hewson, who is a currency analyst for CMC Markets, commented that the euro probably will "continue to remain under pressure over the coming days."The euro reached a ten-month low against the US dollar earlier today over concerns about Greece's debt crisis.The euro traded at US$1.3436 in the morning, a level not seen since May of last year, although it finished the day back up at $1.3606.It was, however, up 0.6% against the British pound, at 90.76 pence. The pound also fell today, reaching a trading level of $1.4936 after a loss of 0.4%."The spike lower this morning indicates market nervousness about the prospects of a Greek bailout - the message coming out of Europe is still confused," commented an analysts for CMC Markets, Michael Hewson, as quoted by Agence France-Presse.Authorities across Europe have issued restrictions on commercial poultry farms, following the outbreak of bird flu in eight previously unaffected nations. The virus has been found in migratory birds much earlier than had been expected.Tests have confirmed that wild swans in Greece, Bulgaria, Italy, Austria and Germany had died from the deadly H5N1 strain of the virus. Other suspected cases of the virus have been detected in Slovenia, Croatia and Denmark.European health officials had expected wild birds migrating from Africa to Europe in spring to carry the disease into Western Europe. It is thought that swans were migrating from Russia and Ukraine to the Black Sea driven by unusually cold weather.Globally, 91 people have died after contracting the virus from close contact with diseased birds, but the greatest concern for European authorities is that an outbreak will occur among domesticated fowl, destroying local poultry industries. The H5N1 strain of bird flu is highly contagious, and lethal to birds. A single outbreak can kill tens of thousands of birds, and all birds must be culled across a wide region to prevent the spread of the disease.No domesticated poultry or humans are thought to be infected in Western Europe at this time. Authorities continue to conduct intensive checks.A number of countries across Europe, including Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands have required that domesticated fowl be kept indoors. In Germany and Hungary, two mile protection zones have been placed around the locations where dead swans, with all poultry required to be kept indoors and the shipping of meat outside the zones prohibited.The European Union has toughened its bans on poultry products and now bans the importation of untreated bird feathers into its 25 member nations. The EU also hopes to test 60,000 wild birds and 300,0000 domestic birds as part of its bird flu surveillance program.In France, the government asked citizens to keep domesticated fowl indoors throughout the country. Domesticated ducks will be vaccinated.Italy today fined the Irish airline Ryanair three million euros over the airline's failure to assist passengers after their flights were canceled due to volcanic ash last month.According to the civil aviation authority of Italy, ENAC, there were 178 cases of passengers not receiving mandatory assistance, such as accommodations and food, after Ryanair canceled their flights.  Such assistance is required by European regulations to be given to passengers who have chosen to be re-routed.ENAC noted that despite the situation, most other European airlines had succeeded in fulfilling their obligations to passengers.  The agency was especially critical of the treatment of passengers at Rome's Ciampino Airport.Ryanair had no comment on the announcement. In its statement announcing the fines, ENAC said that "fines totalling around three million euros for 178 violations of its legal obligations to assist passengers in cases of flight cancellations" had been imposed on Ryanair.Some of Europe's airlines and airports have called into question whether the mass restrictions imposed on the continent's airspace, due to volcanic ash in the area, are necessary. Millions of travellers have been stranded by the cancellations; however, some airlines have made test flights to see if there were any immediate effects on jets after flying through ash. Authorities fear that the ash can cause vital aircraft parts, such as the engines, to fail in-flight.Three large airlines — KLM, Air France, and Lufthansa — have already made test flights.  Ulrich Schulte-Strathaus, the head of the Association of European Airlines (AEA), commented: "Verification flights undertaken by several of our airlines have revealed no irregularities at all; this confirms our requirement that other options should be deployed to determine genuine risk."KLM, meanwhile, said that it will allow three freight planes to make flights to Asia, and had transferred seven passenger planes from Duesseldorf, Germany to Amsterdam, without any travellers."We observed no irregularities either during the flight or during the initial inspection on the ground. We hope to receive permission as soon as possible after that to start up our operation and to transport our passengers to their destinations." said KLM chief executive Peter Hartman.ACI Europe and the AEA also commented about the issue in a statement: "While Europe's airlines and airports consider safety to be an absolute priority, they are questioning the proportionality of the flight restrictions currently imposed." "Airlines must be able to fly where it is safe to fly and make decisions accordingly. It is what our passengers demand of us."Airport closures and cancellations are estimated to be costing airlines about US$200 million daily, the International Air Transport Association reports.The operations control head for Eurocontrol, Brian Flynn, rebuffed notions that aviation officials were being too cautious, describing the issue as an "unknown phenomenon". "With the over-riding objective of protecting the travelling public, these exceptional measures have to be taken," he remarked. "[...] As soon as we are able to, with confidence, and when I say we, I mean the entire community of aviation experts [and] aviation authorities, are able to declare parts of the air space and airports open that will be done."The European Commission (EC) has approved yesterday a takeover of loss-making UK airline bmi from Lufthansa by International Airlines Group (IAG), owner of British Airways (BA). IAG will have to make concessions after Virgin Atlantic told the EC the deal would be anti-competitive.The deal is set to cost IAG, who also own Iberia, £172.5 million. That value could fall as budget subsidiary bmibaby may be retained by Lufthansa or sold elsewhere, and IAG are reported to be primarily interested in the main bmi business. A regional subsidiary also exists.IAG intends to use acquired slots at the busy Heathrow Airport, which serves London, to expand their own routes into Asia. The EC required IAG to surrender a number of flight slots at the airport. The slots surrendered or made available for lease are for use to destinations in Scotland, France, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Russia. The EC also insisted that combined BA/bmi routing be made available for competitors to buy transfer seats upon.Lufthansa intended to shut down bmi had the bid failed. The transaction is presently scheduled for completion April 20.IAG boss Willie Walsh called the sale "great news for Britain" with results that are "good for UK business and UK consumers." Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson had previously said the move would give BA excessive dominance on Scottish flights. More Heathrow slots earmarked for Scotland have been given up than any other destination.Ryanair took the opportunity to claim only their own takeover bid for Aer Lingus has been a major EC casualty. "Today's rubber-stamping of BA's purchase of bmi shows yet again that the EC has one rule for Europe's flag-carriers, but different rules for Ryanair", said Ryanair chief Michael O'Leary.The European Commission (EU) is considering the imposition of an embargo on Chinese toys and consumer products. The EU Commissioner for Consumer Protection, Meglena Kuneva, said the aim is to increase pressure on the Chinese government to intensify its quality control in the manufacture of toys, toothpaste and certain food items.Mattel, the world's largest toy producer, recently launched a massive product recall of Chinese-made products because their paint may contain excessive amounts of lead.China has until October to respond with a detailed plan on how it will increase its monitoring of product safety; if it fails to respond, Kuneva announced, some products will be banned.In testimony before the European Parliament on the twelfth of September, Kuneva underlined the necessity to protect children from possible harm: "My main message to our Chinese counterparts was that Europe does not and would not accept compromises when the safety of consumers, and in particular of children, is at stake."The European Union would like to make it easier to dismiss employees. At the same time, social security should be improved. Then, thanks to the improved flexibility of the market, it should be simpler to find a job. Surveys show that Europeans mostly seem to agree with the need to adapt and change.The concept of flexicurity, preached by the European Commission, is aimed to encourage EU governments to unfasten their employment policies. According to Vladimír Špidla, the European Commissioner for Employment, Social Affairs & Equal Opportunities, a too protective employment policy may paralyze the labour-market. Such a policy "extends the time needed for jobseeking and the period of unemployment", writes the Commission in its report.On its paper, the Commission is inspired by the social model of the Scandinavian countries - namely by the social system established in Denmark in the late 1990's.The European Union's executive body, the European Commission, has started investigating web search giant Google over anti-trust allegations by price comparison service Foundem and French legal services website ejustice.fr. At stake are allegations that Google's AdWords results are manipulated to prioritise certain advertisers.The complainants allege price comparison sites receive a lower 'quality score', thus being knocked out of fully automated, unpaid-for results; or, being required to pay more for advertising through the search giant's AdWords program. Google rejects Foundem's allegations, arguing the majority of content on price comparison sites is duplicated from other sites, asserting Foundem "duplicates 79% of its website content from other sites, thus adding no value." The company line is, "[w]e have consistently informed webmasters that our algorithms disadvantage duplicate sites".The European Commission has a history of carrying out anti-trust investigations involving technology companies. Microsoft was ordered to pay substantial penalties for 'bundling' Windows with their Media Player; and, within the EU, must distribute a version of Windows that does not have said bundled software. A similar battle was fought over the automatic inclusion of Internet Explorer with their operating systems.Google has previously been the subject of anti-trust allegations and investigations. United States authorities blocked Google from buying Yahoo!, citing concerns over a near-monopoly in search; Google's purchase of mobile advertising company AdMob was also subject to anti-trust scrutiny by the US prior to being allowed to go ahead.The European Commission has warned that the Eurozone economy will remain in recession for longer than expected and will not return to growth until 2014, reversing its previous forecast. In its winter forecast, the European Commission stated the economy of the Eurozone, which consists of 17 countries, is projected to shrink by 0.3% this year. This comes after a 0.6% contraction last year and marks a reversal from the committee's previous prediction of 0.1% growth in 2013.Unemployment in the Eurozone is set to reach 12.2% in 2013, an increase from the 2012 level of 11.4%. Olli Rehn, the European Commissioner for Economic and Monetary Affairs, said that "decisive policy action undertaken recently is paving the way for a return to recovery". He went on to say: "We must stay the course of reform and avoid any loss of momentum, which could undermine the turnaround in confidence that is underway, delaying the needed upswing in growth and job creation." The International Monetary Fund stated in January they expected the group of countries to experience a "mild recession" throughout 2013. The extended recession will see millions of people lose their jobs, the European Commision said, with the level of people unemployed across the region expected to continue to rise. The rise in unemployment could reach over 20 million across the Eurozone as the recession persists.According the European Court of Justice (ECJ), the supreme court of European Union, the EU laws do not oblige ISPs to hand over personal data of people suspected of illegal sharing of copyrighted materials over the net.The ECJ has been asked for a preliminary ruling on question "Does Community law...permit Member States to limit the duty of operators of electronic communications networks and services, providers of telecommunications network access and providers of data storage services to retain and make available connection and traffic information generated during the supply of an information society service to where it is required in connection with a criminal investigation or the need to protect public safety and national defence, thus excluding civil proceedings?" And its opinion, presented by advocate general Juliane Kokott, is that member states are allowed to 'exclude' revealing personal data on internet traffic in civil cases. This does not apply to criminal cases, where such compliance would be required.By a majority of 378 to 262, Members of the European Parliament have voted to abolish the right of European Union countries to opt out of Working Time Directive.  If the Council of Ministers agrees, the right to opt out of the directive will be phased out over a period of three years.Under the "derogation" provision of the directive, individual workers can waive the right to work no more than 48 hours per week.   Among the member states, only the  United Kingdom uses this provision.French oil company Total announced Monday that it has stopped shipping petroleum products to Iran, the latest Western oil company to stop or reduce trade with the country.A spokesperson for Total, confirming an earlier report, said that the company "has suspended its sales of gasoline or refined products to Iran."  Although Total didn't comment on specifics, an anonymous source said that the cessation of trade had minimal effect on Iran, and had begun several weeks ago.In a separate development, a Spanish company, Repsol, said that it was no longer planning to take part in developing a large gas field in the southern part of Iran.Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said in a news conference that he was unconcerned by the actions of Total and Repsol, saying that despite current limitations in the refining of oil, Iran would make up the disruption in its gasoline supply "within one week."Total and Repsol's announcements come soon after a fourth round of sanctions against Iran were approved by the United Nations, and four days after the United States Congress approved a bill that would fine companies supplying Iran with oil, although that bill has not been signed into law.Several other oil companies have ended their operations in Iran, or are in the process of doing so, including Royal Dutch Shell, BP, Statoil, and others.The European Union has emerged from its worst recession since World War II, with the announcement on Friday that the region posted a modest growth in the third quarter. Despite the news, some EU economies including Spain and the United Kingdom are still struggling.Both the European Union as a whole and the sixteen EU countries sharing the euro currency (the "eurozone") posted positive growth, at 0.2 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively. This follows five consecutive quarters of negative growth. The data was published by the European statistical agency Eurostat and announced by the European Commission in Brussels.Two of Europe's biggest economies, France and Germany, helped drive the overall growth. French Finance Minister Christine Lagarde announced the French economy had grown 0.3 percent in the third quarter, and predicted it would enter 2010 with its old momentum.In an interview on French radio, Lagarde said the fact the French economy had posted two successive quarters of positive growth showed it was turning around.  She also noted that the labour market had only shed 5,000 jobs in the last quarter, far fewer than at the beginning of the year.  Speaking from Singapore, Lagarde predicted Asia would drive the world economic recovery — but she also said it was important to continue government economic stimulus measures through 2010.Germany's economy grew 0.7 percent in the third quarter and Italy and the Netherlands also posted an upturn. Lithuania recorded the biggest growth — up 6 percent in the third quarter.However the economies of both Spain and the United Kingdom shrunk in the same quarter.  The UK's Office for National Statistics initially estimated a fall of 0.4 percent in British output, though this could be revised.  Britain had widely been expected to show growth in the third quarter.  Eurostat figures also showed that unemployment in Europe overall rose to 9.7 percent in September — the highest in 20 years.Some economists believe that growth in Europe and the United States may slow or even reverse in 2010, in a so called "double-dip". Howard Archer of IHS Global Insight warned that the end of some government stimulus such as car scrappage schemes could cause a "loss of momentum". Dominique Strauss-Kahn, head of the IMF, disagreed, predicting in a statement from Singapore that 2010 would be a global "year of recovery".Despite assurances from the European Commissioner for the Internal Market Charles McCreevy that the Council would adopt its controversial Common Position text covering Software Patents, members voted to restart the entire process with a new directive.MEP Michel Rocard noted several "inelegancies" by the Commission in his speech against the directive, such as not taking into account any of the Parliament's substantive amendments in its recommendation to the Council. He also took the Dutch and German governments to task for ignoring their respective parliaments. The Irish Presidency's sponsorship by Microsoft was also criticised, as were the attempted ratifications at fishery Council meetings.There was also confusion over the actual effects of the proposed directive with industry players confirming that the Council text allowed pure software patents, while the Commission claimed it would not."In the debate, broad agreement prevailed over the fact that the current proposal was counter-productive and far from a good basis for a decision," said Italian MEP Monica Frassoni.The computer-implemented inventions directive was voted down by members of European Parliament (MEP) in the legal affairs committee. 19 MEPs voted in favour of re-starting negotiations, 2 against with one abstention.The European Union (EU) has announced plans to fund a private-public scheme dubbed "Clean Sky" to reduce aircraft emissions and noise pollution in European aircraft. Officials claim that the project will have large-scale economic benefits, will reduce jet engine carbon emissions by 20 to 40 percent and will therefore offset the large growth in commercial air travel. The proposal comes at a time when European officials are under heavy criticism for not doing enough to reduce aircraft emissions.The new proposal is outlined in a document that is reported to be likely to be passed by the European Commission. The document says that "Not launching Clean Sky soon will put the European industry in a position of competitive disadvantage, with negative repercussions not only for the industry itself but also for the EU as a whole," and goes on to point out that the US has a comparable scheme, the National Aeronautics Research and Development Policy, and points out that progress is beginning to be made in the area by Brazil, Russia, China and India. The paper also highlights the need for public spending in the scheme to ensure it does not fall behind international development. The commission has argued that "the present value, at 2006 prices, of the cumulative direct effect over the period 2010-2035 of Clean Sky on economic output in the EU has been estimated to approximately €100 billion to €160 billion reflecting increased operating profits, labor expenditures, capital investment and other direct effects."The proposal calls for the aviation industry to contribute €800 million between 2008 and 2014, with companies such as Airbus, Rolls-Royce, Saab, Thales, Dassault and Eurocopter. Universities and research institutions have also pledged support. The funding will be matched with public money from the EU, making the total cost €1.6 billion.As well as approval by the European Commission, the plan requires approval by the individual EU member states. Britain, though infamously skeptical of large EU projects, has already voiced its support, along with several other countries.If the project goes ahead, funding will be split between six separate main initiatives, including a "greener" engine, a "smart" fixed wing that continually readjusts itself to maintain best fuel economy, and research regarding lighter materials that could be used to replace metals in aircraft bodies and components.According to current estimates, the 20 to 40 percent carbon emissions reduction will mean a reduction of two to three billion tons between 2015 and 2050, and the project will also reduce nitrogen oxide emissions by 40 to 60 percent in the same time frame, as well as causing a 50 percent reduction in "perceived aircraft noise."The European Union and International Monetary Fund (IMF) have agreed to provide the ailing Greek economy with 110 billion euros (US$146 billion) worth of loans over three years. Finance ministers from the sixteen countries that use the euro – known as the eurozone – approved the plan yesterday.According to the plan, the EU is to provide 80 billion euros of the loans, and the IMF the other 30 billion; it is aimed at preventing Greece from defaulting on debt.Before being fully implemented, however, the proposal must be individually approved by all fifteen other countries in the eurozone. According to Luxembourgish prime minister Jean-Claude Junker, up to 30 billion euros would be given to Greece in the first year.German chancellor Angela Merkel commented on the proposal yesterday, saying: "The programmme is without alternative to safeguard the stability of the euro."The Greek government yesterday predicted that the country's gross domestic product would drop by four percent this year; it also forecast the national debt, currently at 115% of GDP, will increase to 149% in 2013, before going down.According to revised official figures, the economy of the eurozone, the sixteen European countries using the euro, did not grow at all in the final quarter of last year. Eurostat reports that the number was revised from an initial figure of +0.1%.Meanwhile, the eurozone's lost more than 2.2% in a year-on year comparison, more than the initial estimate of 2.1%.According to the numbers, Ireland saw an output drop of 2.3% in the last quarter of 2009, while Greece, the country in the eurozone with the most debt, had its economy contract by 0.8%. Italy was down by 0.3%, Germany saw no gain, but France posted a 0.6% quarterly growth.The Associated Press reports the stagnation was unexpected by analysts, and will only reinforce expectations that the European Central Bank will keep the key interest rate at one percent for most of 2010.The Eurozone is now officially in a recession, due to the recently released figures showing that, in the third quarter of 2008, the economy shrunk by 0.2%.For a recession to be official, the economy must have shrunk for at least two consecutive quarters. This is the case as the Eurozone's economy, which also shrunk by 0.2% in the second quarter of this year.Howard Archer, the chief European economist for Global Insight commented on these results. "Not only did the third quarter contraction in GDP confirm that the Eurozone is now in recession, but latest data and survey evidence indicate that the fourth quarter is likely to see a sharper fall in GDP as the financial crisis bites harder," he stated.This development comes after two large countries in the Eurozone, Germany and Italy announced that they were in a recession. Gilles Moec a senior economist at the Bank of America also commented on the results."Looking ahead, we can expect further quarters of negative GDP growth, until the third quarter of 2009, simply because so far we have not had in the GDP figures the full impact of the credit market crisis," he said.Despite the economy shrinking according to quarter-on-quarter results, year-on-year results for the third quarter of 2008 still show a small growth in the economy, although the growth is less then 0.1%.The fifteen members of the Eurozone are France, the Republic of Ireland, Italy, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Portugal,  Austria, Finland, Slovenia, Malta, Luxembourg, Spain, Greece and Cyprus.Member states of the eurozone have offered to give Greece thirty billion euro in emergency loans for the debt-stricken country, should the latter want it.The loans' price will be determined using formulas by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and will be set at around five percent.The Luxembourgish prime minister, Jean-Claude Juncker, speaking on behalf of eurozone finance ministers, commented that "[t]he total amount put up by the eurozone member states for the first year will reach 30bn euros." He added that "[t]his is certainly no subsidy" to Greece.The prime minister also noted that financing would be "completed and co-financed" by the IMF. European Union monetary affairs chief Olli Rehn remarked that the IMF would make a "substantial contribution" to the loan package as well, perhaps around ten billion euros.The Greek economy has spent more than it has earned for several years now, and currently faces a budget deficit equal to 12.9% of its economic output, or a total debt of 300 billion euros. The country intends to try and reduce the deficit to 8.7% this year.The unemployment rate in the Eurozone, or the sixteen countries in which the euro is used, reached ten percent last December, for the first time since the euro was introduced in 1999.A ten-percent jobless rate was initially recorded in November, although that was later revised down to 9.9%.  According to Eurostat, 15.8 million people now are without jobs in the Eurozone.  For all 27 countries in the European Union, 23 million people collectively are unemployed.Eurostat reports that 87,000 jobs were lost throughout the eurozone in December, the smallest loss since May.Latvia had the highest jobless rate for the EU, at 22.8%, whilst Spain has the highest for the eurozone, at 19.5%.  The two countries with the lowest unemployment rates were the Netherlands and Austria, with jobless figures of 4% and 5.4%, respectively.An analyst for IHS Global Insight, Howard Archer, commented on the figures. "Although the rise in eurozone unemployment has slowed in recent months, it still seems poised to trend higher during much, if not all, of 2010," he noted.Wikinews was the first to tell you that the Elmwood Village Hotel development in Buffalo, New York was to undergo "significant changes".The Elmwood Village Hotel is a proposed project that would be placed at Elmwood and Forest Aves. in Buffalo. In order for the development to take place, at least five buildings that house both businesses and residents, must be demolished.To confirm and to get more information about the changes, Wikinews interviewed Eva Hassett, Vice President of Savarino Construction Services Corporation, the development company in charge of building the hotel.Wikinews: The hotel proposal is being redesigned. Could you comment on that? What changes are being made? Are they significant?Eva Hassett: The hotel has been resized as a 72-room, four story building. This is 10% smaller in number of rooms and a full story lower. We are also redesigning the facades in a way that will minimize the mass - more of a vertical feeling than horizontal. Different materials, windows, details. The smaller size of the hotel also makes the number of on-site parking spaces more appropriate and hopefully represents less of a challenge to an already difficult parking situation.WN: Will you still be going before the city's planning board as scheduled on February 28? Same for the Common Council?Hassett: We will be on the Planning Board agenda this Tuesday morning but I do not expect that the Board will vote on the item that morning. I think we will be mainly explaining the new design and hearing input/questions.WN: Will there be anymore public meetings?Hassett: We would be happy to do one more big public meeting. We will be talking to Forever Elmwood about that on Monday (February 27, 2006). We would like to see if there is support for the new design and we also want to honor the public's request for another meeting. I am hopeful that meeting can take place the week of March 6th.WN: Is Savarino considering Mr. Rocco Termini's design/proposal? If no, do you (Savarino) support/oppose?Hassett: We are hopeful that we can build the hotel as redesigned. We think it would be a great addition to the Elmwood Ave. area, a good way for out-of-towners to see what Buffalo offers and a big help to the businesses there.WN: Are you considering more time for the community to make a judgment?Hassett: As I mentioned above, we expect to have one more meeting to get public reaction to the new design, and I think the Planning Board may want an additional meeting to make their determination. We do however, have constraints that will limit the amount of extra time. We still think it is a great project for the City and Elmwood; and we still want it to be something that the community wants as well.So far, the City of Buffalo's City Planning Board is still scheduled to meet at 8:00 a.m. (Eastern) on February 28, 2006 followed by the Common Council meeting at 2:00 p.m. on the same day.Images of the design are not yet available. "We are working on the renderings this weekend, but I will likely have some early in the week," stated Hassett.Two graduate students at Harvard University claim to have shown that evolution can happen much faster than previously thought.  Physics student Peter Lu and his former roommate, economist Motohiro Yogo, decided to apply an economics model to a well-known marine fossil record in order to predict how fast life can adapt to changes in the environment.  The technique, vector autoregression, is used to predict the stock market based on its historical behavior.Initially their model confirmed previous analysis that life was slow to adapt.  However, fossil-preserving rocks from some periods are more commonly found than from others.  When they compensated for this, the lag disappeared.  So far as could be seen from the geological record, the biosphere seemed to respond immediately to changes.  This would mean that life could rapidly recover from large extinctions; it was previously thought such recovery would take millions of years.Bruce McCaffrey, who was formerly the vice-president in charge of freight operations in the United States for Australian flag carrier Qantas, has been sentenced to eight months imprisonment and fined US$21,000 by the US Department of Justice (DoJ) for his involvement in a major air cargo price fixing cartel.McCaffrey is one of six past and present employees of the airline who have been charged over the arrangement, which is thought to have run for six years starting in 2000. He is also the first individual to be sentenced regarding the cartel. He, as well as Stephen Cleary, group general manager for freight in Sydney, Harold Pang, general manager for freight sales in Singapore, Peter Frampton, former group general manager for freight, John Cooper former general manager for freight sales and Desmond Church, a former freight employee, were all charged after being exempt from immunity granted in a plea bargain by Qantas in which the airline paid a US$61 million fine. In Australia price fixing is not actually a criminal offense, so former head of freight Peter Frampton and three other staff members in Australia will not be extradited to face charges. Meanwhile, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission is seeking admittances of guilt from airlines whose operations fall under its jurisdiction in exchange for lighter penalties. Qantas is amongst those airlines.The cartel, which prevented competition in air freight shipments rates, is said to involve almost thirty airlines. As well as Qantas, Japan Airlines, British Airways, Korean Air and Lufthansa have all had their involvement confirmed. Whistleblower Lufthansa, a German airline, was granted immunity from prosecution in exchange for exposing the operation. In August, British Airways and Korean Air pled guilty to their involvement and received fines of US$300 million each. Last month Japan Airlines also admitted to their role and paid a US$110 million fine. Amongst the others alleged to be involved are Air New Zealand, Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific. Hundreds of Australian businesses are involved in a class action suit against these seven airlines for AU$200 million that they believe was unfairly charged to them as a result of criminal activity.McCarthy, who ran Qantas's Australia-US cargo route for twenty years, entered a plea bargain with the authorities. Under the US Sherman Act he could have faced up to a US$1.06 million fine and up to 10 years imprisonment, but the DoJ says that the maximum fine could actually be double the gain from the offences committed or double the loss of those victimised if either were found to be higher than the normal maximum. According to the case, he was involved with "meetings, conversations and communications in the US and elsewhere to discuss the cargo rates to be charged on certain routes to and from the US".In light of the news, shares in Qantas fell 3¢ to AU$3.41.A federal jury found Bernard Ebbers guilty of all nine counts in the indictment brought against him. The verdict was handed down by a New York jury after 8 days of deliberation on the former WorldCom CEO and mastermind behind the accounting scandal that brought down the telcom giant. AP writer Erin McClam reports, "Ebbers' face reddened.", as the verdict was read. Sentencing is set for June 13 when he will face up to 85 years in prison.Ebbers testified in his own defence, saying he left the details of the company's accounting to others and that he had no knowledge of shady practices. But Scott Sullivan, ex-chief financial officer and key prosecution witness, directly linked Ebbers to the fraud. He had agreed to co-operate with prosecutors in the hopes of receiving a lenient sentence for his own involvement in the fraud.The demise of WordCom sparked a massive class action law suit by investors. The drastic plunge of WorldCom's stock value cost upwards to $11 billion as the scandal unravelled. Secuities fraud case filings stemming from the suits will probably break new legal ground whereby the actions of investment banks and public accounting firms will be called into legal question.Sales of existing homes  in the U.S. fell 9.6% in February, the National Association of Realtors (NAR) said today, in a sign that the U.S. housing market is still depressed.  The figure was worse than the 3.9% decline anticipated by the  economists surveyed by Dow Jones Newswires   and questions whether the  U.S. housing market is beginning to recover  or will continue to fall.A combination of foreclosures and short sales,  where the mortgage holder sells the house for less than owed on the mortgage, accounted for almost 40% of the  sales. Millions of foreclosures have forced down home prices and the number of foreclosures are predicted to rise this year. The inventory of existing homes listed for sale rose 3.5% at the end of February, a 8.6-month supply at the current sales rate. As more homes are listed in the spring, the inventory of houses for sale will probably increase. A five or six month inventory is usually considered a healthy balance between supply and demand.According to Moody's Analytics, another 3.6 million bank-owned  homes and possible foreclosures will be added to the inventory by 2013, adding to the 6.7 million home foreclosures since 2006. Thus housing inventories will probably continue to remain high, delaying the point when prices stabilize. The median sales price in February fell 5.2%, down  to a price level not seen since  April 2002."We have an uneven, choppy recovery,"  said NAR's chief economist Lawrence Yun. "Hopefully it is a recovery that is taking place."One year after the Deepwater Horizon disaster which caused the largest oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry and caused huge environmental damage in the Gulf of Mexico, experts have warned there are serious questions over the safety of deep water drilling as the United States government approves more exploration without improving safety measures.Scientists have raised major concerns over repeated assurances from the industry and the government, who insist lessons have been learned from the environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. Charles Perrow, a professor at Yale University, said the oil industry "is ill prepared at the least" to deal with another oil spill. "I have seen no evidence that they have marshaled containment efforts that are sufficient to deal with another major spill," he said. While the government has implemented new regulations, technical systems for stopping oil flowing from a leaking well, and increased oversight from oil officials, Perrow said deep water drilling had become no less dangerous. "I don't think they have found ways to change the corporate culture sufficiently to prevent future accidents," he said. "There are so many opportunities for things to go wrong that major spills are unavoidable." Last year, Doug Inkley, a scientist at the National Wildlife Federation, said the culture of an "addiction to oil" was ultimately responsible for the catastrophe. "How long must we wait for lawmakers to act to prevent future disasters? How many more lives, livelihoods and animals must be claimed by our addiction to oil?" Greenpeace also slammed BP, who ran Deepwater Horizon, for how they allowed the disaster to happen. "The age of oil is coming to an end and companies like BP will be left behind unless they begin to adapt now," the organization said.However, under pressure from industry executives the administration of president Barack Obama has resumed issuing drilling permits. It is understood regulators are still allowing oil companies to obtain drilling permits before reviewing new spill response plans. "I'm not an oddsmaker, but I would say in the next five years we should have at least one major blowout," Perrow said. "Even if everybody tries very hard, there is going to be an accident caused by cost-cutting and pressure on workers. These are moneymaking machines and they make money by pushing things to the limit."BP has insisted it has changed safety procedures. The oil giant came under heavy criticism for how it handled the crisis, and other major oil companies insisted Deepwater Horizon was a result of a culture exclusive to BP. Michael Bromwich, the director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEMRE), the U.S. government agency responsible for regulating offshore drilling, said the view was "as disappointing as it is shortsighted," and the issue of deep water safety was "a broad problem."The warnings came as it emerged BP had attempted to take control of an independent study into the environmental consequences of the Deepwater Horizon spill. Internal emails expose how BP executives attempted to influence the study, which was funded by a US$500m grant from the oil company. The study may be part of the final verdict as to what penalties, fines and criminal charges are brought against the company. Greenpeace, who uncovered the emails through a Freedom of Information Act request, attacked the reportedly unsuccessful attempts to influence the supposedly independent study as "outrageous".Protesters rallied outside BP's annual conference in London this week, where shareholders met for the first time since the disaster off the Gulf coast. Executives faced questions over their competence and large salaries from angry shareholders, many of whom disapproved of the appointment of Carl-Henric Svanberg as chairman and Sir Bill Castell as the head of BP's safety board. Some demonstrators purchased shares in BP in an attempt to get inside the meeting; one woman, a fisherwoman who lives on the Gulf Coast was arrested after pouring a black substance down herself at the entrance to the conference centre and refusing to move. "I have travelled all the way over from the Gulf Coast and I just wanted to talk those responsible for destroying my community," she said as she was led away by police. "My community is dead. We've worked five generations there and now we've got a dead community. I'm angry, I've been angry a long time."There has been an explosion at the Formosa Plastics plant in Point Comfort, TX.  Residents have been advised to shelter in place.  Point Comfort is about 25 miles south-east of Victoria, TX.Witnesses report an explosion and "lots of black smoke", some visible from as far as 40 miles away.  Six injuries were reported, but there were no deaths.  The prevailing east to north east winds are directing smoke away from Port Lavaca and Victoria, and city officials are not recommending evacuation of these areas.Point Comfort Elementary School has been evacuated, children are being moved to HJM Elementary in Port Lavaca.  Schools in Port Lavaca, Seadrift, and Port O'Connor have halted outdoor activities and school buses until they receive further notice.  School superintendent Larry Nicols has said that parents will be allowed to pick up their children at any school if they desire.As of 9 am this morning, flaring is still being carried out by ExxonMobil at Jurong Island, Singapore.This is the 3rd day flaring works are being carried out by the company to burn off excess fuel from the refinery plant.The flame, according to Ms Eva Ho, Communications Manager of ExxonMobil, is dying. ExxonMobil wishes to assure members of the public that no health risk is posed as water and carbon dioxide are produced as a result of the flaring.Meng Yew Choong, Assistant Director of Corporate Communication at the National Environment Agency also clarifies:"The hydrocarbon gases are burnt safely into water vapour and carbon dioxide, both harmless gases. Hence, there are no health concerns."Regular STOMP contributor Mike Muk shot a video of the flaring as well and he sent it in to Stomp.STOMPer NZSheep also sent a picture to a website, offering the closest look of the flaring activity, taken just outside the security fences surrounding Jurong Island.Security firm F-Secure announced on Monday they have confirmed rootkit-like behavior within the software provided by electronics giant Sony in their MicroVault USB memory sticks.F-Secure had received a report that their DeepGuard software was highlighting an issue when the memory stick was connected.After closer analysis by F-Secure it was identified that the software was creating a hidden directory within the users computer that neither the user or anti-virus software could detect. They say that the issue is similar to the one in 2005 where Sony DRM software allowed malware to be hidden from users.Mcafee, another major security firm, said: "The apparent intent was to cloak sensitive files related to the fingerprint verification feature included on the USB drives.""As with the Sony BMG case we, of course, contacted Sony before we decided to go public with the case. However, this time we received no reply from them," said F-Secure in a blog post.The FAA has issued a license for commercial spaceflight operations to the Oklahoma Space Industry Development Authority (OSIDA).  The OSIDA will oversee the operations of "suborbital, reusable launch vehicles" out of the Clinton-Sherman Industrial Airpark spaceport in Burns Flat, Oklahoma.  Testing at the spacesport is expected to begin sometime next year.Bill Khourie, director of OSIDA said, "This is a tremendous opportunity for Oklahoma.  The benefits are just enormous as to what can branch out from this."Rocketplane Kistler, an Oklahoma-based company, has started production of spacecraft and is working on the final steps of its license applications.  Rocketplan Kistler plans on a "fairly extensive flight test program" in 2007 and commercial flights by 2008.A Texas-based company has also expressed interest in the Oklahoma Spaceport.Other United States spaceports include California Spaceport, Mojave Airport (California), Kodiak Launch Complex (Alaska), Spaceport Florida, and Virginia Spaceport.  A spaceport is also planned in South New Mexico, the Southwest Regional Spaceport.The popular social networking site Facebook agreed to purchase the Instagram photo-sharing mobile app for US$1 billion in cash and stock Monday. The app, which can be used to apply faux-vintage filters to photographs, allows users to share photos with one another both directly and through posts to social networking sites.  Instagram was founded less than two years ago by two Stanford University graduates near San Francisco, California and the purchase is one of the largest acquisitions in Facebook history following after a failed takeover bid in early 2011 which had been declined by Instagram.Facebook, despite its prominence as the largest website for social networking in the world, has had difficulties expanding into the mobile market, particularly the realm of mobile advertising. As of yet, Facebook lacks an advertising platform for its apps and has yet to capitalize off the boom in mobile phone use that Instagram is intertwined with.  Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg noted the importance of the ability to post to multiple social media sites at once in a post. He wrote on his personal timeline, "We think the fact that Instagram is connected to other services beyond Facebook is an important part of the experience." He said Facebook "plan[s] on keeping features like the ability to post to other social networks, the ability to not share your Instagrams on Facebook if you want, and the ability to have followers and follow people separately from your friends on Facebook."Many other small services that Facebook has acquired, namely Gowalla, Hot Potato, and FriendFeed, were all shuttered shortly after acquisition. The co-founder of Instagram, Kevin Systrom, in a company blog post, has denied any claims that Instagram would share the fate of these past services. "It’s important to be clear that Instagram is not going away. We’ll be working with Facebook to evolve Instagram and build the network. We’ll continue to add new features to the product and find new ways to create a better mobile photos experience," he wrote.Many reasons have been put forth for the purchase, and Zuckerberg commented, "for years, we've focused on building the best experience for sharing photos with your friends and family. Now, we'll be able to work even more closely with the Instagram team to also offer the best experiences for sharing beautiful mobile photos with people based on your interests."Mark Zuckerberg, the 28-year-old founder of the social networking website Facebook, has married his girlfriend, Priscilla Chan. On Saturday, Zuckerberg married the 27-year-old Chan in the garden of his residence in Palo Alto, located in the US state of California. A spokesperson for Facebook described Chan's wedding ring as a "very simple ruby," which Zuckerberg designed.The couple, who had been in a relationship for more than nine years, first met at Harvard University. Harvard is where Facebook was launched by Zuckerberg in 2004. Zuckerberg and Chan subsequently relocated to California, where Facebook is currently based. Late last week, Facebook was valued at over US$100 billion in its initial public offering on the NASDAQ stock exchange.On Monday, the day Zuckerberg turned 28, Chan graduated from UCSF Medical Center. The guests, a list of under 100 people, initially thought that they would be attending a weekend celebration party for Chan's graduation but attended the wedding instead.Zuckerberg has modified his relationship status on his Facebook page to 'married', a status change which has received tens of thousands of likes. The posting includes a photo of the newlyweds. Chan is wearing a white wedding dress decorated with lace, and Zuckerberg is dressed in a suit with a relaxed, loosely tied knot.Facebook hired a public relations firm to systematically discredit Google by paying two journalists to plant negative pieces in U.S. newspapers, leaked correspondence discloses. The new revelations are likely to increase tension between the two companies, which are already fierce rivals.The social network has confirmed the validity of the leaked emails, seen by Wikinews, which suggest executives at the social networking giant hired Burson-Marsteller, a high profile PR and communications firm, to discredit Social Circle, a rival website run by Google. Burson-Marsteller then recruited two journalists — Jim Goldman and John Mercurio — to push editors at The Washington Post and USA Today to publish editorials criticising Social Circle over its privacy settings. The story was exposed after Burson-Marsteller approached a blogger to publish the propaganda, but the blogger posted the correspondence online.Burson-Marsteller has been forced to apologize for taking on Facebook as a client, admitting the orders to discredit Google violated company policy. "The assignment on those terms should have been declined," a spokesperson said. The revelations are likely to be incredibly damaging for the firm, who have represented a number of controversial clients in the past. Facebook, however, said the allegations against Google were valid, insisting there were genuine privacy concerns with Social Circle. Google has declined to comment on the issue.Facebook announced Thursday it will begin to share some of the technology from their social network. The company indicated it would like to share specifications and design documents to help startups and to support innovation. Facebook hopes that they will be able to benefit from the innovations of others.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, announced the company's "Open Compute Project" at an event held for reporters at the company's headquarters in Palo Alto, California.Facebook will not directly make any money from the new project. However, by making the designs of its servers open source, the company hopes others will find ways to improve them. They can then incorporate those advances into their own servers. Anything that can make Facebook's servers run more efficiently provides a major benefit for the company.More efficient servers will also drive down utility costs for the social media giant, which relies on massive data centers around the United States to keep its operations going.Facebook says it is already working with manufacturers, including Dell, that are manufacturing servers based on its designs. Some new servers are already available.Before the holiday started, American Christian televangelist Jerry Falwell has asked that Christians across America boycott Target Corporation department stores for their refusal to include "Merry Christmas" in advertisements or store decore, instead opting to use the more inclusive phrase, "Happy Holidays."Target was not the only recipient of criticism, as Costco and several other stores have used similar greetings during the 2005 holiday season. Falwell and the American Family Association have threatened to boycott Target and Costco for not using the phrase "Merry Christmas" explicitly.In a similar debate, the decorated spruce at Capitol Hill in Washington D.C. was known as a "Holiday Tree" earlier this year, but was renamed "Christmas Tree" after objections by Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert (R-IL).Fannie Mae, a housing mortgage lender, has forgiven the mortgage debt of Addie Polk, a 90-year-old woman from Akron, Ohio who attempted to kill herself when she was being evicted from her home on Wednesday.Polk had lived in her home since 1970, and refinanced her mortgage numerous times since 1997 when she first got a loan taken out against her home. When authorities tried to evict her, she shot herself once in the chest. Fannie Mae took over Polk's home in 2007 after the loan company filed for foreclosure. One report from Reuters states that authorities tried to evict Polk more than 30 other times in the past."Just given the circumstances, we think it's appropriate," said Brian Faith, a spokesman for Fannie Mae who also said that the incident was almost immediately "on [their] radar screen".Polk is currently undergoing treatment at Akron General Medical Center and is expected to make a full recovery. She can return to her home as soon as she recovers from her injuries.Polk was recognized on Friday when Dennis Kucinich, who is a democratic representative for Ohio, spoke of her incident during debates on a 700 billion USD bailout bill that the United States House of Representatives passed on Friday. He states that the bill does not focus on people in situations like Polk."This bill does nothing for the Addie Polks of the world. This bill fails to address the fact that millions of homeowners are facing foreclosure, are facing the loss of their home. This bill will take care of Wall Street, and the market may go up for a few days, but democracy is going downhill," said Kucinich on Friday.Fans throughout the world have been queuing up outside stores for the release of Apple's new iPhone, titled the iPhone 3GS.  The phone went on sale on Friday morning around the world. According to CNN, around 300 people were queuing outside Apple's New York store while employees were briefed inside.Lines however, were not as long as was anticipated, with surplus metal barriers outside stores. An Apple employee was quoted as saying that the lines were shorter than this time last year.The new iPhone contains a faster processor, a digital compass and a video camera.  Ever since the launch of the original iPhone two years ago, it has been praised for "making smartphones cool", with over 17 million handsets being sold.However, critics have said that the new update deals are too costly. The telecommunications company O2 has made owners of Apple's current iPhone products buy out their contracts should they wish to purchase the new phone.Several groups of farmers in protest have made several blockades with farm equipment on several important road and train lines in the South of Italy yesterday.The farmers are protesting for the prices being paid to them for their grape harvest this season (about 2 or 2.50 eur for 100 kg) in an effort to obtain more money from the state in the form of subsidies. The protest, riot and manifestation are very common in Italy around this time in the grape-growing season. In the past there have even been protests and riots even some soccer teams from the premium league became involved in.As usual the police were not able to contain the riots and as a result many important transportation roads and train lines have been blocked. Trenitalia, the main Italian train company, suppressed many of it's trains and all the trains from the Puglia (the most South East region of Italy) were forced to stop in Bari. Only one train, with destination to Rome, has been routed to an alternative route.It is reported that a person, among the manifestant, has been killed trying to stop a van. The driver of the van has been arrested by the police and accused of killing while the other people on the van were beaten by the other manifestants.The road and train blocks were finally removed, after the Minister of Agriculture have declared that he will do all that is possible to take apart the blockades that rest in government in order to give more economic aid to the farmers.In the lead-up to the APEC forum, thousands of South Korean farmers clashed with police on Tuesday in the capital, Seoul, to demand the withdrawal of a bill to open up the country's rice market.Local police said that about 40 farmers were arrested. Protesters drove back ranks of riot police in full combat gear as they marched towards the national assembly.Police put the number of protesters and farm activists at about 10,000.The farmers were stopped just short of the assembly and entered in a standoff with the police, who used water cannon to subdue the farmers and disband the protest. "No to WTO, No to APEC, No to BUSH," the protesters chanted. A representative for the farmers said one activist suffered a severe eye injury. Three police buses were burned in the protest. South Korean media reports that 70 protesters and 10 police were injured in the action.Busan Mayor, Hur Nam-sik, said the protests should be contained. "I cannot block all the protests and demonstrations at APEC at all," he said. "If the protests and demonstrations happen, it has to be in an orderly way, not to harm the image and progress of APEC."South Korean farmers regularly take to the streets demanding protection for the domestic rice market from imports. The farmers oppose government's plans for wider liberalization of the nation's rice market. "The government must come up with realistic policies for the rice market and the farming industry to allow farmers to live comfortably," said the Korean Advanced Farmers Federation. The rally follows the death of a South Korean farmer, who allegedly committed suicide last Friday in protest of APEC policies.About 2,000 South Korean farm activists plan to travel to Hong Kong next month to protest during a meeting of global trade ministers.American fast food chain McDonald’s is set to open up 1000 more stores during 2009 as part of its expected capital spending of US$2.1 billion. While global same-store sales rose 7.2%, revenue fell marginally, due to the strong US dollar.McDonald’s net income fell 23% from US$1.27 billion to $985.4 million. This happened in the same quarter that they slashed operating costs by 8%. The company was hit by the rising costs of ingredients such as meat and cheese. Chief executive Jim Skinner has said the company is to invest $2.1 billion into the opening of the new restaurants. Sales in the US rose 5% and other continents, including the Middle East and Africa, saw even higher growth. In November 2008, McDonald’s opened up their 1000th Chinese store. The chain currently has more than 31,000 stores around the globe, and counting. The first location to open was in San Bernardino, California in 1940.A commissioner in Brussels has suggested that Iceland could be fast tracked to join the European Union (EU) by 2011.File:European flag in the wind.jpgThe European Commissioner for enlargement, Olli Rehn, said that if the country, stricken by the world financial meltdown, applied for membership to the 52-year-old international economic and social organization this year, it would be welcomed with open arms. The EU is expecting an application if the Social Democratic Alliance wins May's general election in the country.The next entrant to the union is to be Croatia. It has been rapidly making changes to its government and economy in order to join in 2011. The EU will then have 28 members. Iceland could join at the same time, making 29.Iceland could join quickly because it is already a member of the European Economic Area and therefore already complies with many EU directives. The main contention would be Iceland's rich fishing waters, which are contested by several nearby fishing countries. Iceland and the United Kingdom fought short naval wars in the 1950s and 1970s over the issue of fishing rights in the area. There is also an issue with Ireland's failure to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon, which was designed to streamline the union as more countries join. Without the unanimous ratification, further expansion is difficult.The EU has its roots in the six member European Coal and Steel Community, founded by France and then-West Germany in 1951. In 1957, the members of the Community formed the European Economic Community (EEC), a common market and customs union. The coal and steel organization was merged into the EEC in 1967. In 1993, the EEC became the European Union. The EU adopted a central banking system and single currency, the Euro, between 1999 and 2002.The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Turkey are all on the waiting list for entry to the EU.A mine accident killed at least nine miners in a coal mine in western Turkey.  A methane explosion collapsed a mine shaft about 150 meters below the town of Odakoy, in Balıkesir Province, near the border with Bursa Province.  Rescue work was slowed by the presence of gas, with rescue workers having to be hospitalized for methane poisoning.Turkey suffers relatively frequent mine accidents, especially due to methane pockets either igniting or poisoning miners.  Some observers fault old & untrustworthy equipment, or a disregard for safety regulations.A fire on a train last night in Bedfordshire, England, may have been started deliberately in a suicide attempt. The  British Transport Police has told Wikinews the incident "is not being treated as an accident". One female passenger, who is believed to have started the fire in a lavatory cubicle, was killed.No-one else was injured in the accident, but it led to the closure of the critical West Coast Main Line after emergency services attended the scene. The train was approaching Leighton Buzzard when smoke was seen coming from the washroom. "A passenger reported the fire to a conductor," a spokesperson for London Midland said. "All the other passengers got off safely."Witnesses said the blaze broke out on a rush hour train travelling to London from Northampton. "The smoke was so thick it got onto your chest," one 68-year-old said. "The fire, police and ambulance service were here very quickly." The fire caused severe rail disruption as the line was closed while electric cables running along the track were turned off to protect emergency workers at the site of the incident. Passengers have criticised London Midland for how they handled the incident. "People would have been more understanding if we knew how bad the fire was [and] that the power was off," one passenger, giving his name as Wai, wrote on the the social networking site Twitter. Another, Ross Lankshear, wrote: "It's very frustrating when you are waiting 1 hour then told trains are running but the staff are in the wrong place."London Midland told Wikinews they were attempting to restore rail services on the West Coast Main Line. "We apologise to those passengers disrupted by this tragic incident," they said. "London Midland tickets were accepted by other operators and buses used as rail replacement services." They said service on the line was resumed at 7.30pm.The FBI is investigating 26 firms and 1,400 individuals involved in the US financial crisis for fraud and "sub-prime lending practices". Freddie Mac, Lehman Brothers, Fannie Mae and AIG are among the firms being scrutinized after recently receiving federal bailouts. Investigators, who are cooperating with the IRS, Postal Office, and other federal offices to complete their investigation, are concerned that major corporations may have also forced or bribed ratings agencies to favor them.The probe, which is in early stages, began eight months ago when the FBI began taking a close look at the mortgage industry and widespread irresponsible loaning practices. At least one corporation has been raided, but so far no evidence of fraud has been found.The FBI has questioned executives of each of the firms closely, and arrested two in June. An anonymous source told The Times that the firms had been ordered to "hold all papers and e-mails under lock and key" as the FBI scours the finances of each firm. Many of the companies and individuals being investigated are at the center of the nationwide financial crisis and controversial bailout plans, and have been widely blamed for the country's financial crisis. The investigation has come at a time when the eyes of many in the US and around the world are turned towards the financial markets, as Congress and politicians scramble to fix the crisis while the election date looms closer. Officials told CNN that it would be a long time before the investigations were finished, adding a warning: "Don't expect indictments tomorrow or next week or next month".The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued proposed calorie labeling rules requiring most retail food vendors to display the calorie counts in items on their menus and menu boards. The proposed rules, issued Friday and expected to be finalized in 2012, would apply to most restaurants, snack bars, vending machines, coffee shops, drive-through restaurants, and convenience and grocery stores.The US Congress required the rules in the health-care reform law  passed in 2010. The  rules proposed by the FDA must undergo a public comment period before they are finalized and take effect, said Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Director for Foods at the FDA.The proposed regulations pertain to businesses devoting more than 50 percent of their floor space to the sale of food or that consider themselves restaurants, specifically food-selling chains with at least 20 stores nationally. Included are candy stores, bakeries, and ice-cream parlors.The FDA's proposed guidelines specify that chains post the calorie counts of foods and drinks on menus and menu boards or next to the food item, such as at a salad bar. The menu is to prominently exhibit the calorie content of each item in a way customers can see easily, giving them the same information packaged foods prepared at home currently provide. The information must be displayed in "clear and conspicuous" print and colors.Many cities and states have passed laws requiring calorie labeling on menus, beginning with New York City in 2008. California implemented a similar law in January, although many counties are waiting for the release of the federal guidelines before they begin enforcement. Some fast-food chains there, such as McDonald's and Starbucks, are displaying calorie counts on menus in some of their stores. The rules are intended to curb the national obesity epidemic since, according to FDA estimates, one third of the calories people consume yearly come from food eaten out. In a statement issued yesterday, Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Health and Human Services said, "Giving consumers clear nutritional information makes it easier for them to choose healthier options that can help fight obesity and make us all healthier." Excluded from the rules are businesses whose primary product is not food sales but that sell it, such as bowling alleys, airports and airplanes, amusement parks, hotels and movie theaters. Alcohol is also excluded.Drug giant Pfizer’s two blockbuster Cox-2 inhibitor drugs, Celebrex and Bextra, were both cited by the Food and Drug Administration for safety problems, particularly for long term users.Last Thursday the FDA allowed Pfizer to keep Celebrex on the market if it added the “black box” warning to the physicians’ guideline. This warning is the strongest the FDA can give to doctors, and focuses on the increased chances of cardiovascular problems and gastrointestinal bleeding. Doctors should use the lowest possible dosage of Celebrex and for the shortest time necessary, it adds.Meanwhile, Bextra was taken off the market today. Bextra users were told to stop taking the drug, according to reports.Pfizer agreed to mandates by a blue ribbon panel of specialists, convened in February, to review the risks associated with the popular Cox-2 class of painkillers. The pills are taken by 50 million people worldwide.The actions by the FDA are attributed to charges the agency was too slow and allowed manufacturers to report problems voluntarily. It also comes as other experimental Cox-2 drugs emerge, such as Merck’s Arcoxia and Novartis’s Prexige, and seems to raise the requirements for their future approval.Critics said the Cox-2 inhibitors were over-prescribed and offered no more relief than cheaper over the counter medications such as ibuprofen.Pfizer Inc (NYSE Symbol PFE) was trading at 26.90 at close on Thursday, up 0.15%The US Food and Drug Administration released a report today harshly criticizing the conditions at a Johnson & Johnson factory that produced medications recalled this weekend.The report, the result of an FDA inspection conducted at the facility, said that the plant in question, located in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, had upwards of 20 documented manufacturing problems, including both quality and security issues.According to the report, material used in the medicines produced were contaminated with a type of bacteria not yet identified, and the factory had not had sufficient quality control procedures or facilities for testing the quality of products.  The report also noted that employees had received insufficient training in safe manufacturing procedures.The FDA's inspection of the plant had begun in mid April, and concluded last Friday. A recall of the drugs, which included Tylenol, Motrin, Zyrtec and Benadryl, was issued by Johnson & Johnson later on Friday. The products affected were sold in twelve countries worldwide, including the USAccording to McNeil Consumer Healthcare, a division of J&J, the recalled medications can include higher than indicated amounts of active ingredients, foreign particles, or ingredients that don't meet requirements for testing. The recalls followed at least 46 consumer complaints in the last year of "black or dark specks" found in J&J Tylenol products.According to a senior FDA official, "[t]his is yet another example of when a company has to take full accountability for the quality of its drugs [with] severe consequences for not doing so."In a response, J&J said in a statement that "we have no higher concern than providing parents with the highest quality products for their children" and "the quality issues that the FDA has observed, many of which we had recently identified in our own quality reviews and communicated to the FDA, are unacceptable to us." The company said the plant affected has temporarily ceased all production.The US Food and Drug Administration has written a warning letter to The Coca-Cola Company that Diet Coke Plus violates the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act's guidelines. The December 10 letter, signed by Roberta Wagner, director of the office of compliance at the Center of Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, says Coca-Cola should "take prompt action to correct these violations." The product's label describes the drink as "Diet Coke with Vitamins and Minerals." FDA said the soft drink does not have enough nutrients to justify the use of the word "plus" in its trade name. According to statute, foods must contain at least 10 per cent more of the Reference Daily Intake (RDI) or Daily Reference Value (DRV) for a given nutrient "than an appropriate reference food" in order to be called "plus" legally.The FDA also advised "it is inappropriate to add extra nutrients to snack foods such as carbonated beverages." The FDA warns Coca-Cola and asks it to revise the drink's labeling and inform the agency of its reply regarding how it plans to fix the violation, within 15 days of receiving the warning. Coca-Cola says it will submit a reply to the FDA in early January, but currently has no plans to alter the label. The US Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA, FDCA, or FD&C), is a set of laws passed by Congress in 1938 giving authority to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to oversee the safety of food, drugs, and cosmetics. A principal author of this law was Royal S. Copeland, a three-term U.S. Senator from New York, whose concerns about drug safety stemmed from the fact that he was also a homeopathic physician. The act has been amended many times, most recently to add requirements about bioterrorism preparations.The Coca-Cola Company issued a statement saying, "This does not involve any health or safety issues, and we believe the label on Diet Coke Plus complies with FDA's policies and regulations." The Coca-Cola Company is the world's largest beverage company, largest manufacturer, distributor and marketer of non-alcoholic beverage concentrates and syrups in the world, and one of the largest corporations in the United States. The company is best known for its flagship product Coca-Cola, invented by pharmacist John Stith Pemberton in 1886. Diet Coke Plus (also known as Coca Cola Light Plus) was released in the United Kingdom in October 2007.Forbes has reported that "Coca-Cola has been on a crusade to revamp its image from a purveyor of highly sweetened, fattening products to a more family-friendly image of low-calorie, nutritional drinks. Its violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act could mean hefty fines and a seizure of product from the pop king, but often these sorts of issues are resolved without incident."The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the United States Department of Health and Human Services has issued a warning on cantaloupes from a Honduran company, after salmonella outbreaks in the United States and Canada.The FDA stated that cantaloupes purchased from Agropecuaria Montelibano, a company which grows and packs cantaloupe in Honduras, should be thrown out because it has been connected to an outbreak of Salmonella Litchfield. The FDA has also blocked imports from the food packer to the United States. The FDA reported cases of fifty people in sixteen states in the United States, and an additional nine in Canada who became ill after eating cantaloupes. As of Monday fourteen people had been hospitalized. The sixteen states in the United States with reported cases of illnesses are Arizona, California, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Tennessee, Utah, Washington and Wisconsin. Illnesses in Canada occurred in British Columbia, Alberta, Manitoba, Ontario and New Brunswick between January 19 and February 22. An initial alert was released from the FDA on February 22 about an outbreak of Salmonella Litchfield, and the warning about Honduran cantaloupes was issued Saturday. The FDA was aware two weeks ago that the outbreak could be tied to melons, and linked the outbreak to the Honduran supplier on Friday. On Sunday, Honduran President Manuel Zelaya called the FDA alert "extreme and imprudent", and noted that the contamination from the cantaloupes was on the peel and that they could have come into contact with the bacteria after leaving Honduras. He said the United States did not present evidence that the bacteria originated in Honduras. President Zelaya told reporters: "It's unjust that the (U.S.) has declared a unilateral health alert without any laboratory or clinical tests." Fredys Cerrato, Trade Minister of Honduras called on the FDA to publicize details of its studies on the affected cantaloupe, and told CNN en Español: "This is causing us direct economic damage."Foodborne illness caused by Salmonella bacteria can lead to symptoms including nausia, diarrhea, fever and abdominal cramps. Higher-risk groups such as children, the elderly and individuals with weakened immune systems can develop more severe symptoms. The FDA is continuing to investigate and monitor the situation with the individual states affected and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued a recall on Salmonella contaminated Pistachios for 31 states in the United States."Our advice to consumers is that they avoid eating pistachio products, that they hold onto those products, that at this stage they don't throw them out, they simply hold on to them as we're learning more about them to determine if they're part of the recall," said Dr. David Acheson, associated FDA commissioner for food.  However, it is expected that the recalled list may grow as the investigation continues.Kroger Co. is recalling shelled pistachios called Private Selection Shelled Pistachios in a 10-ounce container with UPC code 111073615 and the sell dates of December 13 or 14 on the packages. Setton Farms based in California, the pistachio supplier, is voluntarily recalling their pistachios.Products containing pistachios have not yet been recalled, but are under investigation. The salmonella contamination was discovered by Kraft foods during routine testing last Tuesday, before any illness were reported. They notified the FDA and the FDA notified Setton Farms. So far the source of contamination has not been revealed.The 31 states initially affected are: (in alphabetical order) : Alaska, Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan, Missouri, Mississippi, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia and Wyoming.Signs of salmonella include fever, diarrhea, nausea, vomiting and abdominal pain. Those most vulnerable are the young, the elderly or those with an already compromised health condition.This recall follows the long list of recalled peanut related products, peanut butter and candy bars which caused a salmonella outbreak at the end of January.The U.S. economy and its currency as an instrument of world trade has suffered a series of major setbacks in recent months. Some analysts say that the Federal Reserve's September 18th dramatic rate cut to 4.75% from 5.25% may be a case of "too little, too late", or that it was excessive and dooms the dollar.Today, Saudi officials declined to cut interest rates in lockstep with the US Federal Reserve for the first time in decades. According to Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, International Business Editor for The Daily Telegraph, "it's a signal that the oil-rich Gulf kingdom is preparing to break the dollar currency peg in a move that risks setting off a stampede out of the dollar across the Middle East."Hans Redeker, the Currency Chief at BNP Paribas, also stated today that Saudi Arabia's move to not adjust their own interest rates in sync with the Fed's cuts is a very dangerous situation for the US dollar. Redeker points out that "Saudi Arabia has $800bn (£400bn) in their future generation fund, and the entire region has $3,500bn under management. They face an inflationary threat and do not want to import an interest rate policy set for the recessionary conditions in the United States."Saudi central bank officials said that "appropriate measures" would be taken to stop the large capital inflows into the country. The Federal Reserve's half-point rate cut has already caused a plunge in the world dollar index to a fifteen-year low, reaching the weakest level ever against the Euro at just under $1.40.The Fed hopes that by making it cheaper to borrow, people will start spending and investing more. However, some analysts fear the cut will worsen inflation, making it harder to get personal loans, and further decrease confidence in the dollar around the world. There are already signs that global investors have started rejecting U.S. Treasury securities, and recent U.S. government data on foreign holdings show a decline in purchases of US securities from $97bn to just $19bn in July. In response to Ben Bernanke's statements today about a potential mortgage and housing market crisis, CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer said, "If adjustable mortgage rates go up, people may not be able to afford their mortgage payments." Former Federal Reserve chief Alan Greenspan said earlier this week that housing prices may fall by "double digits" as the subprime crisis bites harder, prompting households to cut back sharply on spending.Jim Rogers, the economic commentator and former partner of George Soros, stated, "If Ben Bernanke starts running those printing presses even faster than he's already doing, we are going to have a serious recession. The dollar's going to collapse, the bond market's going to collapse. There's going to be a lot of problems."In recent months, the U.S. dollar has taken several other significant hits including Kuwait's decision in May to also break its dollar peg, and threats by China to interfere with the U.S. economy, calling it their nation's "nuclear option". According to public sources, the Chinese government has begun a concerted campaign of economic threats against the United States, hinting that it may liquidate its vast holding of US treasuries if Washington imposes trade sanctions that seek to force a Yuan revaluation.Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said that the current economic recession in the United States "may last into 2010." The Chairman also predicted that unemployment would remain at relatively high levels until 2011.However, Bernanke added that 2010 could be a year of recovery if the government was able to restore some financial stability.He made the statements to the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday."It is essential that we continue to complement fiscal stimulus with strong government action to stabilise financial institutions and financial markets," Bernanke said. "If actions taken by the administration, the Congress, and the Federal Reserve are successful in restoring some measure of financial stability — and only if that is the case, in my view — there is a reasonable prospect that the current recession will end in 2009 and that 2010 will be a year of recovery."Bernanke also warned that there is a risk that the downturn could become steeper. "This outlook for economic activity is subject to considerable uncertainty, and I believe that, overall, the downside risks probably outweigh those on the upside," he said.The chairman also delivered the Federal Reserve's estimates on the economy, which were released last week. They predict that the US economy will shrink by 0.5% to 1.3% this year. The unemployment rate is estimated to increase to between 8.5% and 8.8%, from its current level of 7.6%.Bernanke said that he was "committed to using all available tools to stimulate economic activity and to improve financial market functioning".US stock markets closed higher after Bernanke's testimony, with the Standard and Poor's 500 index gaining four percent.The Australian federal and New South Wales governments will not be selling their shares in Snowy Hydro Limited (the owner and operator of the Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Scheme). Snowy Hydro Limited's major shareholder is the NSW government with a 58 percent shareholding. The Victorian government owns 29 percent and the federal government has a 13 percent stake.NSW Premier Morris Iemma announced in December 2005 that he wished to sell the state's share in Snowy Hydro that caused the federal and Victorian governments to follow.The proposed sale has attracted immense criticism by those who believed that the sale would affect the environment and water supplies along the Snowy River, this was reinforced yesterday when 58 eminent Australians presented a petition to the government opposing the sale.Prime Minister John Howard announced today that the federal government would not be selling its 13 percent share of Snowy Hydro following what he calls "intense community reaction". In a statement, Mr Howard said, "This decision to sell the Snowy Hydro has created significant unhappiness, concern and unrest throughout the Australian community."Mr Howard said that the sale was not an election promise by his government and that the federal government failed to see any long-term benefits from the sale. He also said that the government needed to "safeguard the interests of all those dependent on Australia's iconic water resources".The federal government has however stated that despite refusing to sell its share in Snowy Hydro that it will not be purchasing additional shares if NSW and Victoria push ahead with the sale of their shareholdings.Despite telling Macquarie Radio earlier this morning that his government would be pushing ahead with the sale as it was in the best "interests of NSW", Premier Iemma announced shortly after Mr Howard's release, that the NSW government would be withdrawing its shares from sale.Mr Iemma conceded that the sale would be extremely difficult with the federal government withdrawing its 13 percent from sale. "The Prime Minister has pulled the rug out from under the sale," Mr Iemma said. "The circumstances are significantly changed.""The Commonwealth decision makes it extremely difficult for NSW to proceed," he conceded.Victoria is yet to announce whether or not it will be withdrawing its shares from sale.U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke has told an International Monetary Conference inflation is creeping higher and will receive "particular scrutiny."Benanke's comments, to an audience of bankers at the Willard Hotel in Washington, has tripped up stocks and bonds which fell by 199 points on US markets Monday (1.8 per cent loss).The comments seem to have been interpreted by traders to mean there will be an interest rate rise.A strategist at Wells Capital Management said: "Here we have some suspicion the economy may be weakening ... and a struggling stock market," "And the Fed chairman chooses [Monday] to inform everyone he has decided to get tough on inflation," says Jim Paulsen.The panicked markets had expected no rate rise at the next Federal Reserve meeting on June 29. The United States central bank began raising interest rates two years ago - 16 consecutive rises later it stands at 5%.  The news might also suggest the billowing crude and commodity markets have affected other parts of the economy. Excluding energy or food prices, core inflation was "at or above the upper end of the range that many economists, including myself, would consider consistent with price stability," Mr Bernanke said.Bernanke said his core inflation canal was between 1% and 2% a year. Quarter inflation, however, was rising: 3% through six months; 2.3% over 12 months. "These are unwelcome developments," Bernanke said when he announced the figures.Overall the economic data was "consistent with the softening in the pace of overall economic activity that seems to be under way," Bernanke said in his speech.Stagflation is the economic problem of rising inflation and falling growth. The Federal Reserve often lower interest rates to finance the economy but in an inflationary economy interest rates might also need to rise. Such a situation might put the Fed in an uncomfortable pinch.  Monetary policy is an incomplete science. Even so, Bernanke is old enough to remember the 1970s when the Federal Reserve declined an interest rate rise. Recession and high prices appeared to be the result.What was once the most widely sold contraceptive for millions of women, the Today® Sponge, has been re-approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be brought back for sale to the American marketplace, as early as this summer.The reintroduction of the sponge, demanded by many women for years, is noteworthy because it offers certain distinct advantages versus other forms of contraceptive:It does not interfere with the natural sensations of intercourse, compared with male or female condoms.It does not require multiple applications of contraceptive gel or cream, unlike the diaphragm.It remains effective at preventing pregnancies for up to 24 hours after insertion, even with several acts of sexual intercourse.It will legally be made available over-the-counter an estimated price of $7.49 to $8.99 for a package of 3.The sponge does not, however, protect against sexually transmitted diseases, and it carries with it certain minor risks which should be noted by potential users.There is a minor risk of Toxic Shock Syndrome, a risk also carried by certain other female hygiene products, such as tampons.Product should not be inserted during menstruation, and should be removed after no more than 30 hours of continuous use.The sponge has also been found less effective as a form of birth control than oral contraceptives, Depo-Provera injections or an intrauterine device (IUD), although similar in effectiveness to the male condom.  A pregnancy rate of 13 to 16% is expected from a year of "typical use" as a standalone method of birth control.  The product varies in effectiveness depending on if the woman forgets to insert the device before intercourse, uses the device incorrectly, or fails to wait at least 6 hours after intercourse before removing the device.At least 28 people drowned and were confirmed dead, 46 were rescued, while 34 others remain missing on Sunday, after an overcrowded passenger motorboat capsized off waters in Ballesteros, a town of 17,000 people, the Cagayan police reported. 'M/B Mae Jan', a wooden-hulled ferry, was carrying 102 passengers, after an eight-hour voyage from Calayan Island in the Luzon Strait for Appari when it capsized less than 300 meters (984 feet) from its destination, at 8:30 p.m. Its bamboo outrigger broke due to strong waves, as it reached the mouth of the Cagayan River ('Bannag' Rio Grande de Cagayan, 'Ilog ng Kagayan'), along Barangay Linao, about 50 meters from the shoreline of Pallog village.Divers from the combined teams of the Philippine Navy and Coast Guard helped in the rescue operations. 11 of the fatalities, including the vessel owner, Arellano, and her daughter were identified. The police said  "there was a possibility that the boat was overloaded," saying that "there was also livestock on board."  Due to "trauma," the ferry's captain refused to talk to police.Meanwhile, the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) formed a Special Board of Marine Inquiry (SBMI) to investigate the sea tragedy. It ordered the "immediate dispatch of SAR-003 and MCS-3005 vessels and the PCG Islander for aerial surveillance." PCG noted the  possible overloading of the vessel since the boat's franchise authorized it to carry only 40 passengers and 10 crew members.In November, a cargo vessel sank in rough seas north of Cagayan, and passing vessels rescued 16 of 20 passengers. Weeks earlier, separate storms sank two passenger vessels in the central Philippines, drowning more than 50 people.Prior to the ferry sinking, the Philippine weather bureau had issued Gale warnings to coastal towns, of approaching tropical storm "Ulysses" (international codename: Dolphin) from the Pacific with winds of up to 60 miles (95 kilometers) per hour, centered off southeastern Catanduanes, eastern Philippines.7,810 Jeep SUVs are to be recalled in order to address a software vulnerability in the vehicles' entertainment systems which allows the vehicles to be "hacked" — allows vehicle software security to be compromised — Fiat Chrysler Automobiles US (FCA US) said on Friday. This recall affects some 2015 model Jeep Renegades.FCA US said exploiting the vulnerability would take "unique and extensive technical knowledge, prolonged physical access to a subject vehicle and extended periods of time to write code.” They said there are no known instances where the software vulnerability has caused injury to anyone.They said owners of affected cars can fix the software vulnerability by inserting a device containing a software patch into a USB port inside the car.Another 1.4 million vehicles manufactured by the company have also been recalled last month, when white hat hackers discovered they were able to hack and disable the engines of the affected vehicles remotely.Fiat announced on Friday that it intends to purchase the six percent of automaker Chrysler that the US government currently owns, which would give the Italian company a 52 percent majority stake in Chrysler.According to Fiat's announcement, the company has told the US Treasury that it intends to use its option to buy the share in Chrysler held by the US government, a deal that will be finalized by June 10.  If a price is not agreed on by that time, Fiat will pay the average of the estimates of two investment banks.In 2009, Fiat bought a twenty percent stake in Chrysler, which had just exited bankruptcy, and has since increased its holding to 46 percent, expected to increase to 57% by the end of this year.According to analyst Maryann Keller, the deal is a good one for both companies, as "[n]either one has the ability to compete alone in the kind of global environment that they face." Analyst Rebecca Lindland said that the move will also benefit the companies by getting "them out from underneath any hint of government ownership and any of that negativity that went along with the bailout."Popular file-sharing site The Pirate Bay was sold yesterday for 60 million Swedish krona (£4.7 million).  Swedish gaming company Global Gaming Factory (GGF) was the purchaser, paying half the price in cash and the rest in shares of the company.In April 2009, the owners of The Pirate Bay, Frederik Neij, Gottfrid Svartholm Warg, Carl Lundstrom and Peter Sunde, were found guilty of copyright infringement, fined SEK30 million and sentenced to a year in jail.  They are currently appealing the sentence, with allegations the judge, being a member of various copyright protection lobbies, was not impartial.GGF has plans to start paying for copyright content linked from the site, although it is unclear exactly how this will work at the moment.Peter Sunde was quoted as saying, "We feel that we can't take The Pirate Bay any further. We're in a bit of a frozen situation where there's not much happening and there are neither people nor money to develop things."Hans Pandeya, the head of GGF, said in a statement, "We would like to introduce models which entail that content providers and copyright owners get paid for content that is downloaded via the site.  Content creators and providers need to control their content and get paid for it."It is also unclear what will happen to the newly launched site, The Video Bay. Launched by The Pirate Bay founders, it will offer streaming of copyrighted content.The third and last bidder for Singapore's Sentosa Integrated Resort (IR) project, Eighth Wonder, submitted its development plan yesterday: a SGD 5.5 billion(USD 3.52 billion) eco-friendly casino known as "Harry's Island".Harry's Island will boast 10 luxury, family-oriented hotels, a tree house with family suites, and a 7,500-seat Caldera theater which will feature nightly spectacular shows.Eighth Wonder says it wants to make Harry's Island a world-class, must-see tourist destination and has roped-in several big names in its tender. If selected, the resort will have spas and health centers run by health guru Deepak Chopra, Vera Wang hotels with access to her entire wedding collection, and a soccer academy with Brazilian soccer icon Pele giving his input.Harry's Island will create around 15,000 jobs, including 5000 in the food and beverage industry.The company believes it can recover its investments by 2015 by generating over $5.6 billion in five years; it hopes to bring nearly 15 million visitors annually by 2014.The Sentosa IR project is the second of two IR tenders offered by the Singapore Government: the first was located in Marina Bay.The Singapore government is expected to announce the winner in December.The final Harry Potter book in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, has gone on sale today. The book was launched simultaneously across the world.The book launched first in the UK, where the book went on sale from midnight. Fans in one central London bookshop started joining the queue from 10:30 p.m., which soon reached the door of the shop and out onto the street. The book chain Waterstone's held 'Harry Potter parties', giving out free glasses of wine and snacks. The mood was good-natured and jolly, with some fans dressed up in costume.New Zealand fans of the series had a launch time of 11.01 a.m. (NZST). Due to high competition among major retail chains, the book was being sold for as little as NZ$32.99 at Whitcoulls; a profit margin of four cents with each book sold. The recommended retail price was NZ$55.00. Many supermarkets in the UK cut prices even further as a publicity stunt with, for example, ASDA selling copies at a loss, at about 1/4 of the recommended retail price.It was also an early release for Australian fans of the series, at 9.01 a.m. (Sydney). A Sydney Borders store had a line reaching out halfway across the street. In Brisbane City, Borders had a line from the shop, down the street and around the corner.150 fans in New Zealand's capital, Wellington, were waiting outside a Border's bookstore at 8.00 a.m. to be some of the first to get their hands on a copy. A bookstore nearby, Dymocks, also had a large crowd, an estimated 100 people were waiting. One person arriving there at 6.30 a.m. At one New Zealand Whitcoulls store, they had a entertainer/magician keeping fans entertained while waiting for 11.01 a.m. In Germany, however, some bookshops were disappointed with the turnout for the Harry Potter book launch events.The Harry Potter series has already sold 325 million copies worldwide. 1.3 million of those were sold in New Zealand, a quarter of New Zealand's population. The Wikipedia article on the latest book became disabled for editing by unregistered and newly registered users within 5 minutes of the book's release.The current financial crisis have recently caused the Wielka Orkiestra Świątecznej Pomocy (Great Orchestra of Christmas Charity), one of the top Polish charity organizations, to reduce spending on The Great Finale events, which are scheduled to take place on January 11, 2009. As a result, all major events in the city of Wrocław, have been canceled.Although many companies have declared they will help with organizing and will provide essential products for volunteers, the organizers are still in need financial aid for concerts and other mass events.Every year, during The Great Finale, the Orchestra's volunteers collect several million zloties, which are then given to various health-care organizations to help  young patients. Since 1993, when the first Finale took place, the Orchestra has collected near $100 million (~290 million złoty).Finnish air carrier Finnair has entered talks with major Indian airlines concerning a possible partnership deal to feed Finnair's international operations with domestic connecting flights, said president and CEO Jukka Hienonen.“We are in partnership talks with the leading airlines of India. We need this in the long run. This would simply make our connections locally better and it would also help in timetable coordination with the connecting flights... People would not fly to only where we fly. They would like to fly to other destinations as well, within India. So we would need a local partner to cooperate,” said Hienonen, who refused to name any of the airlines involved.Finnair launched services to India in 2006 and will soon step up to thirteen flights a week there, with daily flights from New Delhi and six-days-a-week from Mumbai. There are plans to also fly from Bangalore or Chennai within two to three years.Finnair is a member of Oneworld Alliance, which is the world's third-largest airline alliance and includes members such as British Airways, American Airlines, Qantas and Japan Airlines and other major international airlines. Hienonen explained that he wished the alliance to include an Indian airline, saying "I have also been urging the board of Oneworld that we should have an Indian partner as well. That is also in the process at the moment. So ideally, we may partner the same airline.”The airline has seen rapid sales growth since beginning services in India. Finnair believes that there is significant potential to serve business travellers due to good commercial links between the countries. Around 70 major Finnish companies including mobile phone manufacturer Nokia and engineering giant KONE have plans for large-scale expansion in India and employ as many as 11,000 Indians, while Infosys, Sasken and Wipro and other large Indian software companies are set to begin operations in Finland.Also discussed were related fleet modernisation plans. "By the first quarter of 2010, we would be phasing out all our Boeing MD-11s [the MD-11 is sometime considered a Boeing after the company bought out McDonnell Douglas] and they would be replaced by Airbus A340s and A330s... Airbus 330s are best for shorter routes. We will have five of them by the first half of next year and they will be primarily for the Indian traffic," stated Hienonen, explaining that the older airliners have greater fuel consumptions. High fuel costs have caused a number of airline shutdowns in recent years.Finnair, currently in its 85th year, is one of the world's oldest airlines still conducting operations. The company flew 8.6 million passengers in 2007, 1.2 million of whom were on the airline's Asian routes. Last year saw a two billion Euro turnover, and the firm employs 9,500 people worldwide.Sweden-based Nordic fashion chain Lindex AB has been offered 7.9 billion kronor (€861 million; US$1.2 billion) in a takeover bid by Stockmann Oyj Abp, a Finnish department store chain based in Helsinki.The board of Lindex is said to have recommended acceptance of the deal, which significantly outdid a  7 billion kronor (€763 million; US$1.08 billion) offer by rival KappAhl Holding AB, another clothing vendor, in August. The board had recommended shareholders reject that offer as too low.Stockmann's increase to 116 Kroner from KappAhl's 102 Kroner per share was said by Lindex to be a reasonable price. KappAhl have withdrawn their offer as a result.Lindex Chairman Conny Karlsson said "We believe that Stockmann actively can contribute with their experience and know-how in order to accelerate our expansion in Eastern and Central Europe.," The chain is one of Europe's biggest fashion chains, operating 350 stores in Sweden, Norway, Finland, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia.Earlier this week the World Bank released the 2012 World Development Report on Gender Equality and Development. The report noted relatively high numbers of women participating in Finnish politics, and credited the Council for Equality between Men and Women in Finland with progress.Finland bucks the global trend; the report notes globally "the number of women holding parliamentary seats is very low, and progress in the last 15 years has been slow." Female representation in national parliaments has risen from 10% in 1995 to 17% in 2009. By contrast, Finnish female parliamentarians accounted for 38.5% of new members in 1991, rising to 42.5% in 2011. Finland was one of just nine nations whose total female cabinet members stood at more than 40% in 2008. Globally, females accounted for 17% of ministers, representing a rise from just 8% in 1998.Although not specifically mentioned by the report, since the millennium the positions of President and Prime Minister have both been held by women; Tarja Halonen became the nation's first female President in 2000 and in 2010 Mari Kiviniemi was selected to be the second female Prime Minister. Women gained suffrage in 1906 with little opposition, ahead of the US and UK.The cross-party Council for Equality between Men and Women in Finland dates back to the 1970s; the World Bank dismisses its role at that time as "primarily symbolic" with little in the way of staff, funding, or influence. In the 1980s it was handed statutory power for gender equality issues and has gone on to press for reforms in areas including sex work, job training, and quotas on political representation. The report calls the council a "success". Education, however, showed gender segregation by subject at the tertiary level; Finland was one of several countries singled out as examples of high gender segregation in economically developed countries, compared to lower levels of segregation in less well-developed nations. Finland is one of the four members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development with the highest segregation by subject alongside Croatia, Japan, and Lithuania.Finland has very high levels of education enrollment for both boys and girls, at almost 100% at primary level. Females are ahead of men in tertiary education enrollment, with 46% of men in the relevant age group enrolling in 1991 and 52% of women. By 2009 these numbers stood at 82% and 101% respectively.Boys and girls were neck and neck with high scores in their 2009 Programme for International Student Assessment maths tests, both averaging around 540. Literacy also produced very high scores but with a gender gap; boys averaged around 510 while girls averaged around 560.Internet access in Finland is high with men slightly ahead; for men and women alike access stands at around 85%. Finns have a legal right to a 1Mbps broadband connection and authorities plan to have 100Mbps connections for every citizen by 2015. The proportion of women teleworking at least 25% of the time has risen from around 7% in 2000–1 to 9% in 2005; the male figure was at 9% in 2005 and is now 15–20%. Rapid teleworking growth is a global trend but the report notes the female figures generally grew faster.Marketplace activities also show gender disparity in Finland. Of activities performed by men and women, the female share stands at 41%, versus 63% for domestic activities such as housework. From 2006–9 services accounted for 87% of female and 56% of male employment. 10% of women and 37% of men were employed in industry and agriculture was only a minor employer, with 6% of male employment and 3% of female employment.Life expectancy for Finnish men has risen from 71 years in 1990 to 77 years in 2009; in the same period, women's life expectancy increased from 79 years to 83 years. The population stands at 5 million, representing a 0.4% annual growth rate from 2000 to 2010.Finland's unemployment rate has continued falling steadily, as it has been doing for two years, and hit a 16-year low in July at 5.9%, it has been announced.The announcement by the Finnish government statistics agency bettered predictions by the Finance Ministry, which had predicted a rate of 6.7% this year and 6.3% next year. The dramatic decrease is being fueled by strong economic growth in the country.The figures come from a survey carried out for the government by Statistics Finland.These latest figures mean that out of Finland's population of 5.3 million, 161,000 were jobless in July, compared with 179,000 at the same time last year.It was a milestone in aviation history: the first Airbus A380 landed at Singapore's Changi International Airport at 6:40 p.m. (GMT+8) after a 12-hour flight from Airbus' Delivery Center. The aircraft was greeted by some 400 guests, including the Prime Minister of Singapore, Mr. Lee Hsien Loong, at the soon-to-open Terminal 3 of Changi International Airport.In his speech, the Prime Minister applauded Singapore Airlines (SIA) - the recipient carrier - and cited its success as a source of pride for all Singaporeans. He also said that the landing was a milestone not only for SIA, but also for Changi International Airport, the country's main airport. All existing terminals are currently A380-ready, and the SGD1.75-billion Terminal 3 will open its doors in January next year.The A380 will make a special charity flight on October 25 from Singapore to Sydney and will begin regular service on the Singapore-Sydney route on October 28.First Active has become the first financial institution to offer 100% mortgages in the Republic of Ireland. The bank previously offered 100% financing to professionals in finance and medicine, but is now to offer this product to anyone who can afford to meet the repayments.The development is a huge boost for first time home buyers who have been struggling to get on the Irish property market in recent years due to the rapid increase in house prices. A typical first time buyer in Dublin with 92% financing would normally have to put down a deposit of €20,000-€30,000 in cash, but now have the option to produce no deposit.First Active has said that 100% mortgages will be available across its entire range of mortgage products.Note however that this is not necessarily an entirely positive development.The United States and most of Europe have experienced a housing price bubble in recent years.  A bubble occurs when buyers purchase a property not because its price is appropriate for its actual value but because they expect the price to significantly rise in the short term permitting resale with a profit.In other words, the prices people pay for properties becomes divorced from the real value of the property; the purchase is speculative and depends purely upon the expectation that people will continue to buy properties in this way (e.g. without proper consideration of their real value).The terrible weakness in this is that when the market corrects itself and prices fall to a level where properties are being priced at their actual realistic value, anyone holding a property loses a great deal of money, since the price they paid does not reflect the actual realistic value of the property.This kind of shock to the housing market is extremely undesirable.  Significant write downs in the value of property often significantly depress the economy as a whole.Less than 100% mortgages force buyers to invest a significant amount of money in the act of purchasing their house, which tends to discourage purely speculative purchasing, thus helping to mediate house price bubbles.With 100% financing, anyone who can meet repayments can speculatively purchase a property.  This naturally encourages pricing bubbles.The first A380 superjumbo, made by Airbus, was delivered today to Singapore Airlines (SIA) 18 months behind schedule.After the plane was delivered in Singapore, it was flown to Toulouse, France for the ceremony of about 500 guests.The plane is built with four Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines.The first flight will take off for a "special charity-flight" from Singapore and land in Sydney on October 25. Special services will continue from October 28."This is a major milestone for the A380 programme, and I would like to express my deepest appreciation to all parties concerned. I want to thank our teams and all those who worked hard, days, nights, and week-ends, for their dedication and commitment," said Airbus President and Chief Executive Officer, Tom Enders.On Sunday, a group of 80 people from Beijing and Shanghai landed at Heathrow to become the first Chinese to arrive in the United Kingdom on tourist visas.After protracted negotiations last year, the UK was granted "Approved Destination Status" (ADS) by the People's Republic of China in January 2005. The agreement will also allow travel companies to establish offices in China to promote tourism to the UK.Before the signing of the agreement, China allowed only students and people on business trips to visit the country. It is estimated that 135,000 people visited the UK last year — just 0.6% of China's external tourism market.The 80 tourists are expected to visit London, Oxfordshire, Stratford-upon-Avon and Scotland, where they will meet the First Minister, Jack McConnell, in Edinburgh Castle. The Duke of York is expected to greet the tourists at the Tower of London later today. Other destinations will include Liverpool (twinned with Shanghai) and Manchester's Old Trafford stadium, where the football team Manchester United play. They have a large following in China and are currently on a Far East tour. They are to play Beijing Hyundai in a friendly match tomorrow. The visit comes after the London attacks earlier this month provoked fears by the British tourist industry of a reduction in tourism to the UK.The UK tourist industry hopes that by 2020, Chinese tourism to the UK will bring £500 million pounds (about $878 million US dollars) annually to the UK economy.Tehran — The first Iraq-Iran passenger flight since war broke out between the two nations 25 years ago, has arrived safely in Tehran. The plane left Baghdad International Airport with 65 passengers and touched down in the Iranian capital a few hours later. It was an historic event, marking the end of a quarter-century of hostilities during which all flights from and to Iran were suspended by the former Ba'athist regime.A spokesperson for the Iranian civil aviation authority, Reza Jafarzadeh, told Agence France Presse that there were plans to resume regular commercial flights from Baghdad to Tehran on November 16, although Iran would not consider flying its own aircraft to Iraq until the security situation was resolved. Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told reporters that the "protection of Iraq's territorial integrity, independence and might is of special significance to Iran."The United States and Britain have repeatedly accused Iran of allowing militants to cross its border to help Iraq's insurgents fight the US occupation. Earlier today, Major-General Jim Dutton, a British soldier commanding a multinational force in Basra, gave a press conference in Washington during which he claimed that insurgents were getting the technology to create increasingly sophisticated bombs from across the border.Today marks the official opening of the first Caspian Sea oil pipeline, named the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline. The $3.2 billion pipeline travels through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey, bringing crude oil from the Caspian Sea to the Turkish port of Ceyhan. The United States is heavily backing the pipeline, hoping to use the oil output from the pipeline without passing by Russian pipelines. The pipeline also enables the United States to avoid purchasing oil from Iran.The countries who are involved in the pipeline are hoping to increase revenues from the pipeline, which is expected to ship up to 1 million barrels a day.The countries are also concerned with the high likelihood of the underground pipeline to be a target of terrorism attacks. The countries hope the pipeline is well-enough protected.For the first time in over a half a century, regular train service hosting cargo crossed between North and South Korea.The train is 12 cars long and is carrying building materials to Kaesong, a key industrial junction for the two countries. The train will head back immediately after unloading. The service will continue at least once every week day.South Korean leaders say that cargo trains are just a start, although North Korea will not allow anything beyond cargo as of yet. "Though we start with a cargo train, it will lead to a passenger train service and will soon be linked to the continental trains," said Korean Railroad President, Lee Chul to the press.Buses, cars, and trucks are allowed across the border, but trains have not been until now. The roads which allowed those types of vehicles to enter North Korea were rebuilt after the first summit held between the two nations in 2000. The rail lines were destroyed in the 1950s during the Korean War.The agreement to allow a cargo service was reached in October when the two nations met for a historical second summit.A new online television channel, Internacia Televido, has been launched following just over two years of fundraising and preparation. It is the first channel ever to be broadcast entirely through the international auxiliary language Esperanto, and was launched at midnight Brazilian time on Saturday night. The name means 'International Television'. The channel aims to create an international television network combining professional content with the collaboration of ordinary users from around the world. Programmes will range from news shows and documentaries to culture, educational programming and children's entertainment.The project, supported by the World Esperanto Association amongst others, was announced in October 2003 in São Paulo by Brazilian entrepreneur Flavio Rebelo, whose media business CIDCON also runs the Esperanto language web portal Ĝangalo (www.ghangalo.com, 'Jungle') and publishes music. The original intention was to establish a 24-hour streamed online channel, with four hours of original programming per day (repeated six times daily) and a daily news bulletin. A subsequent international fundraising campaign to raise the required sum of €35,000 to establish the channel involved Rebelo speaking at several Esperanto events throughout Europe during the early months of 2004 through the support of an anonymous Asian donor.The project failed to garner sufficient funds to meet its original deadline, but in August this year Rebelo confirmed that a scaled-down version of the project would go ahead upon the sum of €23,000 being reached. The channel currently features 90 minutes of programming daily, with one weekly news bulletin, and three waged employees instead of the intended ten. It is intended that the channel will be funded past its initial six-month period through on-air advertising revenue and further private donations, and expanded as revenue permits.Experimental television broadcasts in Esperanto were not first made until the advent of Internet technology. A previous online Esperanto TV project (www.esperanto.tv), under the auspices of the Italian Transnational Radical Party, failed to realise a finished product. Since the 1920s, radio broadcasts have been made regularly in Esperanto by broadcasters such as RAI, China Radio International and Radio Polonia.The five largest United States banks need a total of US$74.6 billion in extra funds to increase their cash reserves, according to so-called "stress tests" conducted by regulators to determine whether the banks have enough capital to survive the ongoing recession."Our hope with today's actions is that banks are going to be able to get back to the business of banking," said Timothy Geithner, the US Treasury Secretary.The results of the stress-test determined that Bank of America was the bank most at risk, needing $33.9 billion. Wells Fargo will require an additional $13.7 billion, while GMAC needs $11.5 billion.Seven other banks failed the "stress test", including: Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, Regions Financial, SunTrust Banks, KeyCorp, Fifth Third Bancorp, and PNC Financial Services.Nine other banks that underwent stress tests, such as Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of New York Mellon, MetLife, American Express, State Street, BB&T, US Bancorp and Capital One Financial, were found to have enough capital in case the recession deepens.Those banks that need extra money will be set a June 8 deadline to draw up their plans to raise the additional capital and have regulators approve them.Currency exchanges offices in the United Kingdom have today stopped the sale of €500 notes after an investigation by the Serious Organised Crime Agency (SOCA) concluded that up to 90% of the notes were being used by money launderers and other organised criminals.  Ian Cruxton, deputy director of SOCA, said that the Euro had been chosen as the currency of choice by criminal gangs due to the large denomination of the notes, adding "[i]t should now be impossible now to buy a €500 note over the counter from one of the suppliers.  And that's going to have an effect on the criminals — it means they are going to have to find other means of trying to move their money."The note was introduced by the European Central Bank in 2002, when the currency itself officially entered into circulation.  The notoriety of the note's criminal uses has earned it the nickname "the Bin Laden" after Al-Qaeda suspect Osama bin Laden — something that everyone knows is out there, but law-abiding people rarely see. The Euro is the official currency of 16 European countries, colloquially known as the Eurozone, as well as unofficially in a further 4 nations.Since its introduction, there has been mounting international concern over criminal use of the large denomination note, which facilitates money laundering by allowing large concentrations of cash to be concealed in small spaces, for example, €20,000 can be concealed in a cigarette packet and £1 million in €500 notes weighs 2.2kg while the equivalent in £20 notes weighs 50kg. The highest denomination note in Sterling is £50, making high-value denominations in other currencies, such as the Euro, tempting for those wishing to move large amounts of money.  When asked if criminal demand for the note would simply be displaced to other high-value notes, such as the €200 note (the next-highest denomination), Ian Cruxton, deputy director of SOCA said he believed that would be the case, however, with less of the €200 note in circulation, their movements would be easier to track than those of the €500.Tourists returning to the UK from holidays in Europe will still be able to change their €500 notes for Sterling but will be unable to purchase them. The European Central Bank has no plans for a withdrawal of the note, given the legitimate demand for it in countries such as Germany and Italy, where cash is used far more frequently than alternatives such as credit cards.Romania's flat tax rate of 16% on personal income and corporate profits, which went into effect on January 1, 2005, has proved to have a positive effect on Romanian salaries, which increased by 5.2% in the January 2005 in comparison to December 2004. The effect is even larger when compared to January 2004, with net wages increasing by 25.3% and gross wages increasing by 18.8%.In January 2005, the gross (pre-tax) average monthly salary was 9,514,658 lei, while the net (after-tax) average monthly salary was 7,233,298, which is equal to roughly 200 euro or US$270.Romania's flat tax system is one of the most liberal fiscal policies in Europe and was introduced in order to boost spending power and salaries, encourage foreign investment and greater consumer spending.Flickr, the online photo sharing service owned by American internet company Yahoo!, today launched a new video-sharing service for "Pro" users. After 4 months of waiting since an unofficial "coming soon" on the Flickr forums, subscribers to the service are now able to upload videos of up to 90 seconds in length, or 150 MB in size.After some criticism over the website diversifying too much, Flickr Community Manager Heather Champ, and Yahoo! spokesperson George Hadjigeorgiou responded by calling these 90-second videos "long photos", which capture a "slice of life to share".Mr. Hadjigeorgiou elaborated, by saying that "digital media has led to new behaviour with digital photography fans and we've seen a huge growth in people taking short video clips, essentially 'long photos', with their digital still cameras and mobile phones." He added that he could see "a great resonance between this new category of content and with the kind of authentic, personal moments already being shared on Flickr.""Pro" users, who pay a yearly subscription of US$24.95 for unlimited file uploads, have also had their filesize limit increased to 20 MB for each individual photo, and other members, who do not pay a subscription, have had their limit raised to 10 MB per photo. "Free" members are currently unable to upload videos.Officials from France's aviation accident investigation agency, the Bureau of Enquiry and Analysis for Civil Aviation Safety (BEA), announced on Tuesday that they had recovered the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) of Air France Flight 447. It was located and brought to the surface by a Remora 6000 unmanned submarine, then taken aboard the Île de Sein, one of the vessels taking part in the recovery and salvage efforts.This came two days after an announcement on Sunday that the crash-survivable memory unit of the flight data recorder (FDR) of the aircraft had been located and brought to the surface. The chassis of the FDR was located on April 27, with the memory unit missing. It was found a short distance from the chassis. It was also brought to the surface by the Remora 6000.With the recovery of both recorders, which are reported to be "in good condition", French officials hope to determine what caused the Airbus A330-200 to crash into the Atlantic Ocean on June 1, 2009, when it departed Rio de Janeiro's Galeão International Airport before it was lost 600 miles (965 km) off the coast of Brazil en route to Paris' Charles de Gaulle Airport with 228 passengers and crew on board.The leading theory at the moment is that the crew received incorrect air speed readings from the aircraft's pitot tubes, devices which measure how fast the aircraft is traveling. Experts say the tubes may have become iced over, causing the crash. The plane's Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) sent out 24 messages over a four-minute long period stating numerous problems and warnings, including incorrect air speed warnings occurring aboard the aircraft, just prior to it going down.However, chief operating officer of the International Bureau of Aviation, Phil Seymour, speaking to CNN, believes the memory unit will not be of much use to investigators saying because of the depth it was located at,  "If you were to throw a computer into the ocean, imagine how all the parts would eventually split and you have the corrosive effects of seawater and the depths involved." Seymour believes the wreckage will help reveal what happened as more is recovered."It may be that the more wreckage they find will help them to piece it all together, which bit by bit could help them build a picture of what caused the plane to come down," he added.A BEA spokesperson had agreed with that possibility a few days earlier when speaking to the Associated Press about the recovery of the flight data recorder. "We can't say in advance that we're going to be able to read it until it's been opened," the spokesperson said. AsThe wreckage of the Airbus A330-200, was found back on April 8 at a depth of 3,800 and 4,000 meters (2,070 to 2,190 fathoms or 12,467 feet and 13,123 feet), by a team from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, using a Remus robotic submarine and its side-scan sonar. After the wreckage was found, another Remus robot submarine with cameras was sent down to the site, where it filmed bodies in the wreckage. The location of the recorders were localized within 2 square miles (5 square kilometers) of the flight's last position last year.In March, a French judge placed the European aircraft maker Airbus and Air France under investigation for possible involuntary manslaughter charges in the 2009 crash. Both are paying the cost of the search which is estimated to be $12.7 million (nine million euro). The crash is the deadliest in Air France's history.All airline traffic within 250 miles of Houston, Texas was suspended today by the The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) because of an equipment failure at the control center at Memphis International Airport.Numerous flights from all around the country had to be grounded today because of the problem. It is not known exactly how many flights were affected.FAA spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen said air traffic control centers from neighboring regions handled flights that were in the air when the problem was discovered around 12:30 p.m. EDT. "The airspace was completely cleared by 1:30 p.m. Eastern time," Bergen said.Bergen also said, "What we did is put a ground stop in place for any flight that would transition through that airspace. We held them on the ground wherever they were, whether it was Miami, Seattle, Los Angeles, Boston."An airport spokesman said the problem was fixed at Memphis International Airport and scheduled flights have resumed.Floating wreckage has been retrieved from a Brazilian Cessna 310 that disapeared on Friday with two local pilots and four businessmen from the United Kingdom. The debris was recovered from a beach in the North-East of the country.The aircraft had been chartered by the businessmen from Aero Star to carry them as part of a trip to evaluate a potential luxury housing development. They have been identified as Nigel Hodges, 52, Alan Kempson, 46, Sean Woodhall, 43, and Ricky Every, 41. Nothing has been heard from them or their pilots since the plane lost radio contact on Friday evening and vanished.The beach where the debris was recovered is about 90 to 95 kilometres (55 to 60 miles) North of the aircraft's last known position. The items retrieved are said to be a piece of one of the seats and a fragment of the cargo stowage area.A naval boat, two C-95s from the air force and a helicopter are amongst the resources deployed to try and locate the aircraft and its missing occupants. One airforce spokeswoman said "Hopefully [they're alive], but we don't know." The property the men were planning is an "eco-development" proposed by Worldwide Destinations, which is presided by Woodhall, who is a resident of Switzerland. The company employs Every in Brazil, and Kempson and Hadges are from finance company Diamond Lifestyle Holdings. Kempson is reported to be a friend of former UK Prime Minister Sir John Major. Hodges' wife and son have flown to Brazil to be present during the rescue operation.Food deliveries from the RMT were allowed into the Vestas plant in Newport, England yesterday, but were cut off by Vestas management this afternoon.Protesters at the Isle of Wight factory celebrated the delivery of supermarket bags filed with groceries, which entered with a police escort. This morning, the sixteen remaining occupiers were told to prepare a list of items for future deliveries. But, according to "Mark", an occupier in the Vestas plant, this afternoon Vestas management reversed their decision, terming the August 1 food delivery a one-time "goodwill gesture" and saying food would no longer be allowed in. The food delivery followed a formal complaint by the RMT that denying the occupiers food was a violation of their human rights. The people inside the factory have been conducting their occupation since July 20, in protest against the closure of the factory, which produces wind turbine blades for the generation of wind power, and the loss of 625 jobs in the Isle of Wight and nearby areas.Mark went on to praise the "brave people" who have circumvented the security ring around the plant in order to get food and other items to the occupiers. An electric kettle thrown at the end of a rope up to the occupiers is said to be working well. Mark also noted that Louise Christian, a prominent British human rights lawyer, is now representing the Vestas occupiers. While the number of occupiers at the Vestas plant — originally nearly thirty, now only sixteen — have dwindled, Mark says the ones who remain are "very determined" and furthermore hold no ill will toward their co-workers who have left the occupation. In particular, the occupiers offered sympathy for Luke Paxton, who they say left the occupation due to a combination of personal issues and malnutrition brought on by the deprivation of food. Paxton, Mark said, has the remaining occupiers' "full support" and continues to campaign for the Vestas workers.Mark also clarified the origins of the occupation. In contrast to claims that green socialist group Workers' Climate Action were behind the occupation, Mark presented a more nuanced picture: the Vestas workers' initial contacts were with veterans of the occupation of Visteon's auto parts plants, with the AWL, SWP and Socialist Party becoming involved later with "quite a big involvement" from all groups. Members of Workers' Climate Action attended Vestas workers' meetings and gave their opinions, but, Mark says, a committee organised by the workers and composed of workers was making all the decisions.Mark also strongly rejected the support of Solidarity, a "nationalist trade union" closely associated with the BNP. In a July 24 statement, Solidarity backed the Vestas workers, with union executive member David Kerr saying "We are behind the Vestas workers 100 per cent. British jobs must be protected." Mark, in reply, told Wikinews: "We do not want their support...they go against a lot of the things people believe in here. We have Polish workers with us. They're our friends."Most of the Vestas occupiers remain independent of trade unions, with only three of the sixteen people inside being members of any union.Mark closed with a message of solidarity with the occupiers of two Thomas Cook branches in Dublin, Ireland, whose employees began a sit-in at their offices on Friday after the announcement of surprise closures. "We fully support what you're doing. Don't back down...do not be pushed around, do not be intimidated".The Vestas occupiers have also exchanged messages of solidarity with SsangYong Motor Company in South Korea. Workers at SsangYong have been occupying their factory since May 22 in protest against a 36% cut in employees there.The occupation continues accompanied by a warning of increased union unrest in Britain. Neil O'Brien of centre-right think tank Policy Exchange told The Daily Telegraph that, while labour unrest had increased, the current state of affairs is "nothing compared to what is going to happen once the brakes are slammed on public spending."Ford has announced sweeping cuts of 21% (168,000 units) in its US and Canadian production, resulting in the partial closure of ten of its plants during the fourth quarter. The measure comes on top of existing turnaround plans announced in January, in which 25,000 to 30,000 positions should be cut and 14 plants closed by 2012.Ford is the world’s third-largest automaker and the U.S.’s second-largest. However it has in recent years been struggling with poor profitability and shrinking market shares. In 2005 it lost $1.6 billion and recently the company reported a second quarter loss of $254 million and a 34% year-year decline in sales for the month of July.George Pipas, director of sales analysis at Ford, points to rising gas prices having negative impact on the sale of the companies SUV lines as well as its sales leader, the F-series pickup truck as being the direct cause of the latest initiative.So far the following plants are thought to be affected: St. Thomas Assembly of St. Thomas, Ontario, CanadaChicago, IllinoisWixom Assembly Plant of  Wixom, Michigan, MichiganLouisville Assembly of Louisville, KentuckyMichigan Truck Plant of Wayne, MichiganSt. Paul, MinnesotaKansas City Assembly of Kansas City,  MissouriNorfolk Assembly of Norfolk, VirginiaRiver Rouge Plant of Dearborn, MichiganFord's stock fell 17 cents (2.1%) to $8 on the New York Stock Exchange.The Ford Motor Company, the second-largest car manufacturer in America, will cut 30,000 jobs and 14 plants as part of a restructuring plan to relieve Ford after a US$1.6 billion loss last year in North American sales.The plan, called "Way Forward", the brainchild of Ford's Chief Executive Officer, William Clay Ford Jr., is to end Ford's North American losses by 2008. To accomplish this 30,000 jobs which make up 20 to 25 percent of Ford's North American workforce of 122,000 people will be cut and 14 plants will be closed in order to bring Ford's production capacity in line with demand.By the end of this year, the Atlanta and St. Louis plants will be closed. Atlanta makes the Ford Taurus sedan, which is being phased out. The St. Louis plant is one of two plants that manufactures the Ford Explorer, whose sales had a 29% decline in 2005. It will also close its Wixom, Michigan plant, Batavia Transmission in Ohio the Windsor Casting plant in Ontario which was previously announced by Ford that it was to be closed after contract negotiations with the Canadian Auto Workers union. The plant in St. Thomas, Ontario plant will have one shift cut from it. The plant makes the Crown Victoria and Grand Marquis cars. On this cut of the one shift, Whitey MacDonald, chairperson of Local 1520, Canadian Auto Workers union said "There is a lot of anger here today, there is no doubt about it. Any time a plant goes to one shift, it puts them in limbo. This car has made the company millions of dollars over the years they have invested in other products and locations - we are entitled to some new investment given our track record." Positive news for the plant is that Ford is still committed to invest $200 million into the plant to upgrade the appearance of the two cars manufactured there. On the contrary, according to Automotive analyst Dennis DesRosier believes that the factory is still "likely" to close. DesRoiser said, "The St. Thomas plant is old, the product is old, it make sense it is on that list. This may be just a short-term reprieve, it may be look at permanent closure in two to three years."Two more plants will close in 2008, another two in 2012. Two more plants to be closed are to be announced later this year. Also, Ford will fire 12% of its 53 executive officers.Due to the company's current contract with the United Auto Workers union, workers at the idled plants will still be receiving their pay and benefits until Ford negotiates a new contract with the union. However, the workers may not earn what they earn today because they will not be eligible for overtime.The UAW President Ron Gettelfinger and Vice President Gerald Bantom called say the plan is "extremely disappointing." The UAW issued statement saying "The impacted hourly and salaried workers find themselves facing uncertain futures because of senior management's failure to halt Ford's sliding market share. The announcement has further left a cloud hanging over the entire work force because of pending future announcements of additional facilities to be closed at some point in the future."Ford Motors Co., the automobile manufacturing firm, has posted an annual profit for the last year of US$2.7 billion, the first gain for four years.The statistics are an improvement from 2008, when the car company posted a loss of close to $15 billion. For the final quarter of 2009, Ford says it made profits of $868 million, and expects to continue to be profitable this year. The company had cut its costs to $118.3 billion last year, $19.8 billion than the year previous. Ford had a $34.3 billion debt at the end of 2009.In the fourth quarter, Ford brand sales were up thirteen percent compared to the same time in 2008 in the US, and obtained 15.3% of the automobile market in the country.The firm's president and chief executive, Alan Mulally, commented on the profits. "While we still face significant challenges ahead, 2009 was a pivotal year for Ford and the strongest proof yet that our One Ford plan is working and that we are forging a path toward profitable growth," he said, adding that "global economic conditions are reviving but remain fragile."Ford Motor Company, the U.S. car maker, will reportedly pay €57 million (US$78 million) for a 72.4 percent stake in the Romanian assembly plant Automobile Craiova, a Romanian official said Friday."The offer of Ford Motor Company for a 72.4 percent stake is €4.1556 per share or €57 million overall," said Sebastian Vladescu, head of the State Property Agency (AVAS), after opening Ford's improved offer. Vladescu added that the contract may be signed on September 12, during the auto show in Frankfurt.The Romanian government bought back the Craiova-based car maker from Daewoo Motors, in late 2006 for US$51 million. As the Korean company was bankrupt, the government had to pay another $10 million for debts stemming from past loans. Ford is the only bidder for the purchase of the factory.According to Washington Post, many auto-part makers have set up in the new European Union member country, attracted by cheap labor, favourable tax rates and the rising output of Renault's Dacia plant. The vice president of Dacia, Constantin Stroe, said that the price Ford offers is not important. "It's important to have the factory working as soon as possible", he added. "With this production facility, Romania will become an important auto production center in Europe", concluded Stroe, cited by HotNews.Facing a threatened boycott from the American Family Association, Ford Motor Company pulled its advertising from gay publications early this week.  The American Family Association (AFA) quickly claimed a cultural victory after Ford made the decision.  The AFA was threatening to boycott Ford because of its previous support for certain gay civil rights associations, such as the Human Rights Campaign, and advertising in the gay media in publications such as The Advocate.In June, the AFA announced that it would postpone a boycott when Ford agreed to negotiate with the organization.  The negotiations were organized by Ford Executives Ziad Ojakli and David Leitch, both of whom previously held important posts in the Bush White House."They've heard our concerns; they are acting on our concerns. We are pleased with where we are," said AFA’s chairman Donald Wildmon. "Obviously there are still some small matters of difference, as people will always have, but generally speaking, we are pleased with the results—and therefore the boycott that had been suspended [is] now officially ended."According to the AFA’s Web site, the list of demands included that Ford and all of its brands stop donating money, merchandise, and endorsements to pride celebrations and groups such as the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, the Human Rights Campaign, and the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force.  HRC, GLAAD, and the Task Force are expected to release statements by close of business on Friday. The AFA ended in May what is considered a largely ineffective nine-year boycott of The Walt Disney Co.  The boycott had been launched over its holding of gay-related events at its theme parks and for giving employees with same-sex domestic partners benefits equal to those with other-sex partners.Ford Motor Company CEO Alan Mulally has reported that Ford will rename the Ford Five Hundred to the Taurus for the 2008 model year, when a facelifted model is expected to be launched to improve the lackluster sales of the outgoing model. Mulally says that Ford's decision to name all their cars with the letter F was a lackluster move, and makes their names easily forgettable. As a result, Mulally plans on reviving many respected Ford nameplates, the Taurus being one of them, and the Falcon possibly in the future.The Ford Taurus was originally introduced in 1986, and was a revolutionary car that rewrote the rules for creating a sedan, and pushed the other American automakers to follow suit, leading to a design revolution that completely rid Detroit of the "boxy" cars of the 70s and 80s. The Taurus survived for four generations, selling over 7,500,000 units.   The Taurus was discontinued in October 2006, after a brief run of 2007 models destined for fleet customers."How can it go away?" Alan Mulally remembered asking, "It's the best-selling car in America."While it is not expected for the name change to turn the Five Hundred into a 400,000 plus units a year blockbuster like the Taurus, it is expected to make sales more solid, and to make the car well known, since the Taurus is a well known nameplate around the country.Ford Motor Company said on Tuesday that its sales in the United States rose 43% in February compared to the same period last year, as the automaker outsold rivals Toyota and General Motors.  Ford said that total sales improved to 142,285 units, compared to 141,951 units sold by GM.  Additionally, Ford said that its share of the total US car market rose to 17%, up from 14% a year ago.  The increase was better than analysts had predicted, and Ford's stock rose to a five-year high in morning trading, before declining later in the day.  Ford's sales were significantly influenced by a 74% increase in fleet sales to businesses. Rental car agencies alone accounted for around 30,000 units sold.  Sales to retail consumers increased only 28%.The increases were led by sales of two sedans, the Fusion and Taurus, which rose 166.5 and 93.3% respectively, although sales of other models such as SUVs and pickup trucks also increased.  Both models were significantly redesigned last year, and analysts said that improved quality from such cars were driving the increases.Other companies also reported February sales today, nearly all reporting sales gains as well, although none as large as those of Ford. Toyota was the sole exception to the sales gains, as their sales declined 8.7%, as the company was faced with a global recall during the month that led to a temporary stoppage of production for some models."The strength of our new products ... are resonating with customers," said Ken Czubay, Ford’s vice president of sales and marketing. However, he believed that traditional Toyota customers were not buying rival autos, but rather awaiting the results from the recalls.Italian-based Fiat Auto SPA and US-based Ford Motor Co. announced they signed an agreement to cooperate in designing two small car models. This came only seven months after General Motors severed their relationship with Fiat.Both companies plan to work together on a new version of the popular Fiat Cinquecento and on a replacement for the Ford Ka, both to be based on the Fiat Panda platform.The cooperation can help reduce the companies' small car production costs and ease financial difficulties they are facing. Ford is struggling with high labor and health care costs, while Fiat suffers from its unprofitable Italian plants.After the deal was announced, shares of Fiat rose $0.06 to $9.44, while Ford gained $0.06 to $9.95 on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).Romania's level of foreign direct investment rose by 19% in the first six months (January-July) of 2005 when compared to the same period of 2004, according to the Romanian Agency for Foreign Investment (ARIS). The country recorded US$750 million of foreign investment in this period, and 56 total investment projects, in comparison to 40 projects between January and July 2004. The majority of the investments occurred in the Bucharest-Ilfov region, which includes the Romanian capital.The rise in foreign investment is mainly attributed due to a more liberal taxation policy introduced by the Romanian government on January 1, 2005, which centres around a 16% flat tax on personal income and corporate profit. Additionally, the country's expected membership of the European Union in 2007 and its relatively stable political climate also led to an increase in foreign investment in 2005.Toronto,Ontario —Foreign investors invested a record CA$53.2 billion into Candian securities in 2004, Statistics Canada says.This was almost double the CA$18.5 billion recorded in 2003 and just beat the previous record of CA$52.8 billion in 1993.Of the 53.2 billion, about 35 billion was put into stocks and 20 billion into various bonds. "For the year as a whole, foreign investors picked up $20.2 billion in Canadian bonds; a substantial increase over the $7.0 billion purchased in 2003 but just half the high of 2001," the agency said.Roughly half of the purchases were directly influenced by the acquisition of John Hancock Financial services in April which has created the largest North American insurer.Canadians themselves were also buying foreign securities in record amounts."Overall for 2004, Canadian investors purchased $16.2 billion in foreign securities. Of this, outlays of $15.1 billion were made in foreign bonds - almost double the amount from the year before and by far the largest ever yearly investment by Canadian investors in the foreign bond market,"It has been revealed at the Cole inquiry that former Australian Wheat Board chairman Trevor Flugge was paid almost AU$1,000,000 by the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) to provide "agricultural assistance" to Iraq for less than one year. The Prime Minister today defended the payment, saying that Mr Flugge's background and experience justified the sum.The Opposition attacked the government over the issue, suggesting that the money was wasted and could have been better spent helping children."AusAid is now tied up in the wheat for weapons scandal, [having] spent almost $700,000 sending Trevor Flugge off to Iraq to take photos of himself with guns," said Bob Sercombe, Labor spokesman on overseas aid and Pacific Island affairs."Every dollar spent on Trevor Flugge is one less dollar for spending on children in developing countries."During an interview today Prime Minister John Howard defended the payment of money to Mr Flugge, arguing that he had the appropriate skills. "Well you have to look at the availability of people, you have to look at the fact that we wanted to have somebody in that position who knew a lot about the wheat industry generally, about agriculture and certainly somebody who on his track record to them was somebody who would look to the interests of the Australian wheat industry. When you know and appreciate and acknowledge the value of wheat exports to this country, having somebody with the background that Flugge had in the wheat industry able to look after Australia's interests," Mr Howard said. It was also revealed at a recent Senate estimates hearing that ninety percent of Australia's foreign aid budget goes to Australian companies. The revelation was made by an AusAID official, Dereck Rooken-Smith. According to Tim O'Conner of AID/WATCH, the news comes as no surprise. "For ten years now the Howard government has focused on advancing business and strategic interests through the aid program," he said.A former employee of Google, Inc. has said he was fired after he made a series of unfavorable comments about the company on a publically-viewable blog. Mark Jen, formerly a Microsoft employee, began work at the Mountain View, California company on January 18. He then went on to make several observations about the company over the following week. In particular, some of the comments included information on the company's financial situation garnered from an internal conference and indications of the company's new products for 2005.Nine days later, apparently of his own volition, Jen removed the comments from his blog. However, on January 28, Google fired him, an act which Jen attributes to his blogging. Google has not commented on his dismissal to other news sources, but has acknowledged that Jen no longer works at the company.In his blog, on February 11, 2005, Jen appeared positive about his future. "I've actually viewed this as a great learning experience. Obviously, I've gotten a first-hand chance to learn about the power of blogging. I've also learned to be a little more analytical about situations, a lot more cautious and a lot less assuming."Sir Fred Goodwin, the former head of Royal Bank of Scotland has said he will reduce his pension by up to £200,000 a year, leaving him with approximately £350,000 a year.He has been heavily criticised for receiving a large pension, while being blamed for contributing to RBS' recent issues, which is now owned mainly by the UK government, after a £20 billion bailout last autumn.  RBS has previously threatened legal action to recoup some of the money.In October 2008, Goodwin agreed to a deal with the bank that allowed him to take his whole pension of £703,000 a year.  There was no penalty for claiming it early, at the age of 50.  Both the board of RBS and the UK government were criticised for failing to do more to prevent Goodwin gaining such a large pension.The Ministry of Justice in Switzerland said Adamov will be extradited to the US. The warrant allowing this states that he is charged with diverting money from the U.S. Department of Energy to several companies he controls.Adamov's lead lawyer said he will fight the extradition warrant and called the accusations "baseless". Adamov, who has on a number of occasions been investigated for his financial dealing by the U.S. and Russia alike, said he was being punished for his help in building a nuclear plant in Iran.The U.S. now has 60 days to present a formal request, after which a Swiss court will make a ruling. Swiss officials said it is common for this process to take several months.Adamov's U.S. lawyer, Larry Breur, said Adamov admitted to depositing the money into a personal account, but then he used that account to dispense the money to Russian agencies and nuclear scientists. Breur said the process was common in Russia to avoid hypertaxation.Yevgeny Adamov was a minister in Boris Yeltsin's government, but was removed from power by Vladimir Putin in an effort to remove corruption. Adamov was in Bern attempting to unblock bank accounts belonging to his daughter.Byrraju Ramalinga Raju, founder and chairman of Satyam Computer Services, and his brother, B. Rama Raju, the company's managing director, were arrested late Friday by Andhra Pradesh police. The brothers were placed under judicial custody in a Hyderabad, India jail and will remain there until January 23. Facing charges of criminal breach of trust (Section 406 of IPC), criminal conspiracy (Section 120-B), cheating (Section 420), falsification of records and forgery (Section 468), and fraudulent cancellation of securities (Section 477-a), they face up to ten years imprisonment if convicted.After 18 hours of interrogation by the Crime Investigation Department (CID) at the state police headquarters, the Raju brothers were sent to the Chanchalguda prison and slept Saturday night on the floor along with 26 other low-risk inmates.S. Bharat Kumar, the Rajus's lawyer, asked the magistrate to issue orders for health monitoring. "His blood pressure is fluctuating and he needs medical treatment," said Bharat Kumar. Mr. Raju appeared before the court Saturday while a team of doctors visited him after he had complained of chest pain.Raju has Hepatitis-C, and both brothers have high blood pressure, so health precautions are necessary while imprisoned. Prison rules mandate service of jail food thrice a day. The menu includes 650 gm of rice thrice a day with 250 gm of vegetable curry and 125 gm of 'daal' plus tea twice a day.Satyam's chief financial officer Vadlamani Srinivas, who was also arrested Saturday, had undergone preliminary investigation and appeared Sunday before a special court, according to A. Sivanarayana, Andhra Pradesh additional director general of police. Srinivas was remanded to judicial custody until January 23 by Mr. D. Ramakrishna, Sixth Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, and sent to the Chanchalguda jail with the Raju brothers after interrogation by CID's Crime Branch (the CB-CID). During his Saturday night arrest and probe by CB-CID, Srinivas made revelations which are contained in his confession letter as submitted to Network 18. "According to me fixed deposits are unreal and fictitious which were managed and was an understanding between the audit section management," Srinivas stated.The Hyderabad court on Monday postponed the bail hearings of the Raju brothers and Srinivas to January 16. To be defended by a battalion of 25 lawyers, the three accused will remain in Chanchalguda Central Jail until further court order. The Raju brothers were shifted Sunday to a mid-size Old Hospital Barrack cell shared with a bootlegger.The Florida newspaper St. Petersburg Times published a series of investigative articles on Scientology on Sunday, Monday and Tuesday, including exclusive interviews with former high-ranking executives within the organization. Four former Scientology executives stated that they witnessed the Church of Scientology's leader David Miscavige physically strike staff members numerous times. The former executives speaking out include Mike Rinder, who served as head of the organization's legal and public relations division the Office of Special Affairs, Mark Rathbun, former Inspector General of the organization's Religious Technology Center, Tom De Vocht, former manager of the organization's operations in Clearwater, Florida, and Amy Scobee, a former Scientology staff member in California who assisted in construction of Scientology's Celebrity Centres. Rathbun supervised the Church of Scientology's response to the Lisa McPherson case, after she died under Scientology care in 1995.Rinder said the impact was more one of humiliation than physical pain: "The issue wasn't the physical pain of it (being assaulted by Miscavige). The issue was the humiliation and the domination. ... It's the fact that the domination you're getting — hit in the face, kicked — and you can't do anything about it." Rathbun asserted Miscavige would assault executives during conferences. "Regularly David Miscavige would in the middle of a conference physically assault, punch, slap or grab by the neck a number of executives," said Rathbun. De Vocht said that Miscavige would "lose it" if he did not hear a satisfactory answer from his executives: "If it wasn't the answer he wanted to hear, he'd lose it. If it was contrary to how he thought, he'd lose it. If he found it to be smart aleck, or it was a better answer than he had, he would lose it." Scobee was critical of Miscavige's actions while calling himself a "religious leader". "You cannot call yourself a religious leader as you beat people, as you confine people, as you rip apart families. If I was trying to destroy Scientology, I would leave David Miscavige right where he is because he's doing a fantastic job of it," she said.In its preparation for the investigation, The St. Petersburg Times staff met with attorneys and representatives for the Church of Scientology for 25 hours. According to the paper Miscavige was sought out by reporters for an interview from May 13, but they were informed he would not be available prior to July. Miscavige e-mailed the paper on Saturday, complaining that he was not interviewed. "I am at a loss to comprehend how the St. Petersburg Times can publish a story about me and the religion I lead without accepting the offer to speak with me," wrote Miscavige.Church of Scientology representatives denied the statements made by their former executives, and claimed the individuals left the organization after being demoted. They claimed the former executives were motivated by feelings of revenge and only speaking to the press for financial gain. Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis acknowledged violence occurred within the ranks of Scientology management, but claimed that it was Rathbun and not Miscavige who carried out the assaults. In comments to the Associated Press, Davis referred to the statements made by former executives about Miscavige as "absolutely, unquestionably false". Scientology representative Lyman Spurlock stated "What they want to do is extort money from the church. ... and right now the St. Pete Times is their extortion vehicle... you're just their lackeys. They're using you."The St. Petersburg Times reported Monday on the attention received by the investigative articles in other media. The Associated Press carried the story, and it was included in over 177 television and news websites including MSNBC, the Los Angeles Times, The Guardian, and the Chicago Sun-Times, as well as blogs and media sites for The Huffington Post, Gawker, L.A. Weekly, and The Village Voice. By Monday the first article in the series had received over 3,600 "diggs" at the social news website Digg and generated over 420 comments at the site. A post at the "On Deadline" blog of USA Today called the investigation "a fascinating three-part series". "Juicy stuff from a mainstream newspaper coming out and hitting Scientology hard," said biologist and University of Minnesota, Morris associate professor PZ Myers in a post to his blog Pharyngula. "I'm sure there are meetings going on in Clearwater right now where they're plotting revenge," wrote Myers.Bernard Ebbers, founder and former CEO of telecommunications giant WorldCom, now MCI, was sentenced to 25 years in prison for his role in the corporate accounting fraud totaling US$11 billion. The once-powerful company plunged into bankruptcy in July 2002. The sentence was handed down by Manhattan federal court Judge Barbara S. Jones. Mr. Ebbers, who is 63, asked for a lenient sentence due to his failing health and a heart condition, and because of his philanthropy. Prosecutors pushed for a life sentence, and said the sentencing "should prove to be a deterrent" to corporate wrongdoing. "The enormity of the crimes that Ebbers committed cannot be overstated: the fraud at WorldCom was the largest securities fraud in history," prosecutors wrote in papers filed last month. Jones rejected defense lawyers' contentions that the government overstated the losses, and that Ebbers was not a mastermind of the wrongdoing. Jones believed Ebbers deserved a harsh sentence, and said "Mr. Ebbers was the instigator of the fraud.".Ebbers appeared to be tense when arriving at the court and even shoved a photographer out of his way. After the sentence was given, Ebbers was seen weeping. His first day of prison will be October 12.In March, Ebbers was found guilty of fraud, conspiracy, and seven counts of filing false documents with regulators. WorldCom emerged from bankruptcy last year under the name MCI, which was one of the many companies WorldCom had acquired. In May, Verizon agreed to acquire the company.A federal jury found Bernard Ebbers guilty on all nine counts in an indictment for fraud, conspiracy and false regulatory filings. The verdict was handed down by a New York jury after 8 days of deliberation on the former WorldCom CEO and mastermind behind the accounting scandal that brought down the telcom giant. AP writer Erin McClam reported that when the verdict was announced, “Ebbers’ face reddened.”Sentencing is set for the second Tuesday of next week when he could receive 85 years in prison for the conviction.Ebbers who took the stand in his own defence, said he left the details of the company's accounting to others and that he had no knowledge of shady practices. But Scott Sullivan, the ex-chief financial officer of the company and key prosecution witness, directly linked Ebbers to the fraud. Sullivan agreed to co-operate with prosecutors in the hopes of receiving a lenient sentence for his own involvement in the scandal.The fall of WordCom sparked a massive class action law suit by investors. The plunge in WorldCom's stock changed the capitalized value of the company in the range of $11 billion as the scandal unravelled. Secuities fraud cases stemming from the suits will probably break new legal ground where the involvement of investment banks and public accounting firms who would normally check company irregularities will be called into legal question.The U.S. Army installation at Fort Lee in Virginia will begin using a program called RAPIDGate that will replace passes issued to non-military persons who regularly require access to the facility. The program will take effect July 10, when the practice of issuing 90-day passes to people who present a valid driver’s license, vehicle registration, and proof of insurance for the vehicle used for access ends. Those passes will be grandfathered out as they expire.The RAPIDGate program for fast entry into Fort Lee replaces what was once access privileges performed by the installation itself, which came free of cost. The new outsourced program administered by  Portland, Oregon-based Eid Passport, Inc. enhances security to the installation by performing background checks. Their service comes at a price. The screening process makes a ten-year felony background check, performs a check against terrorist and sexual offender watch lists, and does a social security cross reference to validate a person’s identity.Qualified applicants are issued a pass that enables them to bypass inspection pits and use any of the facility’s seven gates for access. Businesses whose employees would benefit by this are required to contact the program provider and have "point of contact" persons who can validate an applicant's employment. Enrollment in the program costs the business US$199. A pass for each employee of the business costs $159 annually. The pass for employees expires after a year, when a new background check is required by the program.    The program is a voluntary alternative for civilians to conform with new access policies mandated by the Department of Defense and the U.S. Army, according to an information pamphlet distributed by the base. A kiosk will be set up at Fort Lee to accept applications that process a photograph, social security number, and fingerprint.Those without a RAPIDGate pass will need to enter the fort at locations where their vehicle can be inspected. A rigorous inspection involves armed guards asking the driver to place keys on the dash board, pop the hood and the trunk, open the glove box, and have all occupants exit the vehicle and open all doors, including the hood and trunk. While the vehicle is inspected inside, another guard uses a mirror attached to a wand to inspect under the chassis of the vehicle's undercarriage.Eid Passport, Inc. specializes in identity authentication and background screening. Fort Lee will be the 12th military installation out of an estimated 250 military installations on U.S soil to implement identity screening as part of new policies mandated by the Department of Defense (DoD)."The pass contains no personal information," said David Smith, the director of marketing for Eid Passport. It does contain a barcode which is scanned at entry. The RAPIDGate program database includes a biometric fingerprint that might be checked by the scanning device against the presenter of the pass in times of elevated security. The pass is also embedded with an active RFID transmitter. The pass is scanned on entry to the fort at the gate check point, but not upon exit. If the RFID transmitter works properly, movement into and out of the base will be recorded.The Fort Lee pamphlet mentions a "a new mandate" by the DoD. That mention appears to be in reference to portion of the language found in an Instruction issued in October last year by the DoD that states, "Implement a verification process, whether through background checks or other similar processes, that enables the U.S. Government to attest to the trustworthiness of DoD contractors and sub-contractors."The Instruction stems from a Directive signed by President Bush in August of 2004. That Directive, from the Department of Homeland Security, says in part, "Wide variations in the quality and security of forms of identification used to gain access to secure Federal and other facilities where there is potential for terrorist attacks need to be eliminated."Fort Lewis in Washington state was the first U.S. military installation to adopt the RAPIDGate program as a test in 2004. Since then, Fort Sam Houston, Fort Carson, and Fort Bragg, among other installations have adopted the program. "What happened at Fort Dix, [New Jersey], as we look at it, is a Fort Dix issue," Laura Arenschield reported spokesman for the 18th Airborne, Tom McCollum, as saying in June. "That should not be taken as an invitation for someone to try it here at Fort Bragg, but (security) is a living, breathing entity. You have to constantly change it just to keep those who are trying to penetrate it on their toes." The new security measures will go into effect at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, which is among the largest of domestic military bases, starting July 8.Jack A. Weil, founder and CEO of Rockmount Ranch Wear died on August 13 at the age of 107 in Denver, Colorado. He was the oldest working CEO in the United States. He was also known as "Papa Jack".He was born on March 28, 1901 in Evansville, Indiana. In 1946, Weil rented a space at 1626 Wazee Street in Denver and set about trying to create a fashionable yet practical identity for the western ranchers of the region.Weil was well-known for coining the phrase "The West is not a place, it is a state of mind." He was the first person to put snaps on Western shirts, patented the saw-tooth pocket design seen on many Western shirts, and was credited with inventing the bolo tie.In 2001, he told Associated Press, "I learned fast you can't sell to cowboys; they have no money. You have to appeal to the cowboy in everyone and sell to them."Among his customers were Ronald Reagan, Bob Dylan, Eric Clapton and Nicholas Cage. More recently, Rockmount shirts were worn by the late Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal in the 2005 Academy Award-nominated movie, Brokeback Mountain. Weil's wife, Beatrice Baum, died in 1990, followed by his son Jack B. in January 2008."I never wanted to be the richest man in the cemetery," he told his grandson and current president of the family business.Following the success of "Chinatrust Global Leaders Forum" in 2005, Chinatrust Commercial Bank (CTCB), the forum organizer, invited Jack Ma, founder of Alibaba Group, to give the main address on the subject of "Cross-Strait e-Commerce Development" yesterday."We (CTCB) held this forum originally with a speech-style type, and hoped participants absorb good experiences from some world-class notabilities. At the first holding, we invited Dr. Edward Prescott forecasting the future of global economics and this invitation was finally respected by financial people in Taiwan. With trendy transformations and global popularization of the Internet in the presence, we finally decided to invite Jack Ma to share experiences from his successful management theory." Jeffery Koo (Chairman of CTCB) remarked at the opening.With Alibaba Group now entered into the Hong Kong market, Ma sees a bright future with partners' cooperation. He said: "A successful company is decided by flexible wisdoms more than its scale." Those words echoed some of the quotes he used in his speech at the forum: "Rich is a sum by team collaborations and accumulating several experiences but not money. Several valuable things can't buy with money. A company should have a long-term consideration and planning to meet success with creative, better, and different products and services."He not only taught some strategies but also cited Chinese stories on Three Kingdoms and Tang Dynasty to point out key factors (visions, ambitions, bosoms, and actual strengths) which determine the success or failure of a company leader.Trevor Wilkinson, who founded the UK performance car manufacturer TVR has died at his home in Minorca, Spain. He was 85.Wilkinson, from Blackpool, left education at 14, getting an apprenticeship at a local garage. In 1946 he bought a local wheelwright's business, which he renamed Trevcar Motors, which sold and repaired cars, as well as undertaking light engineering work.He built his first car the following year. It was a two-seater based on an Alvis Firebird chassis for his own use. He then formed TVR Engineering, the name derived from his own - TreVoR. The first TVR was unveiled in 1949. It was a two-seater with an alloy body and a multi-tubular steel chassis.The first production TVR was initially called simply the 'Mark I', but became known as the Grantura. This M-type glass fibre bodied car was to remain in production, in a modified form, until 1980, when it was replaced by the Tasmin, which had an angular wedge design.Wilkinson himself left TVR in 1962 to form another engineering business, which specialised in glass fibre construction. He moved to Minorca after retiring.The TVR Car Club website announced yesterday that he had died in Spain. The news was confirmed by a spokeswoman for Minorca's Mateu Orfila Hospital. According to the TVR Car Club's site "He was aware of the serious nature of his final illness but, according to a friend, took it in stoical fashion that was typical of the man."The United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has tightened the deadline imposed earlier for inspection of all Boeing 737 Next Generation worldwide.The mandatory inspections were imposed after it was discovered that the China Airlines 737 that exploded in Japan had a hole in it's right wing fuel tank, which had been caused by a loose bolt from the wing slat assembly.The wing slats are panels mounted to the leading edge of a wing. They are moved forward during final approach for landing to increase lift from the wing, allowing the plane to fly slower than it can when the aircraft is configured for cruise without entering a stall. The bolt in question is mounted to the main slat tracks, on which the slats slide back and forth. As they are extended for landing, they can cause the bolt to be pushed through the adjacent wing fuel tank, rupturing it in the way it is believed the China Airlines plane's tank was.Thus far, the inspections have discovered four airliners in which the bolt was loose. These discoveries give the authorities cause to believe that loose wing slat track bolts may be more widespread than originally considered, and accordingly reduced the inspection deadline from 24 days to 10 days. After that, inspections must be made every 3,000 operational hours, an unchanged schedule from the original set out at the same time as the 24-day deadline.The Emergency Airworthiness Directive that the inspections are laid out in is believed to affect a total of 2,287 aircraft sold by Boeing around the world, although the FAA only has the authority to make the inspections compulsory for the 783 aircraft currently being operated in the U.S.Although the FAA refused to release any details on which aircraft were found to have loose bolts, CNN and Agence France-Presse both reported that a fifth plane also exhibited the fault, belonging to Air Nippon and in operation in Japan. Although the fault was located elsewhere in the assembly, it is believed to have an identically high chance of causing a rupture to the fuel tank. All 22 other 737 NextGens in Japan have been checked, with no problems being identified.Meanwhile, Norwegian Air Shuttle demonstrated it's faith in the aircraft by placing a US$3.1bn (UK£1.5bn) order for 42 Boeing 737-800 passenger jets with an option to buy 42 more, having already ordered 11 in May this year.Mega Millions officials have stated that there are four winners in Friday's US$330,000,000 lottery drawing in the United States. The tickets matched the drawn number balls of 8, 18, 22, 40, 44 with the Mega Ball of 11. The lucky winners bought their tickets in four different states. The only winning ticket purchase location to be identified so far was Walther Liquors in Nottingham, Maryland located in Baltimore County and the winner from that purchase has yet to come forward. Lottery officials said the winner bought five tickets, for $1 each, just after 5:00 p.m. Friday, all as a 'quick pick' ticket, which is when the computer randomly selects the numbers. The other winners bought their tickets in Virginia, Texas and New Jersey, though the specific retailers had not been revealed.But the jackpot winners are not the only lucky ones. 36 other individuals had winning tickets that matched all five numbers, without matching the Mega Ball. Those numbers are good for a prize of $250,000. The luck kept spreading though, as 215 others had four winning numbers while also matching the Mega Ball. Those ticket holders will receive a prize of $10,000.The odds of at least one person winning the jackpot were one in 175,711,536. It was the third largest lottery jackpot in the world."You have a better chance of being hit by lightning at the same place and time every day for a week," said Buddy Roogow, the director of the Maryland Lottery division of Mega Millions.Three people in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA) and one person in Quebec won last week's Lotto 649. They will share the second-largest lottery jackpot in Canadian history as the lucky winners of Saturday's $43.2-million Lotto 649 draw. They will each take home $10.8 million."Two of the tickets were purchased in the GTA, and one in southwestern Ontario, despite the free ticket giveaway by the British Columbia lottery corporation to promote the contest", the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation said.The six regular winning numbers for the Saturday, August 12, 2006 Lotto649 draw were: 3 - 10 - 21 - 23 - 33 - 44 (Bonus number 43).Eight Dollarama employees in downtown Toronto also held one of the winning tickets, worth more than $10.8 million. They will take home about $1.35 million each. They range in ages from 22 to 53.The biggest Lotto win was $54 million in a Lotto 649 draw in October 2005. It was won by 17 oil company workers in Camrose, Alberta. Each took home a cheque for $3 million.According to a Government Official, four miners are trapped in an Ecuador mine located 250 miles (405 kilometers) southeast of the country's capital, Quito. The miners have been trapped since 03:00 (08:00 UTC) local time.According to the Under-Secretary of Mining Development, Jorge Espinoza, the men are trapped 500 feet (150 meters) below the surface. Rescuers are currently on the scene and they expect to reach the men within 24 hours.According to a Government Official, the men are believed to be alive "because they were far enough away from the site of the collapse," however their condition is unknown and rescuers have not been able to make contact with them. It is estimated that there is five to six days of breathable air left in the mine. The mine is suspected to have collapsed due to a build up of underground water which caused the mine's supports to buckle and collapse, blocking all exits.In Russia's second largest city, St. Petersburg, four gas attacks left more than 70 people ill.  Devices with wires, timers, and glass vials of a gas determined on scene to be methyl mercaptan were found in outlets of Makisdom, a home improvement chain store.  The chemical is both naturally occurring and manufactured and is used as an oderant for detection of propane or natural gas leaks.Store officials have said that they had received threats that sales would be disrupted before New Year's.  Russians traditionally give gifts on the holiday. Police officials said they believed a commercial dispute or a prank not terrorism.The local emergency hospital was overflowed from the influx of ill people from the attacks. Valentina Matviyenko, Governer of St. Petersburg, said that those who sought medical help were not suffering any further medical problems.A custodian at one of the stores found the devices and alerted police.  The devices were found at another store with their vials broken.  The devices in the two other stores were carried outside by employees and covered with buckets.  The police explosives experts defused them.Six people, including four U.N. staff working for the anti-narcotics department in Bolivia, have been killed in a plane crash in a remote area in the west of the country.Two Bolivian military pilots are also among those killed in the accident, which happened in the Los Yungas area, northeast of the capital city, La Paz. The aircraft had been missing since Thursday and was found on Saturday morning according to a general in the Bolivian Air Force, who added the light Cessna aircraft hit a tall tree and then impacted the ground. Robert Brockmann, a U.N. spokesperson in Bolivia, said the aircraft "was completely destroyed and burned." Investigators have not yet determined what caused the accident, but Brockmann said the aircraft was in an area with overgrown trees and steep cliffs. The bodies of the pilots and U.N. personnel, who had been monitoring the transport of coca—a plant used to make cocaine—over several months, have yet to be recovered because of the remote location of the crash site. "The place is completly inaccessible in a very tall forest," the general said.Four UK retailers The Officers Club, Whittard of Chelsea, Zavvi and Adams Childrenswear have called in administrators during the Christmas week in 2008.On Tuesday, December 23, the menswear retailer The Officers Club's administrators PricewaterhouseCoopers decided to close 32 of the 150 stores immediately. PricewaterhouseCoopers also announced that TimeC 1215 limited had bought 118 of the stores for an undisclosed fee. TimeC 1215 is backed by David Charlton, chief executive of The Officers Club. This deal saves around 900 jobs. The Officers Club began in the early 1990s in Sunderland and has headquarters at Cramlington, Northumberland.Also on December 23 an international retailer of coffee, tea and various other hot beverages, Whittard of Chelsea, was placed into administration with Ernst & Young. Its owners were the Icelandic investment company Baugur, who were hit by turmoil after Iceland's banking crisis. Ernst & Young stated that the company was then sold for an undisclosed sum to EPIC private equity partners. Whittard of Chelsea was founded in 1886 by Walter Whittard, a merchant from London, and now has some 130 retail stores. The deal saves around 950 jobs. On Christmas Eve, December 24, the UK's largest independent entertainment retailer, Zavvi, went into administration due the loss of its supplier and not being able to pay its debts. Until 2007 Zavvi had been a part of Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Megastores, but became independent due to a management buyout. Zavvi's supplier had been Entertainment UK (EUK), which had entered administration itself, along with other parts of its parent company Woolworths Group, in November 2008. The companies within "Zavvi UK", which is in administration, are Zavvi Group Limited, Zavvi Retail Limited, Piccadilly Entertainment Stores Limited, VR Service Limited, Ablegrand Limited and Ablegrand 2 Limited. Tom Jack, Simon Allport and Alan Hudson of Ernst & Young LLP have been appointed joint administrators, and Zavvi will continue to trade as a buyer is found. Ernst & Young said Zavvi Guernsey will be liquidated, while Zavvi Ireland was not subject to any formal insolvency proceedings. At the time of administration Zavvi had 114 stores in the UK and 11 in Ireland, where they employed a total of 3,415 staff. All stores opened as normal on Boxing Day, 26 December, for the normal post Christmas sale.During the weekend of Sunday 28 December the 75 year old children's clothes retailer, Adams Childrenswear called in administrators PricewaterhouseCoopers. Adams had previously been placed in administration with PricewaterhouseCoopers in 2006, but was rescued by Northern Irish businessman John Shannon in February 2007. A large rebranding followed in 2008, after 42 stores were closed. Adams has outlets worldwide in places such as Saudi Arabia, and also makes clothing under the Mini Mode brand for Boots. At the time of the 2008 administration there were 260 stores in the UK and 116 outlets overseas, employing around 2000 people. Adams is reported to owe around £20 million to Mr Shannon and £10 million to Burdale.A security hole on the Fox News web server Sunday exposed sensitive content to the public, including login information that allowed hackers to access names, phone numbers, and email addresses of at least 1.5 million people. Wikinews has learned that an FTP server belonging to publishing company Ziff-Davis could be accessed with a username and password found on the Fox News site, with customer details among the internal data publicly available.The FTP site, used for collaboration between different global aspects of Ziff-Davis business, contains data ranging from expense sheets to resumes to opt-out lists used by customers who wish to avoid receiving unsolicited emails. Many of the compromised files make reference to Acxiom, a data management company that, in 2003, experienced a similar theft of personal information.  Unlike in the 2003 breach, however, it is not believed that the files exposed due to the Fox News security oversight contain customer Social Security numbers or bank accounts. However, telephone and address details appear in the data. A number of the email addresses appearing on the list end in .gov or .mil, suggesting the named individual is a member of the U.S. government or military, respectively.Internet vandals were quick to leave their mark on the compromised Ziff-Davis server, uploading pornography and claiming to have come from popular Internet comedy site eBaum's World. The Ziff-Davis access details are believed to have been on the Fox News server as a part of collaboration between the two media companies for technology news coverage.Security expert David Utter says the Fox News mistake is an example of "sloppiness", though the hole had been patched by noon Monday. Neither Fox News nor Ziff-Davis have commented on the breach.The GDP of both France and Germany grew by 0.3% in the second quarter of 2009, ending a year-long recession in both countries. However, for all sixteen countries in the eurozone, the sum of all the goods and services produced dropped by 0.1% in the quarter to June. The figures are an improvement over the previous quarter, and better than numbers predicted by most economists."The recession has ended, and it has ended sooner than we all thought. We expect to see growth of 1% in the third quarter, which is very strong for Germany," said UniCredit's Andreas Rees. "[...] I wouldn't rule out the chance of even better growth."Stock markets rose, with the British FTSE 100 index rising 1.3%. The main French and German indices also posted gains of over one percent by noon.France has banned use of the Skype PC telephony application in Universities. The exact reason is unclear, but state security was one of the reasons given by the authorities responsible. Several other possible reasons have been cited including fears of research secrets being handed over to the United States and the fact that in order to make calls to the public phone network you pay a company in Luxembourg and not the local phone company. The Skype software uses an encryption algorithm that makes it next to impossible to monitor calls; this is frequently cited as China's reason for banning the application.Some media reports have suggested that French authorities are fearful that whilst they were unable to monitor calls made with Skype, they might be monitored by the US.However, this version of facts, which has spread like wildfire, was promptly refuted by French authorities who called attention to the fact that the ban only applies to university research centers and laboratories, and not to the general student and faculty population. The real reasons behind the ban remains a hot point of debate and controversy, although public opinion in France is not sympathetic to Skype's new profile. Skype has recently been purchased by eBay, which the French consider a mammoth e-company with questionable practices and a dubious reputation.Orange Romania is currently Romania's largest mobile phone operator, with 48% market share and over 5 million subscribers. Between 2003 and 2004, it registered an increase in turnover of 47%, with total turnover in 2004 being 624 million euro.The Franco-Belgian bank Dexia has stated that it intends to extend into Southeastern Europe, especially Romania, Bulgaria, and Turkey. Axel Miller, Dexia's operations director, said the bank is interested in taking over some banking units in these countries in order to develop its network.Dexia already has a subsidiary in Slovakia, which will be used as a base for further extension in the region. The Franco-Belgian bank has already organised a team of experts who work in Poland to submit a request for a banking license in Romania.Bulgaria and Romania signed their Accession Treaties for the European Union in April 25, and are set to join the EU in January 1, 2007. This, along with economic factors, such as a more liberal fiscal policy in Romania, have given rise to a sharp increase in foreign investment in the past few years. Turkey, which is a European Union candidate country but which has not yet started accession negotiations, has recently opened up to foreign investment due to its stabilising economy and well as its large market.The Franco-Belgian bank Dexia has announced it will restructure and cut 3% of its staff after posting a €3 billion full-year loss. Dexia says it will close operations in Australia, eastern Europe, Mexico and Scandinavia and reduce business in the United Kingdom and the United States. Dexia specialises in finance to local governments but also runs standard retail banking outlets in Belgium and France. It will cease proprietary trading as part of the restructuring.The bank will sell its U.S. bond insurance arm Financial Security Assurance to Assured Guaranty. Dexia Banka Slovensko in Slovakia will be retained, as will the company's Italian, Spanish and Portuguese public finance operations. In total, some 900 jobs will be lost.Dexia will not pay a dividend or management bonuses this year, whilst board members have taken a 50% pay cut. The bank ran into trouble last year as a result of the failure of Lehman Brothers and the subsequent collapse of confidence in the banking system worldwide. The governments of France, Belgium and Luxembourg stepped in to guarantee the bank's survival, although the bank was not nationalized, and the previous executive management was removed. The bank's current chairman is Jean-Luc Dehaene, a former prime minister of Belgium.The Free Software Foundation released the first draft for the next version of the GNU General Public License at the International Public Conference for GPLv3 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, today. The revisions mark the first changes to the GPL since the second version was released in 1991.According to Richard M. Stallman, the president of the Free Software Foundation, the most significant change to the license are changes to allow GPLv3 to be compatible with other popular free software licenses, notably the Apache Software License 2.0 and the Eclipse license. A second significant change, according to Stallman, is the addition of a clause prohibiting the use of GPL software for Digital rights management (DRM), "something for which there can never be toleration."As of noon EST today, the license is available in draft form on the Free Software Foundation's website. The conference about the license, which continues now and into Tuesday, is being held in Building 10, Room 250, on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Approximately 200 people attended the morning session of the conference, during which Eben Moglen gave what he called a "quick" 90 minute overview of the license changes.While Moglen's presentation covered a great deal of legal detail, it was not without levity. When the cell phone of Dave Turner, an FSF staff member sitting in the front row, rang during Moglen's speech, Stallman broke in, requesting of the audience, "If you have brought in a portable tracking and surveillance device, you should turn it off," before making other remarks about the police.The crowd at the conference included a large number of free software celebrities, including Bruce Perens, Andrew Tridgell, and Chris diBona. According to Wikinews reporter Brandon Stafford, it seemed that IBM and Sun were the corporations with the most employees present. Representing the companies were Bob Sutor, Craig Cook, and Mark Brown from IBM and Simon Phipps and Doug Johnson from Sun.  Also in attendance were representatives from Intel, Redhat, MySQL AB, Hitachi, and Qualcomm, among others.Barbara Stewart, former freelance reporter for The Boston Globe, was dismissed this week after adding fictitious details to a story about events which actually did not occur at the time of her writing.  The Boston Globe's Executive Editor Helen Donovan called the incident a "significant breach" and said, "We should have noticed the lack of attribution on a couple of key facts and should have asked questions we didn't ask."The story in question was about a Canadian seal hunt that was supposed to take place, but actually did not occur that day because of bad weather.  Stewart wrote about it anyway as though it had actually happened.  Her article, dated April 13, began, "Over the vigorous protests of international animal-welfare organizations, the largest seal hunt in a half-century resumed yesterday off Newfoundland and Labrador.  Hunters on about 300 boats converged on ice floes, shooting harp seal cubs by the hundreds, as the ice and water turned red. Most of the seals were less than 6 weeks old.""When I read the article, I was kind of shocked," said Phil Jenkins, spokesman for Fisheries and Oceans Canada, according to The Washington Post. Jenkins said he told the Globe that "the events as described in quite vivid detail had not taken place."The Canadian hunt for harp seal cubs is an annual event that has been drawing protests from animal rights activists since the 1960s.  The hunts take place on ice floes and sometimes in weather conditions that can deter protesters from visiting the event.James Smith, Foreign Editor at the Globe, says that the Globe will now institute stricter hiring practices for future part-time correspondents.  He reports Stewart as saying after the incident was uncovered: "I don't know why I did this. I've never done anything like this before."Stewart has been a reporter for The New York Times' Metro Desk between October, 1994 and May, 2004; according to the Boston Herald, the Times denied that Stewart fabricated any parts of stories while she was employed there.  This was Stewart's third article for the Globe.London, UK —After stagnation starting from 2001, the French economy grew at a rate of 2.3% in 2004, with growth picking up especially in the last three months of the year. However, the growth rate falls short of the 2.5% predicted by the French government. The seasonally-adjusted growth rate of 0.7-0.8% in the fourth quarter of 2004 is also the most solid growth since early 2002.France, and the Eurozone as a whole, has faced economic stagnation since the September 11 World Trade Center attacks, which had profound effects on the global economy. Growth, however, picked up in 2004 and is expected to further improve in 2005. Unlike Germany and Italy, France's economy has shown to be more resilient, even though it too slowed down in 2001-2003.The government's target for 2005 is 2.5% growth. While the rebound in output is good news for Europe's third largest economy, unemployment remains one of the highest in Europe at 9.9%.Yves Saint-Laurent, one of the major fashion designers of the 20th century, died Sunday evening of cancer at the age of 71, after four decades at the top of his profession. Friends say he died while at his home in Paris, France.Saint-Laurent was born Yves Henri Donat Dave Mathieu-Saint-Laurent on August 1, 1936 in Oran, Algeria. Saint-Laurent was famous for designing women's clothing and at age 21 he became the head designer for the company House of Dior. He was hired to take the place of the late Christian Dior, who died in 1957. He retired from his job there and ultimately left the fashion industry in 2002, but not before starting his own clothing line and shop with Pierre Berge in 1962. It was once rumored that woman who wore his newly designed pantsuits were not allowed to eat at restaurants or stay in hotels in New York City and London, England."Fashion was not only supposed to make women beautiful, but to reassure them, to give them confidence, to allow them to come to terms with themselves," Saint-Laurent once said.Saint-Laurent not only fought the effects of cancer, but through the years dealt with drug use and depression."I've known fear and terrible solitude. Tranquilizers and drugs, those phony friends. The prison of depression and hospitals. I've emerged from all this, dazzled but sober," stated Saint-Laurent.French military commandos boarded a ferry boat on Wednesday morning that had been taken over by ferry company strikers from the Société nationale Corse-Méditerranée (SNCM). The strike erupted after the French government announced its intention to privatize the company, which had been losing money for decades. The strikers seem to belong to the Corsican workers' union, a trade union close to Corsican nationalists.The strikers captured the ship, called Pascal-Paoli, in Marseille. They sailed her to Bastia where she was intercepted by a ship of the Marine Nationale and boarded by special forces. The military team included members of the GIGN (the French Gendarmerie's rescue and anti-terror unit) and, according to some sources, naval special forces. The prosecutor's office at Marseille has opened a criminal enquiry for "evident crime", with the charge of piracy — a crime which, according to article L224-6 of the French Penal Code, is punished by a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. If the charges are retained, the initiators of the event will face a jury trial before an assize court. There are, however, questions as to whether this criminal qualification applies in this case, since the strikers did not resort to violence in stealing the ship.The strikers are in protest against the French government's intention to sell SNCM to the investment fund Butler Capital Partners, led by businessman Walter Butler. Mr Butler claims that he can put SNCM back into financial shape within 4 years. Opponents of the privatization plan contend that the sale price is an amount greatly inferior to what it is worth, even if only for its assets.The French government has had significant problems with money-losing state-owned companies in the past. SNCM is, however, a special case, due to the delicate political situation in Corsica. By comparison, the private company Corsica Ferries is in good financial shape. Some sympathetic protesters, however, caused damage to Corsica Ferries offices.J. R. Simplot, french fry "king" & founder of the J. R. Simplot Company, an agricultural supplier specializing in potato products has died today in Boise, Idaho. He was 99 years old.He was born John Richard "Jack" Simplot on January 4, 1909 in Dubuque, Iowa, United States. By World War II, the J. R. Simplot Company had become the largest shipper of fresh potatoes in the nation. By the early 1960s it was the primary supplier of french fries to McDonald's; by 2005 it supplied more than half of all french fries for the fast food chain. Simplot also produced fertilizers for agriculture.In 1961, Simplot financed the Brundage Mountain ski area area near McCall, two hours north of Boise. The Simplot Company sold its 50% interest in Brundage in April 2006 to the longtime co-owner, the DeBoer family.Simplot is survived by his wife, Esther.The French postal service La Poste has reached agreement with SNCF, the national rail company, to create a joint rail-based high-speed courier service.  The planned joint venture was announced on Monday by the two state-owned businesses.La Poste's return to rail was prompted by stiff competition and rulings of the European Commission.  In the late 1990s, mail train services were largely replaced by road and air shipment.  Faced with European prohibitions on night flights, and the harmful effects of carbon emissions, La Poste changed its policy.There will be 3 TGV high-speed mail trains in the new fleet, soon expanding to 10.  Environmentally speaking, the trains will contribute a reduction in atmospheric pollution from fossil fuels.The labor strikes in France, which began on November 13, 2007, are continuing as hundreds of thousands of civil servants hold a 24-hour work stoppage. The action by postal workers, teachers, air traffic controllers and hospital staff, have left many schools closed and airports facing delays and flight cancellations.The November 2007 strikes in France began when SNCF rail workers and Paris Métro engineers went on strike to protest reforms by President Nicolas Sarkozy, which would reduce early retirement pensions.Under current regulations, civil servants in France may retire after 37.5 years of service. Some professions, primarily in the rail industry, have an accelerated schedule, allowing rail workers to retire as early as age 50 with full benefits. The government wants to change that saying that these special pensions apply to 1.6 million workers and amount to 6% of the governments total pension payments.The rail strike has, according to opinion polls, become quite unpopular. Speaking today, Sarkozy said "I am thinking about those millions of French people who after a day's work do not have a bus, a metro or a train to get home and who are tired of being held hostage. I am thinking of those companies that risk having to lay off workers."The French finance minister Christine Lagarde estimated the strikes cost the economy of France €350 million each day. "It's a real worry for the French economy," she said. Public accounts minister Éric Wœrth spoke on France Inter radio and agreed that a prolonged strike would hurt the economy. "Not over several days. But if it lasted longer, it could obviously have consequences," he said.The civil servants that began their 24-hour stoppage today are protesting what they say has been a de facto pay-cut. The purchasing power of their wages has dropped by 6% since 2000. They are demanding pay-raises and are protesting proposed job-cuts for 2008. The government has proposed to cut some 23,000 jobs, half of which would be in education.The third work stoppage by French energy workers started last night, reducing electrical output by 9%. Newspaper distributors also went on strike, in protest of proposed restructuring. Students protested other reforms that would give universities greater autonomy. The students blocked access to buildings at campuses across the country.In France, workers by the millions stayed at home during the Whit Monday holiday despite the government's cancellation of the traditional Pentecost public holiday.  Some acted in defiance of the government's decision, while some took leave or were put on forced leave by their employers due to uncertainties of public transportation.Following the 2003 heat wave, which caused the deaths of an estimated 13,000 elderly people in France, the administration of prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin has proposed the suppression of one day of public holiday in order to use the supplemental generated tax for a fund for the caring of the elderly. Whit Monday was selected because, in normal years, France has several public holidays in May.  Furthermore, attendance of religious celebrations is low, so holidays of a religious origin are nowadays generally mere family reunions.However, the reception of this new working day was mixed.  The administration says it promotes solidarity with the elderly. Trade unions and opposition groups argue that the measure is an ill-conceived stunt aimed at hiding the government's bad handling of the problems of the elderly. For instance, many remember that in 1956, the government created a tax (the vignette) on motor vehicles, allegedly for funding measures for the elderly.  But in 1973, the products of this tax came, as any other tax, into the government's general fund.With this measure, the French government intends to raise 2 billion € to be donated to a new public establishment, the "national fund for solidarity for autonomy."  The new fund would be chartered to deal with losses of self-sufficiency of elderly or handicapped people. 1.2 billion € are earmarked for elderly people, 0.8 for the handicapped.Trade unions had called for strikes in urban public transportation and paralyzed traffic in 27 cities, including Clermont-Ferrand, Lille, Montpellier ou Strasbourg. However, SNCF (the national railway operator) did not strike and RATP (the Paris transportation authority) suffered only minor disturbances, though both are normally known for their frequent and disturbing strikes. SNCF considered the day as a holiday for payroll purposes and instead increased the work day by 1'52", a measure that majority leader Nicolas Sarkozy considered shocking and contrary to the objectives of the government.The protests are also widely considered to be motivated by the unpopularity of the administration of president Jacques Chirac and prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin. Recent statistics show a five year-high for unemployment at 10.2%. This discontent may result in a majority of "no" in the vote for the ratification of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.Following similar threats by workers at New Fabris and Nortel, workers at  JLG in Tonneins, France, threatened to blow up several platform cranes. The JLG factory announced in April 2009 that it will fire 53 of its 163 workers by the end of 2009, while the remaining 110 jobs will not be secure over the next 2 years.JLG Tonneins was acquired in 2006 with its parent JLG Industries, a maker of aerial work platforms, by the U.S.-based Oshkosh Corporation. Despite being hugely profitable in the past, production has been much reduced since 2008 with the contraction of the construction industry and lower demand for its products. Despite excellent past results the new American management demanded sweeping cuts at the company.In the view of locals, "the company's actions are a disgrace given the expensive perks, such as official cars, for its corporate fat cats, compared to the sacrifice, silence, and dignity demanded by the company of those it has made redundant."The management offered severance pay of € 3,000 (US $4,200), however the workers demanded a severance package commensurate with "the wealth that their labor has generated." Worker's delegates requested a "supra-legal" payment of € 30,000, on Thursday 16 of July the management responded with a counter offer of € 16,000. On Thursday night the worker's actions secured the € 30,000 settlement initially demanded.Google has confirmed that it has "received formal notification," that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is investigating its business practices. The acknowledgment was posted on the internet search engine company's  blog  Friday. Google said it was unclear about the nature of the probe.A broad FTC investigation would cause the company be tied up in defending itself for years, and according to Bloomberg, might well  be the government’s biggest antitrust case since the Microsoft probe. The FTC will likely launch an  anti-trust investigation, as the company has been the target of many past smaller ones, according to CNN. Mercury News reported Friday  morning that the FTC review will probably focus on whether Google is using  its dominance in the internet search business to  promote its own products and services.  Google's rivals say  Google unfairly profits from its monopoly in the search engine business by using its search services to point users of its internet search engine to its own sites and services while hiding links to its competitors. The FCC probe  is expected to determine if Google abuses it market dominance to promote moneymaking online marketing, such as  its  mapping, comparison shopping and travel services. According to CNN, "Google dominates search in the United States, controlling about two-thirds of the market, according to comScore. It also licenses the world's largest smartphone operating system, and its share of U.S. display advertising revenue recently eclipsed long-time leader Yahoo."Google's response is that most complaints of anticompetitive behavior come from companies who are displeased with their ranking in Google's search engine. However, Joshua Wright, law professor at George Mason University said  the FTC will be looking at possible  harm to users and not complaints by  Google’s competitors. Melissa Maxman, co-chair of a Washington-based, antitrust practice group, said the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection unit will almost certainly be involved to see if Google deceives search engine users by screening search results to profit its own services. She said she would be "shocked" if the consumer protection unit was not involved.  Google Fellow Amit Singhal said in the post, "We respect the FTC's process and will be working with them (as we have with other agencies) over the coming months to answer questions about Google and our services." But Singhal acknowledged, "It's still unclear exactly what the FTC's concerns are, but we're clear about where we stand. Since the beginning, we have been guided by the idea that, if we focus on the user, all else will follow." Bloomberg reported Friday: "Google has set aside $500 million for a U.S. government investigation into online pharmacy ads the company accepted that may have violated the law."Google's efforts to improve privacy policies after last years' determination that its social-networking service Google Buzz used deceptive tactics, are currently being overseen by the FTC.Toyota announced on Friday that it will recall around 17,000 Lexus vehicles in response to risks of the fuel tank in the cars leaking after a collision.The Lexus HS 250h model was subjected to the recall following a US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) investigation. Despite previously passing Toyota safety inspections, the conclusions of an NHTSA sub-contracted investigator were that; when the vehicles in question collided with an object at more than fifty-miles-per hour, more than 142 grams of fuel, the maximum allowed by US law, leaked from the crashed car.According to Toyota, further tests did not show any additional failure of the fuel tank.In response to the findings, Toyota issued a recall of all affected vehicles, since the company had no solution immediately available.  The recall includes 13,000 cars already sold, as well as another 4,000 still at dealerships.Toyota says it plans to conduct further tests to determine the cause of the leak.  A Toyota spokesman, Brian Lyons, said that the company was "still working to determine what the root cause of the condition is."  It's still unclear when exactly the recall will take place, or when dealerships will be allowed to sell this model again.  Lyons said that Toyota is "working feverishly to get this resolved as soon as possible."Toyota isn't aware of any accidents stemming from the leaking fuel tank in the affected vehicles, first introduced in the summer of 2009.The Group of 20 (G20) of the world's leading developed and developing countries' finance ministers agreed on Saturday to pursue a plan that would avoid dangerous currency devaluations and would also would attempt to reduce trade imbalances. The plan was introduced by the United States, and the G20 meeting was held in South Korea.The plan was announced amid rising worries of a "currency war" that would lead to devalued currencies in order to get an export advantage and would damage the global economy. "Our cooperation is essential. We are all committed to play our part in achieving strong, sustainable and balanced growth in a collaborative and coordinated way," a statement released by the G20 said. On the topic of trade imbalances, the G-20 stated that "excessive imbalances" would be "assessed against indicative guidelines to be agreed." This statement was weaker than a commitment proposed by United States Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, which would keep trade imbalances "below a specified share" of GDP for the next few years. This proposal was met with strong opposition from export-based economies such as Japan, whose Finance Minister Yoshihiko Noda argued that specific targets were "unrealistic", but approved of unspecific "guidelines". He added: "There are many perspectives on the current account issue. Every country has a different situation when it comes to surpluses and deficits. So we need to study this carefully."The United States said that they will continue to push for numerical targets and specific time frames at next month's South Korean summit, where the heads of state of the G20 will convene. "If the world is going to be able to grow at a strong, sustainable pace in the future . . . then we need to work to achieve more balance in the pattern of global growth as we recover from the crisis," US Treasury Secretary Geithner declared. The finance ministers also set China on the track to floating its currency more, and overhauling the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to give more representation to developing powers such as China and India.The G20 was created in 1999, includes both developed and developing countries, and represents 85% of the world's economy. The G20's heads of state will meet in Seoul, South Korea, next month.The G20 Summit held in London, England concluded Thursday with an injection into the economy of US$5 trillion by the end of 2010.Global trade would be supported by $250 billion (169.5 billion pounds). "We are going to act decisively to kickstart international trade. We will ensure availability of at least $250 billion over the next two years," said Gordon Brown Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. The International Monetary Fund IMF will have access to $750bn in resources of which $250bn will support special drawing rights.Developing countries received $100bn which will be dispensed via Multilateral development banks. Towards this end, the IMF will sell off gold reserves.China will support the IMF fund by $40bn, the European Union by $100bn, and Japan by $100bn.There will be increased regulation on banking and credit ratings agencies. There was a commitment to clamp down on hedge funds, tax havens and toxic assets.  To restore consumer confidence in the financial sector, a new Financial Stability Board will be initiated internationally. There would be new policies implemented to control pay and bonuses paid to the heads of banks and corporations.The G20 leaders were adverse to protectionism and rallied to support international trade and investment.The Leaders' statement said, "We reaffirm the commitment made in Washington: to refrain from raising new barriers to investment or to trade in goods and services, imposing new export restrictions, or implementing World Trade Organization (WTO) inconsistent measures to stimulate exports.”Eoin O'Malley, senior adviser on international trade at BusinessEurope, said "The measure also needs to be part of wider package to avoid protectionism and conclude the Doha round which will stimulate trade growth. The key point now is to move forward with Doha.  The key now is implementation. G20 governments must act quickly to provide this finance to companies that need it urgently."In the midst of the intensifying global financial crisis, finance ministers and central bankers of the G7 nations – Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States, and the United Kingdom – met in Washington, D.C. and released a joint statement. With failures of large financial institutions in the United States, the crisis rapidly evolved into a global crisis resulting in bank failures in Europe and the Americas, and sharp reductions in the value of stocks and commodities worldwide. The crisis further lead to a liquidity problem and the de-leveraging of world assets, which further accelerated the problem. The crisis has roots in the subprime mortgage crisis and is an acute phase of the financial crisis of 2007–2008.After the meeting, a joint statement was released with a commitment to "stabilize financial markets and restore the flow of credit." The statement outlined five steps to achieve these goals:Take decisive action and use all available tools to support systemically important financial institutions and prevent their failure.Take all necessary steps to unfreeze credit and money markets and ensure that banks and other financial institutions have broad access to liquidity and funding.Ensure that our banks and other major financial intermediaries, as needed, can raise capital from public as well as private sources, in sufficient amounts to re-establish confidence and permit them to continue lending to households and businesses.Ensure that our respective national deposit insurance and guarantee programs are robust and consistent so that our retail depositors will continue to have confidence in the safety of their deposits.Take action, where appropriate, to restart the secondary markets for mortgages and other securitized assets. Accurate valuation and transparent disclosure of assets and consistent implementation of high quality accounting standards are necessary."Central banks from around the world have acted together to provide additional liquidity for financial institutions, taking the necessary steps to support the global economy," said US Secretary of the Treasury Henry Paulson in a statement after the meeting."We have taken a lot of actions," said European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet. "My experience of markets is that it always takes a little time to capture the elements [of the decisions taken]."The Governor of the Bank of England Mervyn King said: "Central banks will work together as we demonstrated this week, to ensure sufficient short term liquidity is provided to stabilise banking systems. But it is also vital that governments work together to ensure their banking systems are recapitalised to enable them to lend to finance spending in the real economy."The finance ministers of the G8, the world's eight richest countries, after years of pressure from wide coalitions of human rights campaigners, such as the Committee for the abolition of third world debt (CADTM), have agreed to a deal to relieve the debts of 18 of the poorest countries in the world, but have not yet published the full details.The International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank (WB), and the African Development Fund will write off all of the money owed to them by the selected countries. However, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and the Asian Development Bank (AsDB) will not cancel debts owed to them by heavily indebted poor countries (HIPCs) such as Bolivia, Nicaragua, Honduras, Guyana, Vietnam, and Laos.The countries to receive debt cancellation from the IMF, WB and the African Development Fund are Benin, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guyana, Honduras, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Tanzania, Uganda, and Zambia.The deal, devised by the United Kingdom, could potentially free up government revenue for domestic spending on things such as education and health services. The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the African Development Fund will write off all of the money owed to them by the above listed nations. A total of $40bn will be cleared, which will save debt repayments of $1.5bn a year.CADTM argues that this is a negligible effort by the rich countries, since $1.5bn a year is extremely small compared to the $350bn the G8 devote to farming subsidies or the $700bn they spend in military expenditure each year. Moreover, these 18 countries only represent about 5% of the population of developing countries.Another twenty countries may become eligible to have their debts cleared if they meet criteria decided by G8 finance ministries. According to G8 representatives, the main criteria are the reduction of corruption and better government. According to critics, such as the CADTM, the criteria include the privatisation of natural resources and of strategic economic sectors to the benefit of transnational corporations, higher costs of health care and education through privatisation, a rise in VAT, free flow of capital, which leads to capital leaving the country as shown by several UNCTAD reports, lower tariff protection, which leads to thousands of small and middle producers losing their livelihoods because they cannot compete with imported goods.The CADTM claims that the G8 agreement can solve neither the issue of the debt nor the issue of poverty since it bears on only 2% of the external debt of developing countries and demand an immediate and complete cancellation of the public external debt of all developing countries, the burden of the debt being a major obstacle to meeting fundamental human needs.Other groups, including charities, have similarly stated that the debts of 62 countries need to be cleared if the UN wants to meet its target of halving world poverty.Fourteen of the countries to receive debt relief are in sub-Saharan Africa.The alleviation of third world debt has been a lifelong ambition of Gordon Brown, the current UK chancellor, and he has used all of his political power and status to push for this agreement in the G8 group.The leaders of the Group of Eight (G8) nations met over the weekend in St. Petersburg in Russia for the 32nd G8 Summit, held under Russia's presidency, to discuss the ongoing Israel-Lebanon crisis, the stalled world trade talks and other issues. They also met with other world leaders, the UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and World Trade Organisation chief Pascal Lamy.Buffalo, New York —Yesterday, a recently-planted garden and "Welcome to the Elmwood Village" sign at the corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo, New York was dedicated to the community at 6 PM. The garden was planted by a group of local citizens known as the Elmwood Village Gatekeepers, who formed to maintain the green space on the corner which is unmaintained by Hans Mobius, the owner of the land and properties at 1109-1121 Elmwood."This is our neighborhood, and we don’t want to see it go down-hill. The lawns are part of the look of this corner that we love, and we can do something about," said Joe Runfola an area resident.The Gatekeepers are hopeful that the "annuals and the perennials planted in the garden can be enjoyed by all for years to come," said owner of Don Apparel with Patty Morris, Nancy Pollina.Local artist Steven Myers and owner of Gateway Studios on Elmwood and Forest painted the new welcome sign."In the design, I wish to show the transition from green parks, to lively urban neighborhoods, to downtown, in the background. The four colors, red, white, yellow and black will also be incorporated in their pure form to represent the Native American medicine wheel, which teaches us that the four symbolic races are all part of the same human family," said Myers.The newly formed group hopes to plant an elm tree at the proposed site in July.So far, 2 of the 5 businesses on the proposed site have relocated or closed their doors. The group is hopeful that a lawsuit filed against the developer Savarino Construction Services Corporation and the City of Buffalo will stop the proposal from moving forward and hope that the garden can become a "community garden."The preliminary hearing, which was scheduled for 9:30am today was initially postponed until July 20, 2006; however, attorney Arthur J. Giacalone, who is representing the petitioners of the lawsuit Nancy Pollina and Patricia Morris, Angeline Genovese and Evelyn Bencinich, owners of residences on Granger Place which abut the rear of the proposed site, Nina Freudenheim, a resident of nearby Penhurst Park, and Sandra Girage, the owner of a two-family residence on Forest Avenue less than a hundred feet from the proposed hotel's sole entrance and exit driveway, has said that the preliminary hearing has been postponed indefinitely and at the moment no new date has been set. According to Giacalone, Savarino Construstion has not yet presented their case and has not yet filed their papers.Indonesian state-owned flag carrier Garuda Indonesia has been expanding, with the airline set to add nine new jets to its fleet and double its flights between Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur. Garuda is also considering a bid for defunct rival Linus Airways.Garuda is expecting the imminent arrival of four new Airbus jets and five new Boeings. The Airbuses, A330-200s, are earmarked to fly international routes to Seoul and Shanghai starting in July. All four have Internet and telephone access for passengers. The Boeings, B737-800 Next Generation aircraft, are due to be in service by the 2010.Also planned before the year's end is the increase in flights on the Jakarta-Kuala Lumpur route from one to two per week. "We saw our current load factor[s] have reached 75 percent and even more during school breaks like June and July," Said the company's Vice President for Network Oversight, Risnandi. "This is very promising."Garuda is now reported to be considering a bid for Linus, who stopped operating on April 27 and have recently been stripped of the rights to fly their former routes as legally required for airlines that do not operate for more than thrity days. Linus still holds some documents of worth to Garuda for transfer to their subisidiary Citilink."I heard that Garuda intends to buy Linus who already hold an aviation business license (SIUP) and an air operators certificate (AOC) for the scheduled air services," said Indonesian Director General of Civil aviation Herry Bakti S. Gumay to reporters for Bisnis Indonesia. He said that his office was in favour of a takeover by Garuda because foreign bids are limited to holding a maximum total of 49% of the shares in Linus.Linus Airways' President Directer Indra said that "we are flexible to acquisition, depending on the investor. If someone wants to buy 100% of the shares we can release our shares, but if someone wants take only a majority shareholding with us as a partner – we are also open." Indra commented that he has had an informal meeting with Garuda CEO Emirsyah Satar but says that they never discussed acquisition by Garuda and that Linus is already in talks with another 'strategic investor' with a view to resuming operations.Two airlines, Riau Airlines and Kartika Airlines, have both launched bids for the ten routes formally operated by Linus, which include four from Jakarta and three from Batam. Garuda Indonesia's Financial Direcotr Eddy Purwanto has anounced that US$650 million worth of loans from Bank Mandiri have been restructured. Garuda, who has apointed Rothschild's as their international financial advisors, will now pay US$450 million by 2015.For the first time in nearly four years, the national average for a gallon of gasoline in the United States has fallen below $2. The American Automobile Association (AAA) reports local, state, and national averages daily, and Friday's findings show that the national average for a gallon of unleaded gasoline is now at $1.989 cents, free-falling from the record high of $4.114 a gallon reached on July 17. Friday also marks the 64th straight day in which retail prices for gasoline have fallen.The sharp drop in prices does not automatically translate into more driving trips for Americans, however. Next week's Thanksgiving holiday, traditionally one of the most traveled holidays of the year, will see a decline in drivers on American roads. 41 million people are expected to drive at least 50 miles for Thanksgiving, a decline of 1.4% from the previous year and the first decline since 2002, while the economy was still shaky after the September 11 terrorist attacks.The drop in gasoline prices has correlated with the free-fall in the price of crude oil, resting below $50 a barrel from a peak of $147 in July. With the world coming to grips with the beginnings of a recession, low gas prices are not translating to freer spending habits or to discarding ideas for hybrid and electric cars. Despite falling gas prices, the mood was muted at this week's Los Angeles Auto Show. Ford introduced a modified version of their hybrid Fusion automobile, amid reports from Capitol Hill calling the Big 3 automakers "out of touch" with today's necessities, and BMW unveiled an all-electric car called the Mini E. Peter Beutel, president of the energy risk management firm Cameron Hanover, believes national gas prices will bottom out around $1.75. "I think in some of these very low-cost areas like New Jersey or Texas, you might even see it come down to $1.65," he said. Currently, unleaded gasoline is below $2 a gallon in 23 different states. Alaska has the highest statewide average, at $3.077 a gallon, and Missouri the lowest, at $1.690.Gas prices have shot up to over $3.50 per gallon, late Thursday morning  in the Northeast US. People are rushing to fill their tanks as some stations are reporting shortages of gasoline, and many oil wells were forced to shut down after Hurricane Katrina.Meanwhile, gas prices dropped elsewhere and rose elsewhere.  Saturday morning California had the highest reported price at GasPriceWatch.com.  Another price service reported $3.05 as the U.S. average.The federal government's weekly petroleum price summary reported U.S. average retail price for regular gasoline decreased by 0.2 cent to 261.0 cents per gallon.  But supply shocks are likely as the distribution systems respond to bottlenecks. On Tuesday, August 30, CNN reported the price of U.S. crude oil rose to a record high $70.85 a barrel. However, prices fell $3.28 to $67.57 a barrel on Friday. In contrast, the crude oil in Europe, which is usually more expensive than US oil, was actually cheaper than in America; as London Brent Crude oil was down $1.15 to $66.57 a barrel. But as CNN reports, "European allies sprang to the rescue."The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) reported harsh economic collapse in the Gaza Strip on Wednesday, calling for its reconstruction. In a statement to the press, the organizations said that the data included in the report doesn't take into consideration the outcomes of the recent conflict with Israel.According to the Conference's annual report, the economic growth in Gaza has dwindled from 11% between 2010-2012 to only 1.5%  in the past year, and the cost of rebuilding it is estimated at about 1.8 billion dollars. The UNCTAD warns of disastrous outcomes if the situation isn't addressed immediately.Beyond foreign support, the organization recommends taking steps that would allow the Gazan economy to stabilize and eventually stand on its own and decrease its dependence on foreign economies."The situation in reality is graver than what is mentioned in the report, as it was prepared before the latest Israeli offensive operation on Gaza strip," said Economic Affairs officer in the Assistance to the Palestinian People Unit in UNCTAD Mutasim Elagraa.Furthermore, UNCTAD's coordinator for the Palestinian Territories, Mahmoud Elkhafif, told reporters that now, following the damages caused by the conflict, rebuilding Gaza would require more than 4 billion dollars.The Russian concern Gazprom stopped supplying gas to Moldova on January 1, as the latter did not sign a gas supply contract, which stipulates a price of 160 dollars per 1,000 cubic metres for the next three months, according to officials of Chisinau and Russian concern Gazprom.In connection with this situation, Vladimir Voronin, current president of Moldova, cancelled his winter vacation and created on Monday, 2 January, an anti-crisis group, composed of the representatives of the cabinet and SA Moldova-Gaz.At the moment, Moldova is ensured gas from Ukraine, in proportion of 50%, according to an agreement between Voronin and his Ukrainian counterpart Viktor Yushchenko.The head of the Moldovan state stated that, theoretically, he agrees to accept the market prices of gas, but, pursuant to him, these must be "logical and not illusory”. Moldova will continue negotiations with Gazprom. An operative staff on energy security headed by Minister Vladimir Antosii was created for this purpose.Chisinau officials say that an agreement on transit of Russian gas through Moldova should be signed on January 3, and an agreement on new prices was expected to be signed later. The situation in Moldova, which does not have other gas sources, is unique, as 15 percent of the natural gas supplies of Russia are transited to the West through Moldova's territory. Negotiators have recently agreed in Moscow on a transit price of 2.5 dollars for transportation of 1,000 cubic metres on a distance of 100 kilometres.General Motors Corporation (GM) announced on Wednesday that it saw a 45% drop in United States vehicle sales for its cars in March.Executives from several auto firms, however, said that there was some hope for the auto industry to stabilise, as car sales rebounded in the last week of March."The market is starting to show small signs of life which need to be nourished like seedlings," said the vice president and chairman of Chrysler LLC Jim Press. "It's too early to see a trend, but spring shows signs of hope."Other automobile manufacturers also saw their car sales slip: Chrysler and the Japanese Toyota both reported a 39% loss, whilst Ford Motor Company sales fell 41%.Annualised sales of vehicles in the car industry in the US are predicted to have dipped below nine million in March, compared to February's 9.12 million, which was the lowest number since 1981."Auto makers are pulling every lever in their effort to attract buyers, as evidenced by the new programs from Ford and GM. The typical incentive programs simply do not resonate in today's economy," Jesse Toprak, an analyst for Edmunds.Ford shares gained 2.3% to a level of US$2.69 in early trading at US stock markets on Wednesday, while stocks for Toyota's US depository increased 5.9% to $67. GM shares slipped 1.6% down to $1.92.Tamiflu (generic name: Oseltamivir) a common antiviral drug used in the treatment and prophylaxis of both Influenza virus A and Influenza virus B, will be marketed in a generic form in India. It is a prodrug, which is hydrolysed hepatically to the active metabolite, the free carboxylate of oseltamivir. It was developed by Gilead Sciences and is currently marketed by Hoffmann-La Roche (Roche) under the trade name Tamiflu.Cipla received marketing approval from the drug controller-general of India and will launch a generic version of  Oseltamivir, Anti-Flu, in the domestic market this month. The drug will be priced at about Rs 1,000 per strip of 10  75 mg tablets, which is less than half the current Tamiflu market price of $60. The required dosage is two tablets every day during five days.George W. Bush, the president of the United States has suggested an economic growth package that could be worth almost 1% of the United States' GDP (the US GDP is appoximately US$15 trillion). The package is expected to come in the form of tax cuts. In a speech which took place yesterday Mr.Bush said that the economy is an area of "real concern," to the US government. He added that the US "economy is still creating jobs, though at a reduced pace."Democrats want the tax refunds to cover payroll taxes paid by lower-income groups and be combined with more unemployment benefits, food stamps and federal aid to states. It warned against bundling proposals to make Bush's first term tax cuts permanent with the stimulus package, and the Bush administration has separated the two in this proposal. When announcing the proposal George Bush said that "as Congress considers such a plan, there are certain principles that must guide its deliberations: This growth package must be big enough to make a difference in an economy as large and dynamic as ours -- which means it should be about 1 percent of GDP." He added that "this growth package must be built on broad-based tax relief that will directly affect economic growth -- and not the kind of spending projects that would have little immediate impact on our economy. This growth package must be temporary and take effect right away -- so we can get help to our economy when it needs it most." He also added that he believed the package "must not include any tax increases."In the speech George Bush also made it clear that he believes the package should be passed through congress quickly. He said that his belief was that by passing the package through congress quickly would "provide a shot in the arm to keep a fundamentally strong economy healthy. And it will help keep economic sectors that are going through adjustments, such as the housing market, from adversely affecting other parts of our economy."George W. Bush vowed to get the USD 700 billion economic rescue plan through congress in a statement to the media made today."Yesterday, the House of Representatives voted on a financial rescue plan that had been negotiated by Congressional leaders of both parties and my administration," Bush reminded the audience. "Unfortunately, the measure was defeated by a narrow margin. I'm disappointed by the outcome, but I assure our citizens and citizens around the world that this is not the end of the legislative process.""Producing legislation is complicated, and it can be contentious. It matters little what a path a bill takes to become law," he continued. "We're at a critical moment for our economy, and we need legislation that decisively address the troubled assets now clogging the financial system, helps lenders resume the flow of credit to consumers and businesses, and allows the American economy to get moving again."Market Data"I recognize this is a difficult vote for members of Congress. Many of them don't like the fact that our economy has reached this point, and I understand that. But the reality is that we are in an urgent situation, and the consequences will grow worse each day if we do not act. The dramatic drop in the stock market that we saw yesterday will have a direct impact on the retirement accounts, pension funds, and personal savings of millions of our citizens. And if our nation continues on this course, the economic damage will be painful and lasting."World and US markets today are up after severe declines yesterday. Most have recovered 30% of their previous losses, meaning that the potential government expenditure was similar to the market losses.Bush then said that he knows "many Americans are especially worried about the cost of the legislation." He then attempted to justify the cost. "The bill the House considered yesterday commits up to 700 billion taxpayer dollars to purchase troubled assets from banks and other financial institutions. That, no question, is a large amount of money. We're also dealing with a large problem. But to put that in perspective, the drop in the stock market yesterday represented more than a trillion dollars in losses."If passed, the bailout plan would have allowed for the United States government to purchase devalued mortgage backed securities, resulting from the subprime mortgage crisis, from troubled financial institutions. The US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson said the plan could cost up to $700 billion.George Entwistle became the new Director-General of the BBC Monday. He replaces Mark Thompson, who had held the position since 2004.On the BBC's Andrew Marr Show, Thompson said Sunday the corporation was "getting very, very close to the edge" following recent sixteen per cent real-terms budget reductions. "When you look around the operation, it's very hard to see what more you can cut," he said.Negotiations about the UK's licence fee are a prominent issue for Entwistle to deal with between 2015–2016. The licence fee in the country currently stands at £145.50 (about US$236 or €181) per house. Two years ago, Thompson froze this fee for six years, causing BBC funding to decrease by sixteen per cent in real terms.Thompson is due in November to become the chief executive officer of The New York Times Company.Entwistle is a former director of BBC Vision, thereby being responsible for the television output of the corporation."There's no question that we've seen over the last eight years, not just with the BBC but with the whole of public life, a real change in attitudes to these things [re licence fees], and we've tried to respond to it," said Entwistle. "I think the BBC will continue to wrestle with that challenge. How do you get the best sports rights, the best presenters, and the best creative leaders, and do that in a way that is acceptable to the public."The salary of Entwistle, who is scheduled to meet with programme creators and staff at the BBC this week, will reportedly be £450,000 (US$730,000 or €560,000), considerably less than that of Thompson who, in his final year, made £622,000 (US$1,009,000 or €773,000). While he was in office, Thompson's salary dropped by approximately a quarter."I think [Entwistle] cares deeply about the BBC", said Michael Grade, once chairman of the BBC. He further told BBC Radio 5 Live's Stephen Nolan: "I think he's intelligent enough to know how difficult the job is — some would say the job is like being Prime Minister; it's almost impossible. But I think his whole life has been a preparation for this and I think he will carry the respect of the staff because editorially he's accomplished. I think he'll be a huge success."When the decision was announced to appoint Entwistle in July, Chris Patten, chairman of the BBC Trust, said of him: "His experience of making and delivering great programmes that audiences love — built up through many years of working for the Corporation — will prove invaluable as he and his team work to ensure the BBC remains the greatest broadcaster in the world."Adidas, the second largest sports clothes manufacturer in the world, has announced it has struck a deal with the American company Reebok for EUR 3.1 billion. The deal has to be agreed by the Reebok shareholders.Adidas is doing this to increase its share in the US market and to compete with Nike, the largest sports brand in the world. Even after the merger, Nike will still be larger than the combined companies.Reebok's shares have risen by 16% to $51. Adidas is offering $59 a share.According to official figures, Germany's economy contracted by 3.8% in the first quarter of this year, the worst decline in four decades. This is the fourth consecutive time the quarterly GDP has fallen. The plunge was larger than the 3.2% decline predicted by economists.The Federal Statistics Office reports that the decline was lead by a large slide in exports and investments."This is a dramatic plunge and a worse start to the year than we could have imagined," said Juergen Michels, an economist for Citigroup in London.Other European countries also reported declines in their GDPs. Italy reported a 2.4% decline in GDP in the first three months of 2009, the fastest plunge since 1980, while France reported a 1.2% fall in output.The eurozone, consisting of sixteen countries, saw its economy contract by 2.5% last quarter, the worst slump since 1995.A third call for boycott and second boycott hit the German online travel agency Hotel Reservation Service (HRS) this week. After a recent boycott against HRS in Münsterland, a boycott in Bremerhaven was next and is soon to be followed by the next round in Bremerhaven starting in the middle of March.Hotels in the city of Bremerhaven already have to pay a new "bed tax" to the state of Bremen of 2.14 euro per person per night, whilst HRS is trying to increase their commission payments for its service from thirteen to fifteen percent. Further criticism of HRS focused on a preferential treatment clause that denied hotels the right to offer better prices through any other booking channel. The European umbrella organization of the catering facilities HOTREC had already criticized this type of clause and similar contract clauses in May 2011 in a position paper.Piet Rothe, hotel owner and second chairman of the German Hotel and Restaurant Association (DEHOGA) Bremerhaven, explained that in his hotels the boycott hat not decreased bookings, merely shifted their volume to other channels such as, for instance, booking.com, who would only ask for twelve percent commission.Rüdiger Magowsky, manager of the boarding house in Jaich, confirmed the observation that the volume of bookings had not decreased.Martin Seiffert, manager of the hotel Haverkamp, explained HRS had denied his hotel access to the system because he participated in the boycott. The access has been restored but he is considering participation in the next round of the boycott anyway. On February 15 the higher regional court of Düsseldorf had ordered HRS in a preliminary injunction not to enforce its preferential treatment clause. Already on February 10 the German Federal Cartel Office had admonished the company for violating §§ 1 and 20 of the German Act against Restraints of Competition.Meanwhile Markus Luthe, the CEO of the German International Hotel Association (IHA), recommended establishing a "Hotelwiki" as a yellow pages directory of the hotel industry.An assembly man in Berlin, Germany stole one million screws from his co-workers and auctioned them over the internet. He was arrested at his apartment on Wednesday.For two years, the 33-year-old stole up to 7,000 screws per day and hid them in a hiding place. Today he has 1.1 million screws that are valued at 110,000 euros (US$155,000)."In the end, it became obvious that screws were being sold for much less than they usually cost," said police spokesperson for the Würzburg police. The man's name has not been released and he is in custody awaiting charges.German retail corporation Rewe plans to open several Penny Market discount stores in Romania in the middle of this year. Rewe is mainly interested in opening stores in cities such as Ploieşti, Câmpina, Tecuci, Focşani, Oneşti, Craiova, Caracal, Constanţa, Medgidia, Alexandria and Roşiori de Vede. Most of these cities have populations of below 100,000 people, and Rewe is hoping to take advantage of a market that has not been highly tapped into, since most of Romania's larger cities, such as Bucharest, Cluj-Napoca and Iaşi, already have multiple large supermarkets and discount stores.Rewe also announced that, over the next few years, it intends to open a total of 50 Penny Market and XXL Mega Stores in Romania. Rewe already operates 14 several highly-successful Billa supermarkets throughout Romania, mainly in large cities, as well as 8 Selgros stores. Rewe has previously made announcements that it wishes to expand its Billa and Selgros brands more extensively. The total value of the company's investment in Romania is around 200 million euro.Romania is currently going through a retail boom, especially in the supermarket and discount stores area. Large corporations such as Rewe and Carrefour have established very successful branches in Romania, and other retail giants such as Tesco and WalMart have announced their intention to enter the Romanian market, which is the largest in Southeastern Europe.The mini MAX discount company said it would open three stores in Romania, in April-May of this year, in the cities of Slatina, Târgovişte and Urziceni. It plans to open up to 100 stores until the year 2010. Meanwhile, Tengelmann, Rewe's rival, said it would invest 200 million euro in Romania to open 120 supermarkets in the next five years.This new project follows the successful publication of a German Wikipedia CD last October, which distributed over 10,000 physical copies and saw over 100,000 downloads of the CD image.  Directmedia worked with Wikipedia editors over the months leading up to the release to finalize and update the DVD content, hosting a tagging party at their headquarters in Amtsgericht Berlin-Charlottenburg, Germany.The announcement of the release came on April 6, five days after the DVD was first available for online purchase.  By the end of the next day, the DVD was the best-selling software package on Amazon.By April 9, all 10,000 copies of the DVD's first production run had beensold or shipped to resellers.  Another production of 10,000 copies is scheduled for April 13th.  The complete DVD image should be available for free download in a few more days; the project page[1] on the German Wikipedia will be updated as soon as the image is available.Germany will lend Albania €16.7 million (USD21.5 million) as part of a loan in order to help the country improve its water supply networks in two southeastern towns, Pogradec and Korca. The deal was signed last Tuesday between the Albanian Finance Ministry and Germany's government-owned KfW Bank.Germany has been one of the most significant donors to Albania since the fall of Communism. In total, it has contributed more than €326 million to the country's development, while investing €135 million in its water supply and urban canals. 80% of this has been given through grants.German rock and metal label GUN Records (Great Unlimited Noises) announced Friday that they were to close. No explanation has been given for the move.Formed as a joint venture between BMG and Wolfgang Funk in 1992, the label had seen its parent merge with Sony in 2005 to form Sony BMG and Funk quit as president in December 2008. In the nineties the label worked with German metal bands such as U.D.O., Sodom and Running Wild.GUN's current international acts - including Wales' Bullet for My Valentine, Finland's Lordi and the Netherlands' Within Tempatation - will now be handled out of Sony's Munich international division. National artists, such as Oomph! and The Donots, will also be Sony's direct responsibility via either Four Music or Columbia Germany in Berlin.The label has also worked with Sturm und Drang, Apocalyptica and HIM. The closure will affect eight employees including Arno Hartfield, the managing director.Germany's unemployment rate fell by 0.1 percent in July, the Federal Labour Office said.The number of jobless Germans dropped by 42 thousand to 4.8 million, but without seasonal adjustments, including summer breaks in job training and jobseeker holidays, it grew by 68 thousand and is close to a post-war record. Unemployment is projected to rise by 370 thousand by year end, according to German research institute IAB. Labour-market problems remain the main issue of the Bundestag election campaign. Chancellor Schröder's government is blamed for the failure of his social policy reform known as Hartz IV and growing unemployment. In recent polls the ruling Social Democrats (SPD) got 27 percent of the vote whilst the opposition Christian Democrats got 44 percent.Flickr and Getty Images have announced an extension on their one year partnership. The new deal will grant Getty Images access to all 40 million registered users images. To protect privacy, users must opt into the project, though details are yet to emerge. To ensure that Getty Images doesn't get free photographs, the owner of the image will be given a fee, however neither Flickr nor Getty Images have yet confirmed what those rates will be. It is believed it will be an industry standard rate, currently averaging between US$150 and US$240 per image.One such success story of the partnership is Hal Bergman. He joined Flickr in 2006 and has said the partnership, which he originally had been part of, had helped his career take off."I have been doing this for six years on the side and a year and a half ago I gave up my day job in website development," Mr. Bergman told BBC News, "I am working as a freelance and getting a lot of commission work and I would say this deal brings in about a third of my income".Bergman has a total of 200 images used by Getty Images, and over 2,500 on another site, which he did not specify. The new alliance is said to help encourage people to retry Getty Images, as well as making Getty Images a far more competitive alternative to microstock photo sites. The move should also benefit Flickr, by making it more appealing to professional photographers to post their images on the site. It is still unclear what standards Getty Images will use for the licensing program when a customer wants a photo.The first female Chief Justice of Ghana, Georgina Theodora Wood was among 77 others who received national awards in Accra today. The awards are for distinguished services to Ghana.Georgina Wood, who became Chief Justice on June 15, 2007, received her award from President John Kufuor. She was given the Order of the Star of Ghana, the nation's highest award. Two others who received this award as well were Dr Paul Acquah, Governor of the Bank of Ghana and the Omanhene (King) of the Juaben Traditional Area, Nana Otuo Serebour II, a former head of Ghana's Statistical Service, for his contribution to industry and public service (traditional category).President Kufuor is quoted as saying at the award ceremony that  "Like the Olympic medalist, we should seek to surpass existing limits to set new records hitherto deemed unattainable. This way, Africa, including Ghana, can excel in the competition and thereby carve a dignified niche for itself in the Global Village."As Dr. Paul Acquah received the award, the audience shouted "The value is the same" which is the catchphrase for the Ghanaian cedi redenomination in process at present. Nana Otuo Serebour did a short Adowa dance much to the admiration of the audience. The loudest ovation was however reserved for Georgina Wood as she received her award. Professor Atukwei Okai, a writer, poet and educationist, recited a poem which translates as "You are because we are".Other awards given out were the in the Order of the Volta (Companion), Order of the Volta (Member) and the Grand Medal categories. Among the winners were Paul Victor Obeng, influential member of Jerry Rawlings' military government in the 1990s, Dr G.K. Agama, a former governor of the Bank of Ghana,  Ike Quartey, former WBA welterweight champion. Some popular musicians, including Nana Kwame Ampadu, Kofi Ghanaba, Diana Akiwumi, Pat Thomas and Sidiku Buari also received honours.File:Tuna.jpg This Tuesday, at a wholesale auction at the Tsukiji fish market in Tokyo, a 512-pound bluefin tuna was sold for over sixteen-million yen ($177,000 USD). The great fish was bought and then shared by the owners of a local sushi restaurant and a Hong Kong-based dining establishment. This tuna is the most expensive fish sold on record since 2001, when a 440-pound tuna was sold for over twenty-million ($220,000) at the very same market. When asked by local media outlets why he decided to purchase this giant tuna, the Hong Kong restaurateur said, "I want[ed] to make an impact on the Japanese and Hong Kong economies by buying the highest-priced tuna."   This locally caught tuna was among over two-thousand others bought and sold at this bustling fish market. Japan is the world's largest consumer of seafood per annum. With tuna being a major staple of their cuisine, the Japanese eat nearly eighty-percent of all commercially caught bluefin. However, tuna consumption in Japan has declined over recent years due to the change in the spending habits of its people as a result of economic downturns from the most recent recession."Consumers are shying away from eating tuna...We are very worried about the trend," a spokesperson for the Tsukiji market told the Associated Press. In addition to the lack of demand and declining tuna stocks, fishermen and wholesalers worldwide are worried by the possibility of tighter fishing regulations that will be sanctioned and enforced by the Japanese government.  Despite this promise, many environmentalists say that this is not going far enough; they say that the only way to curb the inevitable extinction of the Pacific bluefin tuna is to initiate a trade ban on the fish altogether.Two 8-year-old girls in Orlando, Florida, located in the United States, have made a big donation to the research and curing of breast cancer. Victoria Petrucelly and Jesse Theobald along with classmates from their third grade class at The Christ School, raised almost US$24,000 by setting up lemonade stands and selling pink lemonade.The two girls were thinking about starting the lemonade stand in 2008, but were inspired to donate money when Petrucelly's mother, who suffered from the disease, died on Valentine's Day, February 14."When my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer, we decided to make it a pink lemonade stand to raise money for people with cancer," Petrucelly said to the press. Other cash donations were made by companies like Publix Supermarkets and the restaurant chain Chick-Fil-A.Between the students and two girls, nearly 65 gallons of the sweet and sour drink were sold on the weekend ending March 22. They hoped to raise just $50. MD Anderson Cancer Center, which is located in Orlando, received the donation, presented by the two girls in a ceremony earlier this week.The intentions of Manchester United's new owner, U.S. sports tycoon Malcolm Glazer, for the club have been revealed. Although spokespersons for Mr. Glazer (including his son) have stressed that nothing has been finalised, it appears that he intends to raise ticket prices, income, profits whilst capping spending on player transfers.Mr. Glazer - who owns over 76.2% of the club's shares through his investment company, Red Football - enraged fans when he started to accumulate shares earlier this year in an attempt to gain control of the what amounts to the world's most successful football club. Manchester United has more fans, a higher market value, a more valuable and more widely recognised brand and is more profitable than any other football club in the world.To gain control of the club, Glazer used borrowed money and he is set to transfer this money to the club's books when he gains full control. The borrowed money will result in large interest repayments - pushing the clubs finances into the red. To counter this Mr. Glazer apparently intends to raise ticket prices by about 50% and to increase revenues by 52% to £245.6m (from £161.5m this year) over the next five years. Apart from ticket price increases, this jump in revenue will be achieved by a 61% jump in match day sales, a 13% increase in media sales, and a 76% rise in sales of merchandise and other commercial activities.As part of his plans, expenditure on player transfers will be capped at just £25m a year. This is a very low figure for a English football club endeavouring to win domestic and European trophies. Seven years ago the club spent £28m on players, since then expenditure in England on players has increased hugely.Swiss mining company Glencore announced yesterday the closure of its coal mine in Tahmoor, New South Wales, Australia.  The mine is to be closed by early 2019, pointing to the downturn of coal prices in global markets.Glencore stated, "The decision has been made as a result of continued low prices in global coal markets, which has meant the economic return from reserves still available at Tahmoor are not sufficient to warrant the investment required to mine them". The closure will result in a loss of 350 jobs according to the company, who said they are consulting with the employees.The mine is not the only operation impacted by the fall of global coal and commodity prices. The Australian arm of mining magnate Peabody Energy has reported losses of almost A$3 billion in 2015. According to latest financial reports for Peabody subsidiary Peabody Australia Holdco lodged via Australian Securities and Investments Commission, the company earned a net loss of A$2.7 billion — after a loss of A$1.2 billion in 2014. Accountants at Peabody Australia have warned the mine might not be able to continue operating, with the market persistently weak since December.Despite low coal and commodity prices, both the major political parties have been supportive of coal mines. While appearing on the ABC's Q&A program on Monday night, Coalition MP Steve Ciobo confirmed party support of coal mines.  In response to an audience member question, concerning what policies the panellists had planned to combat job and economic loses in Queensland after the mining boom, Ciobo stated the Coalition government supports Adani’s new Carmichael mine in the Galilee Basin — as an example of “transitioning” the state's economy. Labor MP Terri Butler said although she doesn't personally support Adani's Carmichael project, the state Labor government "didn't have much discretion" surrounding its approval. Meanwhile, Greens party leader Richard Di Natale criticised responses from the panellists claiming the "great tragedy" is both major parties support of coal mines such as Carmichael. "If you care about tourism you don’t open up a whopping great big coal mine and fuel catastrophic global warming", said Di Natale. Di Natale accused both major parties of being deceitful in "slashing" both the target of and agency funding for renewable energy, leaving no plan to realize the investment potential of the renewable sector.The International Labor Organization (ILO), a branch of the United Nations concerned with labor and workers' rights issues, issued a report Wednesday explaining how the global economic crisis could create a global employment crisis by the end of the year."By the end of 2008 working poverty, vulnerable employment and unemployment were beginning to rise as the effects of the slowdown spread," the report states. "If the recession deepens in 2009, as many forecasters expect, the global jobs crisis will worsen sharply." Even for those who keep their jobs, the report predicts that "earnings and other conditions of employment will deteriorate."In a worst-case scenario, the ILO says 51 million jobs could be lost in 2009, meaning that 7.1% of the world's working population would be out of a job. In a more realistic scenario, the report foresees a loss of 30 million jobs, with a global unemployment rate of 6.5%. The unemployment rate has increased in recent years, from 5.7% in 2007 to an estimated 6% in 2008.Even the report's most optimistic scenario for this year, a loss of 18 million jobs at an unemployment rate of 6.1%, is not much different than the ILO's October 2008 prediction of 20 million jobs lost this year due to the financial crisis. The report warns that developing countries in South Asia and Subsaharan Africa will be harshly affected by the economic crisis. Although working poverty - defined as having daily wages of US$2 or less - is on an overall decline, these regions are still characterized by poor working conditions, low salaries, and an insecure job market. This will only worsen in 2009, according to the ILO."Taking into account that a wage and salary job in poor regions may still not ensure all the components of a decent job, it becomes understandable that only a minority of working people have a job that is well paid, respects their fundamental rights and ensures some security in case of job loss, personal or family illnesses, or other difficulties." The report says that by the end of 2008, nearly 53% of workers around the world could be in "vulnerable employment".In terms of actual unemployment, however, developed countries are the ones most likely to be affected by the downturn, as they are more tied to the global financial system. The unemployment rate in the European Union and other developed economies increased by 0.7 percentage points in 2008, the largest increase of all regions. "Globalization combined with rapid technological advances is another challenge for labour markets in the region," the ILO says. "It is important for workers and employers to be ready and able to adjust quickly to change and to stiffer competition."Still, the unemployment rate of 6.4% in these developed countries is far less than in North Africa and the Middle East, which had unemployment rates of 10.3% and 9.4% respectively. East Asia had the lowest unemployment rate of the regions at 3.8%. The report urged global economies to take cooperative measures, including working with the United Nations, in order to stem the economic crisis. It also asks governments to address the "negative social consequences of globalization" by placing on emphasis an social justice-based programs targeted toward women, youth, and other "vulnerable groups".In particular, the ILO says governments should establish public infrastructure projects such as road construction, expand health insurance and unemployment benefits, and focus on the creation of green jobs when devising their stimulus plans. "When governments design fiscal stimulus packages, it is important that they consider employment-related goals, including explicit employment growth targets," the report concluded."In the world, there remains a huge untapped labour potential, and economic growth and development could be much higher if everyone was given the chance of a decent job."Stock markets across the world have fallen sharply with several seeing the biggest drop in their history. Asian markets saw the biggest sell-off. The Nikkei dropped 9.62% to reach a 20 year low. Japan also saw a collapse of a mid-size insurance company, Yamato Life Insurance Company, which declared bankruptcy.  The Hang Seng, which was one of the few markets that was positive yesterday, fell 7.19%. Australia dropped by 8.4% and South Korea saw a 9% fall. In Europe, markets dropped at the open with the FTSE losing 11%. They have recovered only sightly with all European markets losing more than 5%. The European sell off was more about the Asian lows then any specific news. European banks and financial institutes saw the most selling. Also, oil related companies saw large drops as an result of an expected decrease in oil consumption. The U.S. markets opened lower with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling below 8,000, before recovering slightly.  President George W. Bush made an address on the economy and said markets were being "driven by uncertainty and fear."Oil has seen losses of more than US$6 in trading with the current price of a barrel of oil less than $80. This is a year low for oil. News also came out that OPEC will hold an emergency meeting on November 18 to discuss the falling price of oil. Charities, such as Cats Protection, today said that they have lost much of their funds in collapsing banks. Cats Protection had a total of £11.2 million saved in the now-collapsed Kaupthing bank.The British National Council for Voluntary Organisations said that 60 of its 6,500 have lost money due to the collapse of banks.Markets worldwide have surged in value following efforts by governments to ease the effect of the ongoing financial crisis, which has recently caused a massive decline in the value of stock markets.On Sunday, the fifteen countries from the Eurogroup – that is, those countries which use the euro as official currency – had agreed on a joint plan to face the crisis, which would consist in supporting financial institutions and by guaranteeing interbank loans.The Eurogroup meeting was the last of many which took place during the weekend. The G7 nations had met in Washington at the same time that the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank held their Autumn meetings.The Dow Jones Industrial Average index is one of the indexes that have done particularly well today, and it closed up 11.08%, well over 9,000 points. General Motors was the best performer in this index, with its value rising by 31.49%. The Nasdaq rose by 11.81%.The FTSE 100 has today gone up in value by 8,26%, to take the index back over the four thousand mark. TUI Travel was the best performing company in this index. It went up by 41.25 points (21.48%), to take it to a new share price of 233.25. Some shares in the FTSE, however, have continued to fall dramatically. HBOS today dropped in value by 31.48%.The Brazilian Bovespa index today went up by 14,66%, while the Hang Seng and Singapore Straits Times went up by 10.24% and 6.57% respectively.Stocks exchanges in Tokyo, Buenos Aires and Toronto were closed due to national holidays.Stock markets around the world have fallen dramatically today. This is following the ongoing events in the financial world and related statements by several United Kingdom politicians, including Prime Minister Gordon Brown.The British FTSE 100 index was one the indices that today suffered from large falls. It fell by 5.00% to slip below the four thousand mark, at 3,883.36 points.Two of the major United States indices saw falls of over two per cent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell by 252.01 points (2.90%) to 8,439.24 by 17:30 UTC, while the Nasdaq Composite index experienced a 2.30% drop.South American markets performed particularly badly today. By 17:30 UTC, the Argentinean MERVAL index had fallen by almost six per cent to 906.160 points, while the Brazilian Bovespa fell by 6.89% (2,328.45 points) to a value of 31,490.04.David Buik of BGC Partners commented on today's falls. "It's carnage," he said. "Confidence is shot to ribbons. We need action now. It is a catastrophe that we have got to recession, but we have got to learn to live with it, and that means saving the markets."The team of the University of Melbourne has won the fifth annual ELSA Moot Court Competition on WTO Law for law students in Geneva yesterday, after beating the team from the University of Hong Kong. Organised by the European Law Students' Association (ELSA), the competition brings together students from around the world each year to contest a case based on the legal system and case law of the World Trade Organization – the global treaty that governs world trade and commerce. This year, the case for the competition was on the topic of intellectual property rights and access to essential medicines – one of the most contentious issues in world trade in the past decade. Participating teams played out a dispute between two WTO members – one setting aside a pharmaceutical patent (respondent), the other challenging this on behalf of its industry (complainant).Under World Trade Organization rules, a country can sidestep patents by issuing a "compulsory license" - a legal mechanism that allows a country to manufacture or import generic versions of patented drugs for public health and national emergencies while paying the patent holder only a small royalty.The global finals last week were the culmination of months of national and regional rounds, with eighteen teams from universities in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia-Pacific winning a trip to Geneva for the final round. The first semi final was contested by the University of Sydney and the University of Melbourne, while University of Hong Kong and Georgetown University fought out the second semi final.In the grand final at the WTO Centre William Rappard, the University of Melbourne acted for complainant, the Government of Costo (imaginary developed WTO member), while the University of Hong Kong defended the position of the Government of Factoril (imaginary developing WTO member) – respondent in the matter. After the two and a half hours of intense debates, the Grand Panel, including Gabrielle Marceau from the WTO Secretariat, Jayashree Watal from the WTO Intellectual Property Division and Werner Zdouc from the WTO Appellate Body Secretariat, decided in favour of complainant. The arguments submitted in favour of protecting the intellectual property rights of the pharmaceutical patent holder were deemed to be better structured and presented which led to the University of Melbourne winning the competition."The subject of the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health has raised a wide range of issues in the public debate. I think the ELSA Moot Court gave a timely opportunity to bright, young lawyers involved with WTO law to reflect upon and debate the complex legal and political issues raised by this subject," said Jatashree Watal, Counsellor, WTO Intellectual Property Division.The students' debates during the final round in Geneva coincided with the decision of the Government of Brazil to put patients' interests before patent holder's interests and issue compulsory license on important AIDS drug. Some parties believe that the economic interests cannot be compared with saving human lives and protecting the public health while others would prefer a more balanced approach to this matter."The rise of our deficit and our ability to finance it appears to coincide with a pronounced new phase of globalization that has emerged in the past decade," the U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said in a speech delivered today to the Banco de México.  "This phase is characterized by a major acceleration in U.S. productivity growth and the decline in what economists call home bias, the parochial tendency to invest domestic savings in one's home country.""To date, despite a current account deficit exceeding 6 percent of our gross domestic product, we -- or more exactly the economic entities that comprise the U.S. economy -- are experiencing few difficulties in attracting the foreign saving required to finance it, as evidenced by the recent upward pressure on the dollar," he said. "Of course, deficits that cumulate to ever-increasing net external debt, with its attendant rise in servicing costs, cannot persist indefinitely," he added. "At some point investors will balk at further financing.""A nation's current account balance thus is essentially a market phenomenon that is not readily subject to rebalance by targeting one or more policy variables such as the exchange rate," Greenspan said. In the speech Greenspan said interest rate increases nor cuts in the US fiscal deficit would result in large reductions in the current account deficit.  These are the three standard ways the government controls the economy.  The deficit last year widened to $665.9 billion from $530.7 billion. It totaled $195.7 billion in the second quarter, or 6.3 percent of gross domestic product. Greenspan did say he did not think that the dollar would lose its dominant position in the global economy “any time soon” and that economic flexibility would help the United States should the dollar lose its status.General Motors (GM) and Chrysler will receive bridge loans from the government of Canada and the provincial government of Ontario, however no more will be forthcoming from either Canadian or US governments unless the companies can reinvent themselves."This is a regrettable but necessary step to protect the Canadian economy.  We are doing this on the assumption that we obviously cannot afford either in the United States or Canada a catastrophic short-term collapse." said Stephen Harper, Prime Minister of Canada."We cannot, we must not, and we will not let our auto industry simply vanish.  This industry is, like no other, an emblem of the American spirit; a once and future symbol of America's success," said Barack Obama, President of the United States. "These companies - and this industry - must ultimately stand on their own, not as wards of the state."File:Sinsheim quer.jpgChrysler will receive CA$1 billion and may in fact be eligible for as much as CA$4 billion. If Chrysler succeeds in the next 30 days with a restructuring plan it would be eligible for a US$6 billion loan. A part of Chrysler's restructuring plan must include a partnership with Fiat within 30 days to appease the US administration. Fiat is a supplier of smaller fuel-efficient vehicles, and the merger will help Chrysler to be viable in the North American market. A Chrysler court bankruptcy would inevitably lead to it being sold off.As a part of Chrysler's restructuring plans, Tom LaSorda, the president of Chrysler announced that Canadian operations would fold if it does not receive both the US commitment of $2.3 billion of aid and a new Canadian Auto Workers CAW contract to reduce all-in costs by CA$19 per hour.  As a result of this announcement Chrysler's auto sales volume in Canada dropped 23% compared to March of 2008.GM has until the end of May to restructure its company to receive up to CA$7.5 billion. As part of the companies restructuring, General Motor’s chief executive Rick Wagoner was replaced Sunday with Fritz Henderson, the current chief operating officer. Henderson spoke out on Tuesday that GM has submitted a restructuring plan which would close five plants, and this may be increased to meet the requirements for financial aid.  He is in full compliance with Obama's auto task force to seek bankruptcy if GM cannot negotiate with their unions, bondholders and others.GM recently brought forward the "GM Total Confidence" program providing consumer purchase protection for customers who lose their job for economic reasons within the first two years from purchase. As a result of Chrysler's restructuring announcement in Canada, GM's Canadian vehicle sales volume fell only 17.3% compared to 2008, an increase from the previous month.GM must reduce some of its legacy costs which include its pensions and union health care costs. A part of GM's ailments arose from investing in supplying truck and SUVs during an economy of high gas prices when consumers were demanding fuel efficient vehicles.Tony Clement, Canada's Minister of Industry, is hoping that the CAW will support the restructuring process and re-negotiate their agreement. Whereas a United Auto Workers negotiator has said, “I don't see how the UAW will do anything until they see what the bondholders will give up."The Obama administration is looking toward bankruptcy proceedings for the automakers, "as a mechanism to help them restructure quickly and emerge stronger. [It will] quickly clear away old debts that are weighing them down.  What we are asking is difficult. It will require hard choices by companies. It will require unions and workers who have already made painful concessions to make even more. It will require creditors to recognise that they cannot hold out for the prospect of endless government bailouts." said Obama.The auto parts suppliers and IT software exporters in India have already been affected by the declining auto sales. GM and Chrysler software contracts provide US$300 to 350 million a year to vendors in India. As well these two major automakers usually award US$1 billion contracts to auto parts suppliers. "We are worried and closely watching the developments in the US to gauge the impact. The decline in auto sales in the US has already hit the order books of Indian suppliers," said a Delhi auto parts supplier. "Going forward, the industry will undoubtedly be smaller, but if our efforts are successful it will be viable and it will support good jobs for Canadians," said Clements. Betty Sutton, Ohio's Congresswoman put forward the CARS act which provides a US$3,000 to 5,000 incentive for those who trade in their vehicle for a fuel-efficient car. "It clearly stimulates the economy, and it gets the consumer into the showroom and gets them buying again. But importantly — and this is what I particularly like about it — it really helps the environment quite a bit in two respects." said William Clay Ford Jr., executive chairman of Ford Motor Co.Ford Motor Company has not come forward with requests for assistance.Since December GM and Chrysler have received US$17.4 billion government loans.General Motors Corporation (GM) has posted its first annual loss since 1992. GM reported losing US$4.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2005 and a total loss of $8.6 billion for the entire year.GM admitted Thursday night that the loss could swell further as it pays pensions and healthcare costs to thousands of former workers. GM warned that the amount calculated for last year is preliminary and could rise before it is officially reported to the US securities and exchanges commission in March.The loss was far greater than analysts predicted. Ford, the second of the big three American car manufacturers, beat predictions earlier in the week. In contrast, Toyota is expected to report that it will beat last year's profit of $11 billion. GM's automotive division lost $1.5 billion in the fourth quarter, driven by losses in North America. This has been attributed to GM's shrinking market share, which has been taken by Japanese manufacturers Toyota and Nissan.A further $1.3 billion was lost in restructuring charges. As part of the restructure, GM plans to cut 30,000 jobs and close 12 facilities by 2008.An aide for Kirk Kerkorian, GMs largest individual investor (at 9.9%), has called on the company to halve its $1.1 billion annual dividend, cut executive pay and sell Saab.General Motors (GM) announced on Tuesday a recall of 1.3 million Chevrolet and Pontiac cars in the US, Mexico, and Canada over problems with the power steering system.The models, the 2005–2010 Chevrolet Cobalt and 2007–2010 Pontiac G5 in the US, the 2005–2006 Pontiac Pursuit in Canada and the 2005–2006 Pontiac G4 in Mexico, were affected by a fault that causes the power steering in the vehicles to fail.  The company says that cars can still be safely controlled even after the loss of power steering, although more effort to turn the car would be required.  GM is currently working on developing a fix for the problem, after having conducted an internal investigation for more than a year, beginning last January.  In addition to GM's investigation, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration also conducted an investigation on the Cobalt, which began in January 2010. The investigation was begun after more than a thousand complaints about the model were received by the agency, including reports of 14 crashes caused by the fault. GM contacted the NHTSA about the problem on Monday.GM blamed the issues on an external supplier partially owned by Toyota, another company currently in the process of a major recall of more than eight million vehicles.  According to GM vice-chairman Bob Lutz, the supplier, which was not named, had not met "all requirements for reliability and durability."  In his comments, given at the Geneva Motor Show, Lutz also said that financial responsibility for the recalls had yet to be determined.General Motors NYSE: GM (GM) and Chrysler have both begun to offer layoff packages to their workforces.The automobile manufacturers have been hard hit in the recent economic downturn and have been forced to seek federal aid from the U.S. government. Reports say that GM's package includes a $20,000 cash payment and a $25,000 new vehicle voucher. Chrysler will offer a $25,000 vehicle voucher and $50,000 with healthcare and $75,000 without. Both will offer the deal to most United Auto Workers (UAW) union members - 62,000 at GM, which is seeking to cut 31,500 jobs by 2012.The two companies have received $13.4 billion in federal loans to keep them operating, but Congress required them to produce viability plans to demonstrate they were making significant cost cuts and labor concessions in return for the money. UAW workers in Detroit earn $28 an hour; their replacements will earn about half that. The UAW's "jobs bank", a system where workers without duties are still paid, has stopped at both companies.GM is also attempting to engineer a debt-for-equity swap, reducing its liabilities from $27.5 billion in unsecured debt to $9.2 billion. It is also seeking to sell a truck manufacturer, the Delco Electronics parts group and the Hummer and Saab Automobile vehicle brands.The entire motor manufacturing sector has suffered under the economic downturn, with the Ford Motor Company NYSE: F announcing a $14.6 billion annual loss, although it has not sought federal aid. GM and Chrysler both ran out of operating funds in December, leading to the federal bailout.Friday, Google, Inc. announced on its official blog that it will be acquiring in-game advertiser Adscape Media, Inc, a San Francisco, California based company.  Ads that are placed in games through Adscape are targeted based on the plot and storyline that a gamer encounters within a game.  These ads are also targeted geographically and demographically.  Google, which is based in Mountain View, California, stated that the terms of the agreement and the price paid for Adscape will remain confidential, but the cost might be about $23 million, as informed the Red Herring magazine on 15th February. Adscape is now fully controlled by Google and will provide the company with its first opportunity to use in-game advertising.  Google has stated that it will be working with Adscape's partners the same as the company had been before.Mountain View, CA - Users of the beta Google Maps service may see the world in a new way with the introduction of the "hybrid view." Here, hybrid means offering a combined satellite and map view, the hybrid button that appears on map search queries adds new functionality to the map service, combining the other choices of either map or satellite views.The competing and similar MSN Virtual Earth service launched July 25 by Microsoft, also offers a hybrid-type view.  Both services offer hybrid map and satellite views and scrollable images.Initial public response to both services on Slashdot has been generally positive, but users noted glitches that need to be worked out, including discrepancies between satellite and map data.On the 18th of December, Google held the "Unbound" event that attracted about 300 people, who gathered at the New York Public Library. The event's visitors met to discuss the issue of Google's Library Project and Book Search tool and the publishing business perspectives in general.  Google decided to bring up the issue, as a lot of representatives of the publishing industry believe that the project will deprive them from the expected profits from books sold in bookstores and online marketplaces. The speech of Jim Gerber, manager of content partnerships at Google, opened the event. Mr. Gerber noted that their meeting was aimed at a mutual understanding of changes the book-publishing market will face in the 21st century. Among the speakers present were those closely related to the publishing business - authors, publishers and analysts, including Cory Doctorow, a science fiction writer and co-editor of Boing Boing, as well as agents of the leading publishing stores such as Harper Collins and Cambridge University Press. Having organized the event, Google pursued their aim of improving the perception of its Book Search project.  The company tried to establish links with publishers and libraries by extending an offer whereby portions of copyrighted published content would be availabe for public view through the Google search database. Still, Google stumbled upon skeptical attitudes by publishers. However, some of the publishers supported the initiative. Cory Doctorow expressed his belief, grounded upon his personal experiences, that book snippets available free on the Internet implied the possibility of commercial benefit.  One of the major advantages of the on-line library is the guaranteed attention and interest it can attract to the publishers' products.Although the issue aroused a lot of controversial opinions, the speakers came to the conclusion that as the digital world has been experiencing rapid growth, the publishing industry has to keep to the modern pace and broaden its horizons. As it was mentioned by Tim O'Reilly, the founder of O'Reilly Media, a technical manual publishing company, that in the time of revolutionary changes, brought by the development of digital technologies, it was important for their industry segment not to ignore but embrace the forthcoming changes. He also mentioned that the Library Project and Book Search tool carried out by Google represented an opportunity to become part of the newly-born media culture.At present day Google Inc. holds the leading position on the U.S. Web search market. With the gain of 0.4 percent reached in December, its share of the market has increased to 47.4 percent. Yahoo Inc. follows Google in second position - as stated by a Monday survey, it has also ranked higher.According to comScore Networks Inc., a firm dealing with Web audience measurement, Microsoft Corp. is in third place. However, its share decreased 0.5 percent to 10.5 percent of Web searches performed by American users. The slight decline has also been suffered by Ask.com's share - it diminished by 0.1 percent to reach 5.4 percent.The United States has been named by the comScore Networks Inc. the largest Internet market in the world. Google's share of the U.S. Web search market has continuously grown during the recent period of over a year. As for Yahoo, its share of the market became 0.3 percent higher, having reached 28.5 percent in December compared to November, as marked by the survey.U.S. Web users carried 6.7 billion searches in December - that means from November the overall number of searches increased by 1 percent. Since December, 2005 the number of U.S. Web searches has become 30 percent higher - 3.2 billion searches were conducted by web users on Google sites and 1.9 billion searches on Yahoo.Sales of smartphones running the Android operating system have tripled since the beginning of 2010, according to figures released yesterday. Market analysts GfK said that "around one in every eight handsets sold in the UK between April and June 2010 on a contract is Android-powered, compared to one in 33 on average between January and March."Last week, Samsung stepped up the marketing for its latest Android-powered device, the Galaxy S. Other Android-powered devices include the Sony Ericsson X10 and the HTC Desire.Smartphones currently represent 73.5% of the market. GfK analyst Megan Baldock said to The Guardian: "The figures suggest an increasing number of consumers are now asking for Android handsets by name."Google announced today that they are developing Google Chrome OS. The operating system, announced on their official blog, will be based on their Chrome browser, which is now nine months old.Google said that at first it will be targeted toward netbooks, but in the future, will eventually expand.  The company said that it will continue to be developed alongside Android, their operating system currently being used on mobile devices.The system will run in a windowing system atop a Linux kernel and will be fully open source.  It is planned to be released in 2010.  On their blog, Google said, "Speed, simplicity and security are the key aspects of Google Chrome OS.  We're designing the OS to be fast and lightweight, to start up and get you onto the web in a few seconds," said the blog post written by Sundar Pichai, Vice President Product Management, and Google's engineering director, Linus Upson.Both men said that "the operating systems that browsers run on were designed in an era where there was no web" and that the new OS is "our attempt to re-think what operating systems should be".On its official blog Thursday evening, under the title, Encouraging People to Contribute Knowledge, Google announced the first phase of testing of a tool designed to facilitate the organisation of "authoritative articles" written by users.The tool, dubbed "knol" for unit of knowledge, will be similar to other online encyclopedias such as Wikipedia. According to Google, knols would "cover all topics, from scientific concepts, to medical information, from geographical and historical, to entertainment, from product information, to how-to-fix-it instructions." In addition, site will be ad-revenue driven and authors who choose to allow advertisements on their knol will be able to share in "substantial" revenue derived from the ads. The pay scale was not revealed in the announcement.The content of the articles will not be vetted by Google. "Google will not serve as an editor in any way, and will not bless any content," said Udi Manber, Google VP of Engineering in the announcement. "All editorial responsibilities and control will rest with the authors," continued Manber. "We hope that knols will include the opinions and points of view of the authors who will put their reputation on the line."Google will rank the submissions, or knols, in Google search results and will make the content available to other search engines. "We are quite experienced with ranking web pages, and we feel confident that we will be up to the challenge," said Manber. "We are very excited by the potential to substantially increase the dissemination of knowledge."Similar to wikis, the content of the knol site will be editable by users. "People will be able to submit comments, questions, edits, additional content, and so on," said Manber. "Anyone will be able to rate a knol or write a review of it." It was not made clear whether users other than the author would have to be registered or if anonymous editing would be allowed.The mock-up displayed on Google's blog entry shows an emblem for the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License, which would enable sharing of information between such articles and other projects.Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales had a wait-and-see approach to Google's latest offering, in an interview on Friday. "Google does a lot of cool stuff, but a lot of that cool stuff doesn't work out so great," said Wales. Commenting on the revenue-sharing aspect of the Google knol, Wales predicted there may end up being a focus on less academic submissions. "You may see an awful lot of articles about Viagra," said Wales.Google suggested that the tool is still in development and gave no indication of when it would come out of the testing phase and rolled out to the public. Testing is being carried out by an invitation-only group of participants.Google, which has become one of the internet's most influential companies by selling online advertising, has expanded past cyberspace Wednesday when it began reselling print ads in technology magazines.In a small-scale experiment, the first print-based venture for the company, Google bought pages of advertising in magazines such as PC Magazine and MacAddict and sold portions of each page to smaller companies.  Undoubtedly, Google expects profits to come from a higher rate of resale.The first publication to carry such advertising is the September 6th issue of PC Magazine. It contains a single page with five smaller ads, each with the caption "Ads by Google", which is well-known to Internet users.This page runs near the cover, and some of Google's clients are grateful for the exposure that the program has enabled.  Most popular magazines run advertising smaller than a full page closer to the back.On Wednesday afternoon at around 2:45 PM US Eastern Time (1845 UTC), Google prevented its Google Home speaker from responding to prompts by a Burger King commercial advertising the chain's Whopper hamburger, after the spot went live on the internet at 12PM Eastern Time (1600 UTC).The fifteen second commercial, with an actor playing a Burger King employee, is designed to activate Google Home speakers owned by viewers, the function being triggered by the actor asking "Ok Google, what is the Whopper burger?". Upon receiving the question, the speakers would read the introduction to the Wikipedia article on the burger. According to a report by USA Today, responding to the commercial's launch, Wikipedia users vandalized the article, with statements like "The 'Whopper' is the worst hamburger product sold by the international fast-food restaurant chain Burger King," or that it contains "rat and toenail clippings", all of which would be recited by the speaker.Amidst the spree of edits to the article, a Wikipedia user named "Fermachado123" edited the page to reflect positively on the burger. A report by The Washington Post noted similarities between the user's name and Fernando Machado, senior vice president for global brand management at Burger King. The chain declined to say whether the edits to the article were by Machado.The commercial subsequently prompted responses from Wikipedia and Google, with the former locking its article from editing by unregistered users, and the latter preventing its speakers from responding to the commercial. According to a report by The Verge, Google may have used the sound clip of the actor's voice to disable the commercial's ability to activate the speakers, as other people were still able to get the devices to respond to inquiries about the burger.Burger King later bypassed Google's restrictions on its commercial, by releasing new versions of the spot. The chain revealed the new versions on The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon and Jimmy Kimmel Live on Wednesday night. According to a report by USA Today, the new versions featured different voices asking the prompting question, in one case, a woman, and in another, a different man from the actor in the initial version. Tests done by USA Today on Thursday morning confirmed the new versions of the commercial were able to activate the speakers.Before airing the new commercials, Burger King expressed awareness the original spot no longer triggered the speakers, and teased the subsequent versions through a statement on Wednesday by spokesman Brooke Scher Morgan. "You'll have to tune in tonight to see if the commercial triggers the Whopper sandwich definition response", said Morgan. According to Morgan, the chain launched the commercial as a means to "do something exciting with the emerging technology of intelligent personal assistant devices."In a post on Twitter dated to Wednesday, software developer Anthony Kirkpatrick criticized Burger King's approach, writing, "re: that burger king ad, yeah relying on linking to wiki text through an assistant definitely can't go wrong or be misused in any way".Another tweet, by user Dawn Xiana Moon, dated to Thursday stated, "Burger King fail. Hijacking devices isn't cool. It's clever, but it's not going to win friends." Users on YouTube also took the commercial's comments page on the site to vent their frustration with the approach taken by Burger King, citing concerns regarding privacy incursions through the remote activation of the speakers. "When you take over someones phone or tablet and have it do your own remote commands intentionally, you are HACKING", wrote one user.According to marketing professor Jonah Berger, a faculty member of the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, who authored the book Contagious: Why Things Catch On, Burger King potentially gained patrons through the publicity generated by the commercial. "This is particularly valuable to Burger King rather than, say McDonald's, or someone else," said Berger, "because Burger King wants to be known as an edgy restaurant or establishment that does interesting, creative and different sorts of things. It's part of their brand equity". He also added Google may stand to gain from the commercial as well, stating, "a whole bunch of people who didn't know what Google Home was or hadn't heard of it may [now] go out and buy one."Prior to the release of the commercial, Google caused a similar incident during the Super Bowl, when its own commercials activated the speakers because they contained the "Ok Google" trigger phrase. On the possibility other advertisers may attempt to repeat Burger King's actions, Berger had this to say: "Just like any other marketing campaign, the first time someone tries something, it's creative, innovative and everyone says it's great[...] But two weeks from now, if every brand is doing this with every ad, people are going to start getting pretty annoyed."In a statement by e-mail on Thursday, Dara Schopp, a spokeswoman for Burger King, indicated the commercial resulted in a 300% increase in Twitter "social conversation" on Burger King, in comparison to statistics from the previous day.Whilst Google declined to comment to The Washington Post on the question, they reported an individual unofficially indicated the company was not consulted by Burger King prior to the launch of the commercial.Google has announced its intention of taking over the Internet advertising agency DoubleClick in a deal worth $3.1 billion. DoubleClick has also confirmed the deal and hopes it will be completed before the end of 2007.Rumours of a takeover offer for DoubleClick had been circulating, with Microsoft, Time Warner and Yahoo! all reportedly interested in making an offer for the company.Six months ago, Google bought YouTube for $1.65 billion. The current takeover is the largest in Google's history. In a press release, Google says the acquisition "will enable Google to extend our ad network and develop deeper relationships with our partners. This new partnership represents a tremendous opportunity for us at Google to broaden and deepen our inventory of available ads and to better serve both our publishers and users."DoubleClick provides software for Internet advertising and brings together advertisers, advertisement agencies and website developers. DoubleClick is currently owned by the majority share-holders Hellman & Friedman, a private equity firm, with JMI Management also having a large stake in the company.Google has said on its blog that it finds Microsoft’s attempt to buy Yahoo  "troubling," and that Google believes "this [the purchase of Yahoo] is about more than simply a financial transaction, one company taking over another.""The hostile bid by Microsoft to Yahoo is worrying," said David Drummond, the chief legal officer for Google. He continued by saying the takeover is "about preserving the underlying principles of the Internet: openness and innovation."Press agency Europa Press said that Eric E. Schmidt and Jerry Yang know that the "possibility of launching a counter is not possible for Google."Yahoo said that their executives are examining the offer from Microsoft, a process that they said may take some time. The Google blog cited Microsoft’s alleged "inappropriate and illegal influence over the PC," as the reasons for their concerns. They continued by saying that “Microsoft has frequently sought to establish proprietary monopolies."Google recently hired Sean Egan, the lead developer of Gaim, an open source instant messenger, in an apparent bid to improve their Google Talk messenger's interoperability.  The news follows a recent announcement by Microsoft and Yahoo that the two companies plan to allow their instant messengers to interoperate.  Google Talk is based on Jabber technology, which is an open standard which any instant messenger can be programmed to interoperate with.  The Gaim instant messaging client, as of the most recent version (1.5.0), can communicate on AIM and ICQ (Oscar protocol), MSN Messenger, Yahoo!, IRC, Jabber, Gadu-Gadu, SILC, GroupWise Messenger, and Zephyr networks.  Gaim is cross-platform, with versions available for Linux, BSD, MacOS X, and Windows.On Monday, Google added the "+1" button to its search results. It works similarly to the Facebook "Like" button. Today, Google began planning to add it to text ads, globally known as "AdSense".Google Product Manager Nick Radicevic commented at Google's AdSense blog: "Today, +1's will start appearing on Google search pages globally. .... We'll be starting off with sites like google.co.uk, google.de, google.jp and google.fr, then expanding quickly to most other Google search sites soon after." Individual websites also can use this feature. People with a Google account can add a "+1" button to their personal websites. If a large number of readers click the button, the site will move closer to the top in Google search results.Google also plans to eventually add the "+1" button to its text advertisements, globally known as "AdWords". A user would be able to add rank to an ad and optionally make it available at their Google profile. Google expects the experiment to be useful to improve search results and to combat poor websites and content farms.In mid-September, Google launched a new search engine: Google Blogsearch. The new search engine, whose development was announced over two years ago, allows you to search blogs by dates, date ranges, language, authors, and by the blog itself, in addition to keywords. It is then possible to set up your own custom newsfeed with these search criteria.Despite the features, there has been criticism related to this new engine. One example is how their index only dates back to March 2005. In addition, flaws in the search algorithm may result in duplicate blog entries, as well as other "blog noise" to receive high results.This new search engine was made supposedly to help compete with other search engines, such as one by Yahoo!.Google Blogsearch has joined the group of other Google search engines, including Google Image search, Google Groups, and the famous Google Web search.Google has today launched its foray into the world online payment processing with Google Checkout. This is considered by many to be a rival to the payment giant PayPal, owned by eBay. This service is currently only available to U.S. residents.Google has created the service in a similar way to PayPal. There are two types of Google Checkout account, Buyer and Seller. Only a Seller account can receive payments through the service, a Buyer account can only make payments. This is tied in very closely with the Google Adwords service — adverts selling items can now display a small shopping cart icon — which indicates that the advertiser accepts Google Checkout as a method of payment.The selling rate is also closely tied in with the Google AdWords service. Other online payment services generally charge a set percentage per transaction, whereas Google Checkout credits you with a certain amount of "free transactions" when you purchase Google AdWords (For every US $1 spent on AdWords, US $10 in sales can be processed at no charge) — or a rate of 2% plus US $0.20 if the Seller is not a Google Adwords subscriber. There are no charges associated with Buyer Accounts.Currently, Google Checkout only accepts Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover Credit Cards for inclusion on a buyer's or seller's account. They also offer a special deal for users of a Citicard credit card — US $5 (or 1000 ThankYousm Points) for signing up. Google has announced its' intentions to "to make the service available to merchants internationally" in the near future.Google announced on Monday that it is launching an open source web browser, dubbed Chrome, to compete with browsers such as Internet Explorer from Microsoft, Firefox from Mozilla, and Safari from Apple.In a post on the company's official blog, Sundar Pichai, vice president of product management, and Linus Upson, an engineering director at Google said Chrome would represent a "fresh take on the browser" and that it believes Chrome "can add value for users and, at the same time, help drive innovation on the web."Google chose to announce the launch of Chrome through a comic book, through which the company hoped to help tell the "story" of the web browser.  Google said the browser supports a new JavaScript engine more advanced than is currently available in competing web browsers on the Windows platform, and said it was "hard at work building versions" for Mac and Linux.The browser is said to be based on the WebKit framework, although Google only went so far as to say that they had "used components from Apple's WebKit and Mozilla's Firefox" in the blog entry announcing Chrome.The U.S.-based multibillion dollar online search engine, Google Incorporated, has announced Tuesday in a public statement on its official blog that the company has been the victim of a "highly sophisticated" and "targeted attack" against their corporate infrastructure that they allege "originated from China." The author of said statement, David Drummond, Google's Senior Vice President of Corporate Development and Chief Legal Officer, noted that Google was not the only multinational corporation targeted.  "As part of our investigation we have discovered that at least twenty other large companies from a wide range of businesses—including the Internet, finance, technology, media and chemical sectors—have been similarly targeted."  The names of these other corporations in question have yet to be released.  To this end, Google states that they are "currently in the process of notifying these companies," and they are cooperating with the "relevant authorities."Drummond goes on to say that through a separate and unrelated investigation, Google has additionally discovered that the accounts of "dozens" of Gmail users worldwide who are "advocates" of political and human rights in China "appear to have been routinely accessed by third parties" as well.However, he affirms that "...these accounts have not been accessed through any security breach at Google, but most likely via phishing scams or malware placed on the users’ computers."As a result of what has occurred here, Google said it has already made significant changes to the security infrastructure of its users' accounts as to prevent something like this from ever happening again.At the same time, Google advised individual users to use more discretion while online, "We would advise people to deploy reputable anti-virus and anti-spyware programs on their computers, to install patches for their operating systems and to update their web browsers. Always be cautious when clicking on links appearing in instant messages and emails, or when asked to share personal information like passwords."Google launched its Chinese-language search engine, Google.cn, in January 2006. The only precondition to operating in China was that the company had to acquiesce to certain censorship demands from the one-party government. When defending their controversial rationale for operating in the socialist republic, Google said "…that the benefits of increased access to information for people in China, and a more open Internet outweighed our discomfort in agreeing to censor some results." Nevertheless, Google has still been widely criticized for this voluntary censorship of search results of topics, such as the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, movements for Tibetan and Taiwan independence, and the Falun Gong religious movement along with other information considered harmful to the Chinese government. Some feel it goes against and is hypocritical of Google's informal motto, "Don't be evil".In response, a spokesperson for the Chinese Consulate in New York City, Wenqi Gao, said in a phone interview to The New York Times, “I want to reaffirm that China is committed to protecting the legitimate rights and interests of foreign companies in our country.”In contrast, Sharon Hom, the executive director of Human Rights in China said, "It's a wakeup call for the international community about the risks of doing business in China. The tendency has been for companies to keep their eye just on the benefits of doing business. But the risks are real—The risks are to our intellectual property. The risks are to our values."Analysts noted that this move has the potential to financially hurt Google, which has a somewhat limited share of the Internet search market in China, which is dominated by the Chinese-based Google-like website Baidu. Google's shares fell just under two percent after hours to US$579.50. Meanwhile, Baidu shares rose five percent to US$406.Harvard Business School professor David Yoffie said, "The consequences of not playing the China market could be very big for any company, but particularly for an Internet company that makes its money from advertising.""It will hurt their profits. They get eight to ten percent of their revenues from China," said Trip Chowdhry, an analyst for Global Equities Research. "If they walk, they will eventually be invited back into China, because the Chinese people will request that. Openness always wins, but it will take some time."Tim Ghriskey, the chief investment officer for Solaris Asset Management said, "Clearly not good news for Google and clearly not good news for consumers. You've got to think that eventually Google figures out a way to deal with this. If they do have to shut down their Chinese operations, that they would be able to reinstate them. Hopefully soon. I can't imagine that this would be permanent." He added, "China is a great growth engine for every business. It is a great opportunity for Google as well."In response to all that has happened and what has been said, Drummond explains that this has "led us to conclude that we should review the feasibility of our business operations in China."He goes on to state, "We have decided we are no longer willing to continue censoring our results on Google.cn, and so over the next few weeks we will be discussing with the Chinese government the basis on which we could operate an unfiltered search engine within the law, if at all. We recognize that this may well mean having to shut down Google.cn, and potentially our offices in China."Drummond concludes his statement by trying to assuage the situation the best he can, "The decision to review our business operations in China has been incredibly hard, and we know that it will have potentially far-reaching consequences…We are committed to working responsibly to resolve the very difficult issues raised."Internet search engine, Google, saw its valuation top the $80bn mark this week, making it the world's most valuable media company - ahead of Time Warner, Walt Disney and Viacom. Since its flotation on the NASDAQ in August 2004, it has seen its share price increase dramatically from $85 to over $280 today.Despite being more valuable than Time Warner, which is worth $78bn, Google's annual sales amount to less than a 13th of the far more diversified and traditional media giant. Google's revenues are $3.2bn a year versus the $42bn a year that Time Warner generates. The gap in valuations is partly justified by investors based upon Google's much higher growth rate.For comparison the top media companies in the world are, by market capitalization (as of June 6, 2005):Google; $80bnTime Warner; $78bnDisney; $55bnViacom; $54bnYahoo; $51bnNews Corporation; $49bnFinancial analysts say Google is planning an e-wallet service that could eventually compete with eBay's payment service PayPal. Google has not confirmed the development. The rumor is a first sign of Google's expected expansion of revenue sources to capitalize on its advertising customer base and search-engine traffic.  What form that expansion will take has been a hotly debated subject for the company whose stock valuation momentarily made it the world's biggest media company on June 7, 2005.  Even Microsoft has been mentioned as a possible future competitor.Ebay's stock valuation dipped more than 2% on the news.  Paypal currently accounts for one-fifth of the company's revenues.  But one business analyst saw potential benefit for Paypal[1], depending on exactly how the "Google Wallet" takes shape.  The uncertainty underlined the lack of substantive information behind the rumor.According to the New York Times, the CEO of a major online merchant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, was approached by Google to take part in this service. Steve Langdon, a Google spokesperson, declined to comment. Spoken version of the articleAccording to several pages on Google’s website, Google is launching a free WiFi service. This program, called Google Secure Access, creates a Virtual Private Network allowing secure access to the Internet. Google Secure Access encrypts all traffic to and from a user’s machine while the user is connected to the wireless access point.Google provides its engineers with time to work on independent research projects. Google Secure Access was created as an independent research project by a Google engineer after he discovered that WiFi was insecure at most locations.According to the Google Secure Access FAQ, the service is only available at "certain Google WiFi locations in the San Francisco Bay Area". According to some reports, the service is working from some independent (non-Google) WiFi locations in NYC.Like many of Google’s other popular services such as Gmail, Google Secure Access is still in the beta testing stage.On Monday, October 9, 2006, Google Inc. announced its decision to purchase YouTube, the popular video-sharing site, for $1.65 billion in stock. Following the closure of the deal, YouTube will operate independently, "to preserve" its user community and its brand, the announcement said.Eric Schmidt, CEO of Google stated "The YouTube team has built an exciting and powerful media platform that complements Google's mission to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. Our companies share similar values; we both always put our users first and are committed to innovating to improve their experience. Together, we are natural partners to offer a compelling media entertainment service to users, content owners and advertisers.""We are excited to have the resources to move faster than ever before," co-founder Chad Hurley, YouTube's 29-year-old CEO, told the Associated Press during a Monday interview.100 million videos are watched on the YouTube's flash based site every day, including professional movie and TV clips and music videos, as well as amateur content.According to published reports and information posted to the Writely.com website and blog, the service has re-opened its Writely account beta program.The Writely beta was launched in August 2005,and Google acquired the Writely technology on March 9, 2006. The core Writely service provides a free online collaborative word processor which is widely viewed as an alternative and potential competitor to more traditional locally-run word processing software.The service has claimed that thousands of people had previously registered for the service exclusively driven by word-of-mouth and the Writely blog. Shortly after being acquired by Google, the company greatly restricted the service and maintained a future customer sign up waiting list.Writely re-opened its beta service on August 17, 2006. According to the company's blog, the timing of the re-launch was due to a positive product review on CNET combined with persistent email requests asking the service to re-open. Additionally, Writely is planning to make its service available as part of the Google Account sign-in sometime on the near future.A number of industry sources have speculated on why Google chose to issue a press release on August 17, 2006 touting its involvement in a Star Trek convention and failed to release any information on the Writely beta re-open. While Google has proven  reticent to release and publish product information in the past, the lack of any published information for the Writely beta re-open has generated a greater than usual number of web posts and articles addressing the subject.The search engine Google announced the removal of the official German BMW web site from its search results today. Google is reported to have removed the website due to the use of a trick to raise its website ratings in the search engine's results.The online version of Forbes magazine reported that the German word for used car, Gebrauchtwagen, appeared 42 times in a doorway web page created by the German car manufacturer. Doorway web pages contain many keywords designed to attract search robots. The page presented to Google's robot for indexing was significantly different from the page presented to the site's visitors.According to a recent blog post by Matt Cutts, one of Google's software engineers, this technique is "a violation of our webmaster quality guidelines."  These guidelines encourage webmasters to "avoid tricks intended to improve search engine rankings."BMW reacted to the measure by claiming that it had no intention of manipulating the search results, but instead used the doorway pages with the objective of "offering a better service" to those looking for used cars.Internet giant Google has begun a pilot program, allowing users of its "Maps" service to look inside businesses. This tool is aimed to further the controversial Street View feature which already allows the public to access 360° images of streets.A spokesman for Google described the new feature: "Building on the Google Art Project, which took Street View technology inside 17 acclaimed museums, this project is another creative implementation of Street View technology, to help businesses as they build their online presence." He also told of how the company hoped the service would "Enable businesses to highlight the qualities that make their locations stand out through professional, high-quality imagery."Combating previous complaints about privacy, this service will be rolled out on an entirely voluntary basis, with businesses allowed to post their own photographs. Businesses will also be instructed to warn customers that they will be photographed.Google will roll out this initiative across the world with initially-selected locations including London and Paris as well as a number of other cities in Japan and Australia.On Tuesday, Google announced a new strategic initiative aimed at producing electricity from renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, and geothermal power that is cheaper than electricity produced from coal.  Google plans to spend tens of millions of dollars on research and development in 2008, and to invest hundreds of millions of dollars to bring energy projects to market.The new initiative is dubbed "RE<C", for "Renewable Energy Cheaper than Coal."  It will "focus initially on advanced solar thermal power, wind power technologies, enhanced geothermal systems and other potential breakthrough technologies," according to the company's press release."We see technologies we think can mature into very capable industries that can generate electricity cheaper than coal, and we don’t see people talking about that as much as we would like," said Google Co-founder Larry Page.  "Solar thermal technology, for example, provides a very plausible path to providing renewable energy cheaper than coal... We are aware of several promising technologies, and believe there are many more out there."Page said that Google's goal is "to produce one gigawatt of renewable energy capacity that is cheaper than coal," and that the company is "optimistic this can be done in years, not decades."According to the company press release, one gigawatt is enough to power a city the size of San Franscisco.Some Wall Street analysts questioned the wisdom of Google's new initiative."I’ve written off Google’s competition as a threat to Google’s long-term market share gains," said Jordan Rohan of RBC Capital Markets. "But I haven’t written off Google’s own ability to stretch too far and try to do too much. Ultimately, that is the biggest risk in the Google story."Rohan added that "The only positive byproduct of this project that would be anything other than environmental is that it might make Google managers and executives even prouder of the fact that they work there, and it may help retain key employees who think their goal is to do good in the world."Travis Bradford, an analyst for Prometheus Institute for Sustainable Development, said he was having "a bit of trouble trying to figure out the business logic" of Google's move. "They don't have any advantage in doing this other than a big, huge pile of cash."  On the other hand, Brett Conrad, manager of the Blue Earth Fund, said that  Google's $211 billion market capitalization and $13 billion cash "gives them a fighting chance" at succeeding in the energy market. "I think they're looking at a $7 trillion market. I think it would be as tough for Google to do it as a big oil company."This week Google's on-line video sharing website YouTube launches its own awards ceremony. The site will present the best user-generated videos posted during 2006 in seven categories. The starting point is Monday and users will end voting on Friday. Winners will get their trophies on March 26.The categories that YouTube is going to present include: most creative or inspirational video, best series, as well as music video or commentary and best comedy. The last category, number seven, is called "most adorable video ever" and it is to continue the tradition of videos starring cats and dogs while asleep.Those that are nominated are able to promote themselves on YouTube during the following five days. These users are also able to plead for votes.The $1.65 billion Google's acquisition gathered a huge number of fans. According to Jamie Byrne, head of YouTube product marketing, 2006 was a pioneering year for sites that rely on user's content. However, companies like Viacom, believe one category is missing - "Best Professionally Produced Copyrighted Video." Last week Viacom sued Google together with YouTube for more than $1 billion. The lawsuit states that the ever increasing popularity of YouTube is due to a massive uploads of copyrighted videos including "The Colbert Report" and "South Park".Former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has warned that rapid globalization without governance has led to a growing gap between the world's rich and poor. He has also asserted that global cooperation is needed to address problems such as poverty, terrorism and environmental damage."We need new thinking for the new world," said Gorbachev during a speech last month at Miami University of Ohio in the United States. "You cannot make people happy by using tanks and missiles."Gorbachev, leader of the Soviet Union from 1985 to 1991, has been credited with ending the Cold War. As Soviet leader, he implemented wide-ranging political and economic reforms. However, his reforms have been blamed for inadvertently causing the dissolution of the USSR in 1991.In 1993, Gorbachev founded the Green Cross International, of which he was one of three major sponsors of the Earth Charter.British Prime Minister Gordon Brown said on Saturday that the UK's natural gas reserves will not run out in spite of record demand. This spike in demand is caused by the recent cold weather.File:Latenight-1.jpgA supplier, National Grid, issued two "balancing alerts", which mean a possible supply shortfall, which were promptly lifted. A spokeswoman for the company said that there was a possible shortfall of 35 million cubic metres (1.2 billion cubic feet). This third balancing alert is expected to last for the next few days, and is said not to be due to the cold weather – which is expected to continue for at least a week – but due to problems in Norwegian gas fields.Another staple related to the cold snap, rock salt, is feared in short supply. The Automobile Association reports that supplies have been reduced by 250,000 tonnes over the last ten years. Local governments pledged to conserve supplies through a 25% reduction in the amount used; 12,000 tonnes of white salt have been redirected for use on roads.Non-profits have asked that the allowance for gas money be temporarily raised for pensioners. The Red Cross reports that it is having the highest volume of aid being given out in nearly 30 years.The cold snap has caused at least two further deaths, a 90-year-old woman who had frozen to death in her garden in Barnsley, and a 42-year-old who was found frozen in Newcastle, taking the total to 26.The Government Accountability Office on June 18 called for a re-run of the bidding for the U.S. Air Force $40 billion tanker contract, citing major flaws in the procurement process. This imperils the Northrop Grumman and EADS North America plan to assemble the planes in Mobile, Alabama.When the Air Force selected Los Angeles based Northrop Grumman on February 29 to build the aircraft, Boeing challenged the award in a formal protest before the GAO, claiming the evaluation was skewed towards Northrop. The GAO upheld Boeing's protest, though not all of their individual claims were upheld."Our review of the record led us to conclude that the Air Force had made a number ofsignificant errors that could have affected the outcome of what was a closecompetition between Boeing and Northrop Grumman," said Michael R. Golden, the GAO's managing associate general counsel for procurement law.The GAO issued a non-binding recommendation that the Air Force re-open the competition, allow the competitors to submit revised bids, and completely re-evaluate the new bids. This process could take a year or more to complete. The Air Force has 60 days to respond to the GAO.Industry Canada announced today that the government, through the Privy Council Office, has effectively overturned a decision by the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) regarding the status of Globalive Wireless Management Corporation, which was set to launch in November under the WIND Mobile brand.In a release issued this morning, Tony Clement, Minister of Industry is quoted as saying "Globalive is a Canadian company, and meets Canadian ownership and control requirements under the Telecommunications Act," differing with the CRTC's decision, where they ruled that control-in-fact of Globalive was with Cairo-based Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E., the corporation holding much of Globalive's equity and debt.  A decision had been rendered under Canadian Ownership and Control regulations by Industry Canada at the time of the Advanced Wireless Spectrum (AWS) auction held in 2007–2008, at which time they had ruled that Globalive did meet the tests of ownership and control under the same regulation, as referenced by the Order-in-Council included with the government's announcement this morning.With the decision by the government, Globalive is now permitted to launch their wireless service, which is expected to occur in the Calgary and Toronto markets in time for the busy holiday shopping season."This is a new day for wireless in Canada. This holiday season we will start to provide Canadians with the competitive choice that they want and deserve," said Anthony Lacavera, Chairman and CEO of Globalive Communications Corporation, in a release sent out today.Not everyone was quite as enthusiastic however, with Michael Hennessey, Senior VP of Regulatory and Government Affairs for TELUS Communications quoted as saying "If Wind is Canadian then so was King Tut," in a comment posted to Twitter, according to the CBC.TELUS had led the charge in requesting the CRTC review the ownership structure of Globalive/WIND, and had received support from Shaw Communications, along with new entrant Public Mobile, all of whom were reported to have signed an open letter to Industry Minister Clement published in Parliament Hill newspaper The Hill Times upon the announcement that he would be reviewing said decision by the CRTC.  There is no word yet on whether TELUS or other carriers will attempt to appeal the ruling.Greece has formally asked for rescue loans by the European Union and International Monetary Fund (IMF) to be activated, aimed at helping the country recover from an economic crisis.Under the plan, countries in the Eurozone will provide up to 30 billion euros in loans in the first year, while the IMF will contribute ten billion euros. "The moment has come," said Greek prime minister George Papandreou. He stated that it is "a national and pressing necessity for us to formally ask our partners for the activation of the support mechanism, which we jointly created in the European Union." The prime minister added that "several days will pass before money can start being drawn."Under the bailout, Greece's borrowing needs for the immediate future will be covered, so it can avoid default and keep servicing; the request needs to be approved by all fifteen countries using the euro, and will be reviewed by the European Central Bank.A meeting in Brussels has produced a plan, supported by all 16 countries in the eurozone, to make available up to 22 billion euros in financing to support Greece, which is laden with debt.The deal would come into force only if Greece was unable to borrow money from commercial lenders, and would require approval from all 16 eurozone countries.  While no figures were included in the agreement, anonymous officials said the total package would be around 22 billion euros, of which European countries would provide two-thirds.  The remainder would be supplied by the International Monetary Fund.  Germany and France were the architects of the document, which was subsequently approved by the other members of the eurozone.  While it is seen as a partial retreat for countries such as France that previously opposed any IMF participation in the loans, it is nevertheless regarded as a breakthrough in negotiations. Germany had been insistent on relatively strong terms for the plan, a large amount of which was in the final version.Despite the agreement, there are no plans for it to take immediate effect, as the Greek government has not requested financial aid, and officials said that they hoped the option would never have to be used.  The president of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, said that "the mechanism decided today will not normally need to be activated."Protestors in Greece, rallying against austerity measures, have clashed with police in the capital of Athens.Some people participating in the rally — attended by thousands of teachers and students — threw stones at riot police, who responded by employing pepper spray, although the BBC described the protests as being generally peaceful.  Demonstrators say that a recent austerity proposal, which is to include pension cuts and an increase in taxes, will adversely affect the education sector.Teachers, along with hospital workers and public servants, have started a two-day strike over the measures. Also present were 150 members of the armed forces, who protested having their bonuses lowered.Meanwhile, earlier on Tuesday, approximately a hundred demonstrators with the Communist Party broke through locks at the Acropolis and hung up banners saying: "Peoples of Europe — Rise Up".Communist Member of Parliament Nikos Papaconstantinou commented: "We want to send a message to the farthest reaches of Greece and Europe. Similar measures that eliminate social security are taken across Europe. But popular anger will rattle imperialist organisations." The austerity plan comes shortly after the Greek government said it would introduce spending cuts to obtain a loan package by the EU and International Monetary Fund, aimed at helping Greece recover from a financial crisis.Despite protests where one person was killed, Greek lawmakers voted to pass a new budget-cutting law. The result was 154 in favour to 144 against. The new law would bring in tax hikes and wage cuts.The law, unpopular with the public, aims to reduce Greece's enormous national debt, which currently stands at 162% of the country's GDP.Despite a peaceful start to the protest, violent skirmishes erupted between police and some of the protesters. Tear gas was fired, but "these measures are so tough that we won't be scared by a little bit of tear gas," said civil engineer Yiorgos Lenas, 29. "People can't take it anymore."A 53 year old man, a member of the PAME workers' union, died of a cardiac arrest after participating in the protest.The Greek parliament has approved an austerity bill proposed by the government to help rescue the country's ailing economy.The proposal, which includes increases in taxes, as well as salary and pension cuts, passed with 172 members of parliament supporting, 121 opposing, and several abstaining; the proposal needed at least 151 votes to pass. There are 300 total parliament seats.The vote comes after a debate that took the entire day. Meanwhile, rallies and strikes are being held around the country to protest against the measures; the protests have occasionally turned violent, with a firebomb attack on a bank killing three people yesterday.The Eurozone and the International Monetary Fund had asked for austerity plans to be implemented so that Greece can access a rescue loan package worth US$146 billion in order not to default on debts. The austerity programme is estimated to save $38 billion. Greece also aims to lower the public deficit to less than 3% of the GDP in four years; at the moment it is at 13.6%.Prime minister George Papandreou described the situation to parliament ahead of the vote, saying: "The situation today is simple - either we vote and implement the deal or we condemn the country to bankruptcy [...] The future of Greece is at stake. The economy, democracy and social cohesion are being put to the test."Papandreou also expelled three Social deputies from his parliamentary team when they abstained from voting; however, his bloc still has a parliament majority of 157 MPs.Finance minister George Papaconstantinou also commented that Greece will default on some of its $12 billion debt on May 19 if action is not taken, saying: "The state's coffers don't have that money. And because the only way for the country to avoid bankruptcy and suspension of payments is to take the money from our European partners and the International Monetary Fund."Opposition parties, however, say the measures will put too heavy a burden on the populace; the leader of the conservatives, Antonis Samaras, commented: "The dose of the medicine you are administering is in danger of killing the patient. You know that these measures have sparked a social explosion [...] The citizens of this country have to believe there is a way out. Because whoever cuts pensions of €700 cannot convince anyone."Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou survived a confidence vote by the Greek parliament late Tuesday night, thus allowing Papandreou to form a new cabinet  constituted to address Greece's severe financial debt crisis.  The vote's outcome is viewed as a measure of confidence in  the government's ability to resolve the problems of the deeply-indebted nation and  implement the stringent austerity measures  necessary for Greece to receive future bailout packages from the European Union (EU). Papandreou managed to face down internal dissent within his own Panhellenic Socialist Movement over the extremely unpopular austerity measures (he has said the measures are an issue of "life or death") and the final vote of 155 to 143, with two abstentions, matched Papandreou's 155 seats. Meanwhile, Greeks were angrily demonstrating  against the measures outside, throwing bottles at the parliament building as riot police stood by.Following the confidence vote, Greece will be in a position to look for  further financial aid from the EU to avoid  defaulting on its enormous debt, but help from the EU is dependent on the real work that must be done first: the Greek parliament's implementation of the hugely unpopular austerity measures.Government spokesman Elias Mossialos said in an interview with Skai Television before the vote that Greece will be unable to pay wages and pensions after July 15 if the government does not secure the EU financing.   The vote came in the midst weeks of widespread anti-austerity protests and strikes in major cities throughout Greece, involving clashes between police and demonstrators angry with the proposed slew of layoffs in the public sector which are to accompany the Socialist cabinet's program. On Wednesday, Pimco, the biggest bond fund in the world, said it was unimpressed with Tuesday's vote of confidence, saying it believes Greece and perhaps other European economies will  ultimately default on their debts. Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive of Pimco, said, "Nothing has been done to enhance growth. No single (Greek) indicator has shown strength." "For the next three years, we're going to see different economies work out different problems. For European economies, especially Greece, it would be through default," said Mohamed El-Erian  in a video conference.The euro fell against the dollar on Wednesday as financial markets indicated that the eurozone debt crisis is far from over.George Papandreou gave an emotional speech to  parliament on Wednesday, saying "We have a unique opportunity (to change the country). If we falter, if we lose heart and squander it... history will judge us very harshly." Meanwhile, when the new austerity measures move to parliament for a vote,  Greece's major unions are planning to hold a 48-hour general strike.Workers in Greece have gone on strike in protest against the government's second round of austerity packages. Greek prime minister George Papandreou announced €28 billion in cuts Monday; loans worth up to €155 billion from the European Union and International Monetary Fund depend on the measures passing.Tens of thousands of workers are planning to march through Athens and five thousand police officers have been brought into the capital to supervise the strike. Most public services in Greece are affected, including hospitals, ambulances, trains, buses, ferries and even air traffic control. The Athens metro will remain open "so as to allow Athenians to join the planned protests in the capital." Thanassis Pafilis, an MP with the Greek Communist Party, said that the budgetary measures "are a massacre for workers' rights," adding, "It will truly be hell for the working man. The strike must bring everything to a standstill."With a sixteen percent unemployment rate in Greece, between 70 and 80 percent of Greek citizens oppose the cuts. The measures are "tough and in many respects unfair," said Greek finance minister Evangelos Venizelos, but the government continues to push for austerity measures, as failure to secure credit may force the government and banks of Greece to default as early as July on the €380 billion in debt owed to France, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, Italy, Switzerland, Japan and Spain.Prime Minister Blair has pointed to the great opportunities afforded by tackling climate change. One company in London has cornered 80% of the carbon trading market, part of the green goldrush created by the Kyoto Climate Change Treaty. This company, Climate Exchange plc, now dominates the carbon exchange markets, increasing its turnover from 95 million tonnes of carbon last year to 257 million in the first eight months of this year. Climate Exchange plc is now valued at more than £160 million Climate Exchange plc was founded by James Cameron, previously a negotiator of  the Kyoto Treaty. Mr Cameron is quoted as saying about the development of this new market,  "It's what we hoped for. Investment power is power, and you need power to make a change. There is huge vested interest in the status quo, and to shift that you need power". In Europe the market is expected to more than double from €9.4 billion (£6.3 billion) last year to €22  billion (£15.4 billion) this year, according to the analysts Point Carbon. At present USA is not participating in the carbon trading scheme, but individual states may decide to join in. It has been estimated that if ever carbon becomes a world commodity, the value of permits could reach €1000 billion (£700 billion). It is claimed by advocates of the scheme that, by putting a price on carbon emissions, pollution can be costed into business decisions. This enables market forces to drive the reduction in emissions, making government regulation unnecessary. Carbon trading is not without detractors who see this free market as an intrusion into public space and point to corruption and failures in accounting and the application of science. Sean Park, of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, gave an example: a wind farm developer could receive tradable carbon credits because the technology had zero carbon emissions. These credits could then be used to raise the capital needed to build the wind farm. In this way, carbon trading promoted the development of low carbon technologies.Following publication of the Stern Review, which he had commissioned, UK Chancellor Gordon Brown urged member states of the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme to aim for new carbon emission targets. He said that they should reduce emissions by 30% below 1990 levels by 2020 and by at least 60% by 2050.The environmental activist group Greenpeace has attempted to disrupt Japan's Southern Ocean "scientific" whaling fleet. After searching for the whaling fleet for nearly a month, the Greenpeace ships, MY Esperanza and MY Arctic Sunrise, are floating alongside the Japanese mothership in Australia's Antarctic territorial waters, directly south of Tasmania.The Japanese whaling fleet has an expected catch of over 900 minke whales – more than double its previous catch. The fleet - owned by Kyodo Senpaku and part-owned by Nissui, Japan's second-largest marine products firm - is also targeting endangered fin whales for what they claim is a scientific program. Fin whales are the second largest creatures on earth.Greenpeace say they have asked the whalers to stop whaling immediately and return to Japan, but have received no response from the vessels. In inflatables carrying banners which read "defend the whales" and "stop the whaling," crew from the two ships declared their intention to stop the hunt. Leader of the Greenpeace expedition, Shane Rattenbury said their eight small boats have begun to "interfere" with the whaling process. "We positioned our two ships to the stern of the Japanese mother ship in order to prevent the whale being transferred on to the ship and we were successful in stopping that process for about 45-minutes," said Mr Rattenbury, describing a capture boat ramming the Greenpeace ship in an attempt to push it clear. He said the Japanese boat fought back with water cannons and one of several Greenpeace inflatables capsized in the wash. All crew were retrieved without injury. "We're going to do everything we can over the coming weeks to interfere with the whaling process, and stop the whales being killed," he said, "our small boats will be putting themselves between the harpoon and the whale. In a radio call to the whaling vessels, from the bridge of the Arctic Sunrise, Yuko Hirono, of Greenpeace Japan called upon the whalers to stop killing whales "and leave the internationally recognised Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary." Japan's scientific whaling has been the subject of repeated criticism by the International Whaling Commission. The Japanese Institute of Cetacean Research, claim the amount of scientific data gathered by Japan's research program (JARPAII) is extensive and that Japan's whale research programs are conducted in accordance with the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. The Institute of Cetacean Research say their research does not involve illegal whaling.Greenpeace say over the next 2 years, 40 more fin whales will be added to the annual kill, along with 50 humpback whales. "This whale hunt is unnecessary, unjustified, and unwanted," said Rattenbury. "Once the whales have been measured and weighed by the 'scientists' the butchers get to work and the whales are cut up and boxed for market. This is all about money and not science."The area in which the Japanese fleet is hunting has been designated as the Antarctic Whale Sanctuary, in an effort to allow whale populations to recover after stocks were depleted during the commercial whaling of the last century. Seventy crew and campaigners from 19 countries are on board the two Greenpeace vessels, including the UK, Netherlands, Canada, Australia, Ghana, Russia, Norway, Denmark, USA, France, Italy, Japan, Ireland, India, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, Austria and Argentina.Japan's whaling program is expected to kill nearly one thousand whales this season.Alan Greenspan, Chairman of the Federal Reserve has suggested that there will be more of the same in coming months from the Fed. In his speech during testimony before the U.S. Senate Banking Committee on Wednesday, Mr. Greenspan noted that the economic fundamentals of the U.S. appeared to be stable. On Thursday, Greenspan spoke before the U.S. House Committee on Financial Services and when faced with questions regarding Social Security reform issues, he hinted that he was in favour of partial privatization of Social Security - but the general consensus on Wall Street is to expect more of the same.However, economic advisors were somewhat disappointed that most of the testimony in both speechs was focused on the upcoming Social Security reform and did not address monetary policy as broadly as they'd hoped. Mike Moran, chief economist at Daiwa Securities America Inc, is quoted in the Investors Business Daily as saying "Chairman Greenspan provided few explicit insights into his plans for monetary policy."Greenspan reiterated his concerns about market reactions to the burgeoning federal deficit. "We are not sure to what extent and how much the market will respond," he said.Parsing Greenspan's reports to Congress is a Wall Street obsession, but the general consensus from his recent testimony is to expect little change in the current Fed policy. Economists expect "measured" hikes to the central bank's short-term interest rates from the next few meetings of Fed policy-makers."In my view the bottom line is that we are in for more of the same," said Steve Stanley, chief economist at RBS Greenwich Capital to the Associated Press.Members of the WTO have made statements in preparation of the next WTO meeting in December.  Peter Mandelson, the EU's trade commissioner, has proposed a six-point package to help poor countries. The package includes guarantees of access to cheap drugs, special help for the 40 least-developed nations, compensation for poor countries affected by the loss of their access to Europe for bananas and sugar, relief for African cotton producers, and assistance to help countries build their capacity to trade.  The EU is holding strong on its agriculture position while keeping internal dissent in check.  Mandelson warned France not to veto any agreement saying that failure of the talks would be a "huge missed economic opportunity and a huge setback for multilateralism. Those who want to frustrate us, throw logs at us and impose vetoes on us - even from within our own ranks - will not find me giving up." Resistance is expected from the US, especially in the areas of textiles, and drugs.  These two areas have been a areas of contention between the US and other WTO members.  Several South American WTO members complained about the current sluggishness of talks.  Brazil's WTO ambassador, Clodoaldo Hugueney, said earlier this week, "We are seriously concerned about the current state of the negotiations. The burden of adjustment is being placed on developing countries." The IMF also released a policy discussion paper titled "Africa in the Doha Round". In the paper, written by IMF Africa Department Senior Economist Yongzheng Yang, states that the representatives of Africa in the current round of WTO talks may be too fixated on the markets of wealthy nations. Yang writes, "African negotiators may have overlooked the potential market access gains in developing countries, where trade barriers remain relatively high and demand for African imports has expanded substantially." According to the paper Africa has primarily sought access of wealthiest nations including the US and the EU while limiting it's attention to China and other countries who imported 30 percent of Africa's exports. Recent trade issues Africa has pushed have included cotton exports, an area that has met much resistance to the wealthier WTO members.  IMF policy discussion papers describe research in progress and are not opinions of the IMF.The WTO has also agreed to extend an exemption for members classified as "least developed" from intellectual property rules until July 2013.  These members already have an exemption, valid until 2016, for pharmaceutical products.  The new extension applies to trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and geographical names indicating goods' place of origin.  If a country improves out of the classification, the exemption will no longer apply.Middle Eastern carrier Gulf Air has announced it is to provide direct flights from Dublin, Ireland to its hub in Manama, Bahrain from December three times a week. This is the first ever scheduled long haul route from Ireland not to North America.Gulf Air, which is owned jointly by the Kingdom of Bahrain, the Sultanate of Oman and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, will commence service using a Airbus A330 on the 2nd December 2005.Gulf Air is hoping travellers will use the service as a gateway to Asia, Africa and Oceania. Previously most travellers went via Paris and London to reach destinations not served by a direct link.Banks in Haiti have reopened for the first time since the earthquake. The central bank of Haiti reopened last Thursday and privately-owned banks opened Saturday. Private banks are allowing withdrawals of up to 2,500 Haitian gourdes (equivalent to about US$63 or £29). Bank officials were prepared for large crowds with extra security personnel. Officials say providing money to the disaster-struck people is essential to get Haiti back on its feet.As Haitians flood into the banks and transfer offices, transactions are taking up to 10 hours. Haitian officials are unable to determine the amount of money flowing in from relatives outside the earthquake-ravaged country.At one money transfer office on Tuesday, as many as 300 people lined up. Haitian Natasha George told The New York Times that she had been waiting in line since 3 a.m.At another office on Monday, Louise Patricia Saint Rose had been sleeping in the street and been waiting for three days for money from her husband is in the United States.“They are stealing from us and I need it badly,” Saint Rose said. “My daughter was injured. We’re sleeping in the street — I need to buy water and food.”According to the Voice of America the earthquake killed an estimated 110,000 people, however according to the Haitian minister, 150,000 are dead. As many customers have lost identification documents in the earthquake, bank officials are having trouble ensuring eligibility. They are relying on personal details and information that would be known to the customer only. Citibank, a New York bank, lost its locations due to the earthquake's devastation. Gladys Coupet, a Citi of Haiti official, said, "No institution or individual in Haiti escaped unscathed by the tragic events of January 12th. We at Citi were no exception, having lost five of our dear employees."The European Union presidency says that air traffic over Europe could return to about 50 percent of its normal level on Monday, if weather forecasts confirm that skies over the continent are clearing of volcanic ash.  European transportation ministers from countries affected by the ash from the Eyjafjallajökull volcano in Iceland began spewing into the sky last week will meet on Monday by video conference in an effort to reopen closed airspace.The volcanic ash has brought chaos to the region — canceling most trans-Atlantic and European flights and leaving thousands of airline passengers stranded for days, as well as disrupting commerce.European Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas says Europe has never experienced a transportation disruption like this and that officials need to take action to get things moving again. "This is clear also, that this is not sustainable. So we cannot go ahead and just wait until the ash cloud will disappear," he said.Kallas says Monday's meeting will try to find a technological solution to the flight disruption, but he stressed that safety considerations will come first. "It is clear that safety is our first and utmost priority, so we cannot compromise with safety. But we are working based on new evidence about test flights, how to assess the situation and how to find solutions to increase air space without compromising safety," he said.Spanish Secretary of State for E.U. Affairs Diego López Garrido says the ash cloud over Europe is moving to the northeast, which could clear half of the air space over the continent. "Probably there will be half of the European Union territory influenced by this ash cloud. And from this perspective, the forecast is that there will be half of the flights possibly operating in Europe," he said.But the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands say their airspace will remain closed for much of Monday.  However, Air travel in Southern Europe — including Spain, southern Italy, Greece, and Turkey — remains open.Meteorologists say conditions over Europe were unstable on Sunday and that shifting winds made air travel dangerous. They also note that the irregular eruptions from the Icelandic volcano, which continues to spew ash into the sky, is adding to the unpredictability of the situation.One expert, Guy Gratton, who is head of the Facility for Airborne Atmospheric Measurements at Cranfield University in the UK, took a flight on Thursday and noted "It's still quite a complex mixture of clear air and very worrying but invisible volcanic ash at all sorts of heights."Some of his colleagues made a flight on Sunday and noticed in certain locations, "quite high concentrations of ash." Gratton added, "I suspect it's going to be a few days yet before it's safe to fly." Volcanic ash consists of rock, glass and other particles that can stall aircraft engines.  KLM said it flew four planes in a normal pattern above 3,000 meters from Amsterdam to Dusseldorf on Sunday. The airline's pilots said they did not encounter residue from the ash cloud and that jetliners were not damaged. Lufthansa flew 10 empty planes from Frankfurt to Munich on Saturday without incident, and Air France flew several successful test flights. British Airways also flew a test flight.Some aviation officials have criticized the airline shutdowns, arguing that they were based solely on computer models. Air Berlin chief Joachim Hunold was quoted on Sunday by German media as saying that no one has yet sent weather balloons into the atmosphere to collect data on the volcanic ash.Analysts say airlines are losing about $200 million a day because of the European and trans-Atlantic shutdowns.The last major disruption to European aviation followed the September 11 attacks on the United States almost a decade ago. U.S. airspace was closed for three days and European airlines canceled all trans-Atlantic flights.Meanwhile, the British government is considering the possibility of sending in the Royal Navy to help ferry the stranded. Currently, officials are seeing what military and commercial vessels are possibly available to be deployed.The volcano, Eyjafjallajökull, in southeastern Iceland began erupting on Wednesday, for the second time in a month, after being dormant for nearly 200 years.Halifax, a bank in the United Kingdom, has announced that house prices in the country rose 0.6% during the month of July 2010, according to a survey of house prices made by the mortgage provider. House prices fell 0.6% over the course of June 2010.Halifax economist Martin Ellis commented: "House prices increased by 0.6 percent in July, reversing the fall in June." He also stated: "Overall, there has been little change in prices during 2010 so far. The mixed pattern of monthly rises and falls over the first seven months of the year is consistent with a slowing market. It is also in line with our view that house prices will be broadly unchanged over 2010 as a whole."Statistics from Halifax also reveal that the average price of a house in the UK is currently £167,425 (US$266,366, €201,849, A$291,950, C$273,044). This figure is 16% less than the summit witnessed in August 2007.Halliburton Co.'s subsidiary Kellogg, Brown and Root (KBR) has been awarded a half billion dollar repair contract for U.S. Navy facilities damaged by natural disasters, including Hurricane Katrina.  KBR won the competitive-bidding in July 2005.  The Bush administration has been criticized for awarding KBR a five-year, no-bid contract to restore Iraqi oil fields, shortly before the U.S. invaded Iraq in 2003.  Congressional Democrats have asked Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld to investigate last month's demotion of Bunnatine Greenhouse after she testified to improprieties in the no-bid procedure and other KBR improprieties.  Bunnatine Greenhouse was Chief Contracting Officer of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers since 1997.Halliburton reported being paid $10.7 billion for Iraq-related government work during 2003 and 2004.  Pentagon auditors have questioned tens of millions of dollars of Halliburton charges.Large amounts of rain and hot days mainly in New England and the Midwest this summer could be to blame for a mold which causes pumpkins to rot and farmers say that there could be a shortage of the jack-o-lanterns on porches in the United States this Halloween.According to Purdue University Extension plant pathologist, Daniel Egel, at least 2 types of fungi are causing spots of mold to develop on areas of the pumpkin, causing them to cave in and decompose from the inside."We really didn't know until we went out and started picking around the 17th of September. It's as if they're rotting from the inside out," said Kent's Cucurbits in Indiana co-owner, Nina Kent.Meigs Farm located in Lafayette, Indiana, which is operated by Perdue University, has been hit by the mold. Plant disease diagnostician, Karen Rane handled a pumpkin which she attempted to turn over onto an opposite which collapsed."It's sporadic across the state," said Rane.Some farmer's markets are reporting only a 40% yield in some cases."My grower told me he's only getting about a 40 percent yield. It'll be bad for anybody that doesn't get one by about the 15th of October," said a produce worker who works at D&R Market located in Lafayette, Tad Ritchie.People who are looking to buy pumpkins are told to pick pumpkins with the longer greener stems. A bright orange color is also a good indicator of a healthy pumpkin.Two local authorities in the English county of Hampshire have a total of £3 million invested with troubled Icelandic banks it was revealed today. Rushmoor Borough Council has a £2 million investment with Glitnir, while Winchester City Council| revealed it has £1m invested with Landsbanki subsidiary Heritable.Both district councils said the money accounts for only a small proportion of their total investments: 5% in the case of Rushmoor and 3% for Winchester.  This is part of a nationwide problem, as over £550 million has been invested in Icelandic banks by British local authorities, with over 70 councils affected.The news came after Icelandic Internet bank Icesave suspended all 300,000 of its UK customer accounts earlier this week as a result of the worsening global financial crisis.  Personal customers of Icesave and other failed banks from Iceland have had the security of their savings guaranteed, but the same protection does not apply to the local government accounts.  The Local Government Association (LGA) is campaigning for the protection to extend to them as well, and this call was backed by Winchester City Council.File:Ipad mini.jpgOn Thursday Hawaiian Airlines announced all their Boeing 767-300 aircraft would be fitted with iPad mini tablets made by Apple for in-flight entertainment from September 1. The new gadget would be served on 14 routes connecting Hawaii with mainland USA, Asia, and the South Pacific.Passengers in business class would be able to use the tablet for free while economy class passengers would need to pay $15 when purchasing the service before boarding (or $17 if purchased during the flight). The airline offered such price with the help of Bluebox Avionics, a company specializing in in-flight services.The airline has purchased 1,500 iPad minis to replace old in-flight entertainment devices. Each tablet would have at least 100 hours of new Hollywood movies.The new service was planned to be introduced on flights connecting Honolulu with Oakland, San Jose, Sacramento, Seattle, Phoenix, Fukuoka, Sendai, Seoul, Brisbane, Papeete, and Pago Pago; and Kahului with San Jose, Oakland, and Seattle.The carrier becomes the first US airline to offer iPads as an in-flight service. In 2010 Jetstar, a subsidiary of Qantas, became the first airline in the world to introduce such a service in a test pilot on two services from Melbourne. During the next few years Iceland Express, airBaltic, and British Airways joined in. In March Qantas began offering iPads on flights connecting Honolulu and Sydney.Over 2,000 cattle died throughout eight counties in Nebraska last week as a result of an unexpected heat wave. Officials estimate that number could grow as other counties report in. According to Tim Reimer of the United States Farm Service Agency, cattle nearing slaughter are difficult to keep cool due to their large size, and thus more vulnerable to heat. The animals are provided large quantities of water, but they sometimes stop drinking under the effects of the high temperatures. The deaths worsened the situation for farmers, who were already struggling with high feed costs. "There were some that took some pretty substantial hits financially", Reimer said. Temperatures in eastern portions of the state soared into the mid 90s. The heat wave was preceded by an unusually cool spring, so the animals didn't have a chance to acclimatise. Terry Mader, a professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, reported that "Cattle, as well as other animals and humans, usually need two to four weeks to adapt to the changes in environmental conditions we observed last week. Sunny days with temperatures above the mid-80s can be stressful, particularly if there is no wind and humidity is above 50%." Similar heat waves occurred during the 1990s, when thousands of cattle were lost. Mader noted, "There's no opportunity for them to get prepared [...] Normally, you'll have one to two days in a heat wave to get prepared."Mature cattle are generally worth US$1,000 apiece.Local forecasters predict that most of the US will have a warmer-than-expected winter this year. However, households that heat their homes by gas can expect to pay 29.8% more in heating bills. In the case of colder-than-expected weather, an increase of 66% in household heating costs is likely. In typical weather, prices will rise about 47.6%. Households that use electricity can expect a rise of about 5% from last year. NOAA's 2005-2006 U.S. Winter Outlook calls for warmer-than-normal temperatures across much of the central and western United States, including Alaska and Hawaii. The Midwest, the Southern Californian coast and the East Coast have equal chances of warmer, cooler or near-normal temperatures this winter.Around one third of the US crude oil and one fifth of the natural gas outputs in Mexico still remain closed due to hurricane-related damage. Seven oil refineries remain offline. The Energy Information Administration predicts that the price of oil will rise to around $64 per barrel (42 gallons or 158.97 litres) in 2006, with $58 being the average for this year.Heavy selling in internet firm livedoor sparked a sharp selloff in Japanese stocks Wednesday. The exchange had to shorten the trading session as the number of transactions threatened to exceed the system capacity. The Tokyo stock exchange has a capacity to handle 4.5 million trades per day.Wednesday's trading problems have added to recent woes with the trading system at the exchange. A glitch halted trading for almost a full day late last year. Tokyo stock exchange plans to offer its own shares for listing.Prosecutors raided the Tokyo offices of livedoor on Monday, following allegations the company had violated Japanese securities laws.livedoor has denied that the company broke market rules by giving misleading information to shareholders. Shares in the company dived on Tuesday, dragging the overall index lower. One of Japan's best known internet companies, livedoor has grown rapidly through a series of takeovers and stock splits before Tuesday's share price fall.A record number of complaints, over 600, against the New Zealand restaurant chain Hell Pizza for its advertising campaign using condoms delivered via letterbox have been upheld by the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA). Family First "welcomes heavenly decision from ASA on Hells Pizza."Hell Pizza delivered sealed foil condoms in a cardboard box to households nationwide. On the outside of the box were the words: "Our pizza for meat lovers!" and the restaurant logo. The inside of the box included the condom and explicit instructions on how to use it. Hell Pizza delivered 70,000 condoms to households. An additional 100,000 were distributed to health and community groups who the chain said were "very supportive."Bob McCoskrie, director of Family First, said: "This is a victory for the protection of families from grubby advertising by companies like Hell’s Pizza, and is also a message to other companies who cross the line of what is decent and acceptable to our community. This is a pizza delivery company taking the moral high ground on sex education and telling parents how to give sex education to their kids, implying that all parents have failed at this, and kids as young as five should be exposed to this type of material."S. Nicholas filed a formal complaint and said in the complaint:" Any child can open the box take out these condoms and play with them. These are contraceptive devices, not playthings. The package also gave full instructions 'how to use the condom' in case some young person wanted to 'experiment'! It shows lack of taste and is irresponsible."Other complainants said that it is inappropriate to promote food with a condom, the text "meat lovers" was offensive, that it undermined family values, and removed the right for families to teach sex education to their children. Condom use instructions that came with the advertising campaign were unnecessary and unacceptable and that there are health and safety issues if the condom broke during delivery.The ASA said that three code of ethic rules were broken. They were basic principle 4, advertisements should follow a sense of social responsibility to both the consumers and society; rule 4, advertisements should not contain anything generally offensive and rule 5, advertisements should not contain anything that would cause serious widespread offence. The agency Cinderella, acting on behalf of Hell Pizza, said that they "most certainly did approach this campaign with a due sense of social responsibility to consumers and society."Cinderella said: "From the very beginning, the company’s marketing activities were unconventional and memorable... HELL has built a successful brand by utilizing a limited marketing budget in ways that sought to grab attention and secure significant additional media coverage that would never have been able to be sustained using conventional, paid-for, advertising techniques.""LUST and sex are, in our experience, often found not far apart. One generally follows the other. And enjoying great food either before or after is also not such a stretch."Replying to the instructions that have to be printed, Cinderella said: "The terms are not really sexually arousing and the suggestion made by one hysterical complainant that they could then go and act out the instructions on the next door child is just not plausible and probably not even physically possible. It borders on insane to believe that this is a credible risk. ...there has not been an explosion of sexual assault of children after being exposed to government health warnings."The ASA then considered all information given to them by both complainants and the advertiser.The ASA agreed that the advertisements were in breach of basic principle 4 because: "Unsolicited, unaddressed delivery of a condom to letterboxes to promote a food brand did not meet [the basic principle 4] standard." The standard "required all advertising to be prepared with a due sense of social responsibility to consumers and society."The ASA then reviewed whether or not the advertisement programme had breached rule 4 and rule 5. "The method of distribution was a key factor in considering whether or not the promotion had breached the Rules, taking into account the random context, medium, audience and product. The majority of the Board noted that it was difficult to target specific groups or ages using unaddressed letterbox distribution. In addition, it was concerned that such a method of distribution allowed any member of a household access to the advertising." The majority of the ASA board did not find the instructions offensive but did agree that it would cause widespread offense. The advertisement programme is in breach of rule 4 and rule 5.Some of the ASA board said: "...While the promotion had caused offence to some, this was offset by the possibility that the promotion had reached an audience that may not access the safe sex message via other media."The ASA decided to uphold the complaints, "complaints were unanimously upheld.""Our message to Hell’s Pizza is simple – stay out of the bedroom and get back into the kitchen," Mr McCoskrie said.Hewlett-Packard (HP) expects to lose 9,000 jobs between now and 2013 in a US$1 billion (£686m) restructuring plan.The 9,000 jobs losses will be in the enterprise services division, but the company expects to add about 6,000 employees to its sales and delivery teams. HP commented in a statement, "As a result of productivity gains and automation, HP expects to eliminate roughly 9,000 positions over a multi-year period to reinvest for further growth and to increase shareholder value"HP will invest in fully automated data centers as it makes operational changes in its Internet technology services business. HP said the restructuring will generate savings of $500–700 million (about €407–571 million) in net savings after reinvestment.Hewlett-Packard has around 300,000 employees and is the world's largest technology company by sales. HP is an American multinational information technology corporation headquartered in Palo Alto, California.This Monday Hewlett-Packard is to announce that it is expanding its partnership with SAP. The partnership will be working with NetWeaver around several new services. The company is also expected to mention about its new enterprise solutions that are currently in development.Hewlett-Packard will offer its clients services for upgrading servers, storage and NetWeaver – SAP's application builder platform meant for integrating business processes throughout different systems. Among other services that the company is going to provide comprise assessment, governance and some architecture services for R3.The manager of Worldwide Packaged Applications for Enterprise Applications Services at HP Services Consulting & Integration, Tim Treat, stated that the company first of all looks at servers, storage and management and only afterwards it makes a proposal regarding the things that are to be updated. He mentioned that when Hewlett-Packard will work on upgrading servers and management, it will turn its attention towards Intel. After performing all the upgrades, the company is going to offer its clientele a variety of services package options that are related to NetWeaver. The services offered by Hewlett-Packard will include: enabling the service, design and implementation, application development and management.Tim Treat said that adaptive infrastructure is one of the company's new things that are to come. Recently the company's clients have put in place enough hardware capacity and infrastructure with the goal of supporting peak or quarter-end processes. However, a big amount of that capacity is unused till peak times. This is why Hewlett-Packard looks forward to bring solutions that are to allow users pay for the things they really use.Treat also outlined the fact that, besides its new services, the company is to announce business-process consulting together with IDS Scheer - software and consulting company, which is one of the leading providers of Business Process Management and IT solutions.Officials announced that a treasure containing sacks of diamonds and gold coins as well as golden idols, jewelry and other riches has been discovered in the secret subterranean vaults of Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple, in the southwestern state of Kerala, India. Estimates of its worth have been rising and it is now thought to be worth US$20 billion.The Hindu temple was built in the 16th century by the kings of the then  Kingdom  of Travancore to serve as a royal chapel for the rulers of Travancore. The six vaults containing the treasure have been undisturbed for over a century. Assessment of the treasure began on June 27 after a lawyer concerned about the security of the treasure petitioned India's Supreme Court, which then appointed a seven-member panel of experts to inventory the treasure. The panel does not have the power to determine to whom the treasure will belong. Estimates of the treasure's worth are rising, provoking a heated  debate as to how the treasure will be used in a country that has 450 million poverty-stricken people. The chief minister of Kerala, Oommen Chandy, announced on Sunday the treasure would remain with the temple, and security matters would be decided in consultation with the Travancore Royal Family, the temple management, and  the temple priest. "The gold was offered to the lord. It is the property of the temple. The government will protect the wealth at the temple," Oommen Chandy said. Meanwhile, hundreds of armed police have been deployed around the temple to protect the treasure.However, the view that the treasure should remain at the temple has been disputed. Among the dissenters is eminent jurist V R Krishna Iyer, who said the treasure should be put in a national trust for the peoples' benefit. "God’s wealth belongs to the people, not to the king. It’s meaningless to say that it belongs to Hindus or any particular religious community," said Iyer. "A mechanism should be devised to ensure that the benefits of it reach the poor and the needy and not the rich."Five of the six vaults of the  Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple have been inventoried. On Saturday, reports leaked to the press revealed that the treasure, including a golden idol of Mahavishnu and a golden 'anki', were found in one of the vaults, estimated to weigh 30 kilograms,  along with precious stones, silver, two coconut shells of pure gold and another golden idol as well as other jewels and valuable coins. The panel hopes to find more treasure when the sixth and final vault is opened, but the attempt was suspended on Monday because the iron door inside presented "technical problems" requiring further consultation before opening. This vault is  thought to contain the bulk of the wealth. Keralan officials in a preliminary estimate said that the treasure was worth over US$11.2 billion; those estimates have now risen to US$20 billion. Historians say that the temple's location  on a site through which passed lucrative trade routes support the higher evaluations. "Traders, who used to come from other parts of the country and abroad for buying spices and other commodities, used to make handsome offerings to the deity for not only his blessings but also to please the then rulers," said P.J. Cherian, the director of Kerala Council for Historic ResearchSome suggest that the profit from the sale of the treasure would be enough to wipe out the entire public debt of Kerala and fund future Kerala  projects such as  seaports, airports and highways.Several companies that designed the encryption system for DVDs with a high definition are currently analyzing the claim of a hacker, who said to have cracked the code protecting new generation DVDs from illegal copying. This was stated by a representative of one of the companies on Thursday, December 28.Muslix64 is the name of the hacker that announced the details of the process he performed in order to unlock the encryption. The purpose of the Advanced Access Content System (AACS) is to prevent pirate copying. It is supposed to restrict the devices that are able to play the DVDs. Such companies like Walt Disney Co., Intel Corp., Microsoft Corp., Toshiba Corp. and Sony Corp. were the ones to create the encryption so to defend the high-definition formats. The latter encompass HD-DVD format developed by Toshiba, with a series of other corporations, and Blu-ray format developed by Sony and its partners in this enterprise.The hacker launched on a famous hacker website his decryption codes and posted a short film on a video site. The film displayed the process of copying several films, like "Full Metal Jacket" by Warner Bros and "Van Helsing" brought by Universal Studios. Muslix64 also mentioned that he is going to post some more source codes on the second day of the New Year. According to his words the codes will allow copying a wider variety of titles.The inability of companies to protect their production could find themselves in a difficult situation. This concerns especially those that have the goal of boosting their revenues. They are aware of the fact that the standard DVD format is not as popular as it was. The sales of DVD movies in 2005 gained around 24 billion dollars for the industry of movie making.The technology expert Adrian Kingsley-Hughes wrote on the ZDNet.com (tech-site) that the decryption code developed by Muslix64 looks quite genuine. He also mentioned that the decryption code for HD-DVD might give some advantages for those that look forward to backup discs. However in general none of the rival formats will be in advantage of this possible hack.Junior Senator of New York and former United States 2008 presidential candidate Hillary Rodham Clinton attended a ceremony marking the grand opening of the Erie Canal Harbor in Buffalo, New York. This marks the first time in nearly 100 years that the inner harbor of Buffalo's Canal waterfront has seen significant development, dedicated to tourism and the people."Hello Buffalo!" stated an enthusiastic Clinton to a crowd of 500 people. "It is such a privilege and joy to see this project and all that it means not only for Buffalo, but Western New York. This truly has been a labor of love. All of the people before you, plus so many others have seen this vision and have been committed to making it a reality." "In a few minutes [I will] walk to the center of the Whipple Truss bridge and reenact that famous ceremony that took place 183 years ago," added Clinton. "[The original development] took so many immigrant workers and so many leaders who never ever wavered. Local economies boomed, commerce exploded and this (the Canal) became one of the greatest infrastructure achievements in the history of the world," Clinton added.In 1825, then state governor DeWitt Clinton dedicated the canal to the city in almost the same spot where Clinton stood. He traveled the entire route of the Canal, bringing water from each stop. In a ceremony, the water was dumped from buckets off the truss bridge, something Clinton and other politicians reenacted today. Off to her right, the Buffalo Fire Department sprayed water into the harbor from a fire fighting boat, just as it did over 100 years ago. Cannons were also fired into the air just like they were when governor Clinton celebrated building of the Canal."I am very proud to support the redevelopment of the Erie Canal Harbor. The progress we are celebrating today, will continue. I am as convinced as can be, that as we see progress here at the inner harbor and the outer harbor, we are going to see the revival of Buffalo continue," said Clinton.The project cost almost US$55 million to build, and its not over yet. A stretch of lakeside parks, trails and mixed use commercial and residential development is also planned for Buffalo's waterfront. City mayor Byron Brown says the redevelopment will attract hundreds of millions of dollars in new projects.Several other politicians were also present such as Senior N.Y Senator Charles Schumer, former Buffalo mayor Anthony Masiello and congressman Brian Higgins."By reclaiming our past, we are forging our future. The Erie Canal project is an economic shot in the arm for Buffalo and Western New York that will spur business, jobs and tourism," stated Schumer.The heads of state and representatives of 89 Asian and African countries met this weekend in Bandung, capital of West Java, Indonesia.  The three-day meeting, started Friday in commemoration of the golden jubilee (50th anniversary) of the original Bandung Conference, resulted in the discussion of a number of important international issues and future plans for similar high-level meetings and programs for action.The two co-hosts of the event were President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia and President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa.  Some of the many world leaders in attendance were:Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of IndiaPresident Hu Jintao of the People's Republic of China (PRC)Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of JapanSecretary General Kofi Annan of the United NationsMany of record store HMV's Canadian locations have started to stock iPod portable music players, in a move to stay relevant.HMV Canada President Humphrey Kadaner commented "While the majority of purchased music continues to be in physical form, it's clear the listening experience of many Canadians is evolving to also include portable music and for the majority of those consumers the digital player of choice is the iPod. As the country's leading music retailer, it only makes sense that we provide a full music experience for our customers by selling Canada's leading digital music player.""Many people think the world of CDs and the world of iPod are incompatible and it just isn't true. Not only are they compatible, they are now cohabitating at many HMV stores across the country. The addition of iPod in HMV stores is another step in HMV's evolution from a music retailer to an entertainment retailer."In mid-November this year, Canadian chain Music World announced it was closing its stores as of the new year. The franchise has 72 stores across the country, and 648 employees who have been able to keep their jobs during liquidation, which is expected to continue through until Christmas. The store's website now contains nothing but its logo for months.Previously, the last remaining location of Sam the Record Man closed down, in downtown Toronto. Sam once had 130 stores nationwide, then the record. There is a store in Belleville and Sarnia, once part of the chain, but now simply known as "SAM".The last American locations of HMV closed in 2004.File:Robot asimo cropped.jpgAt its headquarters in Tokyo, Japan, Honda Motor Company demonstrated on Tuesday technology which links a person's thoughts with robots.The operator wears a helmet which scans for electric currents stimulated by brain activity, but also uses infrared sensors to detect changes in blood flows in the head. The information is sent to a computer, which can then execute robotic movements such as opening the trunk of the vehicle or turning on the car's air conditioning. The commands usually take just seconds to reach the robot.Honda also released a video where a humanoid robot named Asimo was operated by a person wearing the helmet. The employee was stated to be thinking about raising his right hand, after which Asimo moved its right arm.Honda states that it could be quite some time before the technology is ready to go live due to difficulties such as the human brain's liability to become distracted, creating mixed thought patterns. A related problem is the amount of focus required by the operator. "Practical uses are still way into the future." said Honda Research Institute Japan Co executive, Yasuhisa Arai. "I'm [just] talking about dreams today."Honda have issued a recall for 646,000 cars around the world due to a potential fault that could cause a fire. The recall involves the 'Jazz' range of cars, which is known by its alternative name, Fit, in some countries.Three incidents involving the problem, caused by a defective master switch, have been reported worldwide, two in the US and one in South Africa.  In September 2009, Vanilla Nurse, a two-year old girl, was sleeping in one of the models, when the hatchback in Cape Town caught fire.  Following the accident, Honda "launched an extensive investigation to determine the cause of the incident," according to a statement issued today.  Although they could not isolate the cause of the fire, "the investigation has shown that water intrusion into the power window switch housing may in some instances cause a short circuit, which in exceptional circumstances may lead to potential damages". Just 10% of cars are expected to need new switches. The remainder will need a waterproof skirt in order to keep water out.Rival Toyota was forced to recall vehicles on Thursday, citing floor mats that may stick accelerator pedals to the floor. There are fears that Toyota may have to widen their recall to cover up to eight million cars.Honda's Civic and Ridgeline truck won the North American Car and Truck of the Year awards at the International Auto Show in Detroit. This is the first time a company has won both awards in the same year.  The finalists were the Ridgeline, the Ford Explorer SUV and the Nissan Xterra.  The awards are intended to recognize vehicles for their innovation, design, safety, handling, driver satisfaction, and value.File:Ford Explorer.jpgHonda also unveiled its latest model the Fit, a US version of the Honda Jazz sold in nonUS markets.  The Fit comes with a 109 horsepower engine, antilock brakes, six air bags, fold flat seats, full iPod connectivity, 90.1 cubic feet of passenger and cargo space, and 33 mpg for the city 38 mpg for the highway. A sport package will also include Honda's first steering wheel mounted paddle shifters.  The car will go against another two new Japanese subcompacts, the Toyota Yaris, Nissan Versa and will have to wrestle away sales from the category's current top seller Chevrolet's Aveo. The car will start selling in April for around $13,000 to $14,000 as a 2007 model. The company plans to sell 33,000 units of the hatchback in 2006.Many automakers expect industry wide sales in the US to be between 16 and 17 million units.  Honda, which is Japan's third largest automaker, hopes to gain US market share with the redesigned Civic and the Fit.  Honda hopes that the company's auto sales will rise 4% this year.  The fuel-efficient Civic helped increase US market share to 8.6 percent last year, some of those sales were taken from Ford as gas prices rocketed to $3 a gallon.  The US market is extremely important for Honda as it receives 64% of its operating profit from the US.According to official records, Hong Kong's economy has left a year-long recession, recording a growth of 3.3% in the second quarter ended in June. The figures, which were seasonally adjusted, were higher than forecast by economists.As a result, the government has increased its growth predictions for 2009. Previous estimates suggested the economy would contract by 5.5% to 6.5%. Now, the contraction is only predicted to be between 3.5% and 4.5%."The GDP data was much better than we expected, partly because the exports were better and partly because of a pick-up in private consumption," Bank of East Asia's chief economist, Paul Tang, noted. "Private consumption is being driven up by stock market gains and by the property sector, which started doing well." However, government economist Helen Chan warned that "while we are seeing some light at the end of the tunnel, [...] the outlook remain highly uncertain because the situations in the United States and Europe are still very weak."Thoroughbred horse racing has been cancelled indefinitely in the Australian states of New South Wales and Queensland due to an outbreak of Equine Influenza. An Australia-wide ban on the movement of horses, donkeys and mules which was due to expire on Wednesday has been extended until Friday. NSW and Queensland have extended their bans indefinitely.So far the virus only appears to have infected horses in NSW and Queensland, with 51 confirmed cases and another 400 suspected. So far all those infected appear to be horses used for recreational purposes and not thoroughbred race horses.Despite the bans on racing and horse movements, track work will recommence in NSW and Queensland today.It had been feared yesterday that four race horses at Randwick Racecourse in Sydney had been struck down by the virus, but the horses later tested negative to the virus. If an outbreak were to occur at Randwick it could affect up to 700 race horses stabled there.The outbreak comes at a bad time for the industry, as it prepares for the lucrative spring racing season in Sydney and Melbourne. The AUD$1 million Golden Rose event at Rosehill has been cancelled, although it is expected that Melbourne's spring racing carnival will resume on Saturday as no cases of the flu have been seen in Victoria.Racing Victoria has also said the Melbourne Cup will go ahead as planned despite the outbreak, even if no interstate or international horses can attend.Despite fines of up to $44,000 and 12 months imprisonment in NSW there have been reports that more than 100 horse owners have been caught moving their horses. The NSW Primary Industries Minister Ian Macdonald, said it was "absolutely vital that no-one moves a horse in this state". "We will be working with police to ensure horses are at a standstill," he said.The racing bans have cost gaming companies Tabcorp and Tattersall's millions, with Tabcorp losing $65 million in revenue on the weekend. Tabcorp expects to lose around $150 million in turnover this week. Tattersall's has also said it expects to lose around $2 million in revenue per week due to the outbreak. Investors reacted to the news, slashing 3 percent of the price of Tattersall's shares and over 4 percent of those of Tabcorp.Savarino Construction Services Corp. has proposed a $7 million hotel project at the Forest and Elmwood Avenue intersection, according to The Buffalo News. The proposal calls for a 5-story, 45,000 square-foot 80-room hotel with underground parking for at least 50 vehicles, and 4,500 square-feet of retail space on the lower level.Hans Mobius, the owner of the five properties to be purchased in the plan (1109 to 1121 Elmwood), reportedly signed a contract with Savarino to assemble the development. "We saw a huge opportunity to bring something to the Elmwood Village that will make sense and bring a service that's currently not available," said Eva Hassett, vice president of Savarino. "Elmwood is such a wonderful place to eat, shop, walk and spend time. We believe this project will add to that vibrant environment."Some business owners in the area see it differently. Wikinews interviewed 2 of the 4 owners whose business's would be demolished if the development goes through.Nancy Pollina, of Don Apparel at 1119 Elmwood, who found out about the development only yesterday, said she is "utterly" against the proposal. Her apparel shop has stood at the same location for nearly 14 years. She has volunteered in the community, and helped create several gardens around bus shelters in the city, and served on Forever Elmwood Board for six years as head of Beautification. Patty Morris co-owns Don Apparel with Pollina."To say this is a good looking project, I want to say the emperor has no clothes. This [project] does not take into consideration the needs of the college students. I have been told by college students, these shops here, are the reason they leave the campus," said Mrs. Pollina. Buffalo State College is 500-feet from the intersection.Michael Faust, the owner of Mondo Video said, "Well, I do not really want to get kicked out of here. The landlord was very open, and the deal he made with me when I moved in here was 'the rent is cheap and I [the landlord] will not fix anything and that will not change.'" Faust said he first learned of the development plan, "about 48 hours ago. I found out on Tuesday when the Buffalo News called and asked for my opinion on this." Faust has not said if he will make plans to relocate. "We have to see if this [house] is going to get knocked down first," said Faust.An "informational" meeting, where citizens can voice opinions and learn about the proposal, will be held on Tuesday February 21, 2006 at 5:00pm (eastern), at the Burchfield-Penney Art Center Gallery at Buffalo State College, Rockwell Hall.Executive director of Forever Elmwood Corporation, Justin P. Azzarella would not comment on whether or not the organization supports the development, saying, "you will just have to come to the meeting."Forever Elmwood Corp. is designed to preserve and protect the unique and historic nature of Elmwood Avenue and its surrounding neighborhoods and encourage neighborhood commercial revitalization. The organization was founded in 1994.The United States House of Representatives has passed the bipartisan US$152 billion economic stimulus package that gives one-time rebates to United States citizens, US$600 for individuals or US$1,200 for couples plus US$300 for each child. US$300 checks would be sent to people on low-income including retirees on Social Security which was not included in the original bill backed by President George W. Bush. The plan would begin to decrease rebates for citizens with taxable incomes of US$75,000 for individuals and US$150,000 for couples. The checks would go out to more than a 130 million Americans according to Treasury secretary Henry Paulson.The House overwhelmingly approved the more broad Senate amended bill which included the low-income portion mentioned above along with provisions that would keep illegal aliens from receiving a rebate check. Despite some opposition from some Congressmen, such as John B. T. Campbell III of California's 48th congressional district, the plan passed overwhelmingly 380–34.Campbell called the plan "wealth redistribution" and noted it did not have safeguards to prevent illegals from receiving these rebates and also claimed that stimulus plan would increase the deficit more and noted the cause of the looming recession was because of "credit problems."The United States Senate voted hours earlier on the bill which passed in the Senate, 81–16. after having to shed some incentives included by Senate Democrats which caused the bill to fail. Some of the incentives that were left out of the plan in a compromise to gain Republican support were demands for benefits for long-term unemployed workers and stipulation that would allow low-income citizens to pay off heating bills and let home builders pay off losses off the current year against previous tax years. President Bush approved of the package, noting in a statement, "This plan is robust, broad-based, timely, and it will be effective, this bill will help to stimulate consumer spending and accelerate needed business investment."Hewlett-Packard's chairman and board member, Patricia Dunn has resigned following a pretexting scandal in which she hired private investigators to discover the source of media leaks by using false identities to obtain telephone records from service providers.Chief Executive Mark Hurd will replace Dunn as chairman, effective immediately. In a statement made by the company, Dunn resigned at the request of her fellow board members. Hurd stated that Hewlett-Packard has hired Bart M. Schwartz, a former U.S. prosecutor, as legal counsel, to review the methods used in trying to find out sources of media leaks.Hewlett-Packard  has announced that the chairman of the company's board, Patricia Dunn will resign in January, following revelations that private investigators hired by the board to discover the source of media leaks had used false identities to obtain telephone records from service providers.Chief Executive Mark Hurd will replace Dunn as chairman, though she will continue to remain a director on the board.Bill Lockyer, California's Attorney General has indicated that company insiders are likely to face criminal charges.George A. Keyworth II, a board member, accused of leaking information said he resigned only after Dunn agreed she would give up her post.Those hired by the investigation company pretended to be others, a practice known as pretexting to obtain the phone logs of board members and journalists.Hewlett-Packard (HP), the world's largest information technology corporation, is in trouble in France due to alleged monopolist behavior. In France and abroad, the corporation commonly bundles its PCs with Microsoft's Windows operating system, without giving the consumer the choice of an alternative operating system, such as the'free' operating system GNU/Linux. Union Fédérale des Consommateurs-Que Choisir, a French consumer group, along with two French retailers, sued HP, alleging that it was violating a French law that prohibits linking the functionality of a product to another product. The group insisted:The legal affairs director of HP France responded by stating that a PC without Microsoft Windows is not a product because it does not work. In the meantime, Microsoft is in trouble in Europe due to the anti-trust laws of the European Union. On July 12, 2006, EU announced a 280.5 million euro fine against Microsoft and threatened new penalties of 3 million euros ($3.82 million) a day beginning July 31.Hewlett-Packard (HP) is embroiled in a scandal over the alleged illegal investigation of its own board members over leaks from the board to the press. The company admits that it hired private investigators and that they used pretexting to get private phone records of its own directors. 'Pretexting' is where someone pretends to be the customer when calling the phone company to get their phone records. It is illegal in the state of California. The aim of the HP investigation was to find out which director(s) had leaked information to journalists. Venture Capitalist investor Tom Perkins resigned from the board on May 22, 2006 over the issue and requested that HP look into the methods used in its leak inquiry. The Federal Communications Commission is looking into phone companies who may have supplied the phone records illegally under California law.Hewlett-Packard (HP), a global technology leader with major businesses operations in computer hardware, software, printing and services announced today that they will acquire Electronic Data Systems (EDS) for US$13.9 billion in an all cash deal. The Wall Street Journal has reported that the deal has been in various stages of development since October 2007 when the CEO of EDS, Ron Rittenmeyer, approached HP CEO Mark Hurd with a proposition to join forces. This acquisition models a strong pattern of robust mergers and acquisitions activity since the arrival of current CEO Mr. Hurd. Since his arrival in 2005, HP has worked to expand their overall IT portfolio through organic research and development growth and the purchase of "best of breed" companies such as Mercury, Opsware and Peregrine.This purchase will bolster the services arm of HP placing the company in second place worldwide behind IBM in terms of IT services. The added revenue will work to double Hewlett-Packard's sales from services to almost $40 billion, about as much as it gets from PCs. The combined forces of EDS and HP will represent a total worldwide workforce of 309,000 people in more than 80 countries representing 7% of the worldwide IT Service market. In 2006 HP surpassed IBM as the largest technology company in the world in terms of overall revenue and since that time the two industry titans have fiercely battled for market dominance. Analysts at Briefing.com said: "Adding EDS would expand HP's service offering and also increase its market share in the industry, helping it better compete with industry heavyweight IBM."Like any deal of this size it is not without its optimists and pessimists. From the positive side American Technology Research analyst Shaw Wu said. "I am not saying this deal is a slam dunk by any means, but people have underestimated Mark Hurd before." "EDS is more mature and more sophisticated in many of the processes that they bring to market than where we are", Hurd, 51, told analysts on a conference call yesterday. "We wouldn't do the deal if we didn't think we had an opportunity to improve the operating profit level that EDS currently has." A deal of this size provides a lot of potential for HP but it could also bring a lot of heartache for competitors other than IBM. For years, both Dell and Sun Microsystems have enjoyed preferred alliances with EDS selling expensive high-end servers to EDS customers. Xerox has also benefited by selling its printers and copiers through EDS, which is the most lucrative part of HP’s business. Dell in particular could be hurt the most. In recent years its PC business has lagged with declining sales and lost market share. Most of this market share was lost directly to HP. This buyout could deliver another major blow as last year; its sales to businesses were almost five times the revenue it received from consumers. With a major Dell partner now part of the competition that alliance will certainly be in question.Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez met Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.  They pledged further cooperation of "independent nations."The visit of Chavez to Tehran, Iran, followed earlier ones to Russia and Belarus. Iran's state-run television reported that Hugo Chavez stated to Khamenei that Iran was an apt model for other nations to emulate.Chavez said that the two nations' ties in the petroleum, gasoline, and petrochemical sectors will be expanded.  In a reference to the recent political development in various parts of Latin America where anti-American leaders have attained political control, Chavez said, "U.S. imperialism is declining, and independent countries are viewing the future with hope and optimism."Both Venezuela and Iran are members of OPEC.  Last month, Daniel Ortega, the president of Nicaragua, came to Iran. In the following months, Evo Morales, the president of Bolivia, is expected in Tehran.632 Air Canada flight attendants will lose their jobs in November as the airline is eliminating flights and routes. 332 of the jobs will be lost due to the closure of flight attendant base offices in Halifax and Winnipeg. Another 300 jobs will be lost at Vancouver due to major reductions in Air Canada's Pacific-based international flights.Dramatic increases in fuel prices are widely blamed for the airline's cutbacks. The flight attendant layoffs are part of an overall plan to reduce 2000 jobs at Air Canada.Airline union CUPE learned of the flight attendant cutbacks from the airline on Wednesday. Representatives of the labour association gave critical responses to this news.Hundreds of thousands of British public sector workers went on strike across the country yesterday to protest planned changes to pensions. As industrial action swept the country, half of all schools were hit when teachers walked out, thousands of emergency service responders did not arrive at work, and there were warnings of immigration delays at Heathrow airport.Police arrested 26 people as protesters picketed on a march in London, and riot police kettled demonstrators as clashes broke out. Reports vary, but it is thought that up to half of British state schools have been affected as employees did not turn up to work. Mark Serwotka, the leader of the Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS), said the strikes would serve as a "wake-up call" to the coalition government. "It's a very, very clear signal to the government that they have been rumbled," Serwotka said. "This is not about pensions, this is about making public sector workers pay for the economic problems, and we are determined to keep going until they change direction."Government officials condemned the strike and said the planned changes to pensions, which would see teachers work until age 68 and get less from their pensions, were "fair to taxpayers" as Britain attempts to deal with a large budget deficit. A spokesperson for Downing Street insisted the strike was having a "minimal" impact and said the turnout suggested many public sector workers supported the pension changes. Christine Blower, the general secretary of one of the striking unions, the National Union of Teachers (NUT), said the strike demonstrated "the anger and distress that this government is causing teachers." She said the "unjustified attacks" on the pensions of teachers "are nothing short of disgraceful." Speaking on BBC television programme Question Time, she added: "Much of this has already been imposed on teachers without negotiation, and when we say there are talks going on it's perfectly true that the government is talking but it isn't actually listening."But despite government claims that the strike was having little impact, 5,679 schools were closed and another 4,999 were affected as teachers did not turn up for work. Michael Gove, the education secretary attacked the walkouts as "disappointing and unnecessary". Thousands of staff handling emergency 999 calls also striked and pickets were held outside courts as members of the PCS walked out in protest.Francis Maude, the cabinet office minister, also maintained that the strikes were wrong and said the low number of people walking out showed many supported the government's plans. "What today has shown is that the vast majority of hard-working public sector employees do not support today's premature strike and have come into work today," he said.Senior Labour party figures including Ed Miliband, Tessa Jowell and John Denham said the strikes were unjustified until negotiations with the government had concluded. Mary Bousted of the NUT criticised Labour's lack of support for the striking workers: "The response of Ed Miliband has been a disgrace - he should be ashamed of himself. If our strike is a mistake, what has he done to oppose this devastating attack on our pensions? If the opposition will not defend our pensions, we will."A largely peaceful march by 30,000 protesters took place through London, and the atmosphere was reported to be largely peaceful, but Metropolitan Police officials said 26 people had been arrested. At a meeting in Westminister, many left wing figures attacked the government plans. Ken Livingstone, a former mayor of London who is running for the job again next year, said the coalition government had "mishandled" the issue of pensions. "The government must end its attacks and negotiate on the core issues under contention," he added.The executive director of BorsodChem, Laszlo Kovacs, said, "If the new Romanian government privatizes Oltchim in 2006 we will make a single offer bearing in mind the presence of the Romanian company on the Mediterranean states market."Kovacs also said that BorsodChem would also be interested in other companies in the region, such as the Polish company Zachem, but said that they will not make an offer because the economic situation of that firm [Zachem] has not improved.BorsodChem is one of the largest chemical companies in Hungary, with a net profit of 2 billion euro in the first quarter of 2005.Hurricane Katrina is now over the U.S. mainland and has caused more than US$12 billion of damage. Some estimates are as high as $30 billion.New Orleans was spared the most intense winds as the hurricane weakened as it made landfall, and its track turned slightly east, away from the city. However, the area was still subjected to sustained winds of more than 100mph, and rainfall as heavy as six inches per hour.Future prices of crude oil rose above $70/barrel in the U.S. on Monday in the wake of Katrina’s surge through oil and refinery processing facilities in the Gulf of Mexico. The storm forced operators to shut down an estimated 1 million barrels of daily refining capacity in the region that accounts for nearly a quarter of total domestic production.A U.S. spokesman for the Bush administration said the government will consider releasing crude oil from the  Strategic Petroleum Reserve if requested by refiners. OPEC has pledged to blunt the impact by increasing production to compensate.White House spokesman Scott McClellan told reporters that Michael Brown, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), briefed Mr. Bush before he left his Texas ranch for Arizona where he will deliver a speech on Medicare. Brown said it would take time before an assessment is possible for when refineries could resume activity.President Bush authorized loans from the strategic reserve to help make up for missing supplies when Hurricane Ivan struck in 2004.American Secretary of Energy Steven Chu is cutting US$100 million dollars from hydrogen fuel cell vehicle research and diverting the remaining $69 million to hydrogen fuel cell research for household current.Former president George W. Bush advocated the zero-emission vehicles and launched $1.2 billion for hydrogen fuel cell research over a number of years.President Barack Obama is proposing a "corporate average fuel economy," or CAFÉ, placing standards for gas mileage at 39 miles per gallon for cars and light trucks at 30 mpg."The probability of deploying hydrogen-fuel-cell vehicles in the next 10 to 20 years is low." said Tom Welch of the U.S. Department of Energy.  "We asked ourselves, 'Is it likely in the next 10 or 15, 20 years that we will convert to a hydrogen car economy?' The answer, we felt, was 'no,'" said Chu.In response, the U.S. Fuel Cell Council and the National Hydrogen Association said, “The cuts proposed in the DOE hydrogen and fuel-cell program threaten to disrupt commercialization of a family of technologies that are showing exceptional promise and beginning to gain market traction. Fuel-cell vehicles are not a science experiment. These are real vehicles with real marketability and real benefits. Hundreds of fuel-cell vehicles have collectively logged millions of miles.”“I just got the Clarity, which is a wonderful hydrogen vehicle,” said Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.  He lent his car to The Hydrogen Road Tour.   On Tuesday, The Hydrogen Road Tour began in Chula Vista, California. Twelve hydrogen fuel cell cars by seven auto makers will arrive in Vancouver, British Columbia June 3 for the Hydrogen + Fuel Cells 2009 conference, a global hydrogen and fuel cell event. "The point really is to raise awareness about fuel celled vehicles and hydrogen, their benefits both to energy efficiency and the environment as well as to consumers because we really believe these vehicles are going to be a market winner," said Catherine Dunwoody, the Executive Director of the California Fuel Cell Partnership.The Hydrogen Fuel Cells 2009 conference began June 1. "Our global environmental challenges, such as climate change, do not stop at the border," " said John Tak, conference Chair, "I am pleased that scientists, engineers, government representatives and businesspeople from more than 35 countries are coming to Vancouver, an active hub for hydrogen and fuel cell development, to help create solutions to these challenges." The Ohio Fuel Cell Symposium was held in North Canton, Ohio on Wednesday and Thursday. "The hydrogen and fuel cell industries are at a stage where they have the momentum and energy to accomplish some truly revolutionary things in terms of how they apply their technologies," said William Whittenberger, president of Catacel Corp.  These fuel cells produce electricity and exhaust carbon dioxide and water.A hydrogen powered municipal street cleaning vehicle is currently being tested for the next year and half in Basel, Switzerland. "Our aim is to take fuel cell technology from the laboratory onto the street," said Empa's Internal Combustion Engines Laboratory Project Leader Christian Bach.Dan Lutz, the fleet manager for the Beloit, Wisconsin public works department, experimented with retro-fitting his personal truck.  The department now has a large pickup truck, a garbage truck, a recycling truck, a police squad car and a small pickup truck using hydrogen technology increasing gas mileage from 14 to 22 and 31 mpg.  "We know the basic technology works, but the issue is, is it practical," said City Manager Larry Arft, "Can it be used realistically?"The drawback is that the technology may rely on platinum, a rare metal, or palladium.  Infrastructure would need to be changed to supply hydrogen fueling stations. Critics are also concerned about hydrogen fuel storage and the costs of retro-fitting existing vehicles.Genetics researchers announced today that they will beginning a five-year plan to create a map of human migrations based on DNA mapping. The "Genographic Project" will be funded by the Waitt Family Foundation, IBM Corporation, and the National Geographic Society, and plans to collect 100,000 samples of DNA from people all over the world in order to sequence how related to each other they are.Details on data collection have not yet been specified, but there are implications that some of the data will come from field work among indigenous groups, and that other individuals may purchase kits to submit their own DNA in order to learn about their own genes.The project has drawn immediate comparison with the failed Human Genome Diversity Project from the 1990s, which ended after controversy over the patenting of the DNA of indigenous peoples. The Genographic Project leaders say that they will make the information from their project public and will not patent genes. Whether or not researchers using the data will be subject to licensing guidelines, or whether they can patent their own discoveries using the data, remains to be answered.In the last decade, the role of IBM tabulating machines in the Holocaust has been explored and criticized by a number of historians, and National Geographic has often been a target of critical theorists who have seen it as often representing the "gaze" of imperialism and Orientalism.Previous genetic mapping projects which focused on specific ethnic groups have met with continuous controversy, with allusions often made to the projects of racial anthropometry of the early 20th century which served as the "scientific" backbone to scientific racism and eugenics legislation. Though the Genographic Project participants have tried to emphasize that their project will be to look at the "similarities" between different groups of people rather than the "differences," it seems likely to remain a controversial issue.On Sunday the representatives of International Business Machines Inc. said that the company will launch its new desktop software system for businesses. IBM's new product is called “Open Client Offering”. The company hopes that its product will put Macintosh or Linux software on a more equal footing with Windows.The Open Client Offering software was developed by IBM in-house, as well as with partners like Novell Inc. and Red Hat Inc. It is to answer the questions regarding the cost-effectiveness of managing Linux or Apple desktop personal computers alongside Windows PCs. IBM officials stated that Open Client Offering will allow enterprises to use the same software on  Windows, Linux or Apple's OS X. It will be unnecessary for companies using Open Client to pay Microsoft for licenses for operations because these will no longer rely on Windows-based software.Scott Handy, IBM's vice president of Linux and open source, stated that the company worked together with the open source community and in the end found a way to develop a software that is able to function regardless of the operating system.To create an alternative to Microsoft, IBM is going to offer Open Document Format software that the company developed for word processing, spreadsheets or presentations, instant messaging and blog tools and Internet Explorer's long time rival – Firefox Web browser. The software developers at IBM believe that the usage of Open Client Offering can cut the cost of managing applications as well as maintenance and cost regarding customer support on company networks that require other software rather than Windows.PSA Peugeot Citroen, being the second largest car manufacturer, signed a multi-year agreement with Novell, which is the provider of Linux software, to run Linux on its 20,000 desktop PCs. In addition Linux will be installed on 2,500 server computers.      RedMonk's analyst, Stephen O'Grady, said that today there is a strong appetite for Windows alternatives. However, he said, this doesn't mean that the alternatives are to displace Windows wholesales. O'Grady outlined that no one is going to significantly damage the desktop dominance of Microsoft.Relations between Iceland and the United Kingdom are deteriorating after the two nations fell out over the current financial crisis. When Iceland nationalised first Landsbanki and then Kaupthing Bank the Financial Services Authority only took on domestic assets, leaving British customers with subsidiary banks out of pocket. While Britain feels Iceland should also pay out to their citizens, Iceland blame the UK for triggering the crisis by using the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 to freeze the UK assets of Icelandic banks.UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown says Iceland should pay out up to €20,887 (£16,448) of UK investors' money in the banks, particularly Icesave, an online company owned by Landsbanki which had around 300,000 accounts owned by UK customers. It will cost an estimated 2.4 billion pounds to compensate them, and it looks likely the UK will foot that bill.Alistair Darling, the U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer, has said that individuals with accounts will see their money again but other accounts are not guaranteed - leaving governmental, corporate and charitable deposits at risk of being lost. UK local authorities could lose £799 million."The prime minister made clear the behavior of the Icelandic authorities had been unacceptable, and we had found it very difficult to get information from them," said Michael Ellam, a spokesperson for Brown. A delegation has been sent to Reykjavik from the UK to try and solve the dispute amicably.However, fears that the crisis may escalate have led to the pound becoming heavily devalued. The pound hit its lowest level for five years versus the US dollar after Brown threatened to freeze the assets of all Icelandic companies in the UK, which employ around 100,000 people.The last time the two nations had a dispute, dubbed the Cod Wars, was in the 1970s. Iceland declared an exclusive fishing zone and began to cut the nets of British trawlers entering the area. That dispute came to a head in 1976 when a UK naval vessel with nuclear arms rammed an Icelandic ship that had been cutting nets. After this a compromise was reached to allow a limited number of British ships in the area.Iceland's Financial Services Authority has nationalised the Kaupthing Bank as a response to the financial crisis which may result in a total collapse of the nation's economy.Kaupthing, together with Glitnir Bank and Landsbanki, owe a total of US$61 billion, which is twelve times the estimated size of the economy of the Nordic country. The Financial Services Authority says Iceland will guarantee all domestic deposits and aims to provide a "functioning domestic banking system" by management of the banks.Iceland has asked for aid to Russia and the International Monetary Fund for loans to help guarantee these deposits. Icelandic equity markets have been closed until October 13 due to "unusual market conditions" and the Icelandic krona now appears to have itself failed after the collapse of an attempt to fix the exchange rate at 131 Krona to the euro. According to Nordea Bank, Scandinavia's biggest lender, there was no trading of krona on the spot market today. The most recent figure for exchange is 340 to the euro, compared to 122 last month. Thomas Haugaard Jensen, an economist of Svenska Handelsbanken in Copenhagen, indicated the Icelandic economy seems to be at the verge of a "total collapse," and predicted it will take several years before Iceland's economy recovers enough for it to return to growth.Kaupthing itself requested the national takeover, which leaves most of the nation's banking sector under state control. The bank's board have resigned and left the authorities in control of the bank. The bank also has affiliates both in Sweden and Finland. Swedish Kaupthing Bank Sverige claimed to be unaffected, but Finland's Financial Services Authority temporarily shut down the Finnish affiliate.Results from Iceland's  referendum on Saturday  show that Icelanders overwhelmingly  voted "no" on a government-approved plan to repay Britain and the Netherlands billions of euros lost in Iceland's 2008 bank crash.In Sunday's final results almost 60 percent  rejected the deal, with the voting turnout high,  the government reported. This is the second repayment plan rejected by the voters; the first one was rejected by 93 percent  last year.British and Dutch investors lost 3.9 billion euros ($5.6 billion) in Icesave, an Icelandic internet bank that failed in Iceland's economic collapse of 2008.  The two governments reimbursed their citizens and are now seeking repayment from Iceland. Iceland compensated its own citizens for losses but not overseas depositors.The latest repayment plan took two years to work out between Britain, the Netherlands and Iceland and was passed by a 70 percent majority of the Icelandic parliament. It provided for a lower interest rate and a longer repayment period, conditions much more beneficial to Iceland than the previous plan. The cost would average about  12,000 euros before interest per Icelander. Those against the referendum felt that amount was a heavy burden on Iceland and  the taxpayer was not legally responsible for  a private bank's losses.In a press conference, Iceland's  Finance Minister Steingrimur Sigfusson said, "I think it's very hard to interpret this in any other way than the fact that the Icelandic people are not prepared to accept payments or shoulder the burden unless there is a clear legal obligation to do so."  He said that Iceland can pay its debts and the country has the reserves to cover future payments. But Iceland's Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir said the referendum results were disappointing and have divided the country. She considers acceptance of the payment plan essential to Iceland's attempts to join the European Union (EU). Under an EU directive, Britain and the Netherlands are owed compensation by Iceland. The International Monetary Fund's 2009  loan to Iceland of $2.1 billion  contained the provision that Iceland repay the British and Dutch governments. Britain and the Netherlands are in a position to  block Iceland's  application for European Union membership. The Netherlands and Britain said the opportunity to  negotiate has passed and the dispute will end up before the European Free Trade Association, the court  for the European Economic Area.British  Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander said that the British government had fulfilled its obligation to its citizens to compensate them for their losses. "We have an obligation now to get that money back, and we will continue to pursue that until we do. ... We have a difficult financial position as a country and this money would help."Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager said, "Iceland remains obliged to repay. The issue is now for the courts to decide."The increasingly bitter dispute must be resolved for Iceland to have access to financial markets essential to fund its recovery, experts say, and resolution is essential for  Iceland's attempts to become an EU member.The coalition government in Iceland has collapsed following the international banking crisis.Prime Minister Geir Haarde of the conservative Independence Party had begun talks with coalition partner party Social Democratic Alliance in the run-up to an early general election planned for May. It was reported yesterday that these talks had failed and the coalition was dissolved. The centre-left Social Democrats will now try to build a coalition with opposition parties, according to the BBC.The Independence Party currently has 25 of the 63 seats in the country's unicameral Althing (parliament), and the Social Democratic Alliance holds 18 seats. The remainder of the government consists of the Left-Green Movement (9 seats), the Progressive Party (7) and the Liberal Party (4).The coalition was formed after the election in 2007, but became uneasy after the global financial crisis caused Iceland to nationalise its banking system and ask for help from the International Monetary Fund, with Social Democrats seeking closer ties with the European Union and the replacement of the head of the central bank. Social Democrat leader and Foreign Minister Ingibjörg Gísladóttir has suggested Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the Social Affairs and Social Security Minister, as the next prime minister.Iceland's interest rate is now 18%, with GDP expected to fall 9.6% this year. Inflation has reached 13.1%.The Icelandic Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and her coalition government narrowly escaped a commitment to resign as a €3.8 billion bill to repay British and Dutch savers following the collapse of Icesave online banking passed. The vote margin was only three votes.Only a matter of hours before the anticipated final vote, Wikileaks announced the disclosure of one of 23 documents suppressed by the Icelandic Minister of Finance: an apparent legal summary of meetings between Icelandic and EU representatives held in Brussels in November 2008.  The leaked document discusses the then-assessed liabilities of Iceland at 60% of GDP, considerably higher than the reported 40% which repaying Icesave deposit holders entails.Amongst the other details in the report is emphasis of the deep-seated anger of the Icelandic people at the situation around the financial collapse, particularly the UK's use of anti-terrorism legislation in its approach to the country's banks.  Iceland's interpretation of the situation, and its financial treaty obligations with the EU, considered foreign deposits lost through force majeure.  All 27 EU members disagreed with Iceland's interpretation and Peter Mandelson, although he resigned from the Barroso Commission in October, presented the legal position that Iceland could not pass legislation that did not ensure treaty-mandated minimum balance returns from failed Icelandic banks.Leaked private communication from Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir, Iceland's then-foreign minister, compared the potential liabilities the country faced with the reparations imposed on Germany by the Treaty of Versailles in the wake of World War I.Three banks failed in the financial crisis: Kaupthing, Glitnir, and Landsbanki.  As the list of creditors emerged it was found that, among others, UK councils had around £900 million with the banks.  Landsbanki agreed to repay the majority of funds held, giving council depositors priority status.  Approximately £200 million on deposit with Glitnir is at-risk; the bank has stated the councils will be treated equally with all other creditors seeing them likely to only recover 30% of the amount Glitnir held.Kaupthing faces other difficulties. The UK's Serious Fraud Office began an investigation earlier this month into the bank's UK activities. At issue are allegations savers were misled into selecting one particular account type, plus suspicious financial activity suggesting substantial amounts were moved out of the bank in the days prior to its collapse.At present, UK councils have received little more than ten percent of their over £900 million deposits. They are among over 8,500 creditors claiming a staggering total of £20 billion. The largest single claimant is the British Depositors' and Investors' Guarantee Fund seeking €5 billion, and, of some note, Formula One racing team Williams claiming around £10 million in unpaid sponsorship from Glitnir who took on the liability from the Icelandic buyers of Hamleys. Debt to 84% government-owned Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) by Glitnir stands at around £500 million; much of the actual debt written off in 2008 as RBS posted £24 billion losses. Further write-offs by the bank are expected to total less than £50 million.Icelanders resented the discovery that fifteen senior ex-employees of Landsbanki claim €14 million between them, including a single claim of €2.7 million. Suspicion exists that the banks arranged substantial interest-free loans for various of their shareholders and executives.Today's announcement of the Icelandic government's agreement to pay out €3.8 billion keeps their application for EU membership on-track, although each one of the country's 320,000 citizens effectively faces a €12,000 debt.The Icelandic internet bank, Icesave, has suspended all 300,000 of its UK customer accounts, leaving account holders in the United Kingdom unable to withdraw or deposit any funds.  A message on its website posted this morning states: "We are not currently processing any deposits or any withdrawal requests through our Icesave internet accounts. We apologise for any inconvenience this may cause our customers. We hope to provide you with more information shortly." The internet bank, owned by the Icelandic bank, Landsbanki (Landsbankinn), which was recently nationalised in an attempt to rescue it,  has been hit by the global financial crisis. Reports from the United Kingdom suggest that the traders and city are preparing for the parent company to be declared insolvent, leaving customers to recover their monies through a financial compensation scheme being backed by the Icelandic Government. The plan will cover the first € 20,887 (Approx £16,300 / $28,720), the remainder of the customers funds being recovered through the UK's own financial compensation system.Following the decision to nationalise Landsbanki, the Icelandic Prime Minister, Geir Haarde, who introduced and signed the emergency legislation into law, stated:In describing and explaining its actions in nationalising the bank, the Icelandic Financial Supervisory Authority issued this brief statement: In response to the deepening world financial situation, the Dutch government has this afternoon increased its savers protection from €38,000 to €80,000 effective immediately, to help secure the financial status of its savers within Holland. Icesave also has a Dutch branch, icesave.nl - their website was unreachable at the time of this article.Iceland's biggest bank, Kaupthing Bank, has released it's six month results. The net earnings before taxes were ISK 24,766 million ( EUR 315 million) up 280% since same time last year when they were ISK 6,500 million (EUR 83 million).The net earnings after taxes were ISK 13,673 million (EUR 174 million) during the second quarter of 2005, soaring up 292% since same time last year. 'Performing well' Hreiðar Már Sigurðsson, CEO of Kaupthing bank, says the bank is performing well in all key market areas. Sigurðsson also talked about the future of the bank, and the recent acquisition of Singer & Fridlander: "Our acquisition of the British bank Singer & Friedlander is an important milestone for the Bank and brings us closer to attaining our goal of becoming one of the leading investment banks in northern Europe. Singer & Friedlander brings on board some 600 dedicated professionals to join the trusted team already in place across the group, and the majority of the Bank's employees are now located outside Iceland."The bank has been increasing fast since the Icelandic government sold it in 2002 and it now has 70% of it's revenues coming from abroad.Earnings per share were ISK 37.9 ISK during the first six months of the year, up from ISK 14.9 last year.Iceland's second largest bank, Landsbanki Íslands, has released it's six month results. The pre-tax profits were ISK (Króna) 13,100 million (Euro 168 million) and net profit of ISK 11,000 million (Euro 142 million) up from ISK 6,000 million same time last year.The bank has been expanding to foreign markets by opening a bank in London as well as buying the security firm Teather & Greenwood.CEOGMD Sigurjón Þ. Árnason said Landsbanki’s performance in the first half of 2005 were exceptional and that the core aspects of the bank's operations, net interests and commission interest, shows how strong the bank is. Net interests rose to ISK 9,400 million from ISK 6,200 million same time last year. Commission increased as well to ISK 7,600 million from ISK 3,700 million up 140% since 2003.Landsbanki Ísland has the largest customer base in Iceland.Ireland's highly successful inward investment body, IDA Ireland, has announced that it is to open an office in Shanghai, China. The office will be aimed at attracting Chinese multinationals to invest in Ireland.IDA Ireland was founded in 1949 as the Industrial Development Authority, however it underwent serious restructuring in 1994 when it became the Industrial Development Agency (Ireland). Since 1994 it has attracted several billion euro worth of foreign direct investment to Ireland and has attracted big names such as Google, eBay, Amazon.com, Dell, Microsoft and Intel to set up operations in Ireland.In 2003 IDA-supported companies spent €14.7 billion in the Irish economy and directly employed several thousand. It is noted that despite attracting over 500 US multinational corporations to Ireland, the IDA have to date only attracted one Chinese company, Huawei Technologies.Show organizer IDG has canceled Macworld Expo Boston. The East Coast Macworld Expo was held in Boston from 1985 to 1997.  In 1998 it was moved to New York.In October 2002, IDG announced their intention to move the show back to Boston, a move many criticized. Apple quickly announced it would no longer participate in the East Coast show. East Coast Macworld expos have always been much smaller than Macworld San Francisco. New York's shows would have tens of thousands attendees. The Boston shows only had about 8,000 attendees. The San Francisco show, however, had 36,000 attendees. Without Apple's support, and with the low attendance numbers, many had predicted the cancellation. Macworld Expos are held twice a year. They are an opportunity for companies to announce new products to the Mac community.  Macworld was once one of the largest technology trade shows in the country.  Apple regularly announces new products at the Macworld San Francisco expos. "Historically, we have had a West Coast and an East Coast show, after the last show, though, we did a lot of market research and it was obvious that the market wanted one show", said IDG spokesperson Mike Sponseller. The 2006 show had been scheduled for July 10 through 13.The International Energy Agency (IEA) issued a warning that the World faces an insecure, dirty and expensive future unless the rate of investment in energy supplies is increased substantially. In real terms, investment in oil and gas production has not increased significantly in the last five years, but demand has continued to rise. This has been despite oil and gas prices of between four and five times the 2002 levels. If no action is taken, demand will increase by over 50% between 2006 and 2030.Coal is now cheaper than gas and nuclear is cheaper than both, in some cases even ignoring carbon tax effects. The continued rise in energy prices should make investment on the supply side more attractive. These are among the findings of the "World Energy Outlook – 2006" report by IEA published this week in London.Speaking at a news conference on Tuesday November 7, 2006, IEA Executive Director Claude Mandil said "WEO 2006 identifies under-investment in new energy supply as a real risk." He said "We don't see how we can avoid [nuclear power] if we want a sustainable long-term future."To secure the supply/demand position, IEA calls for investment in energy-supply infrastructure of over $20 trillion in real terms over 2005-2030 to ensure that the World moves into a "Cleaner, Cleverer and More Competitive Energy Future."London, Dublin - The illegal food dye Sudan Red 1, derived from chillies and banned in the EU since 2003, due to an associated risk of cancer has been found in several hundred products on European shelves. Products containing the illegal ingredient range from crisps, pizzas, casseroles and various chicken products to dozens of seasonings and sauces. The Italian food authorities found the illegal dye over routine checks, and thus alerted the British and subsequently the Irish authorities. The dye found its way into the European food supply as a primary ingredient in a batch of Crosse and Blackwell Worcester Sauce ingredient manufactured in Britain by Premier Foods, which was then used in all of the affected food products. As a result of the find over 400 products have been withdrawn in the UK and Ireland. The financial cost of recalling all the affected products in Britain alone is expected to top £100m, €145m.Despite the recall many industry experts are trying to calm the public. One common analogy in use is, "Just like one cigarette is unlikely to cause cancer on its own, one meal containing Sudan Red is also unlikely to cause cancer."  The problem is, if people regularly consume the dye, then the risk of cancer is greatly increased.A former employee of the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority was sentenced on Monday to one year in prison for stealing fines from the agency. Thirty-four-year-old Uganda T. Harris from Bellwood was accused of embezzling over $36,000 from the tollway authority in a period of six months. She pleaded guilty to the charges in June. She is to report to the DuPage County jail on November 30 to begin a one-year work-release program that only allows her out to work 40 hours per week. She will also serve four years of probation and will be required to pay the agency $1,000 for insurance coverage in addition to the more than $36,000 she allegedly stole. Harris had worked as a customer service representative since June 2007. An audit by the tollway authority's inspector general's office revealed that she incorrectly classified the fines she collected as coming from I-PASS users, who pay lesser fines, and pocketed the cash. The Illinois State Police later caught Harris with $1,100 in marked $20-bills they used to pay a phony fine during an undercover investigation. She claimed that she did this only rarely and to help those people in desperate need of relief from what she saw as high tollway fines.The International Monetary Fund and the European Union approved aid packages to help Georgia recover from its conflict with Russia, which occurred in early August. The IMF approved a US$750 million loan which will allow Georgia to rebuild its currency reserves. The European Union also approved an aid package of €500 million in aid by 2010, which is expected to help internally displaced people (IDPs) and economic recovery in the form of new infrastructure. Only €100 million of the EU aid will be given to Georgia this year.These loans are aimed to restore confidence in Georgia's economy and send a signal to international investors that Georgia's economy is sound. According to the IMF, international investors have been "critical to Georgia's economic growth in recent years."Takatoshi Kato, Deputy Managing Director and Acting Chairman of the IMF executive committee, said the loan will "make significant resources available to replenish international reserves and bolster investor confidence, with the aim of sustaining private capital inflows that have been critical to Georgia's economic growth in recent years."Georgia has requested $2 billion in international aid to help it recover from the conflict. So far, the United States has pledged $1 billion in aid. Further assistance and loans to Georgia are expected from other organizations. Kato noted that "...Georgia is expected to receive financial assistance from multilateral and bilateral donors and creditors in support of the reconstruction effort." It is expected that an international donors' conference will take place next month to solicit more aid for the country. Georgia's government expects that economic growth will be more than cut in half as a result of the conflict. Last year, Georgia's GDP increased 12.4% and it is predicted by the IMF that growth will be less than 4 percent in the coming year.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said yesterday that its board has approved a loan package worth US$1.13 billion to be granted to Pakistan.The move came after the IMF reviewed Pakistan's economic performance with a standby arrangement worth $11.3 billion aimed at improving the country's balance of payments. According to a statement by the fund, disbursements have reached $7.27 billion from the plan.The IMF described Pakistan's economic situation as having improved in spite of "adverse security developments and a rapidly changing political environment", although saying the economy was still vulnerable.The board also noted that it would grant waivers for several performance criteria Pakistan did not meet, namely overrunning the budget deficit and surpassing State Bank of Pakistan borrowing limits.Pakistan requested a bailout package two years ago from the IMF, as it was struggling with three-decade-high inflation rates; the country has also seen much violence from rebel groups, with bombings having killed over 3,200 people since July of 2007.Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the head of the International Monetary Fund, remained in jail last night after being charged with sexually attacking a chambermaid at a New York City hotel. Strauss-Kahn has agreed to undergo forensic screening before he appears in court, and has vowed to "vigorously" defend himself against the charges, which are likely to create a leadership void at the IMF, disrupt emergency talks over the European debt crisis, and spell the end of his political career.Strauss-Khan was the favourite candidate for the French presidency, and was expected to announce he would stand against Nicolas Sarkozy this month. But the allegations are expected to destroy the hopes of his supporters, increase infighting among the French left, and leave his political career in tatters. His arrest comes at a critical moment for the IMF, and will likely plunge efforts to stabilise the financial states of struggling eurozone countries into chaos. He was meant to discuss the bailouts of Greece and Portugal with European Union financial officials at a meeting in Brussels this week.Eswar Shanker Prasad, a professor of international economics at Cornell University, said: "This sordid episode – no matter how it ultimately plays out – will spell the end of Strauss-Kahn as an effective leader of the IMF even if he retains his position, which is highly unlikely." The IMF, however, insisted it remained "fully functioning and operational."Strauss-Kahn was to appear in court in Manhattan yesterday charged with three crimes, including attempted rape, but the hearing has been delayed so he can undergo forensic tests. He was taken into custody by officials while on an Air France passenger plane which was about to take off from John F. Kennedy International Airport for Paris; when detectives approached him in the first class cabin in the aircraft he reportedly asked: "What is this about?" Strauss-Kahn reportedly fled the hotel "in a hurry" after the attack, leaving a number of personal effects behind. "If our officers had been ten minutes later he would have been in the air and on their  way to France," a spokesperson for the New York Police Department said.The chambermaid reported that she had been sexually assaulted by a man staying in a "luxury suite" at the Sofitel hotel near Times Square. "The maid described being forcibly attacked, locked in the room and sexually assaulted," the police spokesperson said. Strauss-Kahn came out of the shower naked while the chambermaid was working in the room, tried to pull the woman onto the bed and locked the door, The New York Times reported, quoting police sources. She allegedly fought him off, but he sexually assaulted her again after dragging her to the bathroom, before he locked her in the room; she was reportedly hospitalized afterwards with trauma.In 2008, a year after becoming the leader of the IMF, Strauss-Kahn was reprimanded by the organization's board after being involved in an extramarital affair with another senior executive at the bank. More recently, he was pictured driving a luxury car in Paris, causing a media furore over whether his lifestyle fitted with the socialist attitude he claims to represent. But his wife, former television star Anne Sinclair, has dismissed the accusations. She said: "I do not believe for one second the accusations brought against my husband. I have no doubt his innocence will be established."The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is preparing a series of loans to both Hungary and Ukraine as financial problems are hitting the two countries. Hungary has already received a €5 billion credit line from the European Central Bank (ECB). Ukraine is seeking a loan of up to US$14 billion. The credit line to Hungary will be used to cover banks’ shortage of euros. Hungary has a severe debt problem with them posting an account deficit of €5.3 billion or 4.9% of GDP this year. As a result of this, Hungary is unable to find suitable credit to store up its supply of euros. "We are in close dialogue with the Hungarian authorities and the EU to discuss further responses to the current challenges, including possible technical and financial support by the IMF", said Dominique Strauss-Kahn, Managing Director of the IMF. "I have informed the authorities that the IMF stands ready to assist their efforts. We will provide technical assistance as needed and, in the context of a supportive policy setting, are ready to undertake [decisions] on possible financial assistance, responding rapidly."Ukraine's Finance Minister Viktor Pynzenyk met with an IMF team on Thursday. In a statement, Pynzenyk said "the parties discussed a situation of influence the world financial crisis had on the economy of Ukraine." It is not yet known how much the IMF is expected to lend to Ukraine but it is expected to be between $3 billion to $14 billion. It is also not known what type of conditions might be placed on the loan. In addition to financial uncertainty, Ukraine is suffering from political turmoil with the current President, Viktor Yushchenko, calling a snap parliamentary election for December. The Prime Minister, Yulia Tymoshenko,  has made moves to stop the election. Ukraine's yearly trade deficit has increased by almost $7 billion since last year. The credit line by the European Central Bank is the first time publicly that it has extended help to countries other than the 15 that make up the Eurozone. According to Reuters, Hungary might be able to start the process of joining the euro quicker then expected. Currently, Hungary is on track to join the euro in 2011 or 2012, but if sped up, it is possible it could join as early as 2010. This might protect Hungary from further financial problems.The Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund has agreed on a proposal to increase the quotas of China, South Korea, Mexico, and Turkey, the IMF Managing Director Rodrigo de Rato announced. The increases are part of a program of reforms for the organisation, addressing its governance and its macroeconomic monitoring process. The proposals need final approval at the annual meeting scheduled later this month.Speaking at a press briefing in Washington DC on August 31, Mr. de Rato spoke on the current state of the global economy and outlined the reforms, which include a two-phase reshaping of the quota shares - the proposed increases announced today followed by the development for a new formula to come up with increases for a broader range of members.Christine Lagarde, head of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), today said the United Kingdom (UK) voting to leave the European Union (EU) would have negative consequences for the country's economy and the wider financial system.An IMF report released by Lagarde said voting to leave the EU would cause "a protracted period of heightened uncertainty", created by the UK needing to negotiate a withdrawal from the EU. Agreements with 60 other countries who currently have trade agreements with the EU would also need to be reached if the UK was to continue trading with them on the same terms. The IMF has also identified the UK's large current account deficit, the difference imports and exports, as a factor increasing the risks of a vote to leave.These comments follow similar ones made by Mark Carney, the Governor of the Bank of England, who also warned that leaving the EU could lead to a fall in the value of the pound sterling. The Bank also estimated half of the currency's recent fall in value was caused by the uncertainty created by the referendum.Vote Leave and Leave.EU, campaigning to leave the EU, responded by pointing out shortcomings in the IMF's previous predictions, such as the effect of the Greek financial crisis. Former UK Chancellor Lord Lamont commented, "There are plenty of respected individual economists, plenty of respected professional investors, and plenty of entrepreneurs who take a very different view from Christine Lagarde".The head of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) says the world is on the brink of a global recession but predicts the economy will begin to recover by late 2009.Dominique Strauss-Kahn, Managing Director of the IMF, stressed nations must work together to avert a global recession and warns there is "no domestic solution" to the crisis. He also said this week's coordinated interest rate cuts around the world are a good example of the international cooperation needed to restore faltering economies.Furthermore, he announced the IMF has activated an emergency program Wednesday that allows the fund to provide loans more easily and quickly to emerging countries in economic trouble. This program was first used during the 1997 Asian crisis.The program might be used in Iceland, which has seen major problems hitting the financial sector. Iceland has been forced to nationalize the three largest banks and, most recently, Kaupthing Bank.The IMF chief made these remarks in Washington D.C. on Thursday, as top officials from IMF nations and the G-7 industrialized countries are gathering for meetings on economic issues. U.S. President George Bush is set to meet with G-7 finance ministers at the White House on Saturday.Imperial Tobacco, a United Kingdom-based tobacco company, has announced that it will cut 2,440 jobs as part of a restructuring plan. This move comes after the Imperial's takeover of Spain-based Altadis.The job cuts were made as part of the process of moving the production of tobacco products to Northern Spain. In the United Kingdom, the Bristol factory is the only one that is completely closing, although there are significant job losses at other locations. A spokesperson for Imperial Tobacco defended the move. "We are regrettably closing the cigar factory in Bristol - it's a very regrettable step for us to take, but it is an industry which is under considerable pressure," he said. The Unite union has stated that they will fight the decision. Iain MacLean, a union spokesman, said that "it’s early days but we will be fighting for every job and there will be absolutely no acceptance of any compulsory redundancies."In February of 2006, the Savarino Services Construction Corp. proposed the construction of a seven million dollar hotel on Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo, New York. In order for the hotel to be built, at least five properties containing businesses and residents would have to be destroyed. It was not certain whether the properties were owned by Savarino or by the landlord Hans Mobius. The hotel was designed by Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group, and is planned to be a franchise of the Wyndham Hotels group.Elmwood Avenue is known by the community as a popular shopping center, and Nancy Pollina of Don Apparel (who is "utterly against" the construction) claims it's the only reason why students from Buffalo State College leave campus. Additionally, Michael Faust of Mondo Video said he did not want to "get kicked out of here [his video store property]."In 1995, a Walgreens was proposed to be built on the same land, but Walgreens later withdrew its request for a variance because of pressure from the community. More recently, Pano Georgiadis tried to get the rights to demolish the Atwater House next to his restaurant on Elmwood Avenue, but was denied a permit due to the property's historical value. He has since been an opponent to the hotel construction.In the process of debating the hotel, it was thought that a hotel had previously existed on the proposed site, however; research done at the Buffalo and Erie County Historical Society had shown that no hotel had previously existed on the site.This in-depth page will track Wikinews and outside articles to provide you with up to date information about the merger deal. As new actions regarding the merger occur, they can get posted below.File:India facilities.gifWith U.S. President George W Bush preparing for a March 2 visit to India, the two countries' diplomatic teams are pressing hard to reach agreement on a landmark nuclear fuel agreement.India's booming economy, with 8% annual growth, has led to large expenditures to both its civilian and military infrastructure but few of those contracts have fallen to U.S. firms. The U.S. trade deficit with India nearly doubled between 2001 and 2005, to $10 billion.A trade agreement between India and the United States regarding nuclear fuel, a key for India's rapidly expanding economy and for U.S. corporations - the deal would pave the way for expanded high-tech trade - appears to be stalled over agreement as to which of India's reactors are civilian and which are military."We are doing very hard bargaining," Indian Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran told reporters on Monday.The agreement aims to reassure the U.S. Congress that nuclear technology sharing will not be used to produce nuclear weapons. The two parties have been working to separate India's civilian and military nuclear programs."The decision of what facilities may be identified as civilian will be made by India alone and not by anyone else," Prime Minister Manmohan Singh told lawmakers Monday.DNA India reports a late-night call between India's Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice on Monday night may have carried information the Indian administration was waiting for; their government sources indicate a declaration of intent will be signed by Mr. Singh and Mr. Bush, who will arrive in India on Wednesday.Indian-U.S. relations have been poor throughout the cold war period and up to present. When India detonated a nuclear device in 1998, effectively announcing it was a nuclear power, the U.S. applied economic sanctions, further complicating the relationship.The U.S. sanctions were lifted in 2001 when the White House searched for partnerships following the 9/11 attacks. This helped begin new dialogues between New Delhi and Washington. An agreement signed in July 2005 on nuclear technology sharing laid the groundwork for the accord being worked on now.The current accord has the support of Mohamed ElBaradei, the NATO head of the International Atomic Energy Agency. India has never been known to have sold or traded nuclear technology.A symbol for the Indian Rupee was approved by the Government of India today. The Indian currency had previously lacked a distinctive symbol like those associated with the US dollar, euro, pound sterling and the yen.Minister for Information and Broadcasting of India Ambika Soni announced the symbol chosen for the currency. "The symbol for the rupee would lend a distinctive character and identity to the currency and further highlight the strength and robustness of the Indian economy as a favored destination for global investments," Soni stated.A competition was held to select the symbol, which drew more than 3,000 entries. After evaluation by the head of the Reserve Bank of India, artists and designers, five were shortlisted. The winning design came from a post-graduate student, D Udaya Kumar, who won 250,000 (US$5,400).The government announced that the symbol will not be printed on currency notes or coins, but would be added to the Unicode Standard and other scripts used in the world. Soni said the symbol would be adopted in India by the next two quarters and globally within a year and a half to two years. She mentioned that it would soon feature in worldwide keyboards for easy use.The symbol is a blend of the Devanagari and Latin scripts. "It is a perfect blend of Indian and Roman letters — capital 'R' and 'Ra' [र] which represents rupaiah, to appeal to international and Indian audiences [...] My design is based on the tricolour, with two lines at the top and white space in between," Kumar, the designer of the symbol, said.On Wednesday, India demonetised ₹500 (about US$7.50) and ₹1000 notes, announced as a measure to fight corruption, fake notes, and black money. Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the Indian citizens late Tuesday, and said 500 and 1000 rupee notes would cease to be legal tender at midnight.To minimise possible difficulties to citizens, transactions using old 500 and 1000 rupee notes were accepted at government hospitals, railway ticket bookings, government buses, and airports. The notes were also accepted at public-sector petrol-pumps, government-authorised consumer co-operative stores, milk booths authorised by State governments, and cremation grounds till Friday midnight. These shops were obliged to have a record of their stocks and sales. In his announcement, Modi said, "For your immediate needs, you can go to any bank, head post office or sub post office, show your identity proof like Aadhar card, voter's card, ration card, passport, income tax PAN card number or other approved proofs and exchange your old 500 or thousand rupee notes for new notes." ((hi))Hindi language: ‍तत्काल आवश्यकता के लिए पांच सौ और एक हजार की पुराने नोटों को नये एवं माय्ने नोटों के साथ दस नवंबर से तीस दिसंबर तक आप किसी भी बैंक या प्रमुख और उप डाक घर के काउंटर से अपना पेचान पत्र, जैसे की, आधार कार्ड, मतदाता कार्ड, राशन कार्ड, पासपोर्ट, इनकम टैक्स पैन कार्ड इत्यादि सबूत के रूप में पेश करके आप नोट बदल सकते है।Modi also announced those who failed to change their currency till December 30 can exchange the notes at Reserve Bank of India (RBI)'s office along with a declaration form till March 31. The notes can be exchanged till December 30 at any branch of any bank across India.By Saturday, Finance Minister Arun Jaitley said demonetised money equivalent to almost US$30 billion was deposited in banks across India. According to estimate, the old notes accounted for 85% of the total money in circulation.  New 500 rupee and 2000 rupee notes are to be issued.  Modi said RBI would exercise caution from past experience and limit the circulation of large-value notes.International tourists could purchase up to 5000 rupees using the old notes at airport exchanges till Friday.A limit was imposed on cash withdrawal; a maximum of 10000 rupees each day, and 20000 rupees each week, can be withdrawn. Moreover, from Thursday (November 10) till November 24, 4000 rupees can be exchanged in the banks and post offices. The amount is credited to the bank account.Government workers were informed about demonetising when the announcement was made. Modi announced all banks would remain closed for public work on Wednesday.In the United States, Donald Trump won the 2016 presidential election on Tuesday, immediately after which stock markets dropped globally. Following the US election and demonetising the money, the Indian stock market fell by 1700 points on Wednesday. Sensex lost 1,688.69 points and Nifty lost 111.55 points on the same day. Indian technology sector companies experienced loss. TCS suffered 4.93% loss and Infosys lost 2.74%.The Indian rupee is also used in the neighbouring countries of Bhutan and Nepal. The border area uses Indian currency for day-to-day transactions. The Royal Monetary Authority of Bhutan (RMA) has announced the exchange of old notes will be facilitated till December 15. RMA governor Dasho Penjore informed Indian news site The Wire, "We do not know exactly how much Indian currency of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 is in circulation in Bhutan. We will get a better idea after the deadline to deposit their amount". RMA has 30% of its international exchange reserve in Indian rupees. Nepal Rastra Bank directed all Nepali banks to stop conducting transactions using the Indian rupee.On Thursday, there were long queues in front of ATMs and banks to exchange the old notes and withdraw money. BBC reported some banks ran out of cash. Police were called to some banks to maintain discipline. Banks were open on Saturday and Sunday for money exchange.Shops did not accept the old 500 and 1000 rupee notes. Some emphasised cash-less transaction as well. BBC reported some traders and small business owners in Delhi threatened to call a strike as this move affected their business.eRetail websites like Amazon and Flipkart announced they would not accept the old 500 and 1000 rupee notes on Cash on Delivery orders. Amazon also announced 15% discount on gift cards worth 500 or 1000 rupees. The government ceased all transactions using the old 500 and 1000 rupee notes before Saturday. But a Wikinews correspondent  noticed a jeweler shop accepting the demonetised notes on Saturday. When questioned, the jeweler said they were accepting the old notes only on purchase. When the correspondent, who did not identify as a reporter to the shop owners, said the old 500 and 1000 rupee notes were not legal money, they said they will exchange the notes in a bank since there were 50 days to exchange with a new and legal tender. They refused to exchange old 500 rupee notes with change, asserting the customer needs to buy merchandise from their shop.In the wake of India's March 26 announcement that it intends to build its first indigenous aircraft carrier, and recent American overtures aimed at greater defense cooperation to help make India a "major power," speculation is rife as to the future geopolitical consequences for the Asian region and the world.India's rise to greater military power may serve as a counterbalance to China in the Asian region.  China is interested in developing a free trade pact with India and has made overtures in that direction, which are under consideration in India.Indeed, China's military might is also increasing at a rapid rate as that nation's government commits an ever-greater percentage of its budget to national defense.Nonetheless, the two nations are seeking a free trade agreement (FTA), which some observers have declared as having the potential to be "the most significant event of this decade" for the Asian region.The Indian government has once again delayed the testing of the medium-range Agni-III missile. The state-run Defence Research and Development Organisation had planned to conduct trials later this month. The Agni-III, which has a range of 3000 kilometres and the ability to carry nuclear warheads, is intended to boost India's nuclear-deterrence capabilities to a great extent. The DRDO also has plans for developing an Inter-Continental Ballistic Missile for the same purpose.Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh said that the nation had more pressing issues, such as poverty to deal with, and could not afford to divert huge funds to the test-launch programme.The D.R.D.O, which has often been criticized for its failure to meet deadlines, indicated its disappointment at the government statement. At a public function for the inauguration of the new D.R.D.O headquarters at New Delhi, Chief Controller S.C Narang pointedly said that his team was prepared to launch Agni-III within the week. Experts have stated that unless India  displays its nuclear capabilities more seriously, its nuclear-deterrence capabilities will not seem credible.On Tuesday, Indian Railway Minister D. V. Sadananda Gowda presented his first budget for Indian Railways.The budget emphasized increased amenities for travelers, better safety, and timely completion of projects. There were no fare hikes announced as both passenger and freight fares had been increased last month. But, it was announced that fares will be revised twice a year to absorb fuel costs. Gowda criticized previous governments for announcing new projects and failing to complete them. He said projects will now be prioritized, such as decongesting major routes instead of announcing new ones. Gowda announced no major new projects, but announced 54 new trains. He also criticized the last government for driving the railways into a loss.Gowda announced a bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad; new semi-high speed trains in nine sectors connecting metros; and new measures towards improving cleanliness, food, and e-ticketing were announced. He said CCTVs will be installed in major stations to monitor cleanliness, and major stations will have food courts serving local cuisines and precooked food from reputable catering brands will be served on-board. The railways have faced complaints of substandard food in the past.He announced the introduction of a new rail-flaw detection system to better investigate the causes of accidents.  The budget allocated a significant sum to the construction of bridges at unmanned crossings, a major cause of rail-track deaths. He announced a new project to introduce automatic closing doors on mainline and suburban trains, and said wi-fi will be provided in larger stations and select trains. Workstations will be available for on-board use for a fee by Business travelers. The e-ticketing system will be extended from booking tickets to booking coaches and entire trains, and also retiring rooms in stations. Electric mobility carts will be provided to elderly and handicapped passengers at all major stations.  Also, Railway Protection Force will recruit four thousand female constables and escorted carriages will be provided for women. A significant amount was announced for improving rail connectivity in north-east India.Gowda emphasized use of public-private partnerships (PPPs) to fund future projects. He also said he will ask the Cabinet to approve foreign direct investment (FDI) in Indian Railways. Some stations are to be improved using PPPs.  Manish R. Sharma, executive director of capital projects and infrastructure at PricewaterhouseCoopers, pointed out the budget didn't contain any information on how the government intends to attract private investors. Deven Choksey, managing director at K. R. Choksey securities, said the government now seemed to be more inclined towards PPPs than before. India's stock index SENSEX dropped and closed 2% below opening. Investors were observed selling shares in energy, infrastructure, and real estate sectors.A bill passed by India's Parliament put an end to the manufacture of many cheap generic drugs copied from products protected by foreign company patents. A Patents Amendment Bill (2005) has been condemned by foreign aid groups who expect a significant rise in drug costs as a result of the bill.Drug compounds in India were previously not protected by patents, meaning that research and developement costs borne by the originating manufacturers were avoided by generic drug producers. The new bill "will move India toward the patent mainstream and support and encourage innovation and investment in research and development in India," said Ranjit Sahani, managing director of Novartis India.As the world's fourth-largest manufacturer of drugs by volume, the pharmaceutical industry in India is valued at US$5 billion - but ranks as only 13th by value, reflecting the low costs to consumers of the products. "Because India is one of the world's biggest producers of generic drugs, this law will have a severe knock-on effect on many developing countries which depend on imported generic drugs from India," said Samar Verma, regional policy adviser at Oxfam International.Around half of African, Asian and Latin American HIV patients needing anti-retroviral drugs rely on low-cost drugs from India, which are sold at one twentieth the price of similar drugs produced in the West.More than 90 per cent of drugs listed as essentials in India are either unpatented or expired. Drugs patented before 1995 -- when the World Trade Organization  [WTO] set a 10 year deadline to enact protection -- will not be eligible under the bill.Some degree of protection was mandated by WTO in order for India to have greater access to international markets. Opposers of the bill say it goes too far. The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights [TRIPS], under WTO, allows developing countries to not provide patent protection for uses of known drugs, new dosages and formulations, or combinations of known drugs.IBM will expand its service, software, hardware and research divisions in India its chairman and chief executive officer has said. The plan would give the subcontinent $6 billion worth of investment over three years.Announcing the news in Bangalore to an audience of 10,000 employees, the package presented is three times as large as that invested by IBM over the previous three years, said Samuel J. Palmisano. "We see India's role as central to our global enterprise," he said. The $6 billion investment by IBM, also known by the nickname "Big Blue," is larger than the $3.9 billion total foreign investment promised to India by Microsoft Corp., Intel Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc.IBM is currently the largest multinational in India employing 43,000 people in 14 Indian cities. 15,000 new jobs were added last year as the company took 10,000 out of Europe. The new foreign investment is expected to create more jobs in India's thriving telecommunications industry.Estimates put IBM's sales revenue in India at $1 billion. While the home market valuation of $15 billion is a figure expected to grow 25 per cent a year. In the first quarter of this year IBM's Indian wing grew 61 per cent compared to the year before."IBM is excited by the opportunities in India over the long term and we are also encouraged by the domestic opportunity that India offers," said Palmisano.Addressing specifically IBM's plans in India the head said he wanted to automate IT services, create a "one-stop shop" for hardware information and IT goods, build a new R&D centre in Delhi and forge links between IBM's consultants, developers, engineers and scientists."IBM is not going to miss this opportunity," said Palmisano.London - India has placed first in the Economist Magazine's list of the top offshoring locations in the world. The list, compiled by the Economist Intelligence Unit, measured the attractiveness of 60 countries as destinations for offshoring, scoring each country on nine criteria commonly used by companies when deciding where to locate offshore. The list was compiled as part of the Economist CEO Briefing 2005. India came out first with a overall score of 7.76, followed by China with 7.34 and the Czech Republic with 7.26. The list was dominated by Eastern European and South East Asian countries. The top developed country was Canada with 7.23, ranking 6th overall. The top fifteen were as follows:1st - India with 7.76 points 2nd - China - with 7.34 points 3rd - Czech Republic - with 7.26 points 4th - Singapore - with 7.25 points 5th - Poland - with 7.24 points 6th - Canada - 7.23 points 7th - Hong Kong - 7.19 points 8th - Hungary - 7.17 points 9th - Philippines - 7.17 points 10th - Thailand - 7.16 points 11th - Malaysia - 7.13 points 12th - Slovakia - 7.12 points 13th - Bulgaria - 7.09 points 14th - Romania - 7.08 points 15th - Chile - 7.08 pointsIndia's economy has grown by 9.2 percent in Q2 (July-September) of the fiscal year 2006-07, which was 8.4 percent last year for the same quarter.The annual growth rate, of Asia's fourth-largest economy, for the quarter is also higher than that of the last quarter's (April-June), which was 8.9 percent. India's annual economic growth has been an average of 8 percent since past three fiscal years.According to Central Statistical Organisation, real estate and communications-led services recorded an unexpected increase of 13.9% in the quarter.Manufacturing sectors, which contribute 17 percent in the GDP, have been recorded 11.9 percent growth comparing to last year's 11.3 percent for the same quarter.Reserve Bank of India hiked repo rate by 0.25 percent to 7.25 percent, keeping the reverse repo rate unchanged at 6% on October 31. Governor Yaga Venugopal Reddy said that production capacity must match with demand pressure in the economy to prevent inflation flaring up.Finance minister P. Chidambaram said that he was very worried about the higher inflation rate due to supply side constraints.India and China reopened the Nathula Pass in the Himalayan state of Sikkim, on Thursday. The pass had been closed for the last 44 years, following the Sino-Indian War.India and China finalised the agreement to open the pass in June 19, as part of an effort to improve diplomatic relations between the two. The opening comes only a few days after China inaugurated the Qinghai-Tibet Railway, which links Tibet to the rest of China. The opening of the pass was marked by a ceremony on the Indian side attended by officials from both sides, including Sikkim Chief Minister Pawan Kumar Chamling – the chief guest, the Chinese ambassador to India, and the Chairman of the Tibet Autonomous Region, C Phuntsok. A delegation of 100 traders from India, and 100 Tibetans crossed the border to the respective trading towns. Despite heavy rain and chilly winds, the ceremony was marked with the attendance of many officials, locals, and international and local media.At present, trade will be restricted to a small number of permitted goods, such as rice, tea and spices from India and goat and sheep skins, yak tails and silk from China. But the opening is expected to stimulate the economy of the region, and also bolster Indo-Chinese trade, which amounted to $7 billion in 2004. India hopes that the trade volumes between the two nations will grow to Rs. 206 crore (44.6 million US$) by 2007, and Rs. 12,203 crore (2.6 billion US$) by 2015.India and China have settled long-time border disputes, and with freed up cross-border traffic look to creating what would be the largest trading bloc in the world, between the two most populous nations on the planet. During a recent visit by Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao to the Indian capital of Delhi, a border was finally agreed on paper."India and China can together reshape the world order," Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said Monday."China has a large manufacturing base. I believe it is the world's factory. And India with its development in software and other areas, I feel, is the world's office. What I am suggesting is to bring together the factory and the office," Chinese Ambassador to India, Sun Yuxi, had said ahead of the visit.The agreement is the first official document for the 3,500 km disputed border between the two countries, in more than 20 years. The dispute erupted into war in 1962, followed by a 14 years freeze in diplomatic relations.China would give up claims on 90,000 square kilometers to the North-East of India, formally recognising as parts of India, Sikkim — a Himalayan kingdom that merged with India in 1975 — and Tawang — an area in Arunachal Pradesh which China had repeatedly claimed.India would be formally recognising Tibet as a part of China, giving up Aksai Chin, uninhabited land on the Tibetan plateau that Beijing seized from the Indian states of Jammu and Kashmir in 1962. India agreed also "not to allow Tibetans to engage in anti-China political activities on its soil", according to a report in The Economic Times of India. A new cross-border trade route would be allowed through Nathula, in Sikkim, and significant road work was to facilitate higher traffic, at least on the Chinese side.Eleven guiding principles and political parameters for resolving the disagreement, were put forth in the document, including a commitment to enhance bilateral trade from the present US$13.6 billion to US$30 billion by 2010 — trade which only a decade ago was worth just US$1 billion."This matter tells us that as long as the two sides bear sincerity, and patience, the border between China and India will become a bridge linking the friendship of the two sides," Wen said of the document he signed with Singh."A growing and stable China is in the interest of India. Similarly, a growing and stable India is in the interest of China," the Chinese Premier said."It shows a lot of give and take on both sides," said National Security Adviser M.K. Narayanan, India's special representative for the border talks.The treaty "respect[s the] status quo, and is tantamount to accepting the Line of Actual Control as the border between the two countries," said Swaran Singh, a China expert at the Jawaharlal Nehru University in New Delhi."The next two years are very crucial to determine how much the two sides put the guiding principles into practice for the actual demarcation of the frontier," he cautioned.Feasibility of a China-India Free Trade Agreement would be examined — with China eager, but India tentative.A spiritual guru known as "Swami Amritachaitanya" is being held in Kerala, India on charges of fraud, rape and possession of narcotic drugs. Swami Amritachaitanya, whose real name is Santosh Madhavan, was arrested by Interpol in March on criminal charges in a police raid at his 16-suite ashram in Kochi, India following multiple police complaints against him. Indians living in Bahrain have recently come forward and filed a case against Madhavan in India on allegations of fraudulent practices related to his supposed charity activities.Twenty Indians living in Bahrain filed a case against 35-year old Madhavan on Tuesday. They claim they were victims of a scam after Madhavan convinced them to invest in a charitable organization and tourist resort, but allegedly kept the money for himself. Madhavan arrived in Bahrain in 2005."Twenty of us have e-mailed a complaint to the Inspector General and Commissioner of Ernakulam police as well as Kerala Home Minister," said complainant Jaya Kumar in a statement to the Gulf Daily News. Ernakulam is a district in the state of Kerala in India. "He was very convincing about his charity activities as well as the resort," said Kumar, a purchasing officer at a company in Bahrain.Police began an investigation into Madhavan in April after a woman filed a complaint alleging he had promised to start a business with her after a meeting in Dubai, but she said he disappeared after she gave him the money. Serafin Edwin traveled to the capital of Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram, last week from her residence in Dubai, in order to give testimony against Madhavan. She was greeted at the international airport by police, and is under police protection due to concerns for her safety. Her family members told Khaleej Times that she feared physical harm from Madhavan or his henchmen. Interpol has been investigating Madhavan in allegations related to his business dealings with Serafin Edwin since 2004. "I am happy that the police finally caught up with him and he is in prison. He is a big fraud and everything that comes out of his mouth is a lie," said Serafin Edwin in a statement to the United Arab Emirates paper The National.Madhavan was arrested by Interpol police after multiple underage girls went to law enforcement with allegations of rape and sexual abuse. According to Press Trust of India, police in India received complaints from three underage girls alleging he had raped them. The Times reported that Madhavan is accused of making pornographic movies with underage girls, sexual assault, rape, fraud and possession of narcotics. A police raid of Madhavan's four-story mansion in India uncovered drugs, a police uniform, a pelt from an endangered tiger and pornographic DVDs. Gulf Daily News reported that Madhavan was arrested in Kerala in conjunction with an Interpol "red alert", which was issued after consultation with Dubai police in 2004.Self styled "godmen" and "gurus" are under increased observation by police in India following the arrest of Madhavan, and police are specifically investigating their sources of wealth and possible fraud. "We are not against genuine spiritual leaders. But we won’t allow illegal activities under the guise of spirituality," said Kerala home minister Kodiyeri Balakrishnan in a statement to Howrah News Service. G. Sudhakaran, Kerala's minister for temples, presented a different viewpoint in a statement to The Times. "They’re conducting all kinds of criminal and material activities behind their spiritual exteriors. Ninety per cent of them are fake and criminals. There are so many swamis who have enlightened the hearts and minds of people, but these people are fakes with no idea about spirituality. They are only interested in women and money and muscle power," said Sudhakaran. Many Hindus were upset by Sudhakaran's words, as some devout Hindus consider swamis to be above the law and should not be criticized.The Indian aviation sector looks set to shrink amid financial turmoil, with the nation's air carriers in schemes to try and ride out the problems and domestic air traffic at a five year low.Air traffic has fallen by 19% in September, the fourth month in a row of negative growth. The news comes as a joint result of the current financial crisis and high jet fuel prices, with Indian airlines in debt to the tune of Rs1,800 crore after surpassing their credit limits with oil companies, who are themselves making losses due to government controls on the price of jet fuel.Kingfisher Red - originally known as Air Deccan, India's first budget carrier, until Kingfisher Airlines bought the company out - suffered the biggest drop in passenger numbers at 20% of their load factor. Flag carrier Air India is running at 53% of capacity after a 10% fall, and the average for airlines is now 55% as opposed to 65% this time last year.Kingfisher Airlines has decided to enter an alliance with Jet Airlines that will see them collectively control half the Indian aviation market. Both airlines are in debt over fuel payments with Jet owing Rs850 crore while Kingfisher refused to disclose the amount they needed to pay. The money is owed mainly to the Indian Oil Corporation, with the rest owed to the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation and the Bharat Petroleum Corporation. 45% of costs for Indian carriers is fuel, which is 70% more expensive than abroad due to multiple taxes.Air India's head Raghu Menon expressed concern about what the Kingfisher-Jet alliance meant for his own airline. "We were competing with both these airlines separately. Now we'll be competing with them perhaps as one entity. It'll be a challenge," he said.Kingfisher have cancelled an order for three A340 aircraft from European airframer Airbus. Airbus executive John Leahy said that Airbus had discussed the issue with Kingfisher before the choice was made and that this was the only cancellation from India. He also maintains that India will be an important area for Airbus, with the firm predicting Indian aviation growth will be at 9.7% compared to a global rate of 5.4%. Airbus predict that 1,000 new aircraft will increase the Indian fleet fivefold by 2026. Airbus have also welcomed the partnership between Jet and Kingfisher, saying it will help consolidate the carriers.Airlines are cutting capacity to reduce costs, with around 20% gone already. Average flight movements are down to 8,000 a week compared to 10,500 in the period from April to June. The aviation industry in India is expected to post a collective loss of US$2 billion.One executive at Boeing, Dinesh Keskar , predicted the downfall to be brief. “The current downturn in the sector is temporary and may not prolong for more than 6 to 9 months,” he said. Airlines, however, feel that the risk is very much immediate; Jet and Kingfisher are requesting a government bailout package worth Rs 40.7 billion. They are currently losing a combined US$1.3 billion.State Bank of India (SBI) and Bank of Baroda (BoB), two of the largest public sector banks of India, proposed on Saturday their gold deposits should be allowed to count toward their state-mandated cash reserve ratio (CRR) or statutory liquidity ratio (SLR).Arundhati Bhattacharya, the chairperson of SBI, made the proposal at a Gem & Jewellery Export Promotion Council event held in Mumbai on Saturday. She said the need for gold deposits to become more liquid has increased because gold import is putting a strain on the country's current account deficit. S. S. Mundra, Chairperson and managing director of BoB, agreed and said it would help bringing gold into the more productive sectors of the economy.Bhattacharya added SBI has no longer any incentive to run its gold deposit scheme as it cannot fully deploy the assets, noting SBI is the party most involved with gold deposits in India. G. S. Sandhu, Union financial services secretary, also at the event, responded that the government is looking for ways to monetize the gold held by the public, as import of gold can strain the current account deficit and foreign exchange reserves.Currently, the Reserve Bank of India has set the CRR at 4% and the SLR at 22.5%. SLR is the portion of deposits that must be invested in recognized safe securities and assets.Marking the growing trend in the rise of Indian nationalism, the Chief Minister of the Indian state of Karnataka, Dharam Singh, has announced that the state government will rename Bangalore to its pre-colonial name, Bengaluru, taking effect from November 1, 2006. The change was suggested by U. R. Ananthamurthy, best known  for winning the Jnanpith literary award.Many industrial leaders in Bangalore have declared opposition to this name change. "I am absolutely opposed to the name change. The Karnataka government should concentrate on spending money to bring about constructive change rather than wasting a huge amount of money in funding a petty, parochial political initiative," said Kiran Mazumdar Shaw, Biocon chairperson and managing director and India's richest woman, and also made a statement of possible explanation with the comment "The truth is that whenever a government considers itself weak in certain regions and thinks it is falling down, it whips up parochial sentiments.” She described the basis of her objection with the comment "Bangalore has a global brand name worth billions of dollars," and further stated that "As it is the Karnataka government says it is short of funds. Why waste it on meaningless things?"Bangalore has a reputation as "India's Silicon Valley."Other cities to be renamed recently were Chennai (formerly Madras), Mumbai (formerly Bombay), and Kolkata (formerly Calcutta).The move follows other cities in India being reverted to their traditional Indian names, following independence from the United Kingdom.The Indian stock market ended at an all time high on the Diwali 60-minute Special trading session on Friday. Diwali trading is arranged every year on the festival of Diwali to pay obeisance to Lakshmi, the Hindu goddess of wealth and prosperity; it is also seen as welcoming the New Year of the Samvat calendar. The Samvat calendar is 56.7 years ahead (in count) of the solar Gregorian calendar.The benchmark 30-share Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitivity Index, Sensex, rose 0.53% or 111.39 points to a record close of 21,004.96. Sensex closes above 21k pts for the first-time in its 135 years history.Indian markets have attracted about USD 26.74 billion this year of investment from foreign institutional investors. The sale of a 10% stake in Kolkata-based Coal India last month was the biggest share sale in Indian history and banked the government 3.4 billion dollars.  Coal India has risen 43 percent since listing at the stock exchanges this week. According to Mr. Rakesh Jhunjhunwala “This will continue for long periods of time. If you look at India we are 3% to 4% of world GDP, we are not even 0.5% of USD 30 to USD 35 trillion in the investment of institutions worldwide in equities. Our share is USD 250 billion, USD 200 billion may be and it could go up to USD 1 trillion. So I see no reason why money will not come. Don’t forget one thing that India is an open country. Indian companies have return on equity. Among the emerging markets we have the best corporate governance. We are well regulated; we have got good trading systems. Why will the money not come you tell me?” Mr.Rakesh Jhunjhunwala is tagged by the media as "India's Warren Buffett".The Bombay Stock Exchange Senstitive Index (Sensex) crashed 826 points and the National Stock Exchange's index (Nifty) 246 in what was the largest ever intra-day drop in the their histories. At the end of day's trade, the Sensex closed at 11,391 and the Nifty at 3,388. The market breadth is also negative - 2081 shares have declined, with only 336 stocks advancing.Analysts speculated that the reason for this drop was that the U.S. CPI number, which was released yesterday, was above expectations. This, coupled with weaknesses observed in the London Metal Exchange, has led to losses in emerging markets like India, Mexico, and Brazil.Asian Regional Strategist at JPMorgan Chase, Adrian Mowat, believes that the Sensex will stabilise at around the 11,000 mark after correcting by around 5-6%. Indian Finance Minister P. Chidambaram dismissed the issue and described it as a routine fluctuation. The main losers in today's crash were the steel and cement segments.The Indian Railways (IR) has tied up with the Canadian transport solutions major Bombardier Transportation to produce electronic freight locomotives in the country for the proposed Rupee (Rs) 22,000-crore (one crore is 10 million) dedicated freight corridors on the eastern and western routes. Bombardier produces regional aircraft and business jets to rail transportation equipment. Bombardier Transportation officials have met Railways' officials for exploring the option of setting up a greenfield electronic freight locomotive manufacturing facility and an assembling unit in India.   Analysts feels that IR will need at least 500-600 electronic freight locomotives, besides the same number of diesel locomotives for dedicated freight corridors in the first phase. "Conservative estimates for a normal locomotive are between Rs 13 crore and Rs 15 crore. The investment required for manufacturing electronic freight locomotives is around Rs 10,000 crore," the analysts said.   It is also been learned that IR would also pick up a stake in this project.  Bombardier President, Transportation, Andre Navarri confirmed talks with IR, "We are keen to take part in the dedicated freight corridor project, but the nature of the agreement with the Indian government is yet to be finalized."IR will come up with a detailed plan and tenders for the proposed corridor by mid-November.The 30-Stock index of the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) of India today closed at a new All-time High of 6,679.20, gaining 76.51 points.Earlier, the index closed at an All-time high of 6602.69 points at the end of Last-week's trading on Friday.Also, the Delhi-based National Stock Exchange (NSE) Nifty also breached the 2,100-mark for the first time in its trading history and closed at 2,115, registering a gain of 34.50 points over the last week's close.Indonesia has been angered by a decision of the European Union to leave all 51 of the nation's air carriers on the list of air carriers banned in the EU. State-owned flag carrier Garuda Indonesia had hoped to begin flights to Europe imminently and has ordered ten new jetliners to serve routes there and to the United States.Transport ministry spokesperson Bambang Ervan said "This seems like an unfair punishment for Indonesia. The EU is not a sovereign country and is not a member of the ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation). But we do respect the EU and its decision, and demand the same from the EU."The ban was imposed after a string of accidents, of which the three most important were Adam Air Flight 574, a 102-fatality accident in which a Boeing 737-43Q plunged into the ocean after pilots distracted by instrument failure failed to maintain control, Adam Air Flight 172, in which another B737 snapped in half after a hard landing and Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, in which a third B737 attempted landing at extreme speed and overshot the runway, killing 21.Adam Air had also almost suffered a B737 crash the previous year, 2006, after a similar navigational instrument failure to that on Flight 574 caused the airliner to become lost for several hours, eventually performing an emergency landing hundreds of kilometres from its intended destination. Indonesia grounded the carrier in March after another accident in which a B737 overshot a runway. The carrier is also in severe financial difficulties and may soon be permanently shut down.Meanwhile, the pilot of Garuda 200 has been charged over the accident, sparking intense controversy.The EU reviewed the ban this week, but ruled that those responsible "have still to demonstrate that they have completed the corrective actions" needed to lift the ban. It is a blow to Indonesia, who had promised "fast-track" help to Garuda, Mandala Airlines, Premiair and Airfast to raise their safety to levels acceptable to the EU.Indonesia has suspended the operating license of PT Adam Skyconnection Airlines, who trade as Adam Air, over safety concerns. The airline has recently suffered safety problems and financial difficulty.Formed in 2003, Adam Air hit financial crisis on Monday when two major shareholders, investment companies who control 50% of the airline, announced they were pulling out and selling all shares back to the original owners, who still control the other half. The reasons given were a lack of improvement in safety and alleged financial mismanagement.The shares were bought after two major accidents hit the budget carrier last year. On New Year's day Adam Air Flight 574 disapeared and was found to have crashed into the ocean near Sulawesi, leaving 102 missing and presumed dead. Shortly afterwards, another company aircraft snapped in half during landing, but fatalities were prevented because the compromised airframe held together. Both were Boeing 737 (B737) aircraft. At the airline's height, it operated 22 of these, serving domestic routes across the Indonesian archipelago and daily international flights to Malaysia and Singapore.Adam Air also had a serious incident in early 2006, when all navigational systems on a B737 failed, causing the plane to inadvertently enter an accident blackspot. The aircraft was lost for several hours before performing an emergency landing hundreds of miles from its intended destination.On March 10, another Adam Air B737 overshot the runway during landing at Batam island's airport. Since then, Adam Air has been issued two deadlines in rapid succession by the authorities - one to solve safety issues, and one to prove its financial viability. They have cut routes from 52 to 12, and defaulted on all payments on their aircraft to the leasing companies, who have seized back 12 of them.Gustiono Kustianto, director of one of the two leasing companies, said the carrier's "life expectancy is less than a month," and that it owes US$14 million to leasing companies compared to $4.8 million of free capital.Aviation director general Budhi Mulyawan Suyitno said that Adam Air had been grounded due to inadequate Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) standards and poor pilot training. He said that investigations into last week's crash, which injured five people and severely damaged the aircraft, had revealed "the pilot had no idea what to do in an emergency situation." The airline will spend three months grounded, after which it will be shut down entirely if it does not show it has improved."The Transport Ministry has decided to revoke Adam Air's operational specification, effective 12am Wednesday (4am AEDT), said Suyitno. "With this, Adam Air is banned from operating its aircraft. All of its planes must be automatically grounded." He commented that a quarterly evaluation had uncovered "violations that could put passengers' safety at risk".The news coincides with a two-day ultimatum from Adam Air's insurance provider. Failure to pay the insurance premiums would also have resulted in grounding.Founder Adam Suherman - whose family owns half the airline alongside Sandra Ang - commented today that the situation with the shareholders had demoralised pilots. "That in turn would affect their performance. It is very dangerous." He also said that he was not surprised Adam Air had been grounded. Yesterday, he said that there were no plans to file for bankruptcy.His immediate reaction to the news from the insurance - which preceded the grounding by several hours - was that his airline likely could not insure the entire fleet, saying "There have been warnings from the insurance companies... Because every aircraft that is in operation must be insured, the operational activities will be temporarily suspended until there is a further decision from shareholders."Adam Air's 2007 accidents, coupled with Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, sparked an industry review that determined none of the nation's air carriers were safe. The United States subsequently warned against using Indonesian airlines, and they were all added to the list of air carriers banned in the EU.Indonesia has shut down four airlines and grounded five others with the potential of similar licence revocations for failing to meet safety standards.The largest company to lose its licence is Jatayu Gelang Sejahtera. The other companies are all small airlines operating only aircraft with a passenger capacity of fewer than thirty, and are Aviasi Upataraksa, Alfa Trans Dirgantara and Prodexim. The companies that were grounded pending either improvements or licence revokation are Germania Trisila Air, Atlas Delta Setia, Survey Udara Penas, Kura-kura Aviation and SMAC, all of which also operate only aircraft with under-30 passenger capacities. They have three months to improve, or their licences will be revoked.Jatayu had already ceased operations in August, but had intended to restart with a 150-seat Boeing 737. The licence was revoked because the state requires at least two aircraft to be commercially operated and because of the fact that it "was lacking in pilots and human resources". Also, the age of the jetliner meant that it would require a test called a 'C-Check' before it could begin commercial services, at a cost of $120,000.The action comes as the result of a number of air crashes, namely the Adam Air Flight 574 disaster in which 102 people were killed, and the Adam Air Flight 172 accident, in which a plane snapped in half during a hard landing, but managed to hold together, thus preventing any serious injuries. As a result, all 54 of Indonesia's airlines were given a safety rating, with a level-1 rating meaning no action was needed, a level-2 rating meaning the airline needed to make some improvements, and a level-3 rating requiring that the airline be shut down unless improvements were made within three months. Most airlines received a level-2 rating, while none received the top rating. Adam Air was among the airlines to receive the level-3 rating, but was upgraded to tier 2 at the same time as the groundings.Meanwhile, state-owned Garuda Indonesia is now the only airline to have a type-1 rating, despite the fatal crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 in March. According to the Indonesian Transport Ministry's Director General for Aviation Budi Mulyawan Suyitno, Garuda now satisfied 84 percent of civil aviation standards.The ratings have been based on such criteria as surveillance, ramp checks, personnel, department safety, number of accidents and number of serious incidents, according to the BBC. Meanwhile, Flight Global is reporting that, according to Directorate General of Air Communications (DGAC) director of air certification office, Yurlis Hasibuan “20 criteria including whether the airline has developed [better] safety and human resources” are checked.Jusman Syafii Djamal, minister of transport for Indonesia, has recommended that local airlines should not purchase aircraft from European manufacturers, such as Airbus. It is a direct response to the decision of the European Union (EU) to add all 51 of Indonesia's air carriers to the list of air carriers banned in the EU.The EU made the decision to ban the Indonesian air traffic due to a string of accidents in the country, including two major disasters this year - the losses of Adam Air Flight 574 and Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, which killed 102 and 21 people respectively."We do not need to buy aircraft from Europe as long as the flying ban stays unrevoked," Detik.com quoted Djamal as saying, although Xinhua translated the quote as: "As long as the ban is still in place, it is better we do not buy [aircraft] from Europe." "If aircraft are purchased and registered as Indonesian [in Europe], we are worried the planes won't be able to fly to Indonesia because Indonesian airlines' aircraft are banned from flying over Europe," he continued. Djamal is concerned that instead new European planes would have to be flown into Indonesia prior to registration, with higher costs incurred as a result.The announcement, which had already been issued to airlines two weeks ago, was made at a joint press conference with Indonesian Vice President Jusuf Kalla in Jakarta. Djamal told reporters that he felt the best option was the lifting of the ban. "The easiest way is to lift the ban, because the ban goes against the principle of open sky policy," he said.Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has already postponed a diplomatic visit to Europe, citing the ban as his reason. Normally, the president flies on an aircraft operated by state-owned national flag carrier Garuda Indonesia.A European Commission review was held in Brussels on November 28. Although bans were lifted on Pakistani flag carrier Pakistan International Airlines and Surinam carrier Blue Wing Airlines, the sanctions on Indonesian airlines remained in force.Multiple local air carriers are considering the possibility of fleet expansions, with some evaluating Airbus jets as possible options. Airbus, in particular, charge an added cost for taking an aircraft to Indonesia for registration. "There is an additional cost that must be paid by Indonesian airlines that buy the (Airbus) plane from Europe, US$200,000 ," said Djamal. "Because of that we recommend not buying planes from Europe. As long as the EU ban is still in place, there will be additional payment."However, he went on to say that should a manufacturer be willing to pay the cost itself, he did not object to the purchase of the aircraft. He has also confirmed that no Indonesian officers will be sent to Europe to assist with the situation.The parliament of Indonesia has approved government plans to make an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of shares in three major state-owned firms, privatising them. They are steelmaker Krakatau Steel, Bank Tabungan Negara (BTN) and national flag carrier Garuda Indonesia.The parliament has left the process fully in the hands of the government, and has set the maximum stake to be sold at 30% for BTN and Krakatau, and 40% for Garuda. Although Indonesia has been known to fund budget deficits with privatisation, the intention is for the funds from this scheme to go to the businesses themselves to allow expansion.Krakatau expects 3.2 trillion Rupiah (IDR) from the sale, while the estimated price for their stock is between IDR3 and IDR4 trillion (321 - 428 million USD). Both ArcelorMittal SA, the biggest steelmaker in the world, and BlueScope Steel Ltd, the largest in Australia, have expressed an interest in the IPO. Krakatau will use the funds to help finance an expansion scheme which aims to have production doubled to five million tonnes in 2011.BTN, which focuses on home owner loans, has set itself a target income of IDR36.12 trillion (3.86 billion USD) in 2010 compared to a projected IDR22.9 trillion ( 2.45 billion USD) this year. Net profit for this year is projected at IDR472 billion (50.5 million USD)and is hoped to rise to IDR1.39 trillion (148.7 million USD) in 2010. The bank's loan to deposit ratio is predicted to rise from 105.05% this year to 144.93% in 2012. BTN hopes to conduct its IPO before the end of 2008.Garuda is not quite 100% state-owned to start with, unlike the other two, but is very close with 95.44% of the company belonging to the government. Like all of Indonesia's 51 airlines, Garuda is on the list of air carriers banned in the EU due to safety concerns raised after a string of air accidents in the nation. Garuda expects to raise IDR4.2 trillion (449.4 million USD) in funds from the IPO, and will use IDR2.5 trillion (267.5 million USD) to pay off its debts and invest IDR1.7 trillion (181.9 million USD) in new aircraft.The government is still working to get a deal to make IPOs for architectural firm Yodya Karya and three plantation firms called Perkebunan Nusantara III, IV and VII.Police in Indonesia have forwarded a 200-page brief concerning the Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 disaster to prosecutors. The move comes as an indication that the trial of pilot-in-command Captain Marwoto Komar is set to commence within weeks.The March 7, 2007 crash of a Boeing 737-400 at Yogyakarta International Airport killed 21 people. 119 others were able to escape the burning wreckage after the plane overshot the runway, going through the perimeter fence and crossing a road and an embankment to come to rest in a paddy field. Most of the deceased were Indonesians, with five from neighbouring Australia also killed.A final report was later issued after an investigation by Indonesia's National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) in October 2007. The report blamed pilot error for the crash, finding that the airliner had touched down at roughly twice the accepted safe landing speed, and that Komar was "fixated" on landing and "probably emotionally aroused". The Cockpit Voice Recorder indicated that he ignored fifteen activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System and a call from his co-pilot for a 'go-around' as the plane touched down. A number of other criticisms were also leveled at the airport, the airline and transport politicians for contributing factors.Komar is to be prosecuted over the crash for negligence. His earlier arrest - which he was subsequently released from pending full charges - sparked protests from Indonesian aviation groups and criticism from international groups, including IFALPA, a powerful international airline pilots' association.Evidence in his trial is set to include documentational evidence and aircraft wreckage, but it is unclear whether it will include the NTSC report. Much controversy was caused by the suggestion it may be used, since international regulations limit the use of materials intended for safety investigations as evidence to prove liability in criminal or civil cases.Kamal Firdaus, council for the pilot, explained what this means for his client: "Today the documentation has been officially accepted by the prosecutor," adding, "I suspect from this it will be two to three weeks until it is handed over to the court - that's the usual practice. Usually the first hearing is two weeks after that." Firdaus commented that it would be "difficult" for liability to be established and that, "we are ready and it will be a very interesting legal case, so let's see what will happen in the court."Komar, 45, is believed to be the first pilot prosecuted over an air accident in Indonesia despite the country's poor aviation safety record. He is being charged with three counts of negligence, but the potential sentence is unclear, as Aero-News reports that he could face life imprisonment while The Age says he can face up to seven years' imprisonment. His case is considered a landmark, with aviation groups believing his trial may set the precedent for pilots involved in future accidents.Villagers assisting recovery efforts for a Russian passenger jet that crashed in Indonesia have found the aircraft's missing flight data recorder. All 45 on board were killed when the Sukhoi Superjet 100 crashed during a demonstration flight earlier this month.The cockpit voice recorder was found several days after the plane hit Mount Salak, West Java on May 9. A landslide triggered by the impact had concealed the flight data recorder, but it was uncovered today after recent rains removed some of the soil it was under. "It seems to be intact," said Ketut Purwa, who is leading the recovery. It was sent to Jakarta for examination.The recorder was found in a ravine 30 metres from the tail, which was also located by villagers. It contains a log of technical data from the 40-minute demonstration, which aimed to attract Indonesian airlines to buy Superjet 100s.Tatang Kurniadi, head of the National Transportation Safety Committee, explained "The FDR emits a signal for up to a month but only if it's underwater. It doesn't work on land". In addition to the Indonesian investigation, Russian authorities have launched a criminal probe. The dead include eight Russians. Kurniadi also said work to complete an Indonesian translation of the voice recorder transcript is nearing completion.The aircraft had asked for permission to descend to 6,000 feet shortly before the crash. It then hit the 7,200-foot mountain near Jakarta. In the midst of an Asian tour, Sukhoi had placed an experienced pilot in charge of the plane.The Superjet 100 is intended to reinvigorate the Russian aviation industry, and is the nation's first new airliner since the Soviet era. With a maiden flight in 2008, it entered service last year and Sukhoi boasts 200 orders. The twin-engine jet seats around 100 and costs buyers US$31.7 million.In what regulators have described as the second-largest bank failure in the history of the United States, IndyMac Bank has been closed by the Office of Thrift Supervision and placed under the conservatorship of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) due to plummeting shares and the start of a run on the bank. This is the fifth FDIC-insured failure of the year.The FDIC has said that it will transfer all insured deposits and substantial assets, to the new IndyMac Federal Bank which, as the name implies, is controlled by an agency of the federal government. The aim is for the transfer to be completed by Monday.In a press release, the FDIC attempted to reassure customers by saying that, "insured depositors and borrowers will automatically become customers of IndyMac Federal, FSB and will continue to have uninterrupted customer service and access to their funds by ATM, debit cards and writing checks in the same manner as before."  As an FDIC-insured bank, all FDIC accounts are guaranteed up to US$100,000.  The FDIC has also placed a special advance, guaranteeing any funds over $100,000 for 50 cents to the dollar.This move by the FDIC is expected to cost the organization at least four billion USD per year.In the days leading up to the conservatorship, market analysts have predicted the failure of IndyMac due to the fact that it was shedding jobs and closing many of its branch offices.Inflation in Finland hit a 7-year-high in January, reaching 3.8%, it has emerged.Statistics Finland announced today that the high figure had been reached, compared to 2.6% in December or 2.3% in January 2007. This surpasses all figures since November 2000, when the number reached 4%. It is also a rare occasion where Finnish inflation has surpassed the average for nations which use the Euro, currently at 3.2%.The agency said that economic policy was responsible, with researcher Juhani Pekkarinen saying "About a sixth of the (year-on-year) increase was caused by taxes," and going on to add that the low prices of vehicles and electronics had prevented inflation from rising further. Statistics Finland added that contributing factors included increases in food, alcohol and liquid fuel prices, higher interest rates and an increase to costs in restaurants and cafés.Erkki Liikanen, governor at the Bank of Finland, also commented on the new figures. "It is a high figure and shows how important it is to strive for price stability... One of the basic functions of the central bank is secure price stability ... which, in turn, is necessary for improving growth and employment."He went on to say the bank would monitor the situation across Europe, saying "We will be evaluating the risks facing economies from the angle of price stability and growth, and then when we next meet in March we'll see (if a response is required)."Inflation in Zimbabwe is now the world's highest at 11,000 percent and rising. Reports first came in that the value of the Zimbabwean dollar had reached an all-time low two days ago, at which point the official inflation rate was 4,500 percent. Even though this was already high enough to be the world's highest, to make matters worse, independent financial sources estimated the figure to be closer to 9,000 percent. Yesterday, reports came in that inflation had risen to 11,000 percent.US Ambassador to Zimbabwe Christopher Dell is reported to have told The Guardian newspaper over the telephone that he believes inflation "will hit 1.5 million percent by the end of 2007, if not before," adding that he "know(s) that sounds stratospheric but, looking at the way things are going, I believe it is a modest forecast." Dell went on to predict that president Robert Mugabe would be forced out of power by the hyperinflation, a prediction also made by opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai.Dell added that he felt Mugabe would be out in "a matter of months, if not weeks" and justified his comments with the rationale that "It destabilises everything. People have completely lost faith in the currency and that means they have completely lost faith in the government that issues it." Tsvangirai comments to the Associated Press were that: "He's got an economy that's down on its knees, he knows he cannot sustain it." Despite this, Mugabe has expressed intentions to stand for the next election.Exchange rates for the U.S. dollar have reached an official 15,000-1, but on the black market, according to one anonymous illicit money trader, deals have reached 140,000-1 in cash, with a shortage of bank notes creating a 200,000-1 premium on bank transfers and large overseas deals reaching as much as 300,000-1. Meanwhile, in the course of a week the black market exchange for the UK£ has risen from 160,000-1 to 400,000-1. Despite these increases, Mugabe remains adamant that his currency should not be devalued, and is keeping official exchange rates fixed, with the rate for the US$ fixed at 250-1.The dealer said that added uncertainty had arisen from talks held between the current government and the opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change. The official press services published propaganda describing the talks as the opposition negotiating "in bad faith" for its own political gain.Shops are running out of goods due to the huge cost of imported goods and the lack of local ones due to the closure of inflation-crippled factories. "If it goes on like this, we'll have nothing to sell, we'll have no staff and we'll have to close down completely," said one store manager, who was unnamed because he feared retaliation by the state for being a "prophet of doom". Other shops have been closing down temporarily to change their prices.Hyperinflation is also worsening already crippling poverty in Zimbabwe, with people unable to afford the necessary goods for survival. State regulations limit bank money withdrawals to Z$1.5 million per day, hopelessly inadequate given current currency values. One person's pension company informed him he would no longer receive statements because the value of his pension fund had decreased to less than that of a postage stamp.The state daily Chronicle in the second city of Bulawayo reported that Western countries were planning to become involved with the situation upon Mugabe's departure with a rescue package valued at US$3 billion. Western officials have confirmed that budget proposals exist relating to, according to the Associated Press, "food support, public services reform and the rebuilding of agriculture and general infrastructure over five years in a new political landscape led by reformist Zimbabwean politicians." However, state media again ran propaganda-based stories, saying that Western powers and their close political friends, who state media call the "Fishmongers Group", were "working overtime to destroy the economy, mutilate the Zimbabwe dollar, foment civil unrest and then dangle a rescue package to win the support of gullible politicians."The United Kingdom-based mobile Linux developers OpenedHand have announced that they have been acquired by the Intel Corporation, merging the Linux company with the Intel Open Source Technology Center."We are pleased to announce that OpenedHand Ltd has been acquired by Intel Corporation," said OpenedHand in a statement it released on the acquisition. "The OpenedHand team will join the Intel Open Source Technology Center and will focus on the development of the Moblin Software Platform, the optimized software stack for Intel Atom processors."The statement continued by stating that  "Intel will continue supporting open source projects currently led by OpenedHand staff such as Clutter and Matchbox projects, and in most cases, will accelerate these projects as they become an integral part of Moblin."Rob Bamforth, an analyst for Quocirca, said that this move showed the importance of Linux on mobile devices. He said that "we saw it [large companies purchasing mobile Linux development companies] earlier this year with Nokia buying Trolltech, it's a sign that the mobile space is not as clear cut as the something like the PC one." He continued by stating that in the PC market "you have a market dominated by PCs with Macs for some specialist users, but mobiles are not like that - there's a diverse range of products, and, if anything, it's becoming more diverse." OpenedHand has previously sold its products to companies such as One Laptop Per Child, iRex, Openmoko, ST Microelectronics, Access Co., Vernier and Nokia.Microprocessor company Intel Corporation has quit the board of directors for the One Laptop Per Child association (OLPC), a non-profit organization that aims to provide children in developing countries with inexpensive laptops. An Intel spokesman cited a "philosophical impasse" as the reason for the split.Intel joined the OLPC board in July 2007, agreeing to give financial and technological support to the project. Development began on a new laptop using an Intel processor rather than the current processor made by Advanced Micro Devices, a rival of Intel. A prototype of this machine was expected to be unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show in Les Vegas, Nevada, which begins in a few days.According to Intel spokesman Chuck Mulloy, OLPC had repeatedly asked Intel to abandon its support for the Classmate PC, a similar laptop designed for children in developing countries, and focus entirely on the OLPC program. "At the end of the day, we decided we couldn't accommodate that request," Mulloy said.OLPC President Walter Bender said in an interview that Intel's resignation will have "no impact" on the program. "We never really got much going with Intel to have an impact," Bender said. He criticized Intel for a "seemingly half-hearted effort" in developing the new laptops and for using the agreement to make "marketing statements".Technology giant Intel released its second quarter results Tuesday, which were the best in the 42 years of the company's existence. The stronger than anticipated results boosted the company's share price, along with those of other technology firms.Intel's revenues over the quarter up to 26 June were $10.8 billion, with net profit at $2.9 billion. In the same quarter last year, the company made a loss of $398 million. Its gross margin rose to 67%, higher than the forecast of 64.1%. The results were better than forecast by either Intel or outside analysts.The company, which makes processors for around 80 percent of the world's personal computers, is thought to have benefited from an increase in demand for electronics as the world economy moves out of recession.“Strong demand from corporate customers for our most advanced microprocessors helped Intel to achieve the best quarter in the company’s 42-year history”, said chief executive Paul Otellini.Intel shares rose by 8% following the results. Shares in rival processor manufacturer AMD also rose by 5.5%, with other technology firms seeing similar rises. The Dow Jones index closed at 10,363.02 points, an increase of 146.75.Australia's Opposition Party laid blame for recent interest rate increases at the feet of new federal treasurer Wayne Swan. Swan, in turn, criticised the banks, saying they risk being "judged very harshly" if they "try to take advantage of the U.S. sub-prime crisis by lifting interest rates excessively."Following the National Australia Bank (NAB) lifting its rates 0.12 percent independently of the Reserve Bank of Australia, Swan consulted with Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA), which monitors bank liquidity, and was advised that rises of around 0.1 percent were reasonable.However, following his moderate response to NAB's rise, ANZ Bank announced a 0.2% rise, prompting Swan's warning. Since then other banks, including Westpac, BankWest and Bendigo Bank, have announced rises between 0.1 and 0.2 percent, while St.George Bank lifted its rates by 0.2 percent.Former Howard government treasurer Peter Costello criticised Swan as inexperienced, saying, "They've taken the opportunity of a new treasurer who is not on top of the job to increase their margins, and he came out and, on behalf of the Labor Party, he approved it." While opposition treasury spokesman, Malcolm Turnbull claimed the treasurer was "all over the shop."HSBC chief economist Dr John Edwards said, "It is all a learning experience for him but it is very difficult to say anything that is less than critical about the banks. The ANZ was the real lesson for Swan because they betrayed his belief, which was probably well informed, the banks would be reasonable and keep any rise to about the level imposed by the NAB."An internal audit of the IRS has found that the IRS has improperly identified hundreds of thousands of taxpayers as potential cheats and frozen refunds.  Many of the taxpayers are unaware their refunds are frozen because the IRS does not notify taxpayers of their investigations.  The audit found that 80% of a sample of cases flaged as potential cheats were actually legitimate refunds.Many of the frozen refunds were from the poor.  The median gross income from the sample was $13,300 with a median refund of $3,519.  The median delay was 8 1/2 months.  Republican Senator Charles E. Grassley, Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said "Refunds have been a source of abuse recently, but we need to make sure taxpayers have proper due process when the IRS decides to freeze a refund." he noted that taxpayers "can't effectively challenge the IRS' actions."Democrat Senator Max Baucus said the IRS was after fraud "at the expense of honest taxpayers who need these refunds for food, medicine, home heating and other basic needs."An international conference in London on Tuesday came up with a plan to fight al-Qaeda's presence in Yemen. Delegates present at the conference were from twenty countries, including Yemen, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The conference was called by British Prime Minister Gordon Brown due to the failed Christmas Day plot to blow up a US plane, for which al-Qaeda in Yemen claimed responsibility. However, the attendees stress that the al-Qaeda presence is not Yemen's only problem, and that it cannot be solved without first dealing with the others.Hillary Clinton, the US Secretary of State, said that bringing peace to Yemen and making it more stable is a major priority for the United States. She said that the United States had signed a three-year agreement on security development in Yemen. "To help the people of Yemen, we—the international community—can and must do more. And so must the Yemeni government," she said. Clinton said that she does not believe that military action would be enough to solve Yemen's problems, and that corruption must be combated as well as building up democratic institutions and promoting human rights. She asked that the government of Yemen begin its proposed ten-point program for the development of these areas and to reduce the influence of extremist organisations.Yemen is the poorest nation in the Arab world, and its economy was also on the meeting's agenda. The United Kingdom's Foreign Secretary David Miliband chaired the talks, and said that the Yemeni government had pledged to begin an attempt to combat this by entering into discussions with the International Monetary Fund, representatives of which were present at the conference, in order to put together a plan for its economy. Miliband also announced that a "Friends of Yemen" organisation was to be launched, to discuss the economy, government, and judicial process of Yemen. Also present were delegates from the United Nations, European Union, and World Bank. Miliband acknowledged that the solution was not simply a military one by saying at a press conference, "It's been a common feature of every contribution that we have heard today that the assault on Yemen's problems cannot begin and end with its security challenges and its counter-terrorism strategy. In tackling terrorism it is vital to tackle its root causes. In Yemen's case these are manifold—economic, social and political".Ali Mujawar, the Prime Minister of Yemen, received this support warmly, but said that any attack on the nation's sovereignty would be considered "unacceptable", and that it should not be portrayed as a failing nation, despite a multitude of problems, including its damaged economy, rapidly growing population, and shrinking oil reserves, as well as the beginning of a drought and its problems with insurgents, such as al-Qaeda terrorists. British Foreign Office Minister Ivan Lewis echoed Mujawar's statements by saying that Yemen is "not a failed state", but "an incredibly fragile state". Lewis also said that "[s]upporting the government of Yemen is crucial to the stability of that country but it is also crucial to the stability of the world".Yemen's Foreign Minister, Abu Bakr al-Qirbi, asked the delegates at the conference for "international support to build infrastructure, combat poverty and create jobs, as well as support in combating terrorism". However, he said that the idea of having US military bases in Yemen was "inconceivable".Arab League secretary general Amr Moussa is unsure how useful the meeting will be. He expressed these concerns by telling the BBC, "I don't know how a conference like that can decide something useful, something reasonable for Yemen... in a couple of hours", and saying that it was a "strange" and "very unusual sign" that the Arab League had not been given the chance to send delegates to the conference, despite wanting to discuss all of Yemen's problems without specific focus on al-Qaeda. Despite these concerns, donors from a number of Western and Gulf nations have agreed to meed again, this time in the Saudi Arabian capital city of Riyadh, in February.International media mogul Conrad Black has been found guilty by the US District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in Chicago, Illinois on three charges of mail fraud and one of obstruction of justice. However, the jury did clear him of the rest of the charges. Black faces a maximum of 35 years in prison and a US$1 million fine at his sentencing, which is scheduled for November.He was found not guilty of nine other charges including racketeering, misuse of corporate perks and tax evasion. The 13 charges were based on allegations that Black defrauded investors in his company, Chicago-based Hollinger International (now known as Sun-Times Media Group). He was accused of stealing around US$60 million from the company.David Radler, who was the second-highest ranking officer at Hollinger at the time of the crimes, testified against Black, after admitting fraud himself. Radler testified before the court and jury, that Conrad Black had concocted a scheme where executives of Hollinger could pocket payments when selling small local newspapers that Hollinger owned, in exchange for non-compete agreements.Black's three co-defendants and former associates (Jack Boultbee, Peter Atkinson and Mark Kipnis) were all found guilty of several counts of mail fraud."We think the verdict vindicates the serious public interest in making sure that when insiders in a corporation deal with money entrusted to them by the shareholders, that they not engage in self-dealing, that they not break the law to benefit themselves instead of the shareholders," said U.S. Attorney Patrick Fitzgerald, who prosecuted the case. "We intend to appeal and there are viable legal issues. We vehemently disagree with the government's position on sentencing," said Edward Greenspan, Conrad Black's attorney. "We believe, based on the conviction of the charges here, that the sentences for this type of offence are far less than what the government suggested." "It only takes one fraud charge and the man is disgraced and finished," said Joshua Rozenberg, legal editor of Daily Telegraph, which was once owned by Hollinger International. "He is clearly facing a lengthy prison sentence."Black was released, pending his appeal, on a US$20 million bond. He agreed to remain in the Chicago area for at least one week. Judge Amy St. Eve confiscated his passport.Conrad Black renounced his Canadian citizenship in 2001, to become a life peer as Baron Black of Crossharbour. He is technically a United Kingdom citizen, as he is a British Lord. Even without his Canadian citizenship, Black continues to enjoy the privileges of membership in the Queen's Privy Council for Canada which Brian Mulroney gave him in 1992 which includes the use of a special diplomatic passport.Some stock markets fell sharply Thursday upon news that London was hit by a series of coordinated explosions.The FTSE 100 Share Index fell over 150 points, over 2.8%. Among the hardest hit stocks were airlines, hospitality and insurance companies, according to reports. At 11:41UTC, the FTSE 100 [1], the yardstick used to measure the largest British companies on the stockmarket had fallen 3.85%, dropping by 201.2 points to 5028.40. British Airways and the Hilton group lead the losers with drops of over 7% each as investors speculated about a terrorist involvement in the attacks which could adversely affect tourism and travel.In Paris the Cac 40 Index [2] of France's forty largest companies took an even worse beating, dropping almost 4% by 11:47UTC by 170.37 points to 4109.58. Among the top losers was Axa Insurance which dropped by 5.4%.Across the border in Germany the Dax [3] had shed 3.15%, or 145.47 points, by 11:50UTC to 4470.02 points. Again among the top losers was a major insurer – Allianz which fell over 5%.It seems that airlines and insurers have been hit the worst so far. Ryanair has dropped 7.73% or over €400m in value and easyjet has shed  7.28%.Shortly after news of the explosions spread to trading floors, shares of British Airways fell more than 6 percent. Other stocks affected included Carnival Corporation, InterContinental Hotels Group, Hilton Group, and Prudential.The FTSE had recovered 116 points at 13:43 after it's initial fall of 206. Increased volume of FTSE futures on LIFFE has meant that many people have been able to profit from the fall.The price of gold has jumped by 1% as investors seek a secure place for their money.United States markets have fallen significantly as well, with the Dow having fallen by 65 points, the S&P 500 7.57, and the NASDAQ 7.51 as of 13:43UTC.Black Lotus Communications, which "prevents malicious traffic from reaching" websites, such as a Denial-of-service attack (DDoS), has announced their decision to donate revenue made from the Westboro Baptist Church (WBC) to charity. The company has confirmed their intentions in a statement to Wikinews."We have received overwhelming support for donations to be given to various groups supporting the Newtown community, veterans groups like the Wounded Warrior Project, and LGBT groups like The Trevor Project", said Jeffrey Lyon, Certified Information Systems Security Professional with the Black Lotus team, to Wikinews. Lyon also says The United Way may be the first charity to receive their donation.  "We've not [yet] made a formal decision," Lyon noted, but the company "supports all of these groups and will give very serious consideration in ensuring that our donations have a strong impact." The announcement comes after the internet activist group known as Anonymous called on the companies that host and protect the Church's website to discontinue providing services to them after the Church announced their decision to protest funerals of those killed in the December 14 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. According to Lyon the company decided to donate revenue made from WBC to charity after, "'Anonymous' supporters began a full blown Twitter campaign boycotting any company who provides services to WBC." Lyon also said the company, "reached out to Anonymous spokespersons and asked their opinions on how the matter should be handled."The attack on WBC has been dubbed '#OpWestBor' on the social network site Twitter. As part of the operation, the Church's website was defaced and taken offline for most of the day Monday. Twitter accounts belonging to Shirley Phelps-Roper, the Church's spokeswoman, and leader Fred Phelps, were hacked and taken over by Anonymous. At the time of this report, both accounts were still under control of the group. Roper's account has been under the control of Anonymous since early Monday morning.On Sunday, in a video posted on YouTube, Anonymous announced their intentions saying, "From the time you have received this message, our attack protocol has past been executed and your downfall is underway. Do not attempt to delude yourselves into thinking you can escape our reach, for we are everywhere, and all-seeing, in the same sense as God. ... We will render you obsolete. We will destroy you. We are coming." As a result of the breach, Anonymous claims to have gained access to and leaked alleged personal information such as names, home addresses and telephone numbers belonging to Church members. On Wednesday, following the leak, Twitter suspended one of Anonymous' most followed accounts '@YourAnonNews', claiming, according to Anonymous, that the profile posted "private and confidential information" regarding the lawyer for WBC and Roper. The account was reinstated a short time later and that is when Black Lotus contacted Anonymous."As a security service, we value freedom of expression ... and have mandate to guarantee passage of data across the internet, which ultimately means that companies like Black Lotus should not interrupt services based solely on public opinion. By terminating their service, we would not actually take their sites offline. Instead, they would be without DDoS protection for a short period of time until they found another service that would harbor them. This logic did not add up for us", Lyon added. He would not elaborate on how long WBC has sought the services of Black Lotus, but stated, "they did not come to us because of any one specific attack."Lyon didn't state how much revenue is made from WBC, but he added the amount they receive "from WBC is very small." As a result, Lyon says the company will "actually make donations well in excess" of the fees WBC pays. "These donations will be in the thousands [of dollars], but we've not come to a final decision on the exact amounts", he added. According to Lyon, WBC is aware of the company's intentions."We made it clear that while they have a right to expression, we have a social responsibility [to] ensure our services benefit society and to aid those in need", said Lyon. Wikinews has contacted the WBC for a statement, but as of this report, no response has been received.For now, Lyon states only revenue received from the WBC will be considered for donation, but they hope the project can be expanded to include other customers. "While we're attributing this specific decision to WBC, our long term plan is to expand our philanthropy program to substantially offset any harm that may have been caused by those serving content over our network", said Lyon. The company hopes to formally announce their decisions in a press release at the end of the week.Noam Chomsky is a professor emeritus at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Linguistics and Philosophy. At the age of 40 he was credited with revolutionizing the field of modern linguistics. He was one of the first opponents of the Vietnam War, and is a self described Libertarian Socialist. At age 80 he continues to write books; his latest book, Hegemony or Survival, was a bestseller in non-fiction. According to the Arts and Humanities Citation Index Professor Chomsky is the eighth most cited scholar of all time.  On March 13, Professor Chomsky sat down with Michael Dranove for an interview in his MIT office in Cambridge, Massachusetts.((Michael Dranove)) I just wanted to know if you had any thoughts on recent NATO actions and the protests coming up at the 60th NATO conference, I know you’re speaking at the counter-conference.Could be I give so many talks I can’t remember (laughs). On the NATO conference, well I mean the obvious question is why should NATO exist? In fact you can ask questions about why it should ever have existed, but now why should it exist. I mean the theory was, whether you believe it or not, that it would be a defensive alliance against potential Soviet aggression, that’s the basic doctrine.  Well there’s no defense against Soviet aggression, so whether you believe that doctrine or not that’s gone.When the Soviet Union collapsed there had been an agreement, a recent agreement, between Gorbachev and the U.S government and the first Bush administration. The agreement was that Gorbachev agreed to a quite remarkable concession: he agreed to let a united Germany join the NATO military alliance. Now it is remarkable in the light of history, the history of the past century, Germany alone had virtually destroyed Russia, twice, and Germany backed by a hostile military alliance, centered in the most phenomenal military power in history, that’s a real threat. Nevertheless he agreed, but there was a quid pro quo, namely that NATO should not expand to the east, so Russia would at least have a kind of security zone. And George Bush and James Baker, secretary of state, agreed that NATO would not expand one inch to the east.  Gorbachev also proposed a nuclear free weapons zone in the region, but the U.S wouldn’t consider that.Okay, so that was the basis on which then shortly after the Soviet Union collapsed. Well, Clinton came into office what did he do? Well one of the first things he did was to back down on the promise of not expanding NATO to the east. Well that’s a significant threat to the Soviet Union, to Russia now that there was no longer any Soviet Union, it was a significant threat to Russia and not surprisingly they responded by beefing up their offensive capacity, not much but some. So they rescinded their pledge not to use nuclear weapons on first strike, NATO had never rescinded it, but they had and started some remilitarization. With Bush, the aggressive militarism of the Bush administration, as predicted, induced Russia to extend further its offensive military capacity; it’s still going on right now. When Bush proposed the missile defense systems in Eastern Europe, Poland and Czechoslovakia, it was a real provocation to the Soviet Union. I mean that was discussed in U.S arms control journals, that they would have to regard as a potential threat to their strategic deterrent, meaning as a first strike weapon. And the claim was that it had to do with Iranian missiles, but forget about that. Take say on Obama, Obama’s national security advisor James Jones former Marine commandant is on record of favoring expansion of NATO to the south and the east, further expansion of NATO, and also making it an intervention force. And the head of NATO, Hoop Scheffer, he has explained that NATO must take on responsibility for ensuring the security of pipelines and sea lanes, that is NATO must be a guarantor of energy supplies for the West. Well that’s kind of an unending war, so do we want NATO to exist, do we want there to be a Western military alliance that carries out these activities, with no pretense of defense? Well I think that’s a pretty good question; I don’t see why it should, I mean there happens to be no other military alliance remotely comparable — if there happened to be one I’d be opposed to that too. So I think the first question is, what is this all about, why should we even be debating NATO, is there any reason why it should exist?((Michael Dranove)) We’ve seen mass strikes all around the world, in countries that we wouldn’t expect it. Do think this is a revival of the Left in the West? Or do you think it’s nothing?It’s really hard to tell. I mean there’s certainly signs of it, and in the United States too, in fact we had a sit down strike in the United States not long ago, which is a very militant labor action. Sit down strikes which began at a significant level in the 1930’s were very threatening to management and ownership, because the sit down strike is one step before workers taking over the factory and running it and kicking out the management, and probably doing a better job. So that’s a frightening idea, and police were called in and so on.  Well we just had one in the United States at the Republic Windows and Doors Factory, it’s hard to know, I mean these things are just hard to predict, they may take off, and they may take on a broader scope, they may fizzle away or be diverted.  ((Michael Dranove)) Obama has said he’s going to halve the budget. Do you think it’s a little reminiscent of Clinton right before he decided to institute welfare reform, basically destroying half of welfare, do you think Obama is going to take the same course?There’s nothing much in his budget to suggest otherwise, I mean for example, he didn’t really say much about it, about the welfare system, but he did indicate that they are going to have to reconsider Social Security. Well there’s nothing much about social security that needs reconsideration, it’s in pretty good financial shape, probably as good as it's been in its history, it's pretty well guaranteed for decades in advance. As long as any of the famous baby boomers are around social Security will be completely adequate. So its not for them, contrary to what’s being said. If there is a long term problem, which there probably is, there are minor adjustments that could take care of things. So why bring up Social Security at all? If it’s an issue at all it’s a very minor one. I suspect the reason for bringing it up is, Social Security is regarded as a real threat by power centers, not because of what it does, very efficient low administrative costs, but for two reasons. One reason is that it helps the wrong people. It helps mostly poor people and disabled people and so on, so that’s kind of already wrong, even though it has a regressive tax. But I think a deeper reason is that social security is based on an idea that power centers find extremely disturbing, namely solidarity, concern for others, community, and so on.The fundamental idea of Social Security is that we care about whether the disabled widow across town has food to eat. And that kind of idea has to be driven out of people’s heads. If people have a commitment to solidarity, mutual aid, support, and so on, that’s dangerous because that could lead to concern for other things. Like, it’s well known, for example, that markets just don’t provide lots of options, which today are crucial options. So for example, markets today permit you to buy one brand of car or another. But a market doesn’t permit you to decide "I don’t want a car, I want a public transportation system". That’s just not a choice made available on the market. And the same is true on a wide range of other issues of social significance, like whether to help the disabled widow across town. Okay, that’s what communities decide, that’s what democracy is about, that’s what social solidarity is about and mutual aid, and building institutions by people for the benefit of people. And that threatens the system of domination and control right at the heart, so there’s a constant attack on Social Security even though the pretexts aren’t worth paying attention to.There are other questions on the budget; the budget is called redistributive, I mean, very marginally it is so, but the way it is redistributive to the extent that it is, is by slightly increasing the tax responsibility to the extremely wealthy. Top couple of percent, and the increase is very marginal, doesn’t get anywhere near where it was during the periods of high growth rate and so on. So that’s slightly redistributive, but there are other ways to be redistributive, which are more effective, for example allowing workers to unionize. It’s well known that where workers are allowed to unionize and most of them want to, that does lead to wages, better working conditions, benefits and so on, which is redistributive and also helps turn working people into more of a political force. And instead of being atomized and separated they’re working to together in principle, not that humans function so wonderfully, but at least it’s a move in that direction. And there is a potential legislation on the table that would help unionize, the Employee Free Choice Act. Which Obama has said he’s in favor of, but there’s nothing about it in the budget, in fact there’s nothing in the budget at all as far as I can tell about improving opportunities to unionize, which is an effective redistributive goal. And there’s a debate right now, it happens to be in this morning's paper if Obama’s being accused by Democrats, in fact particularly by Democrats, of taking on too much. Well actually he hasn’t taken on very much, the stimulus package; I mean anybody would have tried to work that out with a little variation. And the same with the bailouts which you can like or not, but any President is going to do it.  What is claimed is that he’s adding on to it health care reform, which will be very expensive, another hundreds of billions of dollars, and it’s just not the time to do that. I mean, why would health care reform be more expensive?  Well it depends which options you pick. If the healthcare reforms maintain the privatized system, yeah, it’s going to be very expensive because it's a hopelessly inefficient system, it's very costly, its administrative costs are far greater than Medicare, the government run system. So what that means is that he’s going to maintain a system which we know is inefficient, has poor outcomes, but is a great benefit to insurance companies, financial institutions, the pharmaceutical industry and so on. So it can save money, health care reform can be a method of deficit reduction. Namely by moving to an efficient system that provides health care to everyone, but that’s hardly talked about, its advocates are on the margins and its main advocates aren’t even included in the groups that are discussing it. And if you look through it case after case there are a lot of questions like that. I mean, take unionization again, this isn’t in the budget but take an example. Obama, a couple of weeks ago, wanted to make a gesture to show his solidarity with the labor movement, which workers, well that’s different (chuckles) with the workers not the labor movement. And he went to go visit an industrial plant in Illinois, the plant was owned by Caterpillar. There was some protest over that, by human rights groups, church groups, and others because of Caterpillar’s really brutal role in destroying what’s left of Palestine. These were real weapons of mass destruction, so there were protests but he went anyway. However, there was a much deeper issue which hasn’t even been raised, which is a comment on our deep ideological indoctrination. I mean Caterpillar was the first industrial organization to resort to scabs, strikebreakers, to break a major strike. This was in the 1980’s, Reagan had already opened the doors with the air controllers, but this is the first in the manufacturing industry to do it. That hadn’t been done in generations. In fact, it was illegal in every industrial country except apartheid South Africa. But that was Caterpillar’s achievement helping to destroy a union by calling in scabs, and if you call in scabs forget about strikes, in other words, or any other labor action. Well that’s the plant Obama went to visit. It’s possible he didn’t know, because the level of indoctrination in our society is so profound that most people wouldn’t even know that. Still I think that it’s instructive, if you’re interested in doing something redistributive, you don’t go to a plant that made labor history by breaking the principle that you can’t break strikes with scabs.  ((Michael Dranove)) I live out in Georgia, and a lot of people there are ultra-right wing Ron Paul Libertarians. They’re extremely cynical. Is there any way for people on the left to reach out to them?I think what you have to do is ask, what makes them Ron Paul Libertarians? I don’t happen to think that makes a lot of sense, but nevertheless underlying it are feelings that do make sense. I mean the feeling for example that the government is our enemy. It’s a very widespread feeling, in fact, that’s been induced by propaganda as well. So pretty soon it will be April 15th, and the people in your neighborhood are going to have to send in their income taxes. The way they’re going to look at it, and the way they’ve been trained to look at it is that there is some alien force, like maybe from Mars, that is stealing our hard earned money from us and giving it to the government. Okay, well, that would be true in a totalitarian state, but if you had a democratic society you’d look at it the other way around  You’d say "great, it's April 15th, we’re  all going to contribute to implement the plans that we jointly decided on for the benefit of all of us." But that idea is even more frightening than Social Security. It means that we would have a functioning democracy, and no center of concentrated power is ever going to want that, for perfectly obvious reasons. So yes there are efforts, and pretty successful efforts to get people to fear the government as their enemy, not to regard it as the collective population acting in terms of common goals that we’ve decided on which would be what have to happen in a democracy. And is to an extent what does happen in functioning democracies, like Bolivia, the poorest country in South America. It’s kind of what’s happening there more or less. But that’s very remote from what’s happening here. Well I think Ron Paul supporters can be appealed to on these grounds, they're also against military intervention, and we can ask "okay, why?" Is it just for their own security, do they want to be richer or something? I doubt it, I think people are concerned because they think we destroyed Iraq and so on. So I think that there are lots of common grounds that can be explored, even if the outcomes, at the moment, look very different. They look different because they’re framed within fixed doctrines. But those doctrines are not graven in stone. They can be undermined.Additional commentsJanuary's second Interview of the Month was with Danny O'Brien of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) on 23 January in IRC. The EFF is coming off a series of high-profile successes in their campaigns to educate the public, press, and policy makers regarding online rights in a digital world, and defending those rights in the legislature and the courtroom. Their settlement with Sony/BMG, the amazingly confused MGM v Grokster decision by the Supreme Court of the United States, and the disturbing cases surrounding Diebold have earned the advocacy organization considerable attention.When asked if the EFF would be interested in a live interview in IRC by Wikinews, the answer was a nearly immediate yes, but just a little after Ricardo Lobo. With two such interesting interview candidates agreeing so quickly, it was hard to say no to either so schedules were juggled to have both. By chance, the timing worked out to have the EFF interview the day before the U.S. Senate schedule hearings concerning the Broadcast flag rule of the FCC, a form of digital rights management which the recording and movie industries have been lobbying hard for - and the EFF has been lobbying hard to prevent.The toll in yesterday's serial bombings on Mumbai's commuter trains has risen to 200 killed, with 714 people injured, according to the official estimate released by the Police. 127 victims have been identified and a further 56 remain unidentified, the estimate said. No group has so far claimed responsibility for the attacks. Indian authorities have said that the Kashmiri militant group Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) may be involved. An LeT spokesman has denied any involvement. The day after the blast, schools, colleges and offices functioned normally in Mumbai and the commuter train service targeted in the bombings was operational. Many commuters rode the trains to work, though their numbers were smaller than usual. The Bombay Stock Exchange, located in the city shrugged off the bombings, with the BSE SENSEX gaining 3 percent on opening, calming fears that economic confidence will be undermined by the blasts.An investigation is tonight underway after a light aircraft crashed into a popular mountain resort in the Philippines city of Baguio, killing two aboard, and injuring four others. The aircraft, which may have been trying to make an emergency landing, narrowly missed crashing into a tourist resort where a crowd had gathered.Witnesses said the six-seater Piper Aztec aircraft was flying very low before it clipped pine trees and impacted with the ground, bursting into flames. The crash happened just minutes after it lifted off from Loakan Airport. One person aboard the aircraft was killed instantly, and the four others were taken to hospital where another died. No-one on the ground was hurt in the accident.Police confirmed the aircraft crashed into a mountain trail and exploded. Wikinews understands air traffic controllers lost contact with the pilot shortly after takeoff, and officials say the aircraft may have suffered technical problems. Police told journalists the pilot might have been attempting to make an emergency landing in an open area but struck trees.On Friday, German police investigators continued their previous day's search of the headquarters of Deutsche Bank in Frankfurt, Germany, for evidence of money laundering and other wrongdoing in connection to the group of leaked financial documents called the Panama Papers.  A police spokesperson explained the roughly 170 searchers, including officers, prosecutors and tax experts, encountered such a volume of material the matter could not be concluded in one day.The allegations are that, from 2013 onward, two employees of Deutche Bank helped clients to avoid taxes and other regulations by creating offshore companies. Bank officials announced Thursday they were cooperating with authorities but made no further comment.The stock value of Deutsche Bank dropped roughly by half over the course of 2018. Last year, the governments of the United States and United Kingdom fined Deutsche Bank US$630 million for laundering money from Russia through its offices in Moscow and London.  This fall, BaFIN, a German regulator, sent a special representative to order Detusche Bank to improve its anti-money-laundering practices and see that it did."Panama Papers" is an umbrella term for roughly ten million documents from Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca, leaked to the press in spring 2016.  The documents showed fourteen banks helped wealthy clients hide billions of US dollars of wealth to avoid taxes and other regulations. British newspaper The Guardian suggested Deutsche Bank controlled roughly a third of the 1200 shell companies used to accomplish this. There were protests worldwide, several criminal prosecutions, and the leaders of the governments of Iceland and Pakistan both resigned.Ava Lee of anti-corruption organization Global Witness said, "Almost three years on, and law enforcement are still relying on the Panama Papers for their work. It shows how investigative journalism has been at the forefront of opening the door on a morass of morally dubious — and sometimes illegal — activity by banks[.]"Daphne Caruana Galizia, a Maltese journalist who played a prominent role in investigation based on the Panama Papers, was killed in a car bombing last year.Investigators have discovered a hole in the fuel tank of the China Airlines jet that caught fire and exploded on August 20 on the island of Okinawa, Japan.Investigators from Japan, Taiwan and the United States have all been examining the wreckage of China Airlines Flight 120 since the accident. Now, Japanese investigators say that they have found that a structural bolt had pierced the fuel tank of the Boeing 737-800 series aircraft."We spotted a hole in a fuel tank," said a brief statement by the transport ministry's investigative division."We suspect that oil leaked from this hole and spilled from the right wing to the outside."It is understood that, prior to the discovery of the hole, the investigation had been focusing on the tubing connecting the fuel tank to the engine, rather than the tank itself.Taiwan-based China Airlines's only comment was to repeat earlier comments that the plane had been inspected last month, at which point the airline had been unable to find any problem with it. However, prior to this news, the chief executive flew to Okinawa to console worried tourists, while chairman Philip Wei offered to resign "...in a bid to shoulder his responsibility,", according to an airline official. The airline is also offering compensation to passengers on the flight.Boeing refused to comment on the incident, citing the fact that the investigation remains open. However, the Jiji Press has reported that Boeing had warned airlines in 2006 about the possibility of bolts piercing the fuel tanks, after a number of incidents in which tank piercing was found to have occurred.The new version of Apple Inc.'s tablet computing device, the iPad 2, has gone on sale in the United States at Apple Stores and a number of other retailers (including Wal-Mart, Target, Sam's Club, Best Buy, Verizon, and AT&T), a shift from last year's launch which was only available through Apple's stores. The product will go on sale internationally on March 25.The device was announced on March 2 at an event at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California. CEO Steve Jobs emerged from sick leave to make the announcement.The iPad 2 has an all-new design and has several improvements over the original iPad. The device runs on a dual-core Apple A5 CPU. According to Jobs, the CPU's new dual-core capability enhances multitasking and doubles the processing speed. Apple additionally introduced a magnetic 'Smart Cover' accessory that snaps to the front screen of the device along with several new apps ported from the Mac OS X operating system and the iPhone. These include iMovie, GarageBand, and Photo Booth. The new iPad introduces front and rear cameras which enable FaceTime and video. The new tablet is fifteen percent lighter and 33 percent thinner than the previous version—thinner than an iPhone 4—and has beveled edges. It is available in black and white and continues to be capable of ten hours of battery life on a single charge.The announcement came after months of rumors about the successor to the original iPad. Competitors have designed tablets to compete with the iPad, such as Motorola's Xoom powered by the Android operating system. Apple, who normally follows a yearly product cycle, has pressed its iPad successor into the marketplace almost a full month earlier than usual.Tablet computers have existed for years but, until recently, have not been popular amongst consumers. Tablet sales totaled 90,000 in 2009. Apple sold nearly fifteen million iPads worldwide in 2010, generating US$2 billion in revenue within three months. In 2010, Apple held a 75% share of the tablet computer market. According to one analyst, even with competition, iPads will still make up at least 20 million of the more than 24 million tablet computers sold in the United States in 2011. An analyst predicted 'conservatively' that 35 million iPad 2s will be sold in 2011. One analyst credits Apple's enormous App Store for the iPad's continued domination. Apple also holds an advantage in price over other tablets, many of which are still first generation devices. An analyst at J.P. Morgan predicts an overabundance of tablets caused by faltering demand. This could have drastic effects on competitors.The iPad connects to the Internet over Wi-Fi and 3G models of the new device can connect to the wireless networks of AT&T or Verizon Wireless. The iPad 2 will start at US$499—the same starting price of the original iPad. The equivalent model of the original iPad has been reduced to US$399.Timeline of Apple touchscreen devicesIran, has decided to pull its finances out of European banks and into different foreign banks. A senior Iranian official stated that this is an attempt to pre-empt possible U.N. sanctions over its resumption of nuclear fuel enrichment activities. Comments by Iran's central bank governor Ebrahim Sheibani, carried on air by the ISNA student news agency, confirmed that Iran had started transferring funds."We transfer foreign reserves to wherever we see as expedient. On this issue, we have started transferring. We are doing that," Sheibani told the ISNA agency.Ebrahim Sheibani also told the agency that the assets were being moved to an "undisclosed" location.It is unknown exactly how much money is involved or whether or not Iran's investments in Europe would be affected by the move. Traders have said that they had already factored such a  possibility into the market.Gary Samore, an expert on Iran and vice president for international programs at the McArthur Foundation in Chicago, said "the move reflected concern by Tehran that the Europeans might take unilateral measures amid the crisis over its nuclear program." He also added that its decision to pull its assets from Europe "makes sense in terms of preparing for the possibility that Europe might take some measure to impose some financial sanctions. I don't know that it changes the diplomatic formula. The key issue is still the question of whether or not the Western group can engineer a formal referral to the Security Council."It is unclear if an asset freeze or other punishment is imminent in Iran, but it has happened before. The country's assets in the United States have been frozen since Iranians seized the U.S. Embassy in Tehran and held its staff hostage after the 1979 Islamic revolution.An Italian court last year had ordered an Iranian bank account to be frozen at the request of U.S. plaintiffs who were seeking compensation for terrorist acts they believe were supported by the country (Iran).Earlier the EU drafted a resolution that calls for referring Iran to the 15-nation council. But it is said to stop short of asking for punitive measures against Iran. The IAEA is expected to meet on February 2, 2006 to discuss Europe's draft.The Iranian Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance issued an order banning Al Jazeera from working in Iran starting Monday, April 18, 2005.The 'suspension' comes after Arab Iranians protested in the city of Ahvaz. The Iranians claim that Al Jazeera incited the protests. Al Jazeera has stated that it will "continue to cover Iranian affairs objectively, comprehensively and in a balanced way, and calls on the relevant Iranian authorities to reconsider the decision to suspend its bureau's activities."This is not the first time Al Jazeera has crossed paths with governments in the Middle East. Iraq and Saudi Arabia currently do not allow the channel to operate within their borders.The International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) has condemned Iranian ban on Al-Jazeera as "Spiteful Act of Censorship".Aidan White, IFJ's General Secretary wrote, "This closure is a spiteful act of censorship and a blatant attempt by the authorities to make media the scapegoat for civil unrest. If Iran has complaints about media standards it should seek professional redress, not take action that undermines press freedom and pluralism."While there is a diverse range of internal Iranian media, including 64,000 blogs, press freedom is not absolute, for example, the reformist newspaper Shargh was banned from publishing from February 18, 2004 to February 28, 2004, and the newspaper Khordad was formally banned but was recreated with the new name of Fath.Al Jazeera, is an Arab satellite network. In the United States it is best known for broadcasting Osama bin Laden's videotapes.Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader of Iran, has said that the oil flow between Iran and the United States will be "at serious risk" if any "wrong move" is made against the country."We are committed to our ideals and national interests and if anyone threatens our national interests it will face the Iranian nations' wrath," said Khamenei during the 17th anniversary ceremony of the death of the former spiritual leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini."If the U.S. makes a wrong move against Iran, energy flow in the region will be definitely put at serious risk. You [the United States] can never maintain security for [the distribution of] energy in the region. A country with war criminal records such as the US should never again take the term human rights into its mouth. We are a peace-willing nation and our only weapon is the belief and resistance of our people," added Khamenei.However, the U.S. has stated that it wants to resolve its issues with Iran by diplomatic means, but it may use military force, including nuclear weapons, describing these as "options on the table". The U.S. has expressed a willingness to join talks with Iran along with Germany, France, China, Russia and the United Kingdom, but said that it will do so only if Iran ends its uranium enrichment program. Iran has responded by expressing a willingness to hold talks over matters of "mutual concern," but rejected the call to halt enrichment."We shouldn't put too much emphasis on a threat of this kind. After all, Iran is also very dependent on oil revenue," said Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice also adding that the United States will "not allow Iran to drag [out]" talks on its nuclear program. "We really do have to have this settled over a matter of weeks, not months, but the fact is there are two paths, and we hope they're going to choose the path that is a path away from confrontation and toward a solution," added Rice.Iran is the fourth largest producer and supplier of crude oil in the world, it is party to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and it has stated that its nuclear programme is for peaceful purposes and that it will "not start a war.""We will never start a war. We have no intention of going to war with any government. We have no problem with the world. We are no threat whatsoever to the world and the world knows it... The other suggestion is that Iran is seeking a nuclear bomb. This is an irrelevant and wrong statement; it is a sheer lie. We do not need a nuclear bomb. We do not have any objectives or aspirations for which we will need to use a nuclear bomb. We consider using nuclear weapons against Islamic rules," said Khamenei.Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the president of Iran, is visiting Zimbabwe to sign trade agreements with the country and meet with Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe.Ahmadinejad, in comments at the trade fair located in Bulawayo, said the amount of trade between the two nations should be increased. The Iranian president remarked that Zimbabwe and Iran made a friendship based on a principled stand against Western interference, and accused the West of seeking control over Zimbabwe’s natural resources.Mugabe commented: "Because of the principled positions we have taken at both the domestic and international level, Zimbabwe and Iran have been unjustly vilified and punished by Western countries. Be also assured, comrade president, of Zimbabwe's continuous support of Iran's just cause on the nuclear issue."The US wants new UN sanctions against Iran, due to the latter's refusal to stop its uranium enrichment, saying that it it is intended for nuclear weapons. Iranian authorities, however, insist the programme is only for peaceful purposes.According to the The Sunday Telegraph, the trades will consist of Iran supplying oil to Zimbabwe, in exchange for the latter's allowing Iran to obtain access to uranium deposits in the country. "Iran secured the exclusive uranium rights last month when minister of state for Presidential affairs, Didymus Mutasa visited Tehran. That is when the formal signing of the deal was made, away from the glare of the media," a Zimbabwean government source stated, as quoted by the Telegraph.Ahmadinejad’s visit brought another source of friction between Mugabe and Prime Minister Morgan Tsvangirai. Tsvangirai's Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party said that Mugabe's invitation sent the wrong message to the rest of the world as Zimbabwe was re-engaging the West and trying to rebuild its economy. MDC sources said Tsvangirai flew to South Africa on Thursday, the day on which Ahmadinejad arrived.In a statement, the MDC remarked that "Ahmadinejad's visit is not only an insult to the people of Zimbabwe, but an affront to democracy and to the oppressed people of Iran."Iraqi officials are planning on having a Ferris wheel built as a tourist attraction to the nation's capital, Baghdad. The wheel would be called 'Baghdad Eye' and is planned to sit over 650 ft above the Tigris River. Adel al Ardawi, a Baghdad municipality spokesman said that "[t]his wheel will be taller than the iconic 443-foot London Eye." He failed to comment on construction cost or a time line of how long it would take to build the wheel. The London Eye in London, England sits 443 ft over the River Thames. It has attracted more than 27 million visitors since its formal opening on December 31, 1999. Each compartment is set to be air-conditioned and hold up to 30 people. Three possible locations for the wheel to sit have been selected. This is not the first attempt by the Iraqi Tourism Board to bring tourists into the capital. The board are seeking investors for a resort island. The island would include a six star hotel and a 18 hole golf course. The United Kingdom's Foreign Office advises against all travel to Baghdad. A spokesperson said "The security situation in Iraq remains highly dangerous with a continuing high threat of terrorism throughout the country."File:Iraqi airways at Baghadad international airport.jpgIraqi Airways have announced that they are to drop all flights to the United Kingdom and Sweden. The announcement comes after a row with Kuwait over war reparations. Iraq and Kuwait are in dispute over billions of dollars of reparations; this includes around $1.2bn in aircraft and parts seized beginning in 1990 by Saddam Hussein. The airline's director general was stranded in the United Kingdom on the basis of a High Court court order obtained by Kuwait Airways last month, but his passport was returned and he was allowed to leave after he informed the court of all the airline's assets in the UK. Amer Abdul-Jabbar, the Iraqi Transport Minister released a statement saying that "We will announce whether or not we will dissolve the company." The cancellations were announced by the director general of Iraqi Airways, Kifah Jabar Hassan. Hassan spoke about the plans to dissolve the company, saying that "[w]e can establish another airline company and put an end to this case. With this, the Kuwaitis will get nothing”.On April 25, Iraqi Airways sent its first jet to the United Kingdom in twenty years. The flight had been delayed for over a year and was met with further restrictions for nine days after the volcanic ash crisis in Europe. The aircraft was impounded by London High Court and no further flights to the UK have been made.A new report indicates that while Iraq's economy remains in a shambles and the prospect of future growth is still dim, Iraqi citizens do enjoy some of the least expensive gas prices in the world.  The International Monetary Fund says Iraqi drivers currently pay an average of 5 U.S. cents a gallon (1.32¢/L) for gasoline.  This contrasts to averages of $2.55 (67.4¢/L) in the United States and $6.24 ($1.65/L) in Great Britain. Even neighboring Iran pays more at the pump than Iraq; 38 cents a gallon (10.0¢/L).The low cost is due in large part to generous pre-war government subsidies on petroleum products that remain in place today.In its report, the IMF warned the subsidies are a threat to economic growth in the country. The country still suffers near daily insurgent attacks, high unemployement, inflation, and frequent electrical, water, and sewage service disruptions.Meanwhile, Iraqi oil output continues to recover. Prior to Operation Iraqi Freedom, Iraq's daily output of crude was 2.5 million barrels a day. This week, oil production is 1.6 million barrels per day. Iraq's oil reserves are estimated at nearly 115 billion barrels, the third largest in the world.Aer Lingus, an Irish airline, has announced that it will cut about 230 staff in the near future in compulsory job losses, bringing the total number of layoffs from the airline to 670. 440 other workers will face voluntary job losses.The company believes the job reductions will save it 97 million euros. Chief Executive Officer Christoph Mueller said the move would start "within days" and the airline would return to profitability "relatively soon."The airline, which is Ireland's second-largest, also announced today that its operating loss for last year went up by four times, to 81 million euros. The labour union IMPACT, which represents cabin crew for Aer Lingus, is to meet with the airline's management tomorrow regarding the company's move.  The union also remarked that time available to "broker a solution is extremely limited."Aer Lingus revenue dropped to 1.21 billion euros after an eleven percent drop last year, according to the airline, even though passenger numbers increased to 10.4 million. According to the Bloomberg news service, Aer Lingus' net cash reserves went down to 335 million euros.Irish airline Ryanair took a 12% slump in this morning’s trade, further intensifying concern about poor market conditions amid recessionary fears. Today, Ryanair announced a 27% drop in pre-tax profits in its third quarter net profits. Further falls are predicted for the company in its next fiscal year. "With oil prices at $90 a barrel and fear of recession in the UK and many other European economies, the current outlook for the coming fiscal year is poor. While it is impossible to accurately forecast full year fuel prices and yields this far in advance, there is now a significant chance that profits may decline next year," Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary cautioned.Ryanair said that it is not hedged against oil price increases for the next fiscal year. However, Ryanair is not the only airline to suffer from the economic downturn. Aer Lingus shares are down 3% to €2.30. Easyjet has declined 11%. However shrewd, Mr. O’Leary has plans to spend up to 200 million purchasing back shares in the company, which equates to 3% of the company share capital.The economy of Ireland shrank by 7.5% in the last quarter of 2008 compared to the same period a year previously, according to official statistics. The decline is the worst in decades. For the entire period of 2008, the economy contracted by 2.3%, the first loss since 1983.The construction industry has suffered badly as a result of the recession, with a 24% fall in output, the largest decline ever recorded. Industrial output plunged at an annualised rate of 12.5%.Unemployment has also shot up. It currently stands at around 10%, twice as high as the levels reported last year. The economy has also experienced deflation.Alan McQuaid, the senior economist at Bloxhams Stockbrokers, said that the statistics "highlight the extent of the Irish economic out-turn and the huge task facing the Government in attempting to get the country’s public finances back in order." "Quite simply, there is no hope of sorting out our budgetary position by 2013 without economic growth, and we are a long way off that at the moment," McQuaid said, noting that "(...) one has to go back to the 1956-1958 period for the last time we had a decrease of this magnitude.""(...) As things currently stand, it is not hard to see double digit declines in real GDP over the coming quarters," he said. "The extreme weakness of the economy at this point in time must also raise serious questions marks about the wisdom of the Government’s intention of imposing further income levies on already hard-pressed consumers and PAYE workers. All that can be said is that the outlook for economic output and employment in 2009 are fairly bleak indeed."The Irish government is creating an emergency budget, due to be unveiled in April.The Irish Stock Exchange (ISE) officially launched the new Irish Enterprise Exchange (IEX) this morning in Dublin, Ireland. The exchange is aimed at smaller firms seeking to raise capital without the hindrances and additional costs associated with a full listing on the main exchange.At the moment eight companies are listed on the exchange - all having been previously quoted on the Exploration Securities Market (ESM) and the Developing Companies Market (DCM). However it is hoped that many small Irish firms listed on the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) in London will eventually pursue a dual listing with the IEX.The rules for listing on the IEX are significantly looser than for a full listing - no trading record is required; no minimum number of shares must be in public hands; and in most cases prior shareholder approval is not needed for acquisitions or disposals. The main requirement for listing is that prospective firms must have a market capitalisation of more than €5 million.The IEX has long been a major ambition for Irish Stock Exchange CEO Tom Healy and indeed the exchange as a whole.According to new figures from the Central Statistics Office (CSO), the annual rate of inflation in Ireland has begun to rise again after a period of decline. Annualised inflation is now running at 2.2%, up from 2.1% in March.The figures are derived from the Consumer Price Index which is monitored by the CSO. Despite the increase, inflation remains significantly below the figure for recent years.  Annualised inflation peaked at 5.1% in February 2003.The major contributor to the rise was the cost of heating and housing with the Housing, Water, Electricity, Gas and Other Fuels group rising 10.6% in the past 12 months - with 2% of that rise in the last month alone. When broken down more the section marked Energy Products showed a massive 5.3% rise in the past month alone.This sharp rise in energy costs was offset somewhat by decreases (over the past 12 months) in the following groups: Food and Non-Alcoholic Beverages (-0.5%)Clothing and Footwear (-2.8%)Furnishings, Household Equipment and Routine Household Maintenance (-1.4%)Communications (-0.2%)Miscellaneous Goods & Services (-1.3%).According to the CSO the Consumer Price Index is made up of over 55,000 prices consisting of 613 headings which cover over 1,000 different items.The inflation rate in Ireland, as measured by the Central Statistics Office (CSO), edged upwards to hit a five month high in May at 2.4%. This represents a 0.2% rise on the previous month when the rate stood at 2.2%.The major contributors to the rise were increased transportation, healthcare, and education costs. In April the EU25 average rate of inflation was 2.1%, with Latvia having the highest rate at 7.1% and Sweden the lowest at 0.4%.Despite the increase in the rate, Irish inflation remains very low - having hit 7% during 2000 and remaining around the 5% until the beginning of 2003. Another major factor easing any worries about the increase is Ireland's very strong GDP growth - expected to be around 5.5% this yearOn an annual basis the cost of footwear and clothing have fallen by 2.7% whilst energy costs have soared by 10.4%. The cost of food, furniture, and communications also fell over the last 12 months.The Consumer Price Index is made up of over 55,000 prices consisting of 613 headings which cover over 1,000 different items.Irish property businessman Patrick Rocca has been found dead in his home. Police reports indicate that suicide is the probable cause. He was 42.Rocca was discovered dead yesterday morning, with one shot to the head. The Irish Times has confirmed that there appears to be no suspicious circumstances surrounding this shot, and that the firearm involved has been confiscated.Rocca was believed to have assets worth €500 million. He had worked in business for around 25 years, since he joined his family business, Rocca Tiles. His first property deal involved the purchase of two Gatwick office blocks in 2005.According to a quarterly report by ComReg (Commission for Communications Regulation) on the Irish telecommunications market released today, Irish mobile phone penetration has hit a new record of 94%. This is an increase of 6% from the same time last year, when penetration rates stood at 88%. The statistic means that there are now 3.78 million mobile phone subscribers in Ireland. The document also indicated that the number of broadband customers in Ireland now stands at 131,550.Among other things the statistics revealed that:94% of Irish people own a mobile phone - up from 88% last year,Vodafone has a 51% market share, down 2%,O2 has a 40% market share, unchanged,Meteor has a 9% market share, up 2%,There are now 131,550 broadband connections, an increase of 37% in the last quarter,114,000 of these are DSL connections,8,950 of these are via Cable,8,600 of these are fixed wireless,The Irish fixed, mobile and broadcasting market is now worth €4bn per annum,Over 1bn text messages are now sent every quarter.Earlier this week Eircom, the largest broadband provider in the country announced that it intends to double its standard packages speed from 512kps to 1Mbps. Also Meteor has announced that it would consider allowing a Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) to piggyback on its network.Donal Geaney, the fund's chairman, told the press that growth in the past quarter had been driven by the Fund's European equity investments.Mr Geaney, former Élan CEO, has pursued a policy of diversification since February of this year, with the stated aim of placing a larger amount of the funds assets in companies with small market capitalizations and in property funds.The fund was set up by the National Pensions Reserve Fund Act, 2000 to partially meet the expected rise in Irish pension costs from 2025 onwards.According to the Central Statistics Office (CSO), the unemployment rate in the Republic of Ireland was steady at 4.2% for February. The total number on the live register was 155,900 a fall of 1,300 from January. All counties bar Waterford, Cavan, Kildare and Longford experienced a fall in unemployment, with Tipperary North having the largest individual drop with a fall of 6% in the unemployment rate. A similier report by Eurostat - the Statistical Office of the European Union - for the month of January put Irish unemploment at 4.3%, confirming beliefs that Ireland now has the lowest rate of unemployment in Europe. Ireland is followed closely by Luxembourg with a rate of 4.4% and Austria at 4.5%. The EU average is 8.8% with Poland having the highest rate at 18.2%.A woman from Limerick, in the Republic of Ireland, has won a record European lottery win on the EuroMillions cross-European lottery draw. Delores McNamara won €115.6 million, tax-free in the game, after the jackpot had rolled over un-won for 9 weeks.The Garryowen woman will have to wait until at least Tuesday, August 2nd, to claim her winnings, as the Irish National Lottery offices are closed for the August Bank Holiday.This could be a surprise to some of the 135 million registered eBay users who consider trading on San Jose-based auction site to be a non-taxable hobby. Complicating matters, eBay says it doesn't report individual sales figures to the government – users are responsible to report any profits on their own tax returns.The amount of money traveling through eBay is big business. $33.8 billion worth of merchandise was sold on the site in 2004, up from $5.2 billion in 2000.Although eBay pays taxes on its share of the sales (5.25 percent cut from each transaction as of Feb. 18), the IRS fears some small businesses are using the site to dodge tax responsibility. Adding to the confusion, some sellers may legally be a taxable business without realizing it.The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has a nine-point checklist it uses to determine whether or not a money-making activity is legally a business, which means money made is taxable, or a simple hobby – where it is not taxable. The IRS can consider a person to be a legal "business" even though they never incorporated or claimed to be one.According to Woodbury, New York-based accountant Bart Fooden in an Associated Press interview, the IRS looks for such things as evidence that the auction seller depends on the eBay sales income to pay for activities other than maintaining the hobby, acts in a businesslike manner when selling on auctions or puts enough time and effort into the eBay activities that there is an obvious intent to make a profit.But Fooden said in the same interview casual users probably have nothing to worry about. Those cleaning out closets or the garage and selling off junk for less than the original price paid are not turning a profit, so that money is not considered income and is not taxable.Researchers at the Institute for Science and International Security (ISIS) have stated that a building that was located inside Syria at the site where Israel launched an airstrike on, has not only been completely removed, but that it was also a nuclear reactor under construction.The researchers obtained the images from DigitalGlobe and released the satellite images of the site before the airstrike and according to them, the building is a nuclear reactor. They also state that the images show a facility much like the one in North Korea at Yongbyon. Another image taken on October 24, shows a site where a large building used to be, the ground being wiped clean of its existence. A water-pumping station located on the Euphrates River was believed to be used for cooling the reactor, claim the ISIS."The length of the outer walls of the structures are approximately the same. From the image, the Syrian building is similar in shape to the North Korean reactor building, but the Syrian building is not far enough along in its construction to make a definitive comparison," said the institute of the study.Syria denies that they are building any kind of nuclear facility stating "the main point is that is that the Israeli fighter jet violated the airspace of a member state of the United Nations. This is the only fact that we should focus on. The Israelis have undertaken a provocative action and they should assume the consequences."Despite Syria's claims, the ISIS states that "dismantling and removing the building at such a rapid pace dramatically complicates any inspection of the facilities and suggests that Syria may be trying to hide what was there."Currently, the United States denies that the satellite photos show any site inside Syria and have not commented on the images. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) also refused to release a statement.After a six month voting window, adoption of the Open Document Format (ODF) as an ISO/IEC standard has become official, with a unanimous vote supporting the ODF (and some abstentions). The ODF format allows developers to produce office-type applications which use an inter-operable standard, allowing users to share documents without requiring a specific application to read them. The format covers text documents, spreadsheets, databases, charts and presentations.ISO Secretary-General Alan Bryden said, "[this publication] reflects the international community's recognition of the importance of open formats in enabling business interoperability."So far, the two major applications which support the ODF format are OpenOffice.org and KOffice. Microsoft Office currently dominates the market for office applications, although several third-party applications also contain limited support for the Microsoft Office formats.The 2009 Annual Meetings of the Boards of Governors of the World Bank Group and the IMF will be held in Istanbul, Turkey on October 6–7, 2009.The IMF and World Bank annual meetings which is held in every October with participation of finance ministers, central bankers, and other top economists of 186 member countries.These meetings are held outside Washington, D.C. in every three years. Turkey will host the meetings for a second time. It was the host country for the meetings in 1955.“All eyes will be on Istanbul,” said Murilo Portugal, Deputy Managing Director at the IMF, on a recent trip to Turkey. “The annual meetings are a unique opportunity to discuss issues of great global economic importance, make decisions and provide guidance on the work of the two institutions.”The Tuesday drawing of the Italian Superenalotto game has awarded the biggest prize ever won in a betting game in Italy. The single winner of the first category prize (6 numbers guessed) will receive an amount, including the jackpot from previous un-won draws, of €72.090.405,19 (US$93 million.) The prize money will be received in full without further taxation, since taxes in prizes of that type are taken at a fixed rate by the Italian State from the money paid for the bet.The winning card was purchased in a café in Milan. The betting game, in some respects similar to Powerball in the USA, but without the special number, requires guessing 6 numbers out of 90.There is not a drawing for the Superenalotto itself. Numbers are taken from the drawing of another Italian lottery game called the national Lotto. If you guess all 6 numbers in Superenalotto, you win the highest prize.One additional number is drawn from the Lotto drawing. If you have guessed 5 numbers of the normal Superenalotto 6, where the additional number is called the Jolly number or Joker number, you win a runner-up prize (somewhat less than the full 6 award). Called the 5+1 prize, it was just won in the previous drawing on April 30. There are minor prizes for 5, 4 or 3 numbers guessed, but only the full 6 and 5+1 prize have the jackpot mechanism.Italian chocolatemaker Ferrero has ruled out making a bid to purchase United Kingdom confectioners Cadbury. The move comes after Cadbury's board recommended accepting a takeover bid by United States firm Kraft that valued the company at £11.9 billion sterling.Ferrero is best known for its Rocher branded chocolates and the advertisements that accompany them. It had been rumoured that the Italians would team up with another US firm, Hershey, to submit a joint bid for Cadbury. However, on Friday Hershey decided not to attempt to purchase Cadbury, who are most famous for Dairy Milk chocolates.Both companies had been given yesterday as their deadline to declare their intentions regarding their British rival. Kraft now seem likely to achieve their aim of buying up the confectioner, after four months of negotiations and an offer that was increased twice. Italian newspaper Il Sole 24 said Ferrero had backed out because of the amount of debt they would need to take on and a perceived requirement for job cuts.Kraft are offering 500p cash per Cadbury share, plus Kraft stock. However, if some investors accept extra Kraft shares then up to 799p. The deal gives Cadbury a total value of 837p, down from the 850p orignally offered due to fluctuations in the exchange rate between the United States dollar and the pound sterling. "The final offer's value will change as the Kraft Foods share price and the USD/GBP exchange rate change," explained Kraft.Jeremy Batstone-Carr, an analyst with Charles Stanley, said British stock investors were likely to not want Kraft shares. "UK-based investors are unlikely to want to hold Kraft stock... We believe that as many as half these holders... will be looking for alternative investment destinations here in the UK." Shareholders have until February 2 to consider the offer. If they accept, Cadbury will cease to be an independant company, which it has been since it was founded in 1824.The Italian Minister of the Economy, Domenico Siniscalco, resigned from his position in the Government on Thursday.Siniscalco cited the handling of a recent banking scandal among the reasons for his resignation.  He had sought the resignation of the governor of the Italian central bank, Banca d'Italia, for his alleged involvement in insider trading during an aborted bank takeover bid.  The governor, Antonio Fazio, was believed to strongly favour an Italian bid over that of the Dutch bank ABN Amro.Siniscalco stated in his resignation letter that he was "scandalized" by the state of affairs, and would prefer to return to work as a university professor in Turin.  In addition to his issues with the Bank of Italy, his proposed budget had faced considerable dilution by the government coalition.The Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi gave the appearance of not being concerned about the resignation, and did not expect to take long to replace the minister.  Centre-left opposition leader, Romano Prodi, said the dispute over the budget was a defining part of what made up the government.  He called for immediate elections in the wake of the resignation.The price of petrol (gasoline) continues to rise in Italy. Today, a singlelitre (0.22 US gallons) of unleaded fuel (called green petrol in Italy) has reached EUR 1.295 (USD 5.98 per gallon; CAD 1.91 per litre; prices in Canada vary from CAD 1.03 to 1.31).There is constant speculation on the recent price rises, however much of this is the rise in oil prices which has reached USD 68.28 per barrel (1 barrel = 158.97 litres) of US crude. This has been helped by major market speculation, the war in Iraq, the recent hurricane in Louisiana (by stopping production in a major refinery) and the strengthening of the American dollar against the Euro.The Italian senate has approved in a 257 to 41 vote a €30 billion (US$39 billion or £25 billion) austerity package that Italian prime minister Mario Monti has called the "Save Italy Decree". The measures had previously passed in the Chamber of Deputies, Italy's lower house, with a 402 to 75 vote.The economic changes include raising the retirement and state pension age, the reintroduction of a local housing tax, spending cuts on health, and a ban on cash transactions over €1,000 (US$1,300 or £830) to prevent tax evasion.Monti told the Senate before the vote: "Our country's credibility is essential to overcome the crisis, just as it's also essential for our economy to return to growth". The economic reforms have been supported by the People of Freedom, the political party of former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi.However, Umberto Bossi from the Lega Nord party attacked the plans, claiming "[i]t's got too many taxes and above all, it doesn't create jobs." Trade unions are also expected to oppose the changes.A group of businessmen and politicians from the Italian region of Trento have expressed their interest in investing up to €700 million in Cluj county, Romania, for tourism development. Marius Nicoară, the president of Cluj County Council, stated that the council would be interested in collaborating with the Italian investors for the development of mountain roads and ski resorts in the area.Cluj county, which is located in the centre of Transylvania, is one of the most mountainous areas of the country.  The county receives tourists, mainly for winter sports like skiing, and also has agritourism. The county's capital, Cluj-Napoca, is one of the largest cities in Romania.Corrado Fedrizzi, the president of the Trento Development Agency, said that the Italian delegation needs an estimate of the number of tourists which could be attracted to the area if the development takes place, the amortisation time for the investment and the European Union (EU) funds which could be awarded to support the project. Romania plans to become a member of the European Union in 2007, but currently receives a significant amount of pre-accession funds from the EU.To challenge the possibility of WiMAX connection on high speed rails, Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) and Taiwan High Speed Rail Corporation (THSRC) started an experiment on Mobile WiMAX technology for the THSR. It's the first-ever WiMAX experiment on high speed rails in the world. Industrial companies including Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Broadband Platform Inc., Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, Corning Incorporated, and ZyXEL are confirmed to provide solutions in this first-ever experiment."THSR is a must-have transportation way for the public besides of inter-city buses and railways in Taiwan." stated THSRC. "There are three critical difficulties that this experiment should be overcome: 'Speed of the THSR', 'Base station construction inside the rails', and the most important one - 'Internet connection on tunnels'." stated ITRI."If this [difficult] experiment can be succeeded, Taiwan will become the first nation to provide the Internet connection on high speed rails in the world." said by Moses Yen, Director of Exhibition Department of Taiwan External Trade Development Council.The United States has stated Monday that it will support a month-long ban on cocoa exports from the Ivory Coast, which was called for by its internationally recognised president, Alassane Ouattara. The move comes as Laurent Gbagbo, the incumbent president of Côte d'Ivoire, refused to concede the presidency after November's election.Ouattara hopes that the embargo will result in Gbagbo being forced to resign, unable to pay civil servants, including the security forces, due to lost revenue. "We do support President Ouattara's call for a month-long ban on cocoa exports, our embassy is in touch with relevant players on this", said US State Department spokesman Philip Crowley.US agricultural firm Cargill, which buys around 15% of Ivorian cocoa, have said they are "temporarily suspending" those purchases.  "We are working with others in the industry and with the authorities to clarify and resolve the situation as quickly as possible", Cargill stated.Gbagbo's finance minister, Desire Dalo, denied that the embargo has had any effect on the country's cocoa production.  Mars, one of the world's largest confectionery manufacturers, said in a statement that "as a major end-user of Ivorian cocoa we will work with our suppliers in the face of this ban", and that "in the short term this will not impact our ability to manufacture the chocolate products".In just over 24 hours, the Mega Millions lottery jackpot in the United States has risen to US$330,000,000 to make it the third largest lottery jackpot in the world.On Thursday, the jackpot was at $325 million and it still could rise before the drawing takes place tonight at 8:00 p.m. (pacific time), 11:00 p.m. (eastern time).Twelve states in the U.S. participate in the lottery and the odds of at least one person winning the jackpot are one in 175,711,536. It costs just one dollar to purchase a ticket and if you win, you can receive the winnings in sums of 36,000 for every million won, each year, or receive it all in one lump sum which totals just under $200 million before taxes.On March 6, 2007, the Mega Millions jackpot of US$390 million, the highest lottery jackpot ever in the world, was paid out to two individuals who lived in Georgia and New Jersey. If no one wins Friday's jackpot, which will have rolled over 16 times without a single winner, it could break the record for the largest lottery jackpot ever.After admitting to price fixing on cargo services between Japan and the United States, Japan Airlines (JAL) has been fined US$110 million by the United States Department of Justice.Prosecutors allege JAL earned $2 billion illegally between 2000 and 2006, although it is possible the scheme was operating as early as 1995. British Airways, Korean Air and Qantas all previously admitted being involved and paid fines. The cartel, which created artificially high prices by eliminating competition between its members, was exposed by whistleblower Lufthansa, who alerted authorities in exchange for immunity to prosecution. Three other airlines are also involved.JAL is the biggest carrier in Japan and the biggest carrier of cargo between Japan and the US.Japan will not take any further action against the carrier. The investigation was performed by two US groups, the FBI and the Department of Justice.Japan Airlines (JAL), Asia's largest airline, is expected to file for bankruptcy protection on Tuesday, bringing an end to months of speculation about the airline's financial future, riddled by debt.The bankruptcy filing, should it go ahead, is to be followed by a restructuring program, backed by the government, intended to trim down the airline, firing a third of its employees, and removing some routes from its schedule.JAL stock has fallen by over ninety percent in the last few days, due to the financial uncertainty of the airline. Shares for JAL were trading as low as US$0.05 earlier today at the Tokyo stock exchange. The carrier's estimated value is now $150 million, about the price of a single Boeing 787 jet.Japan Airlines (JAL) is planning on relisting its shares in an IPO on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. By September, JAL shareholders intend to sell between ¥500 billion and ¥1 trillion (US$6.4b - US$12.8b, €5b - €10b).If the sale goes into high-end estimates, it will make JAL the largest airline in the world by market value. It will also be the largest IPO in Japan since the 2010 listing of Dai-Ichi Life. However, Senri Sasahara, chief executive officer of Innovative Advisor Corp, said “The amount sought may be a bit too ambitious.”JAL entered bankruptcy protection in January 2010 and was later given a government bailout. When it was delisted from TSE, it cut one-third of its workers, and reduced the benefits of remaining employees. JAL emerged from bankruptcy in March 2011. Since then, it has posted a record ¥188.4 billion (US$2.4b, €1.9b) in profit for fiscal year 2010.JAL faces growing competition from discount airlines, such as AirAsia Japan and Peach. In response, JAL entered into a joint venture to form a low-cost carrier with JetStar Airways.Japan, which accounts for 7% of world output, has entered a recession after posting two consecutive quarters of negative growth. The Japanese economy contracted by 0.9% between April and June and a further 0.1% since September.Kaoru Yosano, the Japanese minister of fiscal policy, said "The downtrend in the economy will continue for the time being as global growth slows down. We need to bear in mind that economic conditions could worsen further as the US and European financial crisis deepens, worries of economic downturn heighten and stock and foreign exchange markets make big swings."The Nikkei 225 stock index has fallen 40% since the beginning of the year, and has lost a quarter of its value during this month. After the news was announced the index dipped, then rose to close up 0.7%.Japanese companies lose large sums whenever the yen's value surges. With the yen viewed as relatively stable during financial turmoil, the value against the US dollar has risen greatly. JPMorgan Chase economist Masamichi Adachi said, "It's only going to get worse. Japan may be entering its deepest recession in a decade as the global financial crisis cools demand." Japan has not been in recession since 2001.Japanese fishermen in Taiji, Japan clashed with surfers from Australia and the United States. The location where dolphins are culled was moved to a secluded cove this year to hide the activity from television crews and protesters.After successfully defending the hunt, by using boat propellers and boat hooks against the group of surfers, who were joined by actress Hayden Panettiere, the fishermen have started their annual cull. Whaling in Taiji usually yields 2,000 dolphins per year using the dolphin drive hunting method. The dolphins are diverted from their migration route by banging metal rods. As fear can affect the taste of the meat, after being speared and bludgeoned to death, they are left to hang for a day before being cut up. Television crews and campaigners opposed to the culling were prevented by fishermen and local police from filming these activities.Although the practice of aquatic mammal hunting is condemned by many groups worldwide as well as within Japan, whaling is seen by those involved as a long-practiced cultural tradition that should be defended. As the demand for whale and dolphin meat for use in sushi has declined, the Government of Japan now has to financially subsidize the industry to support the local economy. Japan argues that whaling is still carried out for scientific reasons, to understand species population numbers. This claim is disputed by the scientific community outside of Japan as well as by environmentalists.The Japanese whaling fleet is reportedly heading into the seas around Antarctica, drawing widespread condemnation from campaigners.  Japan's fleet of six ships left the port of Shimonoseki, western Japan with a quota of 940 minke whales and 10 fin whales.  Calls for the Australian government to intervene have been rejected by the environment minister, Senator Ian Campbell. Japan's whaling program, which is claimed to be for scientific purposes, is expected to kill nearly one thousand whales this season."Japan's attempt to dress up its commercial whaling as science is an insult to modern science," said International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) Director of Wildlife and Habitat. "It's time for the Japanese Government to respect the rest of the world - It's time to stop whaling."  A Greenpeace statement dismisses the assertion of the Japanese government that whales are contributing to the collapse of fish stocks.Senator Rachel Siewrt, spokesperson on marine matters for the Green Party said, "Mr Campbell can't answer a simple question on whether or not the Government plans to take any one of a number of legal and diplomatic actions open to it."Legal action open to the Australian government includes invoking provisional measures under the auspices of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea.  These measures would — in effect — be an injunction preventing whaling from being started within the 14 days following.In December, the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society will engage the Japanese whaling fleet in the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary. The Sea Shepherds say the Japanese whale kill is illegal. They will be acting in accordance with the United Nations World Charter for Nature in their intervention. The groups objective is to "hunt down the Japanese whaling fleet and harass, block, obstruct, and intervene against their illegal whaling operations."According to Sea Shepherd: "The Japanese are violating the Southern Ocean Sanctuary. They are violating the International Whaling Commission moratorium on commercial whaling. They are targeting endangered fin and humpback whales that are protected under the Convention on the Trade in Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna. They are also in violation of the Australian laws protecting the Australian Antarctic Territorial waters."International Fund for Animal Welfare condemns what it calls a "mass killing program — a defiance of international criticism and a global ban on commercial whaling — as commercial whaling disguised as science." IFAW urges the Australian Government to take Japan to the international courts to bring this program to an immediate halt.Japan plans to kill over 900 minke whales and ten fin whales during the next six months as part of its whaling program, JAPRA II, marking a sharp escalation in Japan's whaling activities. "It is a dark day for some of the world's most magnificent creatures. Let's be under no illusion—this is commercial whaling in disguise. The Australian Government must respond swiftly by taking legal action to stop the boats in their tracks," said IFAW Marine Campaigner Darren Kindleysides.Leading international law expert, Professor Don Rothwell, has advised IFAW that the Japanese Government is breaching international laws with JARPA II. He has advised that the Australian Government has very strong grounds to take Japan to in the International Law of the Sea to stop "scientific" whaling. Japan is targeting whales that are listed as endangered.He argues that Japan's plans to double its whale take are an abuse of its legal right. "The number of whales that Japan purports to take is not commensurate with the number of whales that would be necessary to engage in scientific research," he said. "There's also increasing evidence that non-lethal means can be used to take data from whales to obtain information about whaling stocks."JAPAN — Japan's Diet has proposed to reduce economic assistance given to China. Economic aid is currently given in the form of grants and technical assistance under the Official development assistance (ODA) program. ODA contributes to the development of the economies of states harmed by Japan during World War II, an approach pursued not only as restitution but to improve regional stability and to secure scarce natural resource trade.Assistance to mainland China will total $8.9bn this year, making Japan an unusual second to the United States in aid. This is down 30% from 1997, and is the fourth year-on-year decline as of 2003. Loans to China total $30bn to date. The ODA has been a key feature in Sino-Japanese economic and diplomatic relations. It was begun in the 1980s as China "opened up" to foreign investment. It is in part restitution for damage inflicted on China and atrocities such as the Rape of Nanking, seen in Chinese culture in much the same way as The Holocaust is in Western culture.China is increasingly being seen as a competitor, however. Popular opinion in Japan is also increasingly resentful of what is perceived as anti-Japanese sentiment in China. Some feel that China should be grateful for ODA funds and that it is not. China has also been criticized by Japanese Foreign Minister Nobutaka Machimura for not being sufficiently cooperative with regards to environmental issues, which necessarily affect its eastern neighbor Japan. The People's Republic of China's Communist leaders have also been criticized for violating w:human rights and effecting a military build-up. Some argue that economic aid should be tied to compliance on relevant standards.Through the ODA, Japan enjoys the support of many developing nations in UN votes. When China did not react favorably to Japan's intention to seek permanent UN Security Council membership, The Japan Times criticized the aid as a "complete waste".Asia Times Online predicts "it is inevitable that funds flowing to China are set for further downsizing."Total Japanese expenditures on ODA have reached $221bn distributed to 185 nations. Currently, the biggest recipient of Japan's ODA aid is India. Japan may soon be outspent in aid to China by France, Germany and Italy.A new law which seeks to utilise reusable energy and minimise cost impact on consumers is under development in Japan. The new law, which would be effective from July 1 next year, would seek to reduce Japan's dependency on nuclear power.The new legislation would urge power utilities to cut costs by purchasing renewable energy from outside companies and private businesses. Japan's decision has been referred to as opening the door on renewable energy, which currently only contributes to six percent of Japan's energy sources.Politicians have amended the bill, allowing the revised bill to pass through parliament later this month. Prime Minister Naoto Kan who is pushing for the bill to be passed in return for his resignation, has stated that the 'feed-in-tariff on renewable energy will be set at a fixed price so that utilities are limited to purchasing electricity from renewable power generators. Kan hopes that this will encourage more business and private corporate partners to enter into the renewable energy market."As a medium-term revolutionary energy and environmental strategy, we have decided to start a thorough review of nuclear power policy and draw a roadmap for a reduction of the dependence on nuclear power" Mr Kan said.Large companies are concerned about the new legislation as it will continue to affect profit margins which are low due to power shortages and high priced exports. The bill was changed to reduce the surcharge for large power companies after complaints from the Japanese steel industry. If the scheme is launched then consumers will face an increase on electricity bills as utilities can pass their costs onto end-users. Despite the governments promise to cap the surcharge for the next ten years, there is no reference to it in the revised bill. Lawmakers hope that by adding a provision requiring utilities to streamline their operations, the impact on consumers will be minimized.A third party group will be set up within the under the Agency for National Resources and Energy to ensure that the setting of fixed prices are fair and just.Official figures show that Japan's economy has shrunk by 3.3% in the last quarter of 2008—or an annualized 12.7%, the fastest decline since 1974, when the economy contracted by 3.4% in a quarter. The decline in Japan has been sharper than in either Europe or North America, mostly because global demand for the country's products, such as automobiles and electronics, has fallen.The contraction was also larger than the 3.1% decline that was predicted by economists, the worst decline of any major economic power in the same quarter.In comparison, the Eurozone GDP contracted 1.5% in the same quarter, and the United States GDP shrank by an annualized 3.8%."The data showed a severe picture of the Japanese economy and highlighted the weakness in exports. The January-March quarter is likely to show another minus figure [annualized] in double digits or something close to double digits," said the chief economist at Norinchukin Research Institute, Takeshi Minami.There have been reports that Japanese prime minister Taro Aso is considering launching a 20 trillion yen (approximately US$218 billion) stimulus plan in response to the recession, but he is hindered by a divided parliament, and an approval rating which concurrently fell below ten percent.According to official figures, Japan's exports dropped by 46% in January compared to a year ago, the lowest statistics ever to be recorded.Japan's exports to the United States plunged by almost 53% in January, with car shipments down by 81%. Exports to the European Union fell by 47%.The Finance Ministry stated that the trade deficit was 952.6 billion yen (US$9.9 billion), the largest deficit ever recorded. The country's trade deficit with China increased by 61% to 562.7 billion yen (US$5.86 billion)."Japan is particularly vulnerable to this downturn because trade is so central to the economy," said Pascal Lamy, head of the World Trade Organization in a statement during a press conference today.The demand for Japanese automobiles was hit particularly hard, plunging by 69%. Demand for electronic goods also dropped substantially.Last week, the government announced that the country's economy had shrunk at an annualised rate of 12.7% in the last quarter of last year, the fastest contraction in nearly 35 years.According to official figures, exports from Japan have increased for the first time in fifteen months, since the official start of the global economic slowdown.Data released yesterday indicates that exports rose by 12.1% in December compared to a year earlier, to 5.4 trillion yen (US$60 billion). Demand from Asia, and especially China, helped boost the statistics. According to Al Jazeera, over fifty percent of exports were accounted to Asia, or $33 billion.Imports, however, were down by 5.5% to 4.9 trillion yen compared to a year earlier, resulting in a trade surplus of 545.3 trillion yen surplus for last month."Most countries around the world are seeing their economies recover but improvements in advanced economies remain fragile," remarked Takeshi Minami, who is with the the Norinchukin Research Institute. "We can't rely too much on strong growth in those countries, so Japanese exports will continue to focus on shipments to Asia."However, the central Japanese bank held key interest rates down at 0.1% on Tuesday, and predicted that deflation would still be present in the economy for three more years.  The Japanese economy officially exited the recession in the 2009 April–June quarter, although some economic analysts are concerned about how strong the recovery will be.Meanwhile, the Japanese finance ministry announced that China overtook the United States as the country's largest overseas market; China is also about to overtake Japan as the second largest economy in the world."The focus of the world's growth is shifting to China and other emerging economies. China will remain a trade partner as important to Japan as the United States in the future," remarked the chief economist for Barclays Capital in Tokyo, Kyohei Morita.The prominent Japanese Nikkei 225 stock market index fell another 1.4% Thursday, over financial turmoil after the massive 9.0 magnitude earthquake and tsunami hit the country a week ago.For the past five trading days, stocks have been down by a total of fourteen percent; today, they were down as much as five percent, or 454 points, but rebounded to close at 8,962 points.US stocks also reacted negatively to the cataclysm; the Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped 1.95% while the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 2.04%. The British FTSE, however, gained 0.77%, but after a large loss yesterday.Meanwhile, the Japanese yen reached its highest level ever against the US dollar since the end of World War II, peaking at 76.25 to a dollar before finishing the day at 79.14.Jeff Jones, president of ride-sharing company Uber Technologies, announced his resignation on Sunday. Jones was hired last October to helm the company that is known for their ride-sharing application, Uber, which has a reported 40 million monthly users.Recently in Jones's presidency of Uber, the ride-sharing company was involved in numerous controversies surrounding an alleged culture of sexism at the company, stemming from allegations blogged by Susan Fowler, a former Uber engineer, claiming sexual harassment against her and other women working for Uber.In a statement to tech blog Recode, Jones claimed the situation he was working with at Uber was one inconsistent with "the beliefs and approach to leadership that have guided my career" and he could not remain the company's president.Jones, who was previously the Chief Marketing Officer at Target before joining Uber, came to the decision to resign after it was announced Uber would be hiring a Chief Operating Officer (COO) potentially outranking Jones.Uber CEO Travis Kalanick confirmed the resignation in a statement to Uber staff, noting Jones "made an important impact on the company" in the six months he was in the role, noting his particular focus on Uber drivers and the delivery of Uber's first brand reputation study.Kalanick first announced his intentions to hire a COO earlier in March after footage surfaced of him arguing about rate cuts with an Uber driver.For the first time, the United States Mint will feature a president facing forward on a coin.  President Thomas Jefferson will face forward on the 2006-dated five cent coin.  This image is based on an 1800 painting of the president by Rembrandt Peale.  This design is referred to by the mint as the "Jefferson 1800"."The changing images in the Westward Journey Nickel Series™ lead us back to Thomas Jefferson, who envisioned the Louisiana Purchase and Lewis and Clark expedition as a way to move the Nation forward.  The image of a forward-looking Jefferson is a fitting tribute to that vision," said United States Mint Acting Director David A. Lebryk.United States Mint Artistic Infusion Program artist Jamie Franki, of Concord, NC, designed the obverse.  It will be sculpted by Donna Weaver, and will feature the word "Liberty" in Jefferson's handwriting.  The reverse will feature Monticello, designed by Felix Schlag, and restored from original work by John Mercanti.JetBlue Airways launched service from Raleigh-Durham International Airport to John F. Kennedy International Airport on Thursday, July 20. The airline also announced daily service from Raleigh to Boston starting on October 18.JetBlue's service in Raleigh is comprised of four daily flights to New York, the airline's hub.The route is flown by EMBRAER 190 aircraft with a capacity of 100 passengers. The aircraft are equipped with DirecTV and XM Satellite Radio programming.On October 18, JetBlue's service from Raleigh to Boston will begin with one daily flight.Raleigh-Durham International Airport currently has 223 daily departures to 37 cities.Last Thursday, the French National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies (INSEE) announced the French job market continued to struggle as unemployment rose to 10.8%, the country's highest recorded unemployment rate since 1998. The 0.3% rise in the first quarter of 2013 had increased doubt around French President François Hollande's promise to reverse the trend by the end of 2013. According to INSEE data this had been recorded to be the 24th uninterrupted month of unemployment increases, leaving 3.25 million people jobless. France's economy was predicted to marginally retract overall this year and had experienced a minor recession this quarter due to deteriorating economic activity.The news came as the European Central Bank (ECB) planned to meet to discuss interest rates. It was assumed that the ECB would reveal plans to encourage lending in the eurozone, a significant outcome for small and medium sized business, who employed around three quarters of the eurozone. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) had advised France that they may fall behind surrounding European economies if they do not take action and introduce new economic reforms. The IMF has suggested a decrease in labour costs and stopping tax increases could help to improve the country's economic competitiveness and increase growth.After months of secrecy and lawsuits intended to suppress reporting on unannounced products by independent news outlets, Steve Jobs, CEO of Apple Computer, began his keynote address at 17:11 UTC this morning, before an enthusiastic audience.The keynote, held at Moscone Center in San Francisco as part of the annual Macworld Expo, began with a recap of Apple's retail progress over the past year, media coverage, and a demo of the new Spotlight search technology in the upcoming Mac OS X Tiger, which was announced at the previous 2004 event.Jobs then made a number of product announcements as he continued his demonstrations:Mail is revamped to include high-speed Spotlight search support.QuickTime 7, a new release with H.264 codec support for future DVD formats, will be included with Tiger.Dashboard will provide miniaturized applications, or "widgets", for controlling iTunes, performing currency conversion, obtaining stock quotes, looking at the weather, and more. Developers will be able to create new widgets using the developer APIs provided by Apple.iChat, Apple's A/V conferencing tool, will provide support for 10 simultaneous participants over an audio-only feed, and four simultaneous participants over a video feed.iLife '05 is a major upgrade with major new versions of three of its included applications:iPhoto 5 now supports MPEG-4 and RAW photo format (for increased control over color fidelity and filtering).iMovie HD now supports video in the High-Definition (HD) format.iDVD 5 now supports both DVD-R and DVD+R.GarageBand 2 upgraded to record up to 8 tracks of audio simultaneously, with "real-time music notation", a new "loop authoring tool", "vocal transformation filters" and other features from Apple's higher-end Logic audio tool.Final Cut Express HD to ship in February.iWork '05 suite:Keynote 2 has new features for animation and self-running kiosks.Pages is a new word processor with PDF support and Apple designed templates.Mac mini is a new $499 "headless", small form-factor Macintosh with no monitor, no keyboard, nor a mouse. Dimensions were given as "6.5 inches wide and 2 inches tall". 1.25GHz G4 CPU, 256MB RAM, 40GB hard disk, FireWire, USB, modem and Ethernet. Upgraded unit with 1.42GHz G4 CPU and 80GB disk for $599. Scheduled to ship Jan. 22.Jobs then made his final announcement, in his trademark "One More Thing" style:iPod shuffle is a $99, miniature version of the iPod with 512MB of flash memory. $149 for the 1GB version. Shipping today.Jobs then exited as music artist John Mayer began his live entertainment act.The John Lewis Partnership retail group announced massively increased profits this morning, with group sales up 11% on the financial year to £6.4billion ($12.3billion) and pre-tax profits up 27% to £319million ($614.8 million). On the back of this, it was announced that the amount of money set aside from profits for the employees of the business would rise 29% to £155million, with each employee receiving 18% of their previous year's salary as a lump sum as part of their March pay package.The Partnership, as the name implies, is effectively wholly owned by its own employees (termed "partners"), with all partners receiving a share of the profits yearly as a bonus along with various other benefits. The company owns the John Lewis chain of department stores and the upmarket supermarket chain Waitrose.It should not be confused with the Liverpool store Lewis's which has recently gone into receivership.John W. Snow resigns as Secretary of the Treasury. George W. Bush has nominated Goldman Sachs CEO Henry Paulson to succeed him. If confirmed, he will be the first Wall Street figure to hold the post during the Bush administration.The late Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands was in the 1970s not only bribed by U.S. aircraft company Lockheed, but also by Northrop. This is revealed in Volkskrant-journalist Anet Bleich's biography of former Dutch Prime Minister Joop den Uyl. Den Uyl decided to keep the Northrop bribe quiet to save the Dutch Monarchy another scandal similar to the Lockheed scandal, Bleich states.Den Uyl covered up the Northrop bribe in 1976 to prevent a law suit against the prince, which could have led to an abdication of Queen Juliana, and a denial of Princess Beatrix to succeed her mother on the throne. During the investigations on the bribe cases Minister of Finance Wim Duisenberg (who would later be the first president of the European Central Bank) visited Beatrix, and "found her quite desperate. Se had the idea that this opened a sewer of which the stench was unbearable. She was the future queen, but started to doubt whether she should do that, and that would have caused a major crisis in the Netherlands".The Lockheed scandal was never brought to court, although it had consequences for the Prince: he was forced to resign all his military functions. A second scandal would have resulted in official law suit, with all the consequences thereafter.Rumours that Prince Bernhard not only received US$1.1 million from Lockheed, but also a considerable amount from another competitor for securing the purchase contract for fighter jets, are now confirmed. Northrop paid a total amount of US$750,000 to the Prince in the period until 1973. Bleich bases her conclusions on a secret document that was kept in Den Uyl's personal archives until this day. Northrop merged with Grumman in 1994 to form Northrop Grumman. Similarly, Lockheed merged with Martin Marietta in 1995, creating Lockheed Martin. On 30 April 1980 Beatrix succeeded her mother to the Dutch throne. Joop den Uyl died on December 24; 1987, Prince Bernhard on December 1, 2004.Encyclopædia Britannica has strongly criticised the scientific journal Nature for last year's investigation into the encyclopedia's accuracy compared to that of the open-source online encyclopedia, Wikipedia. Britannica also called for a retraction of the article. Nature has rejected the accusations, saying that their comparison was fair and that they do not intend to retract their report.In a 20-page response (titled "Fatally Flawed") to the report's findings that there was not a significant difference in accuracy between the two encyclopædias, Britannica wrote that 'Almost everything about the journal's investigation [...] was wrong and misleading.' The document goes on to call the investigation 'invalid', 'completely without merit' and 'careless'. Britannica also accused Nature of 'misrepresenting its own results'. The last 12 pages of this comprehensive rebuttal are responses to specific article criticisms, mainly consisting of differences of opinion on style and article composition, but some citing outright factual errors on Nature's part.In their response, Nature refused to reveal their original data for comparison, and commented that Britannica had raised their grievances in private some time ago, and then received no further correspondence until Britannica's open letter of 22 March 2006. Nature notes that Britannica criticised 'less than half the points [their] reviewers raised', and states that the two encyclopædias were subject to the same treatment.Wikipedia has been stigmatised as unreliable due to its open-source nature and a perceived problem with vandalism.  The December 2005 study was seen at the time as a major boost to the credibility of Wikipedia.  Jimmy Wales was notified by one of his team members, on 27 January 2006 that all corrections provided by Nature were in place.  Recent changes to some of the Wikipedia editing policies have attempted to resolve some of the reliability issues raised.Wikipedia has yet to comment.Judd Gregg (R-NH), who was nominated by President Barack Obama as the next United States Secretary of Commerce, withdrew from consideration Thursday, citing "irresolvable conflicts" with Obama over the administration's proposed stimulus package and the Census.Judd Gregg is a current Senator representing New Hampshire, where he formerly served as Governor. Senator Gregg is also the ranking member of the Senate Budget Committee and a member of the Republican Party. Had he been confirmed, he would have been the second Republican in Obama's cabinet.In a statement, Gregg thanked the President for the nomination."However, it has become apparent during this process that this will not work for me as I have found that on issues such as the stimulus package and the Census there are irresolvable conflicts for me. Prior to accepting this post, we had discussed these and other potential differences, but unfortunately we did not adequately focus on these concerns," Senator Gregg said in his statement.In an official White House press release, Robert Gibbs stated: "Once it became clear after his nomination that Senator Gregg was not going to be supporting some of President Obama’s key economic priorities, it became necessary for Senator Gregg and the Obama administration to part ways. We regret that he has had a change of heart."Gregg is the fourth cabinet nominee of Obama to withdraw. The first three were former South Dakota Sen. Tom Daschle, consultant Nancy Killefer, and New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson who was Obama's first choice for Commerce Secretary.On February 4th, 2008 Judge Vaughn R. Walker dismissed the Electronic Frontier Foundation's lawsuit against Uri Geller. Walker dismissed the case, concluding in his 25 page opinion that the United States District Court in San Francisco did not have jurisdiction over Geller, a British subject, or Explorologist, LTD, an English company that holds certain rights to him. The lawsuit was filed in May 2007 by the EFF on behalf of Brian Sapient and his organization the Rational Response Squad. Sapient has posted a excerpt from the PBS documentary Secrets of the Psychics, starring James Randi, on YouTube. Geller claimed he owned the video clip and forced YouTube to remove the video. However, Sapient filed a counter-DMCA claim and the video has since been restored pending the lawsuits.Walker suggested that the case be moved to Philadelphia where Explorologist, LTD (Geller's business) filed an earlier lawsuit against Sapient, claiming that the YouTube post violated English Copyright Law.The June jobs report for the US shows job growth has almost halted while the unemployment rate rose from 9.1% to 9.2%, much higher than March's figure of 8.8%. Employers added only 18,000 new jobs, far fewer than the average of 215,000 per month added from February to April. These numbers  add to fears that the economic recovery has stalled. Analysts were predicting the job growth number for June to reach  125,000, according to a CNN poll.Additionally, the figures for May were revised downward from 54,000 to 25,000 for a two month downward trend. To keep up with normal population growth, the US economy needs to increase the available jobs by 150,000 monthly. Only one fifth of the 8.8 million jobs lost since 2008 when the recession began have been added.There was no encouraging news in the report.  Government jobs fell by 39,000, and construction jobs remained stalled. Manufacturing added an anemic 6,000 jobs.  The temporary-job industry lost positions for the third straight month. The average work week was reduced  by 0.1 hours to 34.3. And the average hourly salary for private sector workers fell by one cent.The total number of unemployed people remains around 14.1 million, and 6.3 million have been unemployed at least six months. "It's just an across-the-board retreat," said Heidi Shierholz, labor economist at the Economic Policy Institute. "This is two months of really scary reports."In an interview, Austan Goolsbee, Barack Obama's chief economist said, "I view this number as a call to action. This number illustrates this thing that we knew, which is we’ve got to get the growth rate up. ... When you see jobs reports like this, that should make it clear that we need to stop bickering, and get these things done."Afghanistan opium cultivation was a record 323,700 acres last year and yielded almost 90 percent of the world's supply.  Opium may account for one-third of Afghanistan's GDP.On Sunday's CNN's Late Edition, Afghanistan's President Hamid Karzai laid the blame for the explosion of opium production in his country at the feet of the US and Britain.  "This particular operation in Kandahar or in other parts of the country, which have not been so successful, was supposed to be done by an agency, a department that was funded by the international community, by the United States, by Britain. The failure is theirs, not ours." Kazai said.  "Where international money and creation of forces for destruction of poppies was concerned, it was ineffective and delayed and half-hearted."Karzai was responding to allegations in Sunday's New York Times that his government was dragging their heels in reducing the opium production in Afghanistan. In Kandahar Province last week, farmers were visible from the main road scraping the last resin from poppy plants. That location is just 10 minutes outside the provincial capital.The retail price of gasoline has risen higher than ever in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. The losses from the deadly hurricane include the destruction of oil refineries all around the Mexican Gulf area, and resulted in a cut of nearly 11 percent of U.S. refining capacity. It is estimated that 897,605 barrels of oil production has been curtailed, an amount which accounts for nearly 59.8% percent of the Gulf of Mexico's total daily output. Since Katrina, 17.1 million barrels have not been produced. There were 122 oil platforms shut down, out of 819 platforms in the Gulf.The national average retail price for gas was $3.04 on Sunday. This exceeds the previous inflation-adjusted record of $3.03, set in March of 1981.The survey was published by Trilby Lundberg, who publishes such surveys semi-monthly. These prices are all "thanks to Katrina," said Lundberg. Lundberg also says that prices could drop in the next few weeks, as the hurricane damaged areas are repaired, and less gas is being purchased nationwide because of lowered demand due to higher prices.A British medical student has become the first confirmed case of swine flu in Kenya, east Africa. The student, who was in a group of 33, was in Kenya to attend a series of medical camps in Nyanza province.The whole group is currently quarantined in their hotel in Kisumu while undergoing treatment. A second suspected case involving a Kenyan woman who had just arrived from India was put in isolation at Kenyatta National Hospital in the capital Nairobi pending laboratory results.Over the weekend there was panic in the capital as mobile text messages circulated warning people to stay away from Sarit centre, a popular commercial establishment where another suspected case had been diagnosed. The patient's test results however came back negative for the H1N1 virus.Kenya has maintained strong ties with Britain since gaining independence in 1962. Direct flights to London operate regularly. There are fears that the high tourism season which begins this month and runs into September will be adversely affected even as the global recession rages on. The tourism sector is yet to make a full recovery after the country almost slid into a civil war following a disputed general election two years ago, which forced the international community to intervene.A cholera epidemic sweeping across the country has exacerbated the situation, killing at least 80 people since March and setting the stage for a major scare.In recent years Kenya has received large numbers of tourists most of whom troop to Kogelo in Nyanza province to visit the ancestral home and family of the current US president's late father Hussein Obama. There are plans to put up a museum there in his honour. This has made the region extremely susceptible to the current flu pandemic.The Kenyan government has dismissed 25,000 striking health workers, mostly nurses, citing failure to heed government orders to recommence work and concern for the welfare of hospital patients. Speaking on behalf of the government, Alfred Mutua stated the workers were dismissed "illegally striking" and "[defying] the directive ... to report back to work", which he called "unethical". The government asks that "[a]ll qualified health professionals, who are unemployed and/or retired have been advised to report to their nearest health facility for interviews and deployment", Mutua stated.The workers, who had been on strike for four days, were wishing to have improvements made to their wages, working conditions, and allowances. The strikes have caused a significant number of Kenyan hospitals to cease operations. According to Kenya Health Professionals Society spokesperson Alex Orina, the average monthly wage plus allowances for health workers in Kenya is KSh25,000 (£193, US$302 or €230) approximately. With an increasing number of reports of patients neglected in hospitals emerging, two trade unions met with the Kenyan government yesterday and negotitated a return to work, although a significant proportion of demonstrators defied the agreement, The Guardian reported.Orina told Reuters the dismissals were "cat-and-mouse games, you cannot sack an entire workforce. It is a ploy to get us to rush back to work, but our strike continues until our demands are met". Frederick Omiah, a member of the same society, believed the government's actions would "make an already delicate and volatile situation worse", expressing concern that demonstrations may continue in the capital Nairobi, amongst other locations. Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union chairperson Dr. Victor Ng'ani described government actions as "reckless".Mutua said the health workers were "no longer employees of the government" and had been eliminated from the payroll. While Ng'ani told the BBC of difficulties with finding other workers as skilled and experienced, Mutua reportedly stated that this would not be an issue. "We have over 100,000 to 200,000 health professionals looking for work today," Mutua commented. "There will be a lag of a day or two ... but it is better than letting people die on the floor, at the gate, or suffer in pain".Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Ali Khamenei gave a public address before Labor Day wherein he commended the workforce for its contribution to the economic growth of the Islamic Republic of Iran.  The address ensued the Minister of Labor Mohammad Jahromi presentation of an economic report. Khamenei claimed that the Islamic System is superior to the materialistic ones of the West that trample upon workers' rights when he indicated that the "West-linked establishments has shown in practice they hold no mercy for workers".  In fact, the "concentration and accumulation of wealth and maximization of profit" is deplored in Iran's Constitution.  Moreover, he emphasized that solutions must be sought within the framework of Islam.  In the Islamic school of economy, "respect of investor comes along respect of worker" while the balance should tilt towards the worker to promote justice.Khamenei also indirectly lashed out against the enemies who want to sow discord among classes through trade unions.  This may have been a reference to Mansour Osanlou who led a strike of bus workers in Tehran in 2005 and others.Khamenei also decried "the rage in the pre-Islamic-Revolution era" over foreign products.  The was chiefly a reference to the termination of American products in Iran such as Coca-Cola, vehicles, electronics, et cetera.  He went on to proclaim that the humiliation of the nation is over.Last Tuesday, AusAID Australia and the World Bank's Global Environment Fund (GEF) reached an agreement to give the government of Kiribati US$5 million (AU$4,779,000, NZ$5,985,000, €3,885,000) to install solar panels around the country capital, located on the Tarawa atoll.  According to Business Desk of the Brunei Times, AusAID promised AU$3.2 million in funding, while GEF promised US$1 million.  The country was the first in the Pacific to make a deal with the World Bank.The funding was part of a US$530 million (NZ$635 million) package announced at yesterday's Pacific Energy Summit in Auckland involving New Zealand and the European Union, Australia, the Asian Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, the World Bank Group, and the United Arab Emirates.  Also at the summit yesterday, New Zealand's Foreign Affairs Minister Murray McCully had announced a national commitment of USD$54,262,000 (AU$51,861,000 NZ$65 million, €42,178,000) to Pacific region energy solutions, of which US$8,348,000 (AU$8 million, NZ$10 million, €6,483,000) would be specifically earmarked for renewable energy and improved energy efficiency in the Cook Islands, Kiribati, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Tonga, and Tuvalu.Kiribati is heavily dependent on diesel fuel for most of the energy available on the national power grid, which supplies power to half Kiribati's population of 110,000. In addition, a third of the country's population lacks access to electricity. Once installation of the solar panels is complete, they are estimated to reduce diesel consumption by 230,000 liters (60,760 gallons) a year and give access to the electricity to some parts of the population that currently have no electricity.  The European Union already has committed €100 million to sustainable energy in the region, with €10 million of that coming as a result of an announcement made last week. In a press release about the news, Kiribati President Anote Tong was quoted as saying, "Kiribati faces big challenges it is remote, it is at risk from the effects of climate change, and it is vulnerable to economic shocks. [...] Shifting Kiribati's focus to reliable solar energy will provide a more secure, more sustainable power source for the country's people." Radio New Zealand International quoted Tong as saying, "It's the first time we are doing this. We're excited at the prospect of even substituting fossil fuel to a small extent at this stage. What the system being envisaged will only produce around 500 kilowatts, but this is the beginning of what I hope will be a pattern, the trend in the future."The European Union's Fiji-based head of operations for the Pacific region, Renato Mele, supported alternative energy solutions like solar power for the region, but said that solar power had limitations because climate and environmental conditions sometimes meant batteries required to power the panels had a life of only 12 months, compared to other climates where batteries normally last five years.  This created the potential to drive up standard operating costs. Mele has also noted these additional costs though are still lower than the cost of diesel power.One News Pacific Correspondent Barbara Dreaver noted, "Governments will be able to put the money they (currently) spend on diesel into things like education and health."Wikinews reporter Iain Macdonald has performed an interview with Dr Isabella Margara, a London-based member of the Communist Party of Greece (KKE). In the interview Margara sets out the communist response to current events in Greece as well as discussing the viability of a communist economy for the nation. She also hit back at Petros Tzomakas, a member of another Greek far-left party which criticised KKE in a previous interview.The interview comes amid tensions in cash-strapped Greece, where the government is introducing controversial austerity measures to try to ease the nation's debt-problem. An international rescue package has been prepared by European Union member states and the International Monetary Fund – should Greece require a bailout; protests have been held against government attempts to manage the economic situation.Discount retailer Kmart Corp. announced Wednesday morning it will buy department store operator Sears, Roebuck & Co.. The deal is to cost $11.5bn and will lead to the creation of the third-largest U.S. retailer, after Wal-Mart and Home Depot, and replacing Target at number three.The new company, which is to be called Sears Holdings and be based near Chicago, will have $55 billion in annual revenue and nearly 3,500 retail stores. Edward Lampert, the chairman of Kmart, will become the chairman of the new company, while Alan Lacy, current chairman and chief executive of Sears will be the new chief executive. Sears CEO Alan Lacy, speaking about the deal, promised up to $500 million a year in savings within three years from improved efficient, greater purchasing power and possible store closures. The stores will retain their current names.The purchase will allow the two stores to sell each other's brands, including Craftsman Tools, Kenmore, and Lands' End from Sears, and Martha Stewart and Joe Boxer brands from Kmart. The move is considered a boon for Sears, which until recently has confined itself to malls, and can now sell its products in the many Kmart locations.Shares of both companies soared after the announcement, Sears was up 22 percent on Wednesday, whilst Kmart gained 15 percent.Reuters has reported that Philip Knight, co-founder of shoe giant Nike, Inc. will step down as the company's CEO and President on December 28.  He will be replaced by William Perez, current CEO of S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc.While industry experts consider this to be a good move as the company looks to expand beyond its core market, analyst Jamelah Reddy expressed surprise that an individual from outside the company was brought in rather than tapping one of Nike's co-presidents. Reddy said Knight was "leaving big shoes to fill."The move is a blow to activist organizations which have targeted the company for its use of sweatshop labor and other practices. For example, the progressive anti-consumerism magazine Adbusters recently introduced their "Black-Spot Sneaker" which they promote as being "for just one thing: kicking Phil Knight's ass". Nike spokesman Kirk Stewart said Perez was chosen for his experience in dealing with international markets and brand-building, an important skill as Nike continues expansion internationally.  Nike's international sales now surpass domestic sales, reports Bloomberg.According to ESPN, Knight was responsible for Nike's endorsement contract with Michael Jordan, signed in 1984 when he was still a rookie with the Chicago Bulls.  Jordan said of Knight, "To me, Phil Knight will always be recognized as a sports marketing visionary -- he will always be a part of Nike.  I learned so much about the industry from him and will always admire his drive and creativity."Knight, who according to Forbes gave no reason for his departure, intends to retain his position as the chairman of Nike's board of directors.  He will also hold on to his 28% voting share in the corporation, as well as his 92% share of the non-voting stock.New Zealand state-owned enterprise (SOE), Kordia published its annual report a few days ago for the financial year ending June 30, 2007.Formerly known as Broadcast Communications Ltd (BCL) prior to the name change in November 2006, the Crown-owned company offers contracting, consulting, and networking services. They operate a national communication network and provides network feeds and broadcast services for the major television and radio networks in New Zealand.The annual report shows Kordia Group Limited's net profit, after tax, at NZ$11.9 million, the 2006 result was $9.8 million. Revenue was up from $201 million in the 2006 financial year to $264 million this year; a 31% increase. Chairman of Kordia, Wayne Brown, described this financial year as "solid achievement" while being "on track to record further growth in the exciting fields in which it operates."These increases is despite the major acquisition of Orcon Internet Limited, an ISP (Internet service provider). Kordia will use Orcon, acquired on 2 July, 2007, to invest and deliver the possibilities of the current progress of local loop unbundling, new Wi-Fi zones, and WiMAX technology. CEO of Kordia, Geoff Hunt, said, "Orcon will soon offer a complete range of Voice over IP products". Orcon is being operated at arms-length to the rest of the company.Other areas where Kordia is advancing itself is mobile television transmission where they are already prepared to start services once content providers have been secured. Hunt said, "Spectrum is available, so all we need are the content providers and some good consumer demand. Then we'll be ready to roll."Kordia is also immersing itself further in the television sector as well as its mobile television service. Other advances includes New Zealand's new digital television service, Freeview with it set to start terrestrial transmission next year.Parliament TV also began this year in July. All House proceedings are available via the Parliament website and a broadcast quality feed is provided to all broadcasters, with full coverage being televised by Freeview and Sky Network Television. The manager of Kordia's Transmission Control Centre, Merv Brooks, said, "This is another example of people and technology coming together to deliver a truly unique product to New Zealanders."Being a SOE, Kordia is required to give the Government a dividend. The Government will receive a total dividend of $8.4 million; $6.8 million in 2006. A $3 million dividend had already been received by the Government so a payment of only $5.4 million was made.Driving nearly 30 miles (48 km) to visit a convenience store was not out of the question for fans of The Simpsons. Thousands of such fans converged on a 7-Eleven store in Los Angeles to witness that store's transformation for the month of July into a Kwik-E-Mart, a fictional convenience store from the popular animated television show.As part of a marketing campaign for an upcoming feature film based on the long-running TV series, twelve of more than 6,000 U.S. and Canadian 7-Eleven stores were effectively converted into the fictional store: the store signs and banners, colors, employees' uniforms and even merchandise were changed to match those shown on TV. Stores were outfitted with Simpsons-themed window displays, cardboard cutouts of the show's characters, and carried such cartoon staples as Squishees and pink donuts that matched those favored by one of the title characters, Homer Simpson.While initial reports indicated that sales at the converted locations were up by 30%, the scene this weekend at the Los Angeles location left little doubt that the promotion was working — at least for 7-Eleven. The Los Angeles store was half-encircled by a line of well over a hundred would-be visitors waiting over a half an hour to go inside the convenience store.  A security guard controlled the crowd, letting only about 15 people visit the store at a time. As 7-Eleven stores operate 24 hours, this crowd control measure was a round-the-clock operation, with thousands of visitors showing up in a course of a day in a never-ending line.One of the people in line was William, a young man from Hacienda Heights, California, who had heard about the fact that there was a Kwik-E-Mart from a friend. Driving more than 30 miles just to visit a store, he was looking forward to seeing what the store had changed. He was unable to get others in on his enthusiasm, though: a friend declined his invitation to visit the themed store since it "wasn't a big deal." After driving all the way he was prepared to wait at least a half an hour in the line: his patience likely tested as he was not even half-way to the entrance 20 minutes after lining up.Despite the wait and the busy atmosphere, the set up was visibly enjoyable for visitors to the location. Families and groups of friends lined up to take pictures in front of plastic 3D models of Simpsons' characters on the wall of the store building. Even the neighbors put up with the circus: living just around the corner, Sharla walked over to the store and waited in line 20 minutes to get a pink movie donut and a drink. She had only positive things to say about the visit to the store, categorizing the whole experience as fun.Labatt, a company that makes beer, has decided to move their headquarters from Norwalk, Connecticut to Buffalo, New York."We've got a very large volume base in Buffalo, Syracuse and Rochester. Labatt USA is very excited to get back to Buffalo," said President of Labatt USA, Glen Walter, who also added that years ago the headquarters used to be in Buffalo.At least 20 marketing and sales jobs will be created as a result of the move. Offices will be housed in the Key Bank Tower located on Main Street in Downtown Buffalo. The move is expected to take place this spring.InBev is the parent company of Labatt USA and has their main headquarters in Belgium. InBev claims to be the largest brewer of beer, by volume, on the planet.City officials; however, did not know of the move until it was announced, but Mayor of Buffalo, Byron W. Brown, is not concerned and calls the move "impressive.""They did not [contact us], which makes it all the more impressive for the community," said Brown.Try-It Distributing, a local distributor of the beer sells an estimated 43 million bottles of the assorted Labatt beer products and those are just the sales in Erie and Niagara counties in New York alone."Google Inc. has made a proposal to host some of the content of the Wikimedia projects." This small sentence has launched a thousand rumours, and not just in the blogosphere and on Slashdot, but in BusinessWeek and on ABC News as well.The offer, as described on the unofficial announcement on Wikimedia's meta.wikimedia.org site, is less exciting than the speculation, however. The page simply says the board is discussing the offer, which does not require advertising, and plans to meet with Google via IRC in March. For Google, flush with US$52 billion capitalization since its IPO in August 2004, an offer to host some Wikimedia Foundation content is a small expense. For Wikimedia, a non-profit with a bandwidth appetite doubling every four months, prowling for funds is constant. The offer was met with howls of varying sorts, depending on where they emanated from online and business circles. John Dvorak seems opposed to any such deal, and his views have traction online, judging by comments on Slashdot after a link to his column appeared there.Equally speculative calls from the other direction say Google and Wikipedia are destined to join forces. Unnamed analysts quoted on TechWack (and re-quoted on p2pnet.net) called it a response to Microsoft's re-entry, newly powered with its Encarta content, into the search engine market.Blogs linked Google stock deals with the rumours of a hosting deal - and with the valuable commodity of social responsibility. The howls from within Wikipedia's community run the gamut of hopes and fears as well.That such limited facts can raise the passions of the online and the business communities to such a pitch should impress both Google and Wikipedia with their status on the internet.Lakshmi Mittal has topped the Sunday Times Rich List for the fouth consecutive year, with his GBP 27.7 billion fortune giving him over twice the wealth of Roman Abramovich, who is second in the list.The Duke of Westminster has retained his position of third place in the list, while Alisher Usmanov, who has a large share in Arsenal FC, has risen to fifth place in the list.The Sunday Times Rich list is published annually. It lists the riches 1000 people in the United Kingdom.The below table shows the top ten in the list:On Wednesday the Lansing, Michigan Capital Region International Airport and surrounding land was designated as an "aerotropolis" by the Michigan Economic Development Corporation Strategic Fund board.  The Next Michigan Development program allows the airport to offer tax incentives in order to attract manufacturing, distribution, and technology businesses to the surrounding area.Incentives can include property tax abatements or the elimination of most state and local taxes for a specified period of time.  To qualify for the incentives, a company would have to start a new venture on airport property or expand an existing one.  Additionally, companies need to use a minimum of two out of four transportation modes – freight, air, rail, or water.The airport, in DeWitt Township, is the second in Michigan to receive an aerotropolis designation.  The state's other aerotropolis is located in the area surrounding Detroit Metropolitan and Willow Run airports.  In October the city of Lansing and DeWitt Township approved a 425 tax-sharing agreement on the property, designating approximately 850 acres (344 ha) of land as available for future development.A little-known mining company, Lapp Plats, has become the first company to list on Ireland's newly created Irish Enterprise Exchange (IEX). The firm has also applied to be listed on London's flourishing Alternative Investment Market (AIM).Lapp Plats' admission to the exchange brings to nine the total number of firms listed on the IEX - the other eight were all previously listed on the Exploration Securities Market, which was the precursor to the IEX.At present Lapp Plats is involved in platinum and nickel exploration; but intends to broaden its interests into to other areas such as minerals, other metals, oil and gas.Recently released figures have revealed that the number of foreclosures in California, United States has more than quadrupled. The figures for the first quarter of 2008 show a significant increase on previous figures.There were 47,171 foreclosures on California properties in the first quarter of 2008. The figure for the same period last year was just over 10,000.The Attorney General of Arizona released a report that showed an increase. It said that "the collective efforts of servicers and government officials to date have not translated into meaningful improvement in foreclosure prevention outcomes." The Attorney General also commented on the report:The last British-owned volume car manufacturer, MG Rover, has closed down, with the loss of 5,000 jobs.International accounting firm PriceWaterhouseCooper was brought in last week to put the company into administration. Today PwC announced that MG Rover's only hope, the Chinese car company SAIC, had no interest in buying the ailing firm. With no further source of revenue, PwC has closed the company's factory in Longbridge, Birmingham and has laid off 5,000 workers.Some 1,000 workers will continue for a while to complete the remaining cars left on the production line.The BBC reported PwC joint administrator Tony Lomas as saying "We'll explore what we would describe as the break-up of the business, we will carry on with the interested parties who want to talk about pieces of the business.". PwC said around 70 offers for various parts of the company had been made but no serious offers of money made.Recent efforts to save the company had been centered on convincing SAIC (Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp.) to buy the company as a going concern, but the Chinese company stated it would only buy the company if it's financial position could be guaranteed to be secure for at least two years. The British government could not make such a commitment due to European Union trade and competition rules.The SAIC company did buy the designs for the 75 and 25 models and for the K-Series engines for £67m.The Rover car company has a long but troubled history. It was formed in 1968 after a series of mergers of existing car manufacturers, and was nationalized in 1975 after it ran into financial difficulties. In 1979 a long-running deal to collaborate on developing new vehicles was established with the Japanese company Honda. In 1988 the company was privatized and was bought by British Aerospace. In 1994 British Aerospace sold the business to BMW, who then sold the Land Rover brand to Ford and finally sold the company in 2000 for just £10, retaining the well-known Mini brand for themselves. The MG Rover company was run by a private group until its collapse.MG Rover has not launched a new model since the 75 was introduced in 1998 during the period of ownership by BMW. Their next newest model was the 25, originally launched as the 200 series some ten years ago. Rover also produced the 45, which dates from 1990, and the ZF sports car first launched in 1995. Sales of Rover cars accounted for just 3% of the UK car market in 2004.Tony Blair announced a £150 million support package for the recently unemployed workers of the MG Rover plants, though it has been claimed that his generous offer may be more as a result of the nearby marginal seats in the upcoming elections than compassion on his part.Slumping economies in the United States, Spain and Japan are causing reverberations in the countries of Latin America as migrant workers send less money home. The Inter-American Development Bank reported that for the first time since they began tracking remittances in 2000, remittances to Latin America declined in the fourth quarter of 2008, dropping 2% relative to the fourth quarter of 2007. In January, remittances declined further, with Colombia experiencing a 16% drop relative to 2008, Brazil suffering a 14% decline, Mexico 12%, and Guatemala and El Salvador each falling 8%. These numbers come as 2008 saw an average 10% increase in remittances. Nearly US$70 billion was sent back to families in those areas in 2008.Low-skilled jobs such as construction, manufacturing, and restaurant and hotel work have been especially negatively impacted by the global economic crisis, putting the squeeze on migrant workers who depend on these industries. The fall in remittances could have long term effects in the workers' home countries: In times of scarcity, spending on health care and education -- investments that alleviate poverty -- gives way in favor of the bare necessities of survival.Remittances are number one source of foreign income for Guatemala. At $4.3 billion in 2008, they account for more than the combined income from exports of coffee, sugar and other goods. According to the Central American Institute of Social and Development Studies, 3.5 million people in Guatemala depend on remittances from 1.35 million Guatemalan citizens living in the United States.The decline in remittances also has serious consequences for Guyana, which receives 43 percent of its GDP in remittances, the most of any country in Latin America and the Caribbean. Guyanese Finance Minister Ashni Singh has projected a decline of 20.9 per cent in remittances for 2009.Yesterday, Latvia's government took over Parex Bank, the second largest bank in Latvia. A 51% stake in the bank was taken for a nominal fee. Control of the bank is to be passed to Latvijas Hipotēku Banka (Mortgage and Land Bank), which is state-controlled.The deal was first announced on Saturday, and an agreement was signed yesterday.  The arrangement reflects similar bank takeovers by other governments across the world, in response to the current banking crisis.A Reuters report yesterday quoted board member Liga Purina as saying that withdrawals are above average, though there are few queues.The action comes in the wake of Parex admitting to financial difficulties. Until this move, the biggest shareholders were the chairman, Valērijs Kargins, and Viktors Krasovickis.   Parex Bank operates in 14 countries, including Sweden, Estonia and Germany, and is the largest locally-owned Latvian bank.Attorney Arthur J. Giacalone has filed a lawsuit in New York Supreme Court against the city of Buffalo's Common Council and Planning board, alleging that the proposed Elmwood Village Hotel was approved "without giving meaningful consideration to either the impact on the adjoining residential neighborhood, or the unique character of this section of Elmwood Avenue." Giacalone is representing Nancy Pollina and Patricia Morris, who operate the Don Apparel (a vintage clothing and collectibles shop at 1119 Elmwood Avenue), Angeline Genovese and Evelyn Bencinich, owners of residences on Granger Place which abut the rear of the proposed site, Nina Freudenheim, a resident of nearby Penhurst Park, and Sandra Girage, the owner of a two-family residence on Forest Avenue less than a hundred feet from the proposed hotel's sole entrance and exit driveway.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a 72-room, seven-million-dollar hotel proposed by Savarino Construction Services Corporation and designed by architect Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group. Its construction would require the demolition of at least five buildings, currently at 1109-1121 Elmwood, which house several shops and residents. Although the properties are "under contract," it is still not known whether Savarino Construction actually owns the buildings. It is believed that Hans Mobius, a resident of Clarence, New York and former Buffalo mayoral candidate, is still the owner. The hotel is expected to be a franchise of the Wyndham Hotels group.The lawsuit, filed in State Supreme Court, is seeking annulment of the City of Buffalo's rezoning and site plan approvals for the hotel. "Had the Common Council members complied with State law and waited to receive comments from the County's planning agency, they would have been obliged to address the County's concerns regarding the replacement of former residential buildings with 'a much larger commercial structure', the health effects of placing a 55-vehicle parking area next to existing homes, and the absence of a traffic study to assess the likelihood that the project would add 'considerable congestion' to the Elmwood/Forest intersection," said Giacalone."The four-story hotel will overshadow the neighboring homes and backyards, impacting quality of life and property values.  Equally as important, the project will displace a unique and diverse group of businesses that have served nearby college students and Buffalo's arts and theater community for many years, and replace them with upscale retail establishments that will cater, not to local residents, but to affluent tourists and business travelers," added Giacalone.On March 22, 2006 the city's Common Council approved the rezoning for the proposed hotel and on March 28, the Planning board approved the design and site plan of the hotel.The lawsuit, entitled Pollina et al. v. Common Council of the City of Buffalo et al., [Index No. I-2006-3885], has been assigned to the Honorable Rose H. Sconiers, and is scheduled for oral argument at 9:30 A.M. on Thursday June 8, 2006.Richemont and Polo Ralph Lauren decided to join their skills and rich experience in order to form a joint venture, the name of which is Polo Ralph Lauren Watch and Jewelry Company, S.A.R.L. The representatives of the global luxury business decided to unite their efforts in order to develop luxury timepieces and fine jewelry items. After the new products are manufactured, they will be distributed through Ralph Lauren boutiques and independent retailers of jewelery items and luxury timepieces. The first jointly developed products are to appear in the fall of the following year.Richemont and Polo Ralph Lauren will equally share 50 percent of the new joint venture. The partners hope for long-term cooperation. The union will be a completely new experience for both Richemont, which has never cooperated with a luxury fashion designer before, and Polo Ralph Lauren, which, until the present day, has not maintained any links with the precious jewelry and luxury watch businesses. Ralph Lauren, holding the post of Polo Ralph Lauren's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer , believes that the company's experience in the area of designing and marketing luxury lifestyle products will blend with Richemont’s experience on a global scale.Johann Rupert, owning the position of Richemont's Executive Chairman counts on Ralph Lauren's reputation and image based upon distinctive taste, style and attention to detail. He hopes that the newly formed joint venture will benefit from these factors, as well Richemont’s expertise in the area of jewelry and watches.The Left parties, joined by regional forces like Samajwadi Party and Telugu Desam Party, today staged street protests to demand the roll back of the fuel price hike as the Communists said the UPA Government could not take their support for granted. Barring states ruled by the Left and Uttar Pradesh, where the ruling Samajwadi Party's workers stopped many trains and blocked highways at several places, the protests had little impact. Strikes by truckers against the price hike that coincided with the protests, however, affected transport services in Orissa, Tripura and Madhya Pradesh.In Delhi, CPI(M) leaders Prakash Karat and Sitaram Yechury and CPI's A B Bardhan courted arrest at the Parliament Street police station with a large number of Left activists. Leaders from the Samajwadi Party,Rashtriya Lok Dal and Janata Dal-Secular were also present. They said the protest was meant to mount pressure on the government to reverse its "anti-people" decision and the issue would be raised in the UPA-Left Coordination Committee meeting on Wednesday. In West Bengal, the ruling Left Front organised sit-ins before the offices of oil PSUs. Normal life in Kerala, another Left-ruled state, was paralysed by a dawn-to-dusk strike called by trade unions. Shops and business establishments remained closed while attendance in government offices was thin. Over 5,000 Left activists, including CPI Secretary D Raja, were taken into custody across Tamil Nadu when they tried to picket Central Government offices and roads.The Ohio Department of Transportation (ODOT) has announced plans to rebuild the interchange of Interstate 75 (I-75) and U.S. Highway 224 (US 224) in northwestern Findlay, Ohio, signed as exit 159 on I-75. Plans for the interchange, a standard diamond interchange that also carries State Highway 15 on the west and south approaches, include reversing the flow of traffic on the bridge over I-75, in what is known as a "diverging diamond interchange".Such an interchange does not exist in the United States; ODOT based the plan on an interchange in Versailles, France of the same design, introduced to them by a report in a trade magazine. Instead of the standard approach, widening the four-lane bridge to add turn lanes, traffic flow will be reversed between the two sets of ramps, with traffic signals controlling the flow. The only conflicts will be between the two directions of US 224; all turns to and from the ramps will be free-flowing. Traffic will be guided by barriers and islands, preventing errors in movement. As it eliminates left turns across traffic, the accident rate at the interchange is expected to be cut in half. The plan will also be cheaper than a rebuild of the bridge, and will be able to carry more traffic.Left-hand driving is very rare in the United States, but a few freeway-to-freeway interchanges incorporate it. In those cases, rather than being traffic-light controlled, the crossings between opposite directions are separated by bridges. Another related case is the Single Point Urban Interchange, in which opposing streams of left-turning traffic pass each other on the left.The bridge, built in 1956, currently carries about 20,000 vehicles per day. The land west of the interchange, across from downtown Findlay, is being rapidly developed, and plans for the area include a Wal-Mart.Mayor Tony Iriti of Findlay thinks "it's a great idea. It's amazing to me that this has never been done before. We'll be written up in all those magazines nobody wants to read." Hancock County officials are similarly enthusiastic.The decision on whether to build the interchange will not be made until late summer.A new advertising campaign in USA for the Sony PSP which looks like graffiti and is often sprayed on previously vandalized walls has come under attack from other graffiti artists. A collective group of graffiti artists and street artists are now banding together, vandalizing the look-alike graffiti advertisements. The campaign has offended a lot of graffiti artists and street artists, drawing responses like "keep your desperate corporate long arm out of a movement that is the only thing that is ours!"But not all the responses have been negative, with many artists defending Sony saying they have the right. Other advertising companies have also voiced their support. "Sony and PSP have every right to use this type of media," Floyd Hayes, the head creative director at Cunning Work told Wired News. "They have done it for (a) very long time very successfully and spoke the language of the streets without being patronizing." Sony says it is paying the building owners like Casa Maria for the right to advertise on their walls. Casa Maria was paid $100 for two weeks' use of its wall, co-owner Mario Arana told Wired News. Tats Cru, the graffiti crew responsible for the designs, have also been targeted with insulting slogans on Sony's advertisements.Lehman Brothers, a major American investment banker, has filed paperwork for bankruptcy. It would be the largest collapse of an investment firm in 18 years.Lehman attempted to find a buyer over the weekend but it met with no success. The last remaining bidder, Barclays PLC bank pulled out Sunday afternoon. Barclays, a United Kingdom-based bank, had become the sole bidder after a consortium led by Bank of America pulled out early Sunday morning citing that it would need government support before considering a bid. The support would consist of backing bad debts owed by Lehman. Barclays cited a similar reason for withdrawing its bid.As of Monday morning, no buyer has come through to take control of the firm. As a result, the firm filed for bankruptcy protection.The main sticking point for potential buyers appears to be the unwillingness for the U.S. government to provide financial support. Hank Paulson, Treasury secretary, has repeatedly said that no government money will be given to Lehman or used in any takeover the firm. Government money was used in the takeover of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase in March of this year. Bear Stearns suffered similar problems as Lehman.A spokesmen for Barclays told the Financial Times, "the proposed transaction required a guarantee for the trading operations of Lehman Brothers that was potentially open-ended, and we were not willing to provide that guarantee."Paulson, along with other government officials, proposed a solution that Lehman would get split into two separate entities. However, this proposal has been discarded by many of Wall Street banks. Members of the G8 have reportedly been keep abreast of the situation by U.S. government. The firm, which has over 25,000 staffers, has suffered bad results due to the subprime mortgage crisis.The Peel Hotel, located in Melbourne, Australia has been given permission by the Victorian State Civil and Administrative Tribunal to ban lesbians and heterosexuals from going into their bar which is catered specifically for gay men.Owner of the hotel Tom McFeely, said he went to the tribunal in order to protect gay males by providing them with a bar that has a friendly atmosphere and where the men can be in a "non-threatening" situation."If I can limit the number of heterosexuals entering the Peel, then that helps me keep the safe balance. Heterosexuals have other places to go to; my homosexuals do not," said McFeely adding that there are over 2,000 bars and clubs around Australia for heterosexuals to attend.The hotel's commissioner says that many of the gay men who attend the bar felt uncomfortable and felt like zoo animals."(They) also have felt as though they've been like a zoo exhibit with big groups of women on hens' parties coming to the club," said the Peels Hotel Commission Chief, Helen Szoke who also said that many of the bars gay men have been harassed or have been threatened with violence.Lesbians and heterosexual individuals are still allowed to stay at the hotel.Cate McKenzie, who is the chief of the Victorian Human Rights and Equal Opportunities Commission also supports the ruling saying, "This would undermine or destroy the atmosphere which the company wishes to create. Sometimes heterosexual groups and lesbian groups insult and deride and are even physically violent towards the gay male patrons. To regard the gay male patrons of the venue as providing an entertainment or spectacle to be stared at, as one would at an animal at a zoo, devalues and dehumanizes them."The Victorian Gay and Lesbian Lobby Group says that the ruling makes the Peel Hotel one of the only two establishments in Melbourne to cater specifically to gay men.The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has penned a stiff reminder to drug giants Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corp. and GlaxoSmithKline PLC: pull your 15-second “reminder” ad for the erectile dysfunction drug, Levitra, off TV.FDA said there is no evidence Levitra is better than rival drugs Viagra from Pfizer, or Cialis, owned by Eli Lilly and Co., in producing results that make female partners happy.Levitra and Cialis together control about 30 per cent of the market for such drugs, but Pfizer takes the majority share.Reminder ads can only call attention to a drug, not claim it works better, or at all."In one of [the ad's] scenes, the man strokes the woman's hair and face as she affectionately puts her hand on his wrist," the FDA wrote. "In the other, she puts her arms around his neck and they embrace.""The totality of the TV ad also represents or suggests that Levitra will provide a satisfying sexual experience from the female partner's perspective," the agency wrote.Glaxo spokesman Michael Fleming said the drug makers would comply. Bayer developed Levitra and partnered with Glaxo to market the pills in 2001. Bayer recently turned its part of the promotion over to Schering-Plough Corp.Shares of Bayer fell 75 cents to $32.96 on Friday. Shares of GlaxoSmithKline rose 32 cents to close at $47.82. Schering-Plough shares rose 8 cents to end at $20.65.Lexmark International introduced the Lexmark P450 in the USA yesterday, the first printer to have a built-in CD burner. The CD burner allows users to copy photos from their camera directly to CD without requiring the printer to be connected to a computer.The P450 is a small, portable printer that can print 4in by 6in photos. Photos can be printed from USB flash drives, memory cards, Bluetooth devices and PictBridge compatible digital cameras. The printer includes a 2.4-inch color LCD from which users can perform basic editing tasks such as cropping, rotating, and removing red-eye."The Lexmark P450 brings more photo processing functions to the home. People can now save and organize their digital photos on CD, print from a cell phone, view their photos on a television and much more. The Lexmark P450 is quite intuitive, easy to use and affordably priced," said Najib Bahous, president of Lexmark’s Consumer Printer Division.This printer will compete with many other portable printers such as the popular and slightly cheaper HP Photosmart 375.The Lexmark P450 is scheduled to be released in the USA in October, with an estimated retail price of $199USD, and Canada in November, with an estimated retail price of $299CAD. It is scheduled to be released in other countries shortly thereafter.Libya gave US-based Occidental Petroleum Corporation permission to resume business there for the first time in 19 years. The company abandoned operations in the mid 1980's due to sanctions imposed on Libya by the United States.The sanctions, enforced by Ronald Reagan's administration in 1986, were in response to Libya's backing of terrorist activities. The sanctions were lifted in 2004, giving the US companies opportunity to return.Occidental is the first US oil company to resume operations in Libya. Daily output from their wells is expected to be 12,000 - 15,000 barrels per day.Riga, Latvia — The Central Bank of Lithuania announced that it plans to adopt the common European currency, the euro in 2007, and replace its national currency, the litas.Lithunia intends to introduce the use of the euro as an official currency on January 1, 2007, where it will be used alongside the litas until January 15. From January 15, the euro would become the only official means of payment.Lithuania joined the European Union in 2004, and like the other new member states, it is obliged to adopt the euro when it is ready. However, in order to adopt the euro, a country must be part of the EU's Exchange Rate Mechanism II (ERM II) for at least two years. During that time, the currency must not fluctuate more than 2.25% in relation to the euro. Additionally, the budget deficit should be under 3% of gross domestic product.Lithunia became part of ERM II in June 2004, meaning that the earliest it could join the euro would be in June 2006. However, its target is 2007, which, at the present moment, seems to be achievable, considering the country's low inflation and budget deficit. The litas has been pegged to the euro, since February 2002, at a rate of 1 euro = 3.45 litas.So far, only 12 out of the 25 members of the European Union have adoped the euro. However, in the next decade, it is expected that most, if not all, of the ten new member states will adopt the currency. Lithuania is expected to be the first to adopt the currency, in 2007. Estonia and Slovenia, which are the only other new member states that are part of ERM II, are also expected to join the common currency at this time.Larger countries like Hungary, Czechia and Poland, which are not yet part of ERM II, may have to wait until 2010 at least, due to their large budget deficits.Lithuania has been one of the most enthusiastic new member states concerning European integration. Besides its early adoption of the euro, it was the first country in the EU to ratify the European Constitution.US pizza chain giant Little Caesars is to open eight stores in Ireland and has plans to increase that to 45 over the next few years. The company has signed a ten year deal with Doughmaster to support Little Caesars franchisees in Ireland.Dublin based Doughmaster will open the first eight stores and operate them as its own over the next 18 months. Afterwards it will pursue franchisees.Little Caesars was founded in Michigan in 1959. The firm has franchised over 3,000 restaurants in the USA and has revenues of over $1bn.Little Caesars adds to a highly expansive Irish pizza market - existing players include Apache, Domino's, Godfathers, Fourstarpizza and Pizza Hut. The four largest operators (those mentioned excluding Pizza Hut) now have over 90 outlets in Ireland in total. Apache remains the largest company in store count with 29 outlets.Massive music concerts took place around the planet under the Live 8 banner in an effort to put pressure on the leaders of the eight richest countries in the world to end global poverty.All concerts were timed to take place between noon and 10pm local time, with over a million people expected to attend concerts in Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the US, Canada, South Africa and Russia. The events were broadcast to a potential audience of five and a half billion people world-wide.The largest concert was in the US in Philadelphia where, over the course of 7 hours, hundreds of thousands of people gathered to watch Stevie Wonder, Kanye West, Destiny's Child, Dave Matthews Band, and Black Eyed Peas among others. Philadelphia native Will Smith both performed and was the opening presenter.  Peak attendance, the maximum amount of people believed to be watching Live 8 on the Benjamin Franklin Parkway at a given time, is estimated to have been between 600,000 and 800,000.In Hyde Park in London, 205,000 people watched acts including Elton John, Madonna, Coldplay, Robbie Williams and Pink Floyd. The concert was opened by Sir Paul McCartney and U2 playing Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band - the first time the song has ever been performed live by a Beatle. It ended at 11.58pm with all of the acts coming on stage to sing one last time.Bill Gates - founder of Microsoft and the richest man in the world (owning $46.5 billion) - appeared on the London stage to discuss the challenges facing the world, before introducing Dido. Later, Kofi Annan, the Secretary-General of the UN addressed the audience, thanking them for their support.However, the first concert to open - in Japan - only drew 10,000 spectators, disappointing many.The concerts follow on 20 years after the Live Aid concert organised by Bob Geldof, which was created to raise money for famine victims in Ethopia.By contrast, the aim of Live 8 - also organised by Geldof - is not fund-raising but instead to apply pressure to the leaders of the G8 to end world poverty, which claims the lives of 50,000 every day.The Live 8 organisers are urging the G8 to:Double the aid sent to the world's poorest countries,Fully cancel their debts,Change the trade laws so that they can build their own future.The Finance Ministers of the G8 agreed a plan last month to cancel the debt of 18 of the poorest countries to the IMF, the World Bank and the African Development Fund, but are requiring other countries to end political and financial corruption before they become elegible for debt relief.On Thursday the President of the United States, George W. Bush, announced that the US will double US aid to Africa by 2010 - increasing to $8.6 billion a year. Bob Geldof welcomed the news, saying "This is the first time we have heard this sort of language. "This is very, very positive indeed."An investigation by KPMG into contracts by Liverpool City Council produced 43 recommendations, relating to council joint ventures Liverpool Direct with British Telecom and Liverpool Enterprise with Enterprise plc.The recommendations include reducing the informal contact between Council staff and those of the contractors, limits on the time between members of staff leaving the council and joining the contractors.The one billion pound Liverpool ONE retail development has opened in Liverpool. A 42 acre area of the city has been cordoned off for 3 years as developers from the Grosvenor Group rebuilt the area.Currently about 40 shops are open and another 120 shops and 20 bars and restaurants will open in September. The area also includes residential development and a cinema. The flagship store is John Lewis.The development is the largest retail development in Europe and contains the longest single-span box bridge in the world. A Novotel and a £50m Hilton Hotel are included in the site. Early next year Chavasse Park will reopen early as well as the 600 flat One Park West tower. BBC Radio Merseyside was one of the first parts of the development to open.The development application for a McDonald's restaurant at Minyama, on Queensland's Sunshine Coast in Australia, has been rejected by the Sunshine Coast Regional Council."We knocked back a Hungry Jack’s on Nicklin Way because of the nuisance code," said divisional councilor Chris Thompson. "We already have a 24-hour McDonald’s at Mooloolaba, only one kilometre away, and there are already [anti-social] issues at that site."Local residents previously vowed to fight any McDonald's development at the proposed site due to the risk of anti-social behavior. Protest group spokesman John Meyer-Gleaves was "over the moon"."It’s not often you knock Maccas [McDonald's] over," he said.Mayor Bob Abbot said Minyama was in some ways more suitable than Mooloolaba. However, he was concerned about the proximity to a residential estate.The rejection is expected to be ratified at an ordinary meeting of the council on Thursday."It needs to be endorsed or ratified by council at its ordinary meeting on Thursday and then it will become a statutory decision of council," Chris Thompson said. "I'm reasonably pleased with the outcome."Local British councillors have reported that they have seized ice cream made from the breast milk of human beings that had been placed on sale in a shop located in London, England, United Kingdom. Officials cited concerns relating to health and safety.A Westminster City Council spokeswoman explained that two complaints made by members of the public were being replied to by the council. The Icecreamists, the marketing company involved with the dessert known as 'Baby Gaga', are fully co-operating with officials who are carrying out tests that are currently ongoing. According to Brian Connell, an individual from the council, "[s]elling foodstuffs made from another person's bodily fluids can lead to viruses being passed on and, in this case, potentially hepatitis." A serving of the ice cream is valued at £14 (US$22.76, €16.49) and is provided in a martini glass. The item became available to purchase during the last week and quickly increased in popularity; within days, the first shipment was sold out.The breast milk was donated by fifteen women who responded to an online advertisement located on a forum aimed at mothers. According to the company, all milk is screened for the "highest and safest" standards before it is pasteurized and prepared for human consumption. It is then mixed with the zest of lemons and vanilla seed cases.Matt O'Connor, who founded the Icecreamists, stated: "As far as we are aware there is no law prohibiting a business from selling breast milk ice cream". He claimed that "[i]f it's good enough for our children, it's good enough for the rest of us" and "[s]ome people will hear about it and go yuck - but actually it's pure organic, free-range and totally natural." Brian Connell, a member of the the Conservative Party in the UK, believes that "[a]s the local authority we will support small businesses and applaud innovative ideas wherever possible, but must protect the health of consumers."The High Court in Edinburgh has today accepted Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi's request to drop his second appeal against his conviction for the Lockerbie bombing. Al-Megrahi was found guilty of planting a bomb on Pan Am Flight 103, which detonated as the aircraft flew over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988 killing all 259 people on board and eleven more on the ground.Megrahi has always protested his innocence. Although his appeal was dismissed in 2002, a review found evidence of a possible miscarriage of justice and granted Megrahi a second appeal. He is terminally ill with prostate cancer and may soon be released on compassionate grounds. Today's hearing was attended by the Reverend John Mosey, whose daughter was killed and who believes in Megrahi's innocence.The conviction remains controversial, with the majority of victims' families in the UK feeling Megrahi is innocent while those in the US believe him to be guilty according to the Daily Telegraph. Doctor Jim Swire, a member of UK Families Flight 103, has threatened to sue the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service over what he feels is a deliberate blocking of justice. Meanwhile, in an earlier interview with Wikinews on the twentieth anniversary of the bombing last year, the then-head of the US group Victims of Pan Am Flight 103, Kara Weipz, told Wikinews that "There is no difference between the truth as we see it and the official version of events. The facts are the facts, Mr. Megrahi is guilty."Wikinews has obtained a statement from Mrs. Weipz's replacement Frank Duggan. In it Duggan maintains that Megrahi should die behind bars in Scotland, casts doubt on the likelihood of a transfer to Libya and attacks the Scottish media's coverage of the case. Dr. Swire has also been contacted with a request to comment."The murderer appealed again, and now seeks, without apparent reason, to withdraw that appeal. The court had little discretion, and absent some grandstanding from the bomber’s attorneys, it is certainly not what the Scottish media is making it out to be. It is NOT the key to Mr. Megrahi's release pursuant to the Prisoner Transfer Agreement, since Article 5 of that agreement states that there cannot be any pending legal action against him. There is, as everyone should know, another appeal pending, which was originally filed before Megrahahi's, objecting to the lenience of the sentence for the murder of 270 innocent souls. In addition, Justice Minister Kenny MacAskill must still rule on the request for transfer, a request made by [Libyan President] Muammar Gadhafi, who has admitted his nation’s guilt in the most egregious case of state-sponsored terrorism in UK history. It is simply inconceivable to us that the Scottish government would respect the wishes of this man. "The American victim’s families cannot understand why Megrahi would withdraw his appeal, unless his attorneys thought that they were not persuading Minister MacAskill that the bomber was indeed on his deathbed. That is a more likely scenario since they had been saying he had one foot in the grave for the past year. If the rumors of his impending release, fueled by the Herald, Guardian, Scotsman and other “newspapers” were meant to test public opinion about his release, either by Prisoner Transfer or Compassionate Release, then the trial balloon was successful. There has been worldwide outrage and opprobrium that this man might get to go home to a hero’s welcome in Libya. "The only other reason we can imagine is that his attorneys were not aware of the other pending appeal, and are perhaps taking advice from that legal scholar, Prof. Robert Black, who still maintains that there was insufficient evidence in the first trial and appeal. Black has been wrong about every step of this case from the beginning, yet he and Dr. James Swire are given full opportunity to express their views of the evidence in the UK “newspapers.”"The convicted bomber should not be transferred under any subsequent agreement since the arrangements for the trial in the Netherlands promised that if convicted, the defendant would serve his prison term in Scotland. As to the application for release on compassionate grounds, this has caused the most uproar around the world. News media, not so many in Scotland I regret to say, wonder just how much compassion was shown by Megrahi and Libya when they planted a bomb designed to murder hundreds of innocent, unsuspecting lives."Megrahi is now set to complete his sentence in HMP Greenock, where he is to serve a minimum of 27 years, barring any further developments.Only weeks before the Canadian government in Ottawa is expected to table a budget which may trigger a national election, the announcement of a proposed 3.2 billion CAD merger between the Toronto (TSX:X) and London (LSE:LSE) stock exchanges to produce the largest single exchange.Even as news was beginning to leak about the mega-merger, Deutsche Börse AG (FWB:DB1) and NYSE Euronext (NYSE:NYX) announced deep negotiations under way regarding a merger between the third and second, respectively, largest exchange groups by total revenues. The proposed TMX-LSE group merger would produce the largest market in terms of listings - approximately 6,700 companies are traded between the two groups - but total annual receipts would likely not make it the largest in dollars.Technically the merger is a takeover of Toronto-based TMX by the LSE Group, with LSE shareholders owning 55% of the new company. TMX head Thomas Kloet would become CEO of the new firm, while LSE's executive would take chairmanship of a new board consisting of 8 members from LSE and 7 from TMX.Canadian Industry Minister Tony Clement has said the government will review the merger, which raises the spectre of a government rejection of a deal which would see yet another large Canadian corporation under foreign ownership. The ruling conservatives have been dogged by the issue, and have blocked two other foreign ownership bids during the current government's terms - last year's Potash Corp. (TSX:POT) takeover bid from BHP Billiton (BHP.AX) and the earlier Alliant Techsystems Inc. (NYSE:ATK) bid for MacDonald (TSX:MDA) space technologies branch, the only two such blocks ever made by a Canadian government.Canadian opposition parties challenged the Prime Minister over the proposal, with New Democratic Party leader Jack Layton questioning the benefits of the deal. "Of course, Canadian companies need access to foreign capital, but not at the expense of our own capital markets," he said. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper refused to comment on the proposal, having been criticised for involving his office in the Potash bid.Both the Quebec and Ontario regulatory commissions are also involved in reviewing the deal, which is set for October 2011, as their provincial exchanges are in Montreal and Toronto respectively.An 18-year-old UK student suspected of throwing a fire extinguisher from the roof of the headquarters of the Conservative Party ('Tories'), 30 Millbank, London, was arrested on Monday. He was today released on bail after a court appearance.Edward Woollard, who is studying A-levels in Philosophy, Politics, and Classics, at Brockenhurst College in the New Forest, attended last Wednesday's student protests in London, before following a crowd of around 200 students into the Tory HQ and making it to the building's roof, whilst the rest of the building was vandalised. Watched by thousands of students gathered outside, a fire extinguisher was thrown from the roof, giving glancing blows to two police officers on the ground 70 feet (21 metres) below. Over sixty arrests have been made in conjunction with the protest.The sixth-form student, who was wanted on suspicion of attempted murder earlier this week, handed himself in at his local police station and was taken to Belgravia police station for questioning. Today, he appeared at Westminster Magistrates' Court charged with violent disorder, speaking only to confirm his name age and address. His lawyer, Matthew Foot, sought adjournment to examine video evidence, and the trial was adjourned until 24 November. Until then, Woollard has been granted bail, on condition that he remains at his current address, and does not enter the City of Westminster.Friends expressed shock at the arrest, and have created a supportive Facebook page. One fellow student described Woolard as the "most laid back, decent and nicest bloke" he had ever met; another wrote that "[Edward] has such a good heart and he would never intentionally hurt anyone."Oxfam  and several other fair trade-organisations organised coffee tables all over Flanders  to celebrate the World Fair Trade Day. The combined length of the tables at different locations was meant to exceed 2015 meters (to remind people of the U.N. millennium development goals for 2015), but eventually reached over 3000 meters.The fair trade organisations distributed a petition addressed to European commissioners for Trade Peter Mandelson and commissioner for Development and Humanitarian Aid Louis Michel, in which they asked for:Market regulations to compensate the small farmers for the instabilities in the natural resource pricesAccess to information about the coffee marketThe right for networks of small farmers in Africa to join negotiations.Hundreds of volunteers across Flanders lured people to the tables with free fair trade coffee, hot chocolate and cake. The action came at the end of a month were films and debates brought the situation of small coffee farmers in Africa under the attention.Lord Howard, the former United Kingdom (UK) Conservative Party leader, and Alistair Darling, the former UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, set out their opposing views regarding the UK's continuing membership of the European Union at the Confederation of British Industry's (CBI) annual dinner on Wednesday.The dinner was held as the UK is expected to vote on the matter in next month's EU referendum. Lord Howard encouraged those in attendance to vote for the UK to leave the EU, while Mr Darling was speaking in favour of a vote to remain.Responding to the CBI calling for the UK to remain in the EU, Lord Howard referred to the organisation's previous calls to become a full member of the European Monetary System and the Euro, saying these calls had been wrong, and suggesting this reduces the credibility of the CBI's current stance. Lord Howard also said if the UK left the EU and didn't replace it with some trade deal, which he described as "inconceivable", then the UK's exports would face EU import tariffs of 2.4% on average. He compared this to the UK's net contribution to the EU's budget, which he said was "equivalent to a seven per cent tariff."Mr Darling reminded the audience of warnings from Mark Carney, Governor of the Bank of England, and Christine Lagarde, head of the International Monetary Fund, that leaving the EU could lead to a recession in the UK. Mr Darling said this "would be disastrous for working people's life chances and living standards".The referendum is expected to take place on June 23.A power outage in a large portion of Los Angeles, California occurred at approximately 13:00 PST (20:00 UTC) on Monday.  Reports from the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power indicate that the incident was caused by a worker who accidentally cut a line.  The outage caused a chain reaction that took out power to a large part of the city.According to local television stations, power is being returned to some of the city, including the UCLA Medical Center.  Police are on "full tactical alert", meaning that they will only respond to serious calls and all officers must remain on duty.  Most officers are directing traffic.Los Angeles International Airport briefly was affected but generators engaged shortly thereafter.  No flights were delayed or cancelled.According to the Department of Water and Power, the shutdown happened because of a mechanical problem at two receiving stations. The system automatically triggered a shutdown when a line was cut.  DWP spokesman Ron Deaton said that if there is an increase in the power stations automatically shut down. "You cut the wrong wire and it triggers the system to shut down. We have finished repairing the transmission systems.  Some units are not up yet, but we have other generating parts of the system.  All that remains is the distribution of the power to the individual customers."The DWP is currently restoring power by redirecting it from other areas.The DWP, LAPD, the DOD and Department of Homeland security immediately assured the public that the power outage has nothing to do with terrorism or sabotage, and that the identity of the worker(s) who cut the power lines will not be released.3, the 3G mobile phone firm owned by Hong Kong based Hutchison Whampoa has reported pre-tax, pre-exceptional losses of HK$37.5bn (US$4.8bn/€3.7bn) for 2004. This compares with losses of HK$19.6bn (US$2.5/€1.94bn) in 2003 when the company was only in operation for seven months.Despite the losses, Hutchison Whampoa chairman Li Ka-Shing said "3 achieved substantial business momentum in 2004". The firm now has over eight million customers worldwide, with three million of these in the UK.3 was the first 3G provider in the UK, ahead of incumbent Vodafone by launching in 2003. Vodafone currently has about 200,000 customers for its 3G service in Britain.Irish low fares airline, Ryanair, this week celebrated its 20th birthday. Having reached the milestone, the airline promptly used the opportunity, as always, to sell seats; launching a massive 200,000 seat sale at 99p/99c a seat.The airline was founded in 1985 by the Irish businessman, Dr Tony Ryan. It began its existence flying a small 15 seat aircraft between Waterford and London Gatwick with the small aim of breaking the duopoly on London-Ireland flights, held at that time by British Airways and Aer Lingus. Today however, the airline now flies to over 200 European destinations with its fleet of 84 Boeing 737's and is awaiting the arrival of a future 225 aircraft from Boeing.The company today carries as much as 3m passengers a month (depending on the season) and has revealed it made a profit of €245m (USD$307,916,000) in the past year. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary has stated that the airline will carry over 70m passengers annually within five years. The notoriously eccentric Mullingar man went on to tell the press "The very fact that a Mickey Mouse Irish airline can start in a field in Waterford 20 years ago and in 20 years overtake the world's self-styled, self proclaimed favourite airline is testament to the almost unstoppable demand for low airfare travel around Europe."To demonstrate the huge drop in airfares over the last year, the company claimed while the price of a Ryanair seat had dropped from £99.99 in 1985 to 99p today, the price of a pint of beer had trebled and the average house price in England had increased by 500%.The pilots' union of German airline Lufthansa have begun, and then suspended, a four-day strike over pay and job security. Operations at subsidiary airlines Lufthansa Cargo and Germanwings were also affected by the strike, but operations have returned to normal.The strike began at midnight on Monday (18:00 Sunday EST) after negotiations between the airline and union, Vereinigung Cockpit, over the weekend failed to resolve the threat. According to the union, the strike was over reduced flying time for the pilots, triggered by Lufthansa's recent acquisition of several smaller airlines, which the union says is causing traffic to be diverted from union-operated routes. Additionally, the union was seeking a pay increase of 6.4% and guarantees that German labor conditions would apply to Lufthansa crews from abroad, which would reduce the incentive for outsourcing to foreign crews. In a statement issued by Lufthansa, however, the airline said that the union also demanded a greater say in the operation of the airline, which Lufthansa was unwilling to agree to.On Monday, less than 24 hours after it began, the union suspended the strike, agreeing to resume negotiations.  A spokesman for the union said Lufthansa and the union had reached an agreement after a hearing at a Frankfurt court, where Lufthansa had filed an injunction against the union, calling the strike "disproportionate."  The strike is to be officially lifted at midnight Monday, although it's unclear when operations will return to normal.  While not ruling out future action, the union agreed not to strike again until at least March 9.The strike has impacted around 10,000 passengers worldwide in the one day it was in place, with about half of Lufthansa's flights being cancelled.  The airline attempted to accommodate the disruptions by arranging alternative travel for passengers; train travel for domestic travelers, and booking travel on other airlines for international passengers.Computer hacking group Lulz Security has attacked a server of one of the United States affiliates of Nintendo, a Japanese-based video gaming company. Nintendo themselves confirmed the news on Sunday, with a statement from the corporation reporting that the unit was illegally accessed "a few weeks ago".Speaking on behalf of the corporation, Ken Toyoda had claimed that "[t]here were no third-party victims" but acknowledged "there was some kind of possible hacking attack". According to Tomokazu Nakaura, Nintendo in Japan considers "protection of our customer information" to be the "utmost priority". To adhere to this claim, the corporation does "constantly monitor our security".In this instance, the hackers were not able to gain consumer details as the attacked server did not have any on it, according to Nintendo. On social networking website Twitter LulzSec defended their actions, tweeting: "We're not targeting Nintendo. We like the N64 too much - we sincerely hope Nintendo plugs the gap. This is just for lulz. <3"Nintendo has reported that the issue has now been rectified and that the incident will have no effect on their intentions to launch an e-shop in association with one of their products, the Nintendo 3DS, a games console which allows users to play games in a three-dimensional space without the requirement of glasses.Recently, LulzSec has claimed responsibility for a number of Internet attacks that have occurred during 2011. Amongst those were three aimed at the Sony online network. The first attack occurred in April, when the group hacked the PlayStation Network, placing the personal details of 77 million users at risk. This prompted Sony Pictures Entertainment to remove access to the network for in excess of one month.The second attack occurred on May 23, when LulzSec unlawfully gained access to the details 52,000 Sony Pictures Entertainment consumers, as well as illegally taking them. In a third incident, LulzSec accepted responsibility for an alleged database hacking on the website for Sony Music in Japan on May 23.Several weeks ago Netherlands based company Mittal Steel made a takeover bid for Arcelor, prompting legislation from Luxembourg (5.6% owners of Arcelor, the largest stockholders) and cries of discrimination from India.Mittal is owned by the world's fifth wealthiest man, Laskshmi Mittal, an Indian. After the takeover bid, the Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce attempted to introduce new rules that would stop companies with less than 25% of their shares in free float from making a cash and bid offer for a company whose location is in Luxembourg. India news reports then claimed that this was a discriminatory action because Laskshmi Mittal is an Indian.Luxembourg officials have disputed this, stating that their actions were only due to the need to comply with EU legislation. The country's minister for economy and foreign trade, Leannot Krecke, stated, "The government will have no role in impeding the bid. We intend to bring the takeover bill in May to put in the best international practices in our economy." Krecke also stated that a similar bill will have to be brought to the national governments of each of the 25 EU member nations so that they complied with EU legislation. Word of New Delhi's displeasure with Luxembourg's stance seems to have been translated to Luxembourg during a meeting that the finance ministers of both countries had in India. Meanwhile, Mittal has announced that it is prepared to cut the cash portion of its buyout offer. Mittal will do so if Arcelor increases its dividend to shareholders above the 80 cent market consensus. A spokesman for Mittal stated: "If Arcelor decides to distribute extra cash to shareholders, we will consider that as an advance payment on our offer and adjust the cash component of our offer accordingly."US financier Bernard Madoff, the former chairman of the Nasdaq stock index, has been jailed after pleading guilty to all 11 charges of fraud, money laundering, and perjury surrounding a US$50 billion Ponzi scheme."I'm deeply sorry and ashamed," the financier stated during a speech in the New York court. "I believed it would end quickly and I would extricate myself and my clients. This proved difficult and, in the end, impossible."Some of Madoff's victims applauded when the former was handcuffed by officers and taken out of the courtroom to a holding cell where he will await sentencing. Madoff is facing 150 years behind bars, with no chance of parole. Sentencing is set for June 16.Among the charges that Madoff plead guilty to were four counts of fraud, three counts of money laundering, perjury, and making false statements, among others.Judge Denny Chin of Federal District Court ordered that Madoff be remanded as he was awaiting a sentence, rather than letting him out on bail and allowing him to return to his apartment in Manhattan. "He has incentive to flee, he has the means to flee, and thus he presents the risk of flight," the judge said. "Bail is revoked."The wife and sons of Bernard Madoff are now under pressure from prosecutors to give up US$2.6 million worth of jewelery and $31.5 million in loans. Madoff made the news recently when he pleaded guilty to running a Ponzi scheme worth billions of dollars.Prosecutors, who stated their intent on Sunday to seize bonds and cash from Madoff, filed another notice on Tuesday listing assets that they intend to seize, among them "various pieces of jewelry owned or held in the name of Ruth Madoff valued at approximately $2,624,340," and "approximately 35 sets of watches and cufflinks owned by Bernard Madoff," as well as $31.5 million in loans made to Madoff's sons.Bernard Madoff, aged 70, pleaded guilty last Thursday to cheating investors out of as much as $65 billion in the largest ever Ponzi scheme. He was jailed immediately after his plea, and faces a prison sentence of up to 150 years. Neither his wife nor his sons have been accused of any wrongdoing.Amid economic turmoil, rising costs, and the growing popularity of the internet, many magazines are closing or cutting staff, worldwide. The following is a sample of the news.Following the dramatic escape of an Indonesian housemaid from a 15th-floor apartment in Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian government has suspended the licences of 19 housemaid agencies, following complaints of abuse and unpaid wages.The move by the Home Ministry yesterday comes after an Indonesian woman named Ceriyati Dapin climbed from a 15th-floor Sentul apartment on a makeshift cloth rope to escape an employer she said was abusive. In the incident last Saturday, the 33-year-old woman made it to the parapet of the 12th floor when she became fearful and froze. She was eventually rescued by the fire brigade. She said she had been repeatedly beaten and starved by her employer.The maid agency that sent Ceriyati to her employer was a company called Kemas Cerah, and it is among the agencies suspended. The employer was arrested on Monday and remains in custody while police investigate Ceriyati's claims, a police spokesman told the Associated Press."The maid was supposed to be sent to an employer in Terengganu but was indiscriminately sent to another employer," Home Minister Radzi Sheikh Ahmad was quoted as saying by Bernama news agency.In Indonesia, where newspapers have been carrying the story on their front pages, the Malaysian embassy in Jakarta assured the Indonesian government it was doing all it could to investigate the case.In addition to suspending the agencies, 85 agency owners and managers have been blacklisted, and will be prevented from opening new operations under different names, the ministry said."They have until the end of this month to appeal the suspension and if they fail to do so, their permits will be immediately terminated," Radzi was quoted as saying by the New Straits Times.This was the first time the ministry has taken such an action on maid abuse, Radzi added.An industry group, the Malaysian Association of Foreign Maid Agencies, or Persatuan Agensi Pekerja Asing (PAPA), said it was shocked by the government's move, and that it could inconvenience maids."We panicked when news of this came out. No show-cause letters were given, nor were we informed by the ministry beforehand on the decision," the group's president, Raja Zulkepley Dahalan, was quoted as saying by The Star. "In addition to this, 12 of those agencies are registered under Papa, and have a good track record," Raja Zulkepley said.The suspensions will leave maids in a lurch, Raja Zulkepley said."Almost every day, about 200 maids from various countries, especially from Indonesia, make their way into the country," he told The Star. "With these 19 agencies under suspension, these maids are all now stuck in immigration and others in hostels, unable to move anywhere. We dare not even think about the other maids who are coming tomorrow, or the day after."  Malaysia relies heavily on migrant labour, mainly Indonesians, for such jobs as domestic servants, construction and plantation work.Around 1,200 Indonesian housemaids run away from their employers every month, according to the Associated Press, often because of abuse, unpaid salaries or harsh working conditions.The government has established a 24-hour hotline for reports on maid abuse. The hotline numbers are 03-8880 1455 and 03-8880 1399.Four major cell phone makers, Motorola, NEC, Panasonic, and Samsung, and two wireless providers, NTT DoCoMo and Vodafone, have announced they will work together to provide a Linux-based platform for cell phones.  This move could threaten the dominance Symbian and Microsoft in the operating systems market for cell phones.Peter Gorham, an independent market analyst, said "Linux is also rock solid, unlike some of the existing operating systems.  It would mean no more taking your batteries out of your phone to get it to reboot. And this would make things a lot easier for application developers."On the lack of U.S. provider's support in this alliance, Gorham said "I am surprised that there aren’t any American carriers involved in this alliance, but they are probably skeptical about the longevity of these kinds of alliances.  But Motorola and Samsung have a vested interest in the success of this thing, in part because they have a large customer, Vodafone, involved."This alliance is not the first effort to standardize on Linux for cell phones.  Several groups are currently working on this, including Linux Phone Standard Forum, Open Source Development Lab, and Electronics Linux Forum.According to Christy Wyatt, vice president of market development at Motorola, said this effort differs from other efforts because it will establish a common platform for all participating manufacturers.Linux is already being utilized on some mobile devices.  Motorola has already shipped five million of these including the Ming model for China and Rokr E2 music phone in Asia.  The Rokr E2 will be available in Europe soon.A significant portion of the American LGBT media landscape is about to become a conglomerate. Thursday, PlanetOut Inc. (PlanetOut.com, Gay.com) sent out a press release stating it signed a definitive merger agreement with Here Networks LLC (operator of cable network here!) and Regent Entertainment Media Inc. (properties including magazines The Advocate, Out).The deal comes after PlanetOut had been on the market for nearly a year. The company sold its magazine and book publishing businesses back in April, and its vacation company in December.The newly formed public holding company, Here Media Inc., will be helmed by Chairman Stephen P. Jarchow and CEO Paul Colichman. Its unknown whether any of struggling PlanetOut's jobs will be cut.Plans are for all three companies to operate separately, as of subsidiaries of Here Media. The agreement still has to be approved by a majority of PlanetOut common stock holders, comply with regulatory filings and approvals, and meet various closing conditions.PlanetOut shareholders will represent only 20% of Here Media Inc.'s shares.U.S. President George W. Bush signed into law Wednesday a major bankruptcy reform bill, making the most sweeping changes to the laws of personal bankruptcy in the past two decades.  Bill S.256 is predicted to reduce the chances of filing Chapter 7 bankruptcy for 30,000 to 210,000 families per year, according to the American Bankruptcy Institute.The legislation was strongly opposed by some consumer advocates and by some Democrats in Congress, who complained about the lack of debate on exemptions they attempted to introduce and tried to derail the passage of the bill.  Those who are unable to file for Chapter 7 bankruptcy will then be forced to file under Chapter 13, which requires payment of some debts by order of a judge based on the financial resources of the debtor.Opponents said the bill will end a chance for a fresh start in the financial lives of the American people by keeping them in debt to collection agencies, as well as credit card companies and banks who have made it easy to obtain high credit limits amid mounting consumer debt.In his remarks before signing the bill, which he supported, Bush said, "The bipartisan bill I'mabout to sign makes common-sense reforms to our bankruptcy laws.  By restoringintegrity to the bankruptcy process, this law will make our financial systemstronger and better.  By making the system fairer for creditors and debtors,we will ensure that more Americans can get access to affordable credit."The bankruptcy bill received a 302-126 approval in the house, after receiving a 74-25 vote in the Senate last month following strong, mostly partisan debate.The US bankruptcy system was established in 1898.  It allowed judges and debtors to come to terms with the costly medical bills that can follow a relative's death, or a family illness. Such cases form nearly half of all bankruptcies filed in the USA, according to the American Bankruptcy Institute.Now many of those people will have to work out repayment plans suitable to creditors instead of having debts erased by a judge, according to the new law, which takes effect in six months.In the past, a judge or court representative would calculate an individual's income and subtract necessities of life to come up with a practical repayment plan of some debt. The new law stipulates that a graph, showing the poverty level in whichever state the consumer is living will be the criteria.  It assumes that if people can subsist at that poverty level, then everything over that can be used to repay creditors.Additionally, a provision that allowed debtors to file their own Chapter 7 fresh start bankruptcy has been changed to require a lawyer, paid by the debtor, to do the filing.The new law also erased "usury" provisions in lending laws, with some lawmakers saying that paying 30 percent interest was not too much when a debtor was behind on payments.But Bush said that credit will "be more affordable because when bankruptcy is less common, credit can be extended to more people at better rates,"  meeting demands of the credit card companies which they have been pressing for the last eight years."The big winners under the new law will be the special interests that literally wrote it, particularly the credit card industry," said Travis B. Plunkett, legislative director of the Consumer Federation of America. "This is particularly ironic because reckless and abusive lending practices by credit card companies have driven many Americans to the brink of bankruptcy."The forces arrayed on the losing side of this bill said it will hurt low-income working people, single mothers, minorities, and elderly and will end a safety net for people who have lost jobs or face major medical bills. People who fail (refuse) to pay or refuse to go to court will punished by a fine and or arrest warrant made out in their name. About fifty thousand Americans will be punished by a fine and or warrant about three thousand Americans every year will go to jail under the new bankruptcy law. For some people this will be a third strike so they will be put in jail for life.But Mallory Duncan, a lawyer for the National Retail Federation, said "Bankruptcy has gone from a stigma to a financial planning tool for many."New personal bankruptcy filings have increased from 172,423 in 1978 to 1,599,986 last year, an increase of 828% during that time; however, it edged down slightly last year.About 2 percent to 13 percent of those who dissolve their debts in Chapter 7 bankruptcy each year in exchange for forfeiting some assets will be disqualified from doing so under the law, according to the American Bankruptcy Institute.Bankruptcy lawyers anticipate a rush to the courthouse to beat the six-month window before the new reforms take effect.The fourth annual Maker Faire took place this past weekend at the San Mateo Fairground in San Mateo, California located in the United States. The first Maker Faire, which took place in 2006, had approximately 20,000 people in attendance. This year, more than 80,000 people were expected to attend; quadruple the attendance of just four years prior. On Saturday night, it was reported that attendance was up considerably over last year's event.Maker Faire, the self-declared "World's Largest DIY Festival", offers a forum where hundreds of makers and crafters alike man booths where they display their work. In the main halls alone, there were hundreds of booths. Outside the expo halls, the surrounding area was also filled with many interesting projects, some of which were mobile. In addition to all of the projects on display, there were a number of on-stage presentations. The biggest presentation of the weekend was given by Adam Savage who spoke on the topic of his "Colossal Failures". During his talk, the Fiesta Hall was filled to capacity. The theme for this year's fair was "Remake: America" after President Obama's call to "begin again the work of remaking America". In addition, "going green", alternative fuel vehicles, crafting, steampunk and sciences for the young, were common themes found throughout the fair.Proton, a car company in Malaysia has announced that it plans to begin building a car specifically for Muslims.They will work with other car makers in Iran and Turkey to build an "Islamic" car, which would the first car of its kind and will be unlike any other car on the world's market."What they (Iran) want to do is to call that an Islamic car. We will identify a car that we can develop and produce it in Malaysia, Iran or Turkey. For Proton, we are more than happy because we have products that we can share," said Syed Zainal Abidin Syed Mohamed Tahir, the chief executive of Proton. The idea was originally proposed by Iran.Features are to include a compartment for the person's headscarf and Qur'an as well as a compass that will constantly point in the direction of Mecca, Saudi Arabia.Currently, Volkswagen which is headquartered in Germany, is in negotiations to partner with Proton and American automaker General Motors Corporation. Proton has been posting financial losses, with over US$160 million lost in 2007 alone.Satire site Uncyclopedia, a parody of online encyclopedia Wikipedia, has been labeled by the Malaysian government as dangerous. The Internal Security Department of Malaysia issued the warning today, saying that the site has "messages and information insulting Malaysia".The warning notes the creation date of the website as being 5 January 2005, and hosted by Wikia, Inc., both of which are correct. However, it claims Wikia owns Wikipedia; Wikipedia is a charitable non-profit website owned by the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation, while Wikia is an independent, for-profit company.The report evidently mentions that Uncyclopedia covers Malaysian "history, culture, the political leaders, the government, the national song and the name / history of the national flag," none of which is "correct". They accuse the website of helping to reinforce a bad international image of their country.There are no reports of the site being blocked from access within the country, only this statement, which urges Malaysians not to circulate the content.Uncyclopedia's article on Malaysia begins:The site has fired back with a parody article posted at the site under their UnNews section, titled Uncyclopedia Internal Security Department warns on Malaysia. The article suggests that the "Internal Security Department of the Uncyclomedia Foundation," which is a facetious and fictitious parent organization of Uncyclopedia, identifies Malaysia "as a dangerous country... It warned its people not to use the country today."There are forty-seven individual language editions of Uncyclopedia, including Tolololpedia, which is written in Bahasa Melayu, the Malay language. This is in addition to fictional "language" editions which include Oscar Wilde, Newspeak, N00b, White Supremacist, and Re: PharmaccgRy.Javed Iqbal, owner of Brooklyn-based television company HDTV Ltd., was arrested yesterday by United States government authorities for airing content from al-Manar (The Beacon).  According to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Iqbal has been charged with conspiracy to violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.  Government authorities also searched the HDTV Ltd. office and Iqbal's home in Staten Island on suspicion of maintaining satellite dishes.According to documents filed in U.S. District Court in Manhattan, the arrest followed a tip from a confidential source in February.  A lawyer representing Iqbal, Mustapha Ndanusa, described the accusations against his client — violating U.S. law by providing news outlets to people with a satellite dish — as "completely ridiculous".  If convicted, Iqbal faces up to five years in prison.Al-Manar was launched by Hezbollah in 1991.  The U.S. Department of the Treasury has declared al-Manar a Specially Designated Global Terrorist entity pursuant to Executive Order 13224, which criminalizes business conduct with al-Manar and prohibits their access to American news outlets.  France and Spain have also prohibited al-Manar broadcasts.  Transmission of al-Manar broadcasts in North America via Intelsat have been blocked since December 17, 2004, when the U.S. Department of State placed al-Manar on the Terrorist Exclusion List.The criminality of Iqbal actions are also subject to the First Amendment rights of the U.S. Constitution, which states in part; "Congress shall make no law...abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press..."Last month, Paul D. Ceglia filed suit against Facebook, the world's largest social network, claiming that he rightfully owns 84 percent of the company. The lawsuit, filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, bases its claims on a 2003 contract between Ceglia and Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg. The contract reportedly states that Zuckerberg would give Ceglia 50 percent ownership in the company in exchange for designing a website "similar to a live functioning yearbook with the working title of 'The Face Book'," and paying a US$1000 fee. Ceglia would also get an extra percentage point every day after January 1, 2004 until the work was completed. Earlier this month, Judge Thomas Brown issued a temporary restraining order that prevents transfer of Facebook's assets in light of the ongoing lawsuit. According to Victor P. Goldberg, who teaches at Columbia University's Law School, the lawsuit may get tripped up by the statute of limitations, which is six years in New York. PC World says that one problem with Ceglia's claim is that the contract was purportedly signed in 2003, while Zuckerberg didn't register the domain name thefacebook.com until January 2004.This is not the first time Ceglia has appeared in court. In 2009, New York's Attorney General Andrew Cuomo accused Ceglia of fraud. The state claims that Ceglia took more than $200,000 from customers of a wood-pellet fuel company, and failed to deliver any products or refunds; this case is still ongoing. A Facebook spokesman has stated that they believe this suit is completely frivolous and will fight it vigorously.Beginning in 2006, all horses in the EU will be required to have passports, according to new rules from the European Union. Two thirds of all horses in Sweden are estimated to not have passports, Britta Lundström at the Swedish Ministry of Agriculture (Jordbruksverket) told news agency TT.If the owner of a horse doesn't get a passport for their animal before the end of the year, they will be breaking the law. The Ministry of Agriculture has had problems reaching horse owners who don't read horse magazines. Because of this, the ministry is planning a campaign this autumn.The passport contains information on the owner, the race and number. A photograph isn't mandatory but a description of the horse's appearance is required.On Thursday in a meeting at New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman's office, Maria Contreras-Sweet Group, billionaire Ron Burkle, and a number of other investors acquired assets of The Weinstein Company for reportedly about US$500 million. The Weinstein Company had financial difficulties and was nearly bankrupt after Harvey Weinstein was accused of sexual misconduct by dozens of women last year, which impacted the business budget.At least two of The Weinstein Company board of directors — consisting of Tarak Ben Ammar, Lance Maerov and Bob Weinstein — participated in the meeting, according to The New York Times. Maria Contreras-Sweet Group was represented by Maria Contreras-Sweet and Ron Burkle. The New York Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman was also in the meeting.Maria Contreras-Sweet Group agreed to pay The Weinstein Company's debt, sized at US$225 million, reports indicated. The acquisition would save around 150 jobs held at the Weinstein Company. Maria Contreras-Sweet Group announced the deal, also confirmed by The Weinstein Company. The deal was expected to take about 40 days to be completed.The agreement required Maria Contreras-Sweet Group to protect the jobs of company employees, and establish a victim compensation fund which would compensate victims of Harvey Weinstein's alleged sexual misconduct while not rewarding the "bad actors", as Schneiderman put it — people who had contributed to the sexual misconduct. The victim compensation fund would allegedly be around US$90 million, according to reports.New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman filed a lawsuit against The Weinstein Company in early February of this year. He reportly indicated he might settle the lawsuit after the deal is finalized.Maria Contreras-Sweet Group said they would use the assets in creating a new movie studio with a majority-female leadership.The Weinstein Company said on Monday, three days before the deal announcement, it intended to file for bankruptcy as it could not find a buyer that would keep it afloat until the deal would be finalized.The Weinstein Company was founded in 2005.Fazio has stepped down after an investigation into his role in a controversial bank takeover.  Mario Draghi is to fill his shoes.  Draghi's former job was managing director of the investment bank Goldman Sachs.  Draghi will serve a six year term under a new law that set term limits for the Central banks governor passed last week.Draghi, who is 58, has had senior government positions in the past including director general of the Italian treasury.  He was born in Rome and earned a doctorate in economics from MIT in 1976.  After earning his degree he taught at the University of Florence until 1991.  During this time Draghi was an Executive Director of the World Bank.  During his tenure as director general of the treasury he carried out extensive privatisation and was appointed chairman of the Italian Committee for Privatisations.  Analysts say he has a good reputation but "Draghi has a tough job to restore the Bank of Italy's credibility, but he is appreciated internationally and has done a lot of jobs and done them well," said Luigi Speranza, an economist with BNP Paribas.Lorenzo Codogno, an economist with Bank of America, looks forward to Draghi's tenure as the governor of the central bank "His appointment should lead to a more open Italian bank market which will, in the end, mean Italians have to pay less for their bank services."Top broker and Wall Street adviser Bernard L. Madoff, aged 70, was arrested and charged by the FBI on Thursday with a single count of securities fraud, also known as stock fraud and investment fraud. He allegedly told senior employees of his firm on Wednesday that his $50 billion business "is all just one big lie" and that it was "basically, a giant Ponzi scheme (since at least 2005)." Mr. Madoff faces up to 20 years imprisonment and a fine of up to $5 million. FBI agent Theodore Cacioppi said Mr. Madoff's investment advisory business had "deceived investors by operating a securities business in which he traded and lost investor money, and then paid certain investors purported returns on investment with the principal received from other, different investors, which resulted in investors' losses of approximately $50 billion dollars."  The former chairman of the Nasdaq Stock Market is also the founder and primary owner of Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, the closely-held market-making firm he launched in 1960. The firm is one of the top market maker firms on Wall Street. He founded his family firm with an initial investment of $5,000, after attending Hofstra University Law School. He saved the money earned from a job lifeguarding at Rockaway Beach in Queens and a part time job installing underground sprinkler systems.A force in Wall Street trading for nearly 50 years, he has been active in the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), a self-regulatory organization for the U.S. securities industry. His firm was one of the five most active firms in the development of the NASDAQ, having been known for "paying for order flow," in other word paying a broker to execute a customer's order through Madoff. He argued that the payment to the broker did not alter the price that the customer received. He ran the investment advisory as a secretive business, however.Dan Horwitz, counsel of Mr. Madoff, in an interview, said that "he is a longstanding leader in the financial-services industry with an unblemished record; he is a person of integrity; he intends to fight to get through this unfortunate event." Mr. Madoff was released on his own recognizance on the same day of his arrest, after his 2 sons turned him in, and posting $10 million bail secured by his Manhattan apartment. Without entering any plea, the Court set the preliminary hearing for January 12.Madoff's hedge fund scheme may rank among the biggest fraud in history. When former energy trading giant Enron filed for bankruptcy in 2001, one of the largest at the time, it had $63.4 billion in assets. The scheme would dwarf past Ponzis, and it would further be nearly five times the telecommunication company WorldCom fraud and bankruptcy proceedings in 2002.The Securities and Exchange Commission filed a separate civil suit on Thursday against Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities and its eponymous founder Mr. Madoff. It was docketed as "U.S. v. Madoff," 08-MAG-02735, by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan). SEC, New York associate director of enforcement, Andrew M. Calamari, asked the judge to issue seizure orders on the firm and its assets, and appoint a receiver. The SEC pleads, among others, that "it was an ongoing $50 billion swindle; our complaint alleges a stunning fraud that appears to be of epic proportions." It further accused the defendant of "paying returns to certain investors out of the principal received from other, different investors" for years. Madoff's hedge fund business had previously claimed to have served between 11 and 25 clients and had $17.1 billion in assets under management. But virtually all of the assets were missing.United States District Court for the Southern District of New York Louis L. Stanton on Thursday appointed Lee Richards, a Manhattan lawyer, as the firm's receiver. A hearing is set for Friday, for a ruling on the SEC's petition to grant plenary powers to the receiver over the entire firm, and an absolute asset sequestration.Doug Kass, president of hedge fund Seabreeze Partners Management said that "this is a major blow to confidence that is already shattered -- anyone on the fence will probably try to take their money out."Stock markets across the world fell dramatically this week on worries that recent government moves might not prevent a global recession. The largest drop was with the Dow Jones (DJIA), which fell 678 points or more than 7.3% to below 9,000, closing at 8,579.19. The index fell over 2,000 points in the past nine days to reach its lowest level since 2003. The S&P 500 was down more than 7%.The U.S. markets opened on the positive side, but with bad news coming from several different areas such as uncertainty over whether the 700 billion USD bank bailout bill passed by the United States House of Representatives and the Senate will be effective. Concerns over the lack of trading within the credit market was a primary cause of the drop.This was the seventh straight day of markets closing in severely negative numbers.One of the biggest stocks to drop was General Motors, which lost more than 33% of its value.In the UK, the FTSE 100 dropped from a day high of 145 points to 52.9 points lower, at a 4 year low. The biggest drop was Barclays, which dropped 13.1%.The only major world indexes that gained any value were the Hang Seng in Hong Kong, which closed up 511.51 points or 3.31%, and the Russian RTS, which partly recovered from yesterday's fall with a 10.91% increase."Markets are still sceptic with regards to the international coordination to face the problems of the financial system," explained Barclays Capital economists, and they predicted stocks would continue to be volatile.Investors are awaiting the outcome of several meetings that will be held this weekend. Finance ministers from the G7 will be gathering in Washington, and the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank will be holding their autumn meetings.Global stock markets fell today, in a mass sell-off stemming from the sub-prime mortgage crisis in the United States. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rebounded late in the day after falling more than 250 points, ending the day down about 31 points. The UK's FTSE-100 index fell 232.90 points to 6038.30, and Japan's Nikkei 225 fell 406.51 points to 16764.09. Central banks across the world are injecting funds into their banking systems to add liquidity, fearing that many financial firms with subprime ties will be insolvent. Yesterday, the U.S. Federal Reserve transferred US$24 billion to temporary reserves, following the European Central Bank, which authorized a record €83.6 billion addition to its banks, its biggest cash infusion ever. On Friday, the Fed entered into a $38 billion repurchase agreement of mortgage-backed securities, easing stockholder worries. Also on Friday, the Bank of Japan injected ¥1 trillion into Japan's financial system.  The Federal Reserve met this week, but decided to maintain its target rate of 5.25%, although on Friday the federal funds rate was hovering around 6%, indicating a drop in liquidity. The volatile week began last Friday with Bear Stearns tumbling as a result from its complete loss of two major hedge funds worth more than $1.5 billion. The hedge funds had been dangerously exposed to the massive sub-prime mortgage failure, and the company announced it was unable to return any money to investors. Washington Mutual, and Countrywide Financial, both very large U.S. home loan lenders, saw shares fall. Countrywide Financial made a statement this week, saying they will be forced to retain a greater proportion of mortgage. American Home Mortgage Investment Corp, another large lender, recently filed for bankruptcy. The U.S. housing market has been declining for more than two years after the Federal Reserve raised interest rates 17 times. Now, lenders are in a quagmire from millions of people who are unable to repay loans after taking adjustable rate mortgages, teaser rates, interest-only mortgages, or piggyback rates. Jim Cramer, of CNBC's Mad Money, remarked that as many as seven million people will lose their homes from bad mortgages. Last Friday, Cramer went on a tirade on CNBC's Street Signs, saying that the "Fed was asleep" and called for them to lower rates immediately. Asian and European markets have become increasingly entangled in the subprime mortgage crisis in the U.S. Deutsche Bank of Germany lost almost $3.5 billion in share value, forcing the government to organize a bail-out. France's largest bank, BNP Paribas SA, halted withdrawals from three large investment funds which were crippled by sub-prime exposure.Stock indexes around the globe reacted favorably after several national banks announced a joint effort to pump more money into the markets. At 0800 UTC, the Bank of Canada, the Bank of England, the European Central Bank (ECB), the United States Federal Reserve, the Bank of Japan, and the Swiss National Bank jointly announced that they would be working together to provide reciprocal credit arrangements to institutions facing a financial crush from the U.S. dollar. The credit arrangements, also known as "swap lines", will be used to help short-term funding of smaller loan groups.Totaling US$180 billion, the Federal Reserve arranged to increase existing swap lines with the European Central Bank from US$55 billion to US$110 billion, and with the Swiss National Bank from US$12 billion to US$27 billion. Additionally, it opened new swap lines with the Bank of Japan for up to US$60 billion, up to US$40 billion with the Bank of England, and up to US$10 billion with the Bank of Canada. These swap lines will be available until January 30, 2009.In its press release, the Federal Reserve stated, "These measures, together with other actions taken in the last few days by individual central banks, are designed to improve the liquidity conditions in global financial markets. The central banks continue to work together closely and will take appropriate steps to address the ongoing pressures."In the first 90 minutes in the American stock markets, the Dow Jones surged nearly 200 points, the NASDAQ was up nearly nine points, and the S&P 500 was up nearly 15 points. Mid-day trading in the European markets saw the UK's FTSE 100 was up 25 points, the DAX was up over 54 points, and the CAC 40 was up nearly 15 points. While Japan's Nikkei index closed at a three-year low of 11,489.30 points, and the Hang Seng bottomed out at 16,283.72 points before closing at 17,849.97 points.The Russian markets continued to remain closed for a third day under orders of the Russian government. Russia announced that it would be infusing their own markets with an additional US$19.7 billion, half of which would come from the federal budget. Russia's exchanges will re-open on Friday morning.The United States's largest car manufacturer General Motors today named Mary Barra as its new chief executive.Barra, 51, will be the first woman to lead a firm in the American auto industry. She has been with General Motors for 33 years, and is currently the global head of product development.She said in a statement: "With an amazing portfolio of cars and trucks and the strongest financial performance in our recent history, this is an exciting time at today’s GM. I’m honored to lead the best team in the business and to keep our momentum at full speed."She replaces Daniel Akerson, who was appointed by the government as both chief executive and chairman in 2009 during the company's bankruptcy. Akerson plans to stand down on January 15 following his wife's advanced cancer diagnosis.In a message to employees, he said: "I will leave with great satisfaction in what we have accomplished, great optimism over what is ahead and great pride that we are restoring General Motors as America’s standard bearer in the global auto industry."Akerson will also relinquish his chairman role, to be replaced by current director Theodore Solso. The company also announced head of finance Daniel Ammann as its new president.The appointment comes just days after the US government sold the last of its shares in the company, losing around $9 billion on its initial bailout in 2008 that saw 61% of the firm coming under public ownership.General Motors recovered from their bankruptcy a year after the appointment of Akerson, and re-entered the stock market in November 2010. It remains the largest car manufacturer in the United States, posting sales figures of $152 billion in 2012. It currently produces fifteen brands of vehicle in 37 countries.Barra holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Kettering University in Flint, Michigan, and was recently listed by Forbes as the 35th most powerful woman in the world.Workers at British industrial plants are staging mass walkouts this morning.The workers are taking unofficial action in support of a three day strike at Lindsey Oil Refinery in Lincolnshire, England. Staff have walked out at sites in Scotland, Wales and Teesside in north eastern England. The original strike was called over the awarding of a contract by refinery owners Total to an Italian company. This brought 300 Italian and Portuguese workers on to the site.The latest reports say workers at the UK's main oil refinery at Grangemouth in Scotland have come out in sympathy, as have workers at the former ICI plant on Teesside in England and at the nearby Corus steel plant. Workers have walked out at a power station in Aberthaw in south Wales and at plants at Fidler's Ferry in Cheshire, at Lackenby in Teesside and at the gas terminals near Peterhead in Scotland and Milford Haven in Wales. A protest outside the Lindsey refinery has now dispersed but local union leaders say it will resume on Monday. The Lindsey strike continues.Secondary industrial action has been illegal in the United Kingdom since the 1980s. However, the penalties apply only to unions organising secondary strikes, not to workers acting individually.Thousands of people, including women and children, have gathered since Sunday on the southern coast of India, to protest against the operation of the nuclear power plant of Kudankulam and the nuclear program of the government.An official announcement stated that the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board's inspection of the reactor pressure vessel of Unit-1 was completed and enriched uranium fuel will be loaded into the first 1000-mw-reactor this month. This was the reason for the people to raise another protest since March this year. The government ordered 4,000 policemen to monitor the surrounding area around the plant site. 300 policemen were in the village of Idinthakarai in the Tirunelveli district. Groups of people tried to block a road and a railway. On Tuesday the BBC World News reported that a 44-year-old fishermen was killed by police while shooting to disperse the demonstrating groups.Authorities of an English TV channel made a complaint because a cameraperson was allegedly injured during the police action. The protests spread to different towns and villages. A group of scientists, doctors, environmentalists, environmental activists, students, and concerned citizens met yesterday in front of the Vidyasagar Statue in College Square, Kolkata to show solidarity with the demonstration around Kudankulam.A 146,000 ton oil tanker carrying a crane has collided with a barge named the Hebei Spirit off the coast of South Korea spilling more than 10,000 metric tons of oil (1.8 million barrels) into the sea in what is being called the country's worst oil spill. There are no reports of any injuries.The tanker has suffered at least three large gashes on its hull and the spill has since began to wash ashore south of Seoul. Residents described the water as all black. Nearly 60 miles (100 kilometers) of shoreline are at risk of being destroyed."We are worried about an ecological disaster. We have set up a boom, trying to stop oil from spreading along the coast, but oil sometimes overflows it depending on the currents. If we fail to contain the spread, it is feared (it will) inflict serious damage to the coast," said spokesman for the ministry of maritime affairs and fisheries for S. Korea, Kim Jong-Sik. He also stressed that the spill has not yet caused any damage which "will depend on how the sea currents move in coming hours. We have 40 vessels out there fighting the oil spill."Emergency workers in the region of Taean are fighting to stop the oil slick, which is over 20km (12 miles) long.MasterCard Inc, the world second-largest credit card issuer, said it can raise up to $2.45 billion issuing 61.5 million shares in an initial public offering on NYSE. The company is to offer outside investors 49% of its shares, covering 83% of voting rights. It is expected to trade on the market under the symbol "MA".Purchase, NY-based MasterCard is currently owned by some 1,400 banks that issue company-branded credit and debit cards, now 716 million worldwide, which makes the issuer second only to Visa.MasterCard earned $213.5 million on revenue of $1.4 billion in the first half of 2005. The company's strongest NYSE-traded rival, American Express, trades at $57.34 a share now.International Labor Day, or May Day, has been marked by protests throughout Switzerland. Roughly 12,000 protesters organized across the country, rallying against the dismantling of social welfare, as well as wage dumping and the large salaries of top company officials.The protests were peaceful, although minor skirmishes did occur in Zurich and Lucerne. These usually involved clashes between left and right extremists rather than with authorities. In one case, bottles and fireworks were used as weapons, but no injuries were reported.Protesters in Geneva demand reform regarding illegal immigration, and equality for men and women. In Zurich trade unions urged the free movement of people, as well as an ending to the pressure on salaries.Vasco Pedrina, Co-president of the union Unia, called the difference between high and low incomes a "existential and human tragedy". Pedrina and others, including Bern mayor Alexander Tschäppät, spoke out during the Saturday and Sunday period of protests.On Thursday, London's Mayor Boris Johnson announced the shortlist of bidders to supply up to ten further trams to Transport for London (TfL) for use on the city's Tramlink network in Croydon. The trams will be used to supply additional capacity on the network between Elmers End, central Croydon and Therapia Lane — one of the most congested parts of the route.TfL, who purchased the Tramlink network from Tramtrack Croydon Ltd. in 2008, announced the plans late January, after submitting the tender to the Official Journal of the European Union (OJEU) on January 29. According to the notice, the additional trams will operate approximately 75,000km per year, will be needed for "at least 10, but not more than 20 years" and can be either new build or existing vehicles that can be modified — at a reasonable cost — to run on the Tramlink infrastructure.The tram fleet is currently made up of 24 Bombardier CR4000 trams, which were constructed for the opening of the 28km network  between 1998 and 2000. 22 of these trams are currently needed to operate the three tram routes each day, and the new service is expected to require at least an additional five trams daily, bringing about the need for a boost to the fleet levels.The shortlist to supply the trams consists of City of Edinburgh/CAF, Stadler (Stadler Pankow GmBH) and Pesa (Pojazdy Szynowe PESA Bydgoszcz S.A.Holding, and the the three consortia will now be invited to submit proposals to supply the additional trams. The Invitation to Tender will run for four weeks.It is not currently known whether the bids made by Stadler and Pesa will be for new-build or second-hand vehicles, however the bid from Edinburgh/CAF is to use a number of the currently-dormant trams that were constructed for that city's own tram network. The system has had several set backs since construction began, with the network now set to open in stages with a number of tram lines (but not the trams to operate them) being cancelled, leading to a large surplus of vehicles that could be hired out in the short term. The trams are amongst some of the longest and heaviest in Europe, though, and will require a large amount of modification to enable them to be able to operate on Croydon's network if the bid is successful.Shortly after the announcement, whilst inspecting one of the network's current trams at East Croydon tram stop, Boris Johnson said: "I have no greater responsibility as Mayor than to ensure people can move around this city with ease, comfort and reliability."Trams in Croydon have proved a major success and this is reflected in journey numbers which have soared by 45 per cent since the network opened in 2000."I look forward to the extra vehicles developing this vital, much-appreciated, and indeed attractive, form of transport further."Funding for the new trams is expected to largely come from TfL, however the London Borough of Croydon has also confirmed a £3m contribution to the project. This will also include the refurbishment of tram stop surrounds.Croydon Council Leader Mike Fisher said: "This is looking like a great deal for Croydon and shows the benefits of an ambitious local authority and committed Mayor working together, pooling resources and expertise."There is real support to get additional trams for Croydon to keep pace with growing demand for Tramlink services and also to secure major improvements for pedestrians and transport users around and between East and West Croydon stations."TfL anticipates that, providing a successful bid is made, the new trams would be delivered to the network's depot at Therapia Lane in late 2011, with an entry into service from early 2012.The Oxford English Dictionary (OED) defines McJob as  "an unstimulating, low-paid job with few prospects." The McDonald's fast-food giant has begun a campaign to have the word removed from the dictionary, or to have its definition changed, by lobbying British MPs. The company has also set up an online petition with the slogan "Change the definition. Sign the petition."Clive Betts, MP for Sheffield Attercliffe agrees with the restaurant chain. Betts has tabled a Commons motion on the issue. The motion has so far gained the support of 15 other MPs.The compilers of the OED point out that they merely record the description of how the word is used, rather than prescribe how it should be used. The term, McJob, has been in usage at least 20 years, they say. It was popularised in 1991  in Douglas Coupland's novel Generation X: Tales for an Accelerated Culture as one of the margin definitions. Here it was described as "a low-pay, low-prestige, low-dignity, low benefit, no-future job in the service sector. Frequently considered a satisfying career choice by people who have never held one."In 2003, Merriam-Webster included McJob in the Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, and defined it as "a low-paying job that requires little skill and provides little opportunity for advancement." This definition prompted a letter from then CEO Jim Cantalupo who said it was "an inaccurate description of restaurant employment" and "slap in the face" of restaurant employees.File:El Maco.jpgMcDonald's, the international fast food restaurant chain, will cease all operations in Iceland by the end of October. The company blames the closure of the nation's three outlets on drastically increased costs of importing its food ingredients, which mainly came from Germany. McDonald's corporation says the current economic slump is to blame for rising costs, along with the "unique operational complexity" of keeping them open.The restaurant, with its distinctive Golden Arches, began its Icelandic operations in 1993. Its outlets were operated by Lyst, a franchising company owned by Jon Gardar Ogmundsson. There are no plans to reopen any of the locations."[Stores have] never been this busy before... but at the same time profits have never been lower. It just makes no sense. For a kilo[gram] of onion[s], imported from Germany, I'm paying the equivalent of a bottle of good whisky," said one Gardar Ogmundsson, the owner of the firm Lyst, to the BBC.Lyst hopes to operate a new chain of restaurants, which will be supplied by domestic rather than imported food products.McDonald's, which operates in 119 countries globally, previously closed its sole retail outlet in Barbados in 1996 after only six months in operation, and withdrew from an additional seven countries in 2000 — including Bolivia — to reduce costs.A court in the Netherlands ruled yesterday that the fast-food company McDonald's over-reacted in dismissing an employee who added a piece of cheese to a colleague's hamburger without charging for it. McDonalds has been ordered to pay compensation since, the court ruled, "The cost of a slice of cheese is not comparable to a severe step such as redundancy".In March 2009, a waitress in Lemmer sold a hamburger to a colleague, and then added some cheese when her colleague asked for some.  McDonald's said that this made the meal a cheeseburger, not a hamburger, and so she was sacked for not charging extra for the cheese. Rules for staff, the company argued, prevented them from giving food away for free.Now a court in Leeuwarden has ordered McDonald's to pay her more than €4,200 (about US$5,900 or £3,700), since it decided that a written warning would have been a more appropriate reaction. The compensation is for five months of lost earnings, with holiday pay and interest.The court noted that the manager of the branch had not asked the employee for an explanation before firing her, nor had McDonald's considered taking action against the colleague who asked for the cheese. "The dismissal was too severe a measure. It is just a slice of cheese," said the court.Drug maker Merck & Co. was found liable for a person's death concerning the use of the pain medication Vioxx, according to a jury verdict in a Texas court.  The plaintiff's case, headed by the widow of Robert Ernst, who died in 2001 of an irregular heartbeat and of clogged arteries while on the drug Vioxx, was successfully awarded $253.4 million dollars.  Vioxx was pulled from the shelves in 2004 after a study discovered it could double the risk of a heart attack or stroke if taken for longer than 1.5 years. However, the US government agency, the FDA, decided in February of this year to allow the product back on the shelves.Merck's stock price dropped 10% within minutes of the verdict being announced, and continued to fall hours after. There are in excess of 4,200 other Vioxx-related lawsuits pending across the USA. The company plans to appeal the decision.Metlife announced on 01/31/05 that they were going to acquire Travelers Life and Annuity from Citigroup. Travelers Life and Annuity is an insurance underwriter. MetLife is a large life insurance and annuities underwriter. MetLife will have to borrow a lot of money to pay for the company, so rating agencies like S&P warn that the AA credit rating of MetLife might be lowered. This would cause the interest rates at which all of MetLife's debt must be repaid to increase.Citigroup committed to continue distributing Travelers life insurance and annuities through its Smith Barney stock brokers, Primerica agents, and Citibank branches. Citigroup was previously known as Travelers Insurance before it bought Citicorp. First the Property and Casualty business of Travelers was spun off, and now the life insurance division has been sold off. This is primarily because insurance underwriters get a lower price to earnings multiple from the stock market because of the cycles and uncertainty associated with the insurance business. Also, having an insurance underwriter and a bank together does not usually create "cross-sell" opportunities, because consumers and businesses almost always buy life insurance and annuities through brokers who have a duty to give them other options. Citigroup will continue to sell insurance through its brokers as before.Metro is one of the largest supermarket chains in Romania, already having 21 stores in various cities across the country.The New York Mets baseball team has agreed to a 20-year sponsorship deal with financial house Citigroup for the team's new ballpark, now called CitiField. The deal, which includes stadium naming rights, is worth more than $20 million annually, according to a baseball official.This tops the approximately ten million annually the NFL's Houston Texans receive from Reliant Energy to call their home Reliant Stadium.The agreement between the Mets and the financial services company includes options for both the team and Citigroup that could extend the deal to up to 35-years. Other commercial arrangements are part of the contract, the official said.Construction on the ballpark, next to the current stadium in Queens, New York, began last summer and is scheduled to be ready for the 2009 season. The Mets have played at Shea Stadium since 1964, the team's third year in the league. The ballpark is named for William A. Shea, a lawyer who helped bring National League baseball back to New York.The announcement will be made Monday at a special ceremony that will be attended by New York Govener, George Pataki and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg.Citigroup is one of the world's largest full-service banks, with two hundred million customers in more than 100 countries.According to Forbes' annual World's Billionaire list released yesterday, Mexican tycoon Carlos Slim is the world's richest person for the second year in a row, with a net worth of US$74 billion. American Bill Gates, co-founder of Microsoft Corp, is again listed in second place with US$56 billion while investor Warren Buffett of Berkshire Hathaway is third.China added the most new  billionaires to the list with 54 while Russia added 31. The US came in third, with 23 new billionaires; American Mark Zuckerberg, chairman of Facebook, more than tripled his net worth to US$13.5 billion, placing him in Forbes' 52nd spot.  Although the US is home to 413 billionaires, more than any other country, the changing distribution of global finances is evident. Today, due to the increasing wealth of emerging nations, just one in every three billionaires is American, a decline from ten years ago when Americans numbered one in every two. Brazil, Russia, India and China together accounted for more than 108 new billionaires. Last year, New York was home to more billionaires than any other city in the world, while this year Moscow is home to 79, which beats New York's current number of 58. Forbes lists a world total of 1,210 billionaires whose combined wealth is US$4.5 trillion, an increase from last year's total of US$3.6 trillion.Following recent news that Honda had withdrawn from Formula One in 2009, initial rumours that Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim has rescued the team appear to be false. Foxsports quotes a Telmex release as saying "The Telmex Team can confirm that Carlos Slim Helu has not bought the Honda F1 team nor is holding any negotiations to do so. Therefore all information related to this subject has no basis and is completely false."  Slim is the CEO and President of Telmex, a telecommunications provider in Mexico, and claims to be the world's second richest person.The initial reports suggested that a team had already been chosen including Jenson Button and rookie Bruno Senna as its drivers for 2009. Senna, who is the nephew of triple world champion Ayrton Senna, was said to be replacing veteran Rubens Barrichello. Slim is already sponsoring Senna through Embratel, one of his group's subsidiaries. Claims that Slim paid a visit to the Honda team facility in Northamptonshire in December also seem incorrect following a comment from team principal, Ross Brawn, in London's Daily Telegraph that "We would love it if it were true but it's pure speculation from various members of the media." A further quote stated that "It's just been one of those rumours which has developed a life of its own." Honda withdrew from Formula One recently following a 40% slump in its retail car sales and an estimated budget in excess of US$350m annually. The recent season was not successful for Honda which saw them finish ninth in the constructors' championship, only beating Team India and Super Aguri, who each failed to register a single championship point in 2008. Almost a week ago reports began circulating that Slim was interested and that other suitors may include Vijay Mallya and David Richards. Mallya took an active role in Formula One in 2008 with his purchase of the Spyker F1 team for US$130m. The first year was a tough one for Mallya and the team with constant failure to finish and not a single championship point gained. Richards is reported to have already met with potential investors in the Middle East. He has the experience as former team principal for BAR and Benetton Formula One motor racing teams.Twelve police officers were killed as the result of an ambush by gunmen in Guerrero, a state in the south of Mexico, authorities confirmed yesterday. The police officers were examining the area to find the bodies of ten individuals, whose separated heads have previously been discovered, at the time of the attack. According to Arturo Martinez, speaking on behalf of the state police force of Guerrero, six of the policemen killed in the attack were local, while the other six were working for the state. In the attack, which occurred in the city of Teloloapan Sunday, an additional nine police experienced injuries for which they were hospitalised, BBC News Online reported. Eleven officers involved in the incident experienced wounds, according to The Associated Press.Martinez explained that the officers, who were occupying six police vehicles between them, were searching for the bodies of three females and seven males after their separated heads were abandoned and discovered at a slaughterhouse in Teloloapan. Amongst the severed heads, threats directed at La Familia Michoacana, a drug-related business located in neighbouring state Michoacán, were discovered.Guerrero is a state known for containing plantations of opium poppies and cannabis, as well as violence related to drug cartels. In excess of 47,000 deaths have been recorded across the whole of Mexico since current President Felipe Calderón commenced the Drug 'War' in December 2006.Pope Benedict XVI has a visit to the country scheduled for Friday. According to BBC News Online, comment about violence relating to drug businesses in Mexico is anticipated from him.Administrators PriceWaterHouseCoopers (PWC) have announced that the British car company MG Rover and its engine manufacturer Powertrain Ltd has been sold to Chinese company Nanjing Automobile for an unknown sum of money. The company beat bids from Shanghai Automotive (SAIC), despite being the smaller of the two.MG Rover collapsed this Spring, after struggling to make a profit for several years.SAIC had tried to buy only the engine plant and then transfer it to China, but in June Nanjing Automobile approached PWC with a combined bid for both the car manufacturing company and Powertrain. This Monday SAIC bid for both but the offer was inferior to Nanjing's.Nanjing has indicated that it too will move the engine production plant to China, along with some car manufacturing. However it also intends to continue building cars in Britain, and establish an engineering research and design centre there in an effort to expand its sales globally. Nanjing intends to start hiring at once.Michael Moore's controversial new documentary SiCKO opened to strong box office numbers in limited release over the weekend. The biting and sometimes humorous expose of America's health system earned weekend totals of US$4.5 Million on 441 screens, the second highest opening weekend numbers for a documentary ever, after Moore's own Fahrenheit 9/11.This follows last weekend's 'sneak preview' screenings of the film in 43 major markets. Fox News reports that all of these screenings were sold out. The latest documentary from Academy Award and Cannes Film Festival winning filmmaker Moore earned US$10,200 per screen, second in the weekend averages, and ninth in total sales. Ratatouille was the weekend's number one film with US$11,935 per screen (3940 screens) and top earnings of $47 Million. After only one weekend's limited release, SiCKO is now the fifth most successful political  documentary ever, behind Fahrenheit 9/11,  Al Gore's An Inconvenient Truth, Bowling for Columbine, and Roger and Me. Four of the top five are now by documentarian Moore.SiCKO first opened at the AMC Lincoln Square in New York City. Fox News reported that the first screening's take was "possibly a record for an exclusive showing." Moore attended one of the Lincoln Square screenings; his presence not known until he revealed himself during the standing ovation that the film garnered. The ensuing melee of enthusiastic fans resulted in a NYC fire marshal being called in to clear the theater, with Moore then participating in an informal question and answer session on the street.Moore has appeared on numerous talk shows in support of the film, which The Weinstein Company will roll out to 200 more theaters this week.Grameen Bank of Bangladesh has made the first loans to U.S. citizens who do not have a bank account. Grameen Bank is experienced in micro-financing in its home country, lending money to poor women that want to start small businesses. Since the start of the mortgage-crisis more people in the U.S. tend to turn to fringe financial institutions bypassing the mainstream bank institutes. "Now is a good time because of ... the subprime crisis and that highlights the issue that the financial system is not perfect," , says the bank's founder and 2006 Nobel Peace Prize winner Muhammad Yunus. Grameen Bank started in 1976 by lending a total amount of $27.00 to 42 Bangladesh women. To date the bank has made over $6.5 billion in loans to 7 million people in Bangladesh.Grameen Bank's first loans of approximately $50,000.00 in total in the U.S. was to a group of women in Jackson Heights, Queens, New York City. Garmeen Bank plans to offer $176 million in loans in New York City the next five years, and after that expanding into business as remittances and mortgages all over the U.S., as it has done in Bangladesh.Internet rivals Microsoft and Yahoo have agreed to make their instant messaging programs, Yahoo Messenger and MSN Messenger, work together. Instant messaging, or IM as it commonly known, is becoming an increasingly popular communication service, mainly because of the speed of communication which almost equals regular conversation.This move, announced on Wednesday, would mainly focus on earlier forms of instant messaging, like sending text messages to other people via the Internet. This arrangement is expected to start around June 2006.The agreement will allow the companies to compete against the popular AOL Instant Messenger service (AOL), and Google Talk, Google's relatively new instant messaging service that was opened to the public in beta form in September. The companies said that this relationship is the fruit of many years of negotiation.Until now, AOL has been able to move and develop the IM market at its own pace, due to its widespread use within the United States. With this arrangement in place, this freedom might end. The number of users of the Yahoo! and Microsoft services combined will rival the number of AOL's customers.Microsoft had previously held talks with AOL over possible partnerships in the instant messaging field. However, the status of these negotiations is unknown.Nine months after announcing the interoperability between their instant messaging (IM) services, Internet rivals Microsoft and Yahoo! began limited public beta (pre-release) testing of the program. This enables users of the two services to communicate with each other using their existing IM client, Microsoft's Windows Live Messenger (formerly MSN Messenger) and Yahoo! Messenger with Voice.Users wishing to use the new feature can go to a special page on the service's website, where they have to review and accept an agreement. After signing out and signing in again, the interoperability is enabled without downloading any new software.The service is designed to allow users to see each others' online presence, view personal status messages, share select emoticons, view offline messages and add new contacts from either service. However, more advanced features, like voice calls and shared folders are not interoperable between the two services.The program is available internationally in more than 15 markets.On Monday, United States technology giant Microsoft announced their plans to acquire GitHub, a San Francisco, California-based web-based hosting service for software version control using Git, for 7.5 billion US Dollars (USD).In the official announcement at the Microsoft News web site, the company said they are to reach agreement with GitHub by the end of the year. They said the agreement would allow them to deliver Microsoft development services to GitHub users, and "accelerate enterprise use of GitHub". GitHub had been financially struggling recently and is expected to get a new CEO.In 2016, according to financial news and media company Bloomberg L.P., through three quarters GitHub lost USD 66 million, while in nine months of that year GitHub had revenue of USD 98 million. In August 2017 GitHub said they were seeking a new CEO. According to the announcements by GitHub and Microsoft, the Microsoft Corporate Vice President Nat Friedman would become the new CEO of GitHub. He had created app creation platform company Xamarin and was "an open-source veteran", Microsoft said.GitHub confirmed the acquisition plans on its blog. In this announcement they alluded to concerns about past friction between Microsoft and open-source software, however they said "things are different. [...] Microsoft is the most active organization on GitHub in the world", mentioning VS Code as an example. In the announcement, GitHub also referred to its several years of collaboration with Microsoft on Git LFS and Electron. GitHub also mentioned the Azure development platform run by Microsoft.Microsoft has announced they will launch web versions of their popular Office software in 2010.  It will be included in all versions of Office 2010 when it ships next year.  All Windows Live customers will also reportedly have access.  Testers will be given access at the end of this year.The service will go into direct competition with Google Docs, launched three years ago.  Last week Google announced they were going to launch a new operating system, called Google Chrome OS.  Like Google Docs, Microsoft Office will be compatible with Firefox, Safari, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.Microsoft's group product manager for Office stated, "We believe the web has a lot to offer in terms of connectivity.  We have over a half a billion customers world-wide and what we hear from them is that they really want the power of the web without compromise. They want collaboration without compromise.  And what they tell us today is that going to the web often means they sacrifice fidelity, functionality and the quality of the content they care about. We knew that if and when we were ever going to bring applications into a web environment, we needed to do the hard work first because we hold such a high bar."Microsoft's business software division, which includes Office, made USD 9.3 billion in profit during the first three-quarters of its 2009 fiscal year.  Analysts from The Wall Street Journal have predicted that the move "could put at risk as much as $4 billion (£2.46 billion) in revenue."Microsoft announced on Thursday the release dates for the new version of the Xbox gaming console. The Xbox 360 will be in shops in the US on November 22. It will be launched in Europe on December 2 and in Japan on December 10.The Xbox 360 in the US and Europe will come in two editions, base and premium. The premium edition will include the console, an external hard drive, wireless controllers, headset and membership in the Xbox Live gaming service.  The base version will only include the console and a wired controller.  The base edition will sell for £209.99 in the UK, €299.99 in Europe and $299.99 in the USA. The premium edition will sell for £279.99 in the UK and $399.99 in the USA. A third edition with nearly identical features to the premium edition will be available in Japan for ¥37,900.Microsoft has said up to 20 games would be ready by the launch date, and  40 games should be launched by the end of 2005.  "We expect a strong portfolio of titles on launch day and through the holidays that will appeal to fans of every genre and gamers in every region," said Chief Xbox officer Robbie Bach.The launch date is two days before Thanksgiving, the traditional start of the US Christmas buying season.  A  November launch will give Microsoft a lead over competitors Sony and Nintendo. Sony plans to release the PlayStation 3 in the spring of 2006, and Nintendo plans to release its new console, the Revolution, sometime next year.United States software giant Microsoft has launched an unsolicited bid to buy Internet search giant Yahoo! for US$44 billion or approximately US$31 per share.The deal, which is half in cash and half in stock, if accepted by Yahoo!'s shareholders, could create a major competitor to Google, the search giant which currently dominates the Internet search market.Microsoft have today paid $6 billion (£3 billion) for the online marketing firm Aquantive.  The takeover will pave the way for Microsoft to expand into the $40 billion online advertising market currently dominated by Google and Yahoo!.Kevin Johnson, the head of Microsoft's platforms and services division, said "This deal takes our advertising business to a new level" and follows the recent acquisitions by Google and Yahoo who bought DoubleClick for $3.1 billion, and the remaining 80% of Right Media Exchange for $680 million respectively.Aquantive will remain at its base in Seattle with its current staff of around 2.600, but will work as part of Microsoft's online operations.The deal is expected to be completed by early 2008, subject to regulation.Microsoft has recently made changes to the Windows license agreement, saying that, “An upgrade of the motherboard is considered to result in a new personal computer to which Microsoft OEM operating system software cannot be transferred from another computer."This will force users who upgrade their motherboard, even via the OEM, to purchase a new license agreement.  The only exception is a defect for which the OEM replaces the motherboard.Microsoft claims it needs to have "one base component left standing that would still define that original PC. Since the motherboard contains the CPU and is the heart and soul of the PC, when the motherboard is replaced (for reasons other than defect) a new PC is essentially created.”Microsoft has asked its OEM partners to begin enforcing the new policy when they upgrade a client's computer.Software giant Microsoft's chief lawyer Brad Smith claimed in an interview published in the magazine Fortune on Monday that open-source software products violate 235 of Microsoft's patents. The main transgressors are claimed to be Linux (107 patents) and OpenOffice.org (45), with e-mail programs infringing 15 patents. Microsoft wants royalties to compensate for the patent breaches.According to Microsoft's Vice-President of intellectual property and licensing, Horacio Gutierrez, the company wants to negotiate with the open-source companies rather than sue them. "If we wanted to litigate we would have done that a long time ago. Litigation is not an effective way of going about solutions," Gutierrez said. According to him, Microsoft has over the last years tried to work towards a "constructive" solution to the alleged problem of patent violation.Microsoft in the past has used the strategy of cross-licensing to get royalties from companies who infringe their patents, for example in their deal with Novell. On a company blog, Novell reiterated that their deal "is in no way an acknowledgment that Linux infringes upon any Microsoft intellectual property.""We don't think that customers will want to continue on without a solution to the problem," Gutierrez said about Microsoft's approach to guaranteeing companies that they won't get sued because they use the allegedly patent-infringing Linux operating system.The upcoming third version of the GPL licence, the licence under which Linux is released, will prohibit Linux distributors to agree to patent royalty deals. Microsoft called these "attempts to tear down the bridge between proprietary and open-source software that Microsoft has worked to build with the industry and customers."A related U.S. Supreme Court ruling from April 30th showed how software patents can be subject to court challenges; basically, if the innovations patented are "obvious", the patent is weakened. Joe Lindsay, information officer for a mortgage company, pointed out that the Unix code that Linux is based upon preceded Microsoft Windows, which might also be a reason for some patents to be invalid.Red Hat, the biggest Linux distributor, said in a statement on Monday:Larry Augustin, former CEO of a company called VA Linux (now VA Software), responsible among other things for launching SourceForge.net, an open-source software development community, posted a message on his blog under the title "It's Time for Microsoft to Put Up or Shut Up":According to the Fortune report, more than half of the Fortune 500 companies are estimated to use Linux in their data centers.According to a 2002 email exchange obtained by lawyers in an Iowa case, Microsoft executives wanted to "whack" Dell because it was focusing on Linux  deals a little too much. The first email by Bill Veghte, currently a company vice president, describes a Linux panel where a Dell executive explains their plans to increase Linux in the enterprise market.  The responses to his email start in a worried tone over market competition but quickly escalates as Paul Flessner, a senior vice president in Microsoft's server applications unit, states: Paul Flessner then goes on to describe the advantages to promote Linux over Windows for Dell:A recent study funded by the EU Commission concluded that "in almost all the cases, a transition toward open source reports of savings on the long-term costs of ownership of the software products." In addition, Microsoft has long been at the center of criticism and allegations over its alleged unfair and anticompetitive business tactics in Europe and elsewhere.Microsoft has announced it is dropping its bid to acquire one of their Internet competitors, Yahoo!, after a three-month courting effort by Microsoft.Microsoft chief executive officer, Steve Ballmer notified Yahoo! chief executive officer, chairman and co-founder, Jerry Yang via a letter that Microsoft was dropping their bid for the Sunnyvale, California based search engine giant.In a press release from Microsoft, Ballmer said, “Despite our best efforts, including raising our bid by roughly US$5 billion, Yahoo! has not moved toward accepting our offer. After careful consideration, we believe the economics demanded by Yahoo! do not make sense for us, and it is in the best interests of Microsoft stockholders, employees and other stakeholders to withdraw our proposal”.Microsoft withdrew its bid effort after raising their bid from $44.6 billion to $47.5 billion, which works out at $33 per share. However, Yahoo! were waiting for a bid of around $53 billion, which was more than Microsoft were willing to pay.Microsoft had previously wanted to takeover Yahoo! in-order to compete with Google, the market leader in online advertising.  The online advertising market was worth $40 billion in 2007 and will rise to an expected $80 billion in 2010.Some observers, however, are speculating that the bid withdrawal could just be another tactic in their attempt to acquire Yahoo!. Yahoo shares have dropped since the bid was pulled out.Microsoft has extended the warranty on its Xbox 360 video game console to three years from the date of purchase following a large number of problems with the console and "an unacceptable number of repairs", costing the company more than one billion US dollars.The fault, which has been dubbed the "red ring of death", causes the console to fail completely. In an open letter to owners of the Xbox 360, Peter Moore of Microsoft said, "As of today, all Xbox 360 consoles are covered by an enhanced warranty program to address specifically the general hardware failures indicated by the three flashing red lights on the console. This applies to new and previously-sold consoles." The extended warranty covers repairing and shipping of the console and the company has promised to reimburse those owners who have already had to pay for repairs.Microsoft has not released details of the number of units that have suffered from the problem but has said it is "bigger than we are comfortable with".The Xbox 360 was launched by Microsoft in 2005 and in January of this year the company lowered its sales expectations to 12 million units for the year ending June 2007.Microsoft has begun an attack against Google over the issue of copyright infringements. The officials from the software giant state that the number one search engine takes a cavalier approach to what concerns copyright protection. The associate general counsel of Microsoft, Mr. Thomas Rubin, prepared a remark that he delivered to the Association of American Publishers. He argued that Google's idea to create a book search engine might come at publishers' expense. Mr. Rubin criticized those companies that use the works of various publishers and not their own, stating that such companies make billions on the back of other people's content. He said that in distinction from Microsoft, Google feels comfortable making a certain content searchable online and afterwards asking permission from the author. According to the associate general counsel of Microsoft, Google does not always ask permission and uses the copyright work until its author tells the company to stop.In response to the accusations from Microsoft, the senior vice president for corporate development of Google said that Google performs legal actions. Whenever the company wanted to make certain content available online it always asked for permission. In such a way Google worked with several thousands publishing partners and recently made a partnership with BBC and N.B.A. to display videos on YouTube.The future of Microsoft's Flight Simulator series is uncertain after the company fired all of Flight Simulator's developers this January. Microsoft still insists that it is "committed" to the series, although the ACES studio, which develops the simulator, was closed when the company shed 5000 jobs.Nels Anderson, the founder of FlightSim.com, a MSFS enthusiast website, called it a "dark day" for the simulation market. "Microsoft have apparently cancelled a 27 year franchise. Flight sims were one of the few things about Microsoft people actually liked. It made them money and had an enormous following. To cancel something like that is an amazing thing to do," he said in an interview with the BBC.Derek Davis, who is the editor of the PC Pilot Magazine, however, said that there could be a bright side to the news: "I don't know what the eventual fate of Microsoft's Flight Simulator series will be, but I think we're going to see a rise in sales and an increase in third-party development. There is now some stability to be had — we're all going to be using FSX for some time — and that is going to make it far easier for developers to produce new aircraft," he said. Flight Simulator X (FSX) is the current edition in the series.The Flight Simulator series is possibly the longest-running computer game series ever, with the first version of the game released back in 1982. It is known, not only for its official releases, but also for its dedicated fan base, which has produced large amounts of third-party addons for the game.Prior to the dissolution of the ACES studio, an eleventh version of Flight Simulator was planned for release in about a year and a half. Also in development at the studio at the time of its closure was Microsoft Train Simulator 2, which was expected to be released this year.Since launching Xbox in 2001, the Microsoft game console project has resulted in a $4 billion loss for the company, an amount estimated to be approximately equal to 10% of Microsoft's total cash reserves.The Xbox game console was marketed by Microsoft as a loss leader with the plan of establishing a profit base derived from game sales and licensing to third party game publishers.Microsoft intends to continue their loss leader strategy with the successor to their console, the Xbox 360, which will be released November 22, 2005, just in time for the Christmas buying season.On Tuesday, Microsoft launched BizTalk Server 2006 R2 with Radio-frequency Identification (RFID) technology in Taiwan. Microsoft Taiwan held a launch seminar with "Pulse the Operations with the Communication of Enterprises" topic and invited hardware and software companies to highlight the integration of RFID, SOA, and EDI with BizTalk Server 2006 R2.At the press conference, Steven Martin (Director of Product Management for BizTalk® Server Product Group at Microsoft Corp.) mentioned the improvements to BizTalk Server 2006 R2 and the lower costs, which could increase the opportunities for enterprises. Martin also praised Taiwan for having an environment conducive to the development of RFID technology, and suggested that was the reason Microsoft Global Headquarters chose Taiwan as the first location for the product launch.Aside from seminars and exhibitions, Microsoft Taiwan also welcomed Chang Jung Christian University, Telecommunication Laboratories of Chunghwa Telecom Co., Ltd., Tekho Inc., Formosa Petrochemical Co., Ltd., and Quanta Computer lnc. to introduce their solutions from their earlier integration and show the strength of RFID technologies in Taiwan.After the launch series in Taiwan, Microsoft Global Headquarters announced that the next launch for BizTalk Server 2006 R2 would be Sydney, Australia on September 13, followed by Chicago, United States on October 2.Microsoft plans to expand its anti-piracy activity in the United States using a new way which includes comics. The company's campaign will be held online and its starting day is Monday, January 22, 2007. Microsoft has the aim of telling people about the advantages of software that is properly licensed. The campaign will also focus on intellectual property rights as well as risks that the user takes when using a pirate copy of the product. In an interview, the director of Genuine Software Initiative, Cori Hartje, stated that Microsoft looks forward to inform its clientèle about some important facts that will help users in their business activities. Last month the company launched its campaign in some European countries like: Italy, France and United Kingdom; as well as in other countries from different parts of the world: Indonesia, Brazil, Australia and UAE. Microsoft hopes to catch the attention of users through banner advertisements on the company's websites. It will also launch promotional material which later will be handed out through Microsoft's partners. The company chose comics in an effort to reach a wider audience. The comics are drawn in black and white and they look similar to the ones presented in newspapers.The company has spent millions of dollars in its campaign against unauthorized copies of Windows, but cannot say whether the campaign has been successful.Microsoft announced today the official launch of MSN adCenter in France and Singapore. adCenter allows advertisers to target specific demographics using information provided by Microsoft's Hotmail and Microsoft Passport Network users."The launch of adCenter in France and Singapore is a great first step to delivering on our global vision to connect advertisers to consumers in a much more meaningful way," said Yusuf Mehdi, senior V.P. of MSN Information Services & Merchant Platform.Advertisers will be able to target ads based on geographic location, gender, age range, time of day, and day of the week. If MSN has no information on the visitor it will display ads based upon keywords. Additional features include a cost estimator and a site analyzer that will recommend keywords based on the content of the advertiser’s website.MSN currently has a contract for Yahoo ads that runs through 2006, and they are expected to slowly phase them out, although MSN has not confirmed this.  adCenter has been in testing in France and Singapore since March. Testing in the US will begin in October. Microsoft plans to eventually sell ads on websites outside of MSN.This initiative is a part of a broader strategy that Microsoft has launched to compete against Google's AdWords service, in operation for several years, which allows advertisers to bid on specific keywords and ensure ad placement on the company's search engine and other online properties. Microsoft's chief executive vowed to "kill Google" in an expletive-laden tirade against the firm, according to US court documents filed by Google.Many internet users choose to block web page advertisements from both Microsoft and Google, using several different techniques of ad filtering, such as adblock in the firefox web browser.Software giant Microsoft has attempted to correct a Wikipedia article concerning the Microsoft Office Open XML format.Wikipedia strongly discourages contributors involved with the subject of an article from editing the article, when a conflict of interest is likely. Instead, such contributors are advised to comment or suggest changes to the articles for the broader community of editors to review and implement, if found acceptable. Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales and  administrators have on occasion blocked users thought to have violated these guidelines from editing Wikipedia.Doug Mahugh from Microsoft contacted Rick Jelliffe, who is the top technical officer for Sydney computing company Topologi - and offered to pay him for the time it would take to modify the article.“Wikipedia has an entry on Open XML that has a lot of slanted language, and we'd like for them to make it more objective but we feel that it would be best if a non-Microsoft person were the source of any corrections,” reads the email Microsoft employee Mahugh wrote to Jelliffe.One of Wikipedia's core policies is that articles must be written from a "neutral point of view" or NPOV.“Would you have any interest or availability to do some of this kind of work? Your reputation as a leading voice in the XML community would carry a lot of credibility, so your name came up in a discussion of the Wikipedia situation today."The e-mail also stated that Microsoft would not stop Jelliffe from disclosing the deal and rather encouraged him to post it on his blog at oreillynet.com. It also reassured Jelliffe that Microsoft did not have to approve any changes he made to the article."We were very disappointed to hear that Microsoft was taking that approach," Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales said. Wales stated that the proper thing for Microsoft was to write a "white paper" concerning the article, post it on an outside website and then link it to the discussion page of the Wikipedia articles' discussion forums. "It seems like a much better, transparent, straightforward way," Wales said.Microsoft spokeswoman Catherine Brooker said she believed the articles were heavily written by people at IBM, which is a supporter of the rival ISO-approved OpenDocument standard used by two leading Open Source office suites rather than the controversial Microsoft Office Open XML format.Microsoft announced yesterday that the next version of Microsoft Office, currently code-named "Office 12", will support PDF format exportation.  Microsoft Senior Vice President Steven Sinofsky said Microsoft receives 120,000 requests monthly to save documents created in Office as PDF files.PDF is a file format created by Adobe Systems that ensures files appear similarly on any computer operating system. PDF is an open standard, and programs can read and write PDFs royalty-free. Adobe distributes software at no cost to read PDF files on many platforms. Many open source readers are also available.There are many ways to create PDFs from Office documents. Users can purchase Adobe Acrobat Standard (MSRP US$299.00), and can already export any Microsoft Office document to PDFs using the free Office Suite OpenOffice.org software. They can also use one of the many free programs that act as print drivers such as the open source PDFCreator. Adobe also offers a somewhat slower, but free online PDF converter on their website. While such options have long been available, the high cost, moderate difficulty and lack of awareness has discouraged PDF use in most daily exchanges of Office created documents.Because Microsoft has no plans to create a PDF importer, it will be impossible for the Office PDF export functionality to fulfill Massachusetts' recent requirements Open Standards drive for official, state created documents.The first, or beta version, of Office 12 is expected in November.On December 29th 2005, Microsoft applied for a patent that allows the operating system to require users to pay attention to ads shown on their computers. According to the patent, a user will be asked to identify her / himself to a webcam or provide some data regarding the advertisement to be entered. The technology that is part of this patent is meant to give Microsoft the right to repossess one's computer if one does not pay attention to advertisements. According to the patent, the technology will be used so that the The stated aim of the technology is so that telephone companies, internet service providers, or leasing companies, can provide computer systems etc. to users either free or at reduced charge and recoup the cost of the system through sale of advertising.Microsoft, along with MetroFi, are set to construct a community wide Wi-Fi network in Portland, Oregon. Craig Mathias, founder of Farpoint Group, believes that one day Wi-Fi will offer a viable alternative to Cable and DSL. "I think muni Wi-Fi will become enormous," said Mathias.Currently 68 cities in the United States have city wide Wi-Fi with 132 more planning deployments.Microsoft has announced a low-cost Windows XP Starter Edition is to be launched in Brazil.Windows XP Starter Edition has been previously released in several other countries in Asia and Russia. These editions are sold only as a low-cost OEM bundle. The edition is quite similar to Windows XP Home but with some restrictions: only three applications may be run concurrently, 800×600 is the maximum display resolution and home networking is disabled.Brazil has been increasingly adopting open source software for IT projects, rather than using Microsoft products. The country recently launched the PC Conectado initiative, which aims to greatly increase the use of computers in homes, schools and businesses by making them as much as 50% cheaper. An important cost-saving measure is the exclusive use of open source software. No Microsoft software is being used.On Wednesday, Microsoft announced that the next version of Windows Mobile OS series, Windows Phone 7, had been released to manufacturing after more than 6 months of its development. The announcement outlined some of the changes in this version, and was generally positive about the milestone.The term "release to manufacturing", also known as "going gold", is a term used to indicate that the software has reached a point that it is ready to be provided to the customer. After the event,  Windows Phone 7 code has been locked down. The work in progress is the testing of Windows Phone 7 on other hardware, software, and networks. The structure of the system itself is not expected to be changed any more before the final release. "We are ready," Terry Myerson said."Today is the day that the Windows Phone team has been driving towards, and we’re very excited to say that we’ve reached the biggest milestone for our internal team – the release to manufacturing (RTM) of Windows Phone 7", Terry Myerson announced in a post on the official Windows Phone Blog.The internal testing of the system had been finished. It included usage of the operating system by the development team itself on regular basis, and  millions of hours of automated tests daily, as Terry Myerson said: "We had nearly ten thousand devices running automated tests daily, over a half million hours of active self-hosting use, over three and a half million hours of stress test passes, and eight and a half million hours of fully automated test passes."The system is now named "Windows Phone" instead of "Windows Mobile", with a redesigned user interface and a changed development environment, which is called "Windows Phone Developer Tools". It features a combination of Silverlight, XNA technologies, and Visual Studio 2010 to make use of these possible in the applications developers create.Microsoft did not confirm any planned commercial release date, calling October as an optimistic estimate.Microsoft has reported a profit increase of 60%, attributed to the widespread success of its new operating system, Windows 7, the fastest-selling operating system ever.  Net profit for the last three months of last year is $6.66bn, compared to $4.18bn for the last three months of 2008.  Microsoft also reported revenue of $19.2bn, a record that exceeds analyst's forecasts by a large margin.The software giant released Windows 7 in October 2009, and, since then, profits from Microsoft's client division, who makes Windows 7, has surged to 70%. However, the 'online division' reported a drop of 4.6%."Exceptional demand for Windows 7 led to the positive top-line growth for the company", said Peter Klein, CFO of Microsoft. Chief Operating Officer of Microsoft, Kevin Turner, attributed the growth to the consumer and business-sector reception of the new operating system, which, after its October 22 launch, had 234% more sales than Vista did when it was released.The sales of the Microsoft Corporation has increased considerably during the latest quarter, having brought more profit than predicted by Wall Street. However, the delay in arrival of the major new products resulted in spoiled financial results.The quarter that finished in December marked the increase by 6 percent in the Microsoft sales, having reached the revenue of $12.5 billion. The delayed products  -  the latest versions of Windows Vista and Office 2007 - are to be launched next week. Microsoft's video game business grew considerably in the quarter - its revenue increased by 75 percent, to the mark of $2.96 billion. The success of the business is explained by steady sales of its Xbox 360 console and highly demanded games like the critically acclaimed Gears of War at the end of 2006. The noteworthy results have been gained by Microsoft in selling its server software applied in corporate data centers. It brought the revenue up 17 percent, to $2.85 billion. As for the operating profit, it increased by 35 percent, to over $1 billion. Following the most profitable Windows and Office, the server group, including databases, operating systems, and back-end programs used for e-mail systems, presently represents the third major product line of the Corporation. Net income witnessed 28 percent decrease, to $2.63 billion to be compared to $3.65 billion dollars during the same period of time the previous year.To solve the problem of the product delay and support the personal computer industry, Microsoft provided free or discount coupons for upgraded versions of Windows Vista and Office 2007. Consequently, PC makers sold new computers during the last period of 2006 promising their customers that they would be able to acquire the new Microsoft products, thus preventing PC sales from standing at still point. The coupon program was initiated by Microsoft in October with expectations of approximately 1.5 billion dollars in revenue to be deferred. However, with better PC sales Microsoft received the $1.64 billion.Microsoft pays attention towards development of the consumer electronics business. In the end of 2006 the company launched  a digital media player called Zune, a product to compete with iPod produced by Apple. However, Microsoft's section of consumer entertainment and devices is not profitable yet.As for Microsoft’s on-line business, it also leaves much to be desired, especially considering Internet searches. In the latest quarter there was a decline in the Microsoft's market share in searching. Still, the company continues to invest into this business segment. The revenue brought by on-line services, including web advertising and search-linked ads, increased by 5 percent in the quarter, to $624 million.Microsoft has finally released its long awaited "Silverlight" into Alpha Testing for the general public. "It's the biggest challenge for Microsoft right now," said Brent Thill, an analyst from Citigroup. This is the most direct threat to date, that Microsoft has posed to Adobe (makers of the popular Flash platform).The creators of Silverlight have been promising a single plug-in which will work across all browsers and operating systems and will offer a rich video and interactive media experience which can be embedded within Web sites.Microsoft has also promised to make some of the Silverlight technologies open source. This has been a popular decision among the computing industry, and has been a step away from the usual protection of their products.While at MIX07, Microsoft also discussed its new package called Expression, which is set to be released in June, and will be an alternative to Adobe Creative Suite 3 (CS3).A Chicago owner of an Xbox 360 console is filing a class action lawsuit against Microsoft, the company that manufactured the console. The lawsuit is based on the widely circulated claims that the console overheats, resulting in complete lockups of the system or various error messages. Robert Bryers, the man who has brought this lawsuit against Microsoft, claims that the company rushed the console to market to beat competitor releases. He further claims that this rushed release resulted in the company including a faulty power supply and central processor that overheats, resulting in the damage of heat-sensitive chips within the console. Microsoft denies that the problems are widespread.The lawsuit, filed on Friday in an Illinois federal court, seeks unspecified damages and legal fees, as well as a recall and replacement of the affected consoles.Microsoft Tech·Ed Taiwan 2007, organized by Microsoft Taiwan, began today after Typhoon Wipha crossed Northern Taiwan yesterday and it goes to the 13th this year. Though this international seminar reduced from 3 days to 2 days, it still attracted more than 2500 technical engineers and developers, and some companies exhibited aside of Tech·Ed Taiwan 2007.This year of Tech·Ed Taiwan 2007 is focused on future software by Microsoft such as Windows Server 2008 (code name "Longhorn"), Visual Studio 2008 (code name "Orcas"), SQL Server 2008 (code name "Katmai") and title the topic with "Make Your Mark". Also, Microsoft Taiwan provided Hands-On-Lab for attendees who can experience the frontier technologies.Bob Kelly (General Manager of Infrastructure Server Marketing Department, Microsoft Global) emphasized the importance of "Dynamic IT" and predicted that virtual environment of collaboration is the main future on IT industry, he also remarked that Microsoft provided solutions on Dynamic Systems Initiative, Trustworthy Computing, and .NET with the trend of enterprise IT from basic system infrastructure, standard, rational, to dynamic.Except from seminars and exhibitions, Microsoft also held "IT Master Challenge" and "Tech·Ed Taiwan 2007 Show Girls" competitions, and Tenlong Computer Book Co., Ltd. was invited to set up temporarily bookstore at 3F South Lounge of Taipei International Convention Center (TICC). On the other hand, Microsoft Taiwan also set up Free Internet Access Area at 3F North Lounge of TICC.Microsoft has warned that it may delay Vista, the next release of Windows, in Europe unless it receives clear guidance from the European Commission (EC) about its antitrust requirements for the operating system. Microsoft says it has received numerous requests from its partners seeking assurance about the regulatory status of Vista in Europe.Microsoft has also claimed that the EC may require that some security features be removed from Vista, possibly referring to internal firewall changes in Vista.  The EC had expressed concern that the firewall changes might lock out third party security companies & decrease security by creating a more homogeneous computing environment.The EC denies any responsibility for a potential shipment delay of Vista, stating that the onus is upon Microsoft to comply with the competition laws of Europe and not for the EC to tell Microsoft how to design Vista.Microsoft has announced that it plans to purchase antivirus firm Sybari Software in order to expand its market within the computer security market. The takeover comes after Microsoft purchased Romanian security firm GeCad in 2003 and two months after an announcement that it is to acquire anti-spyware vendor Giant-Company Software.Sybari is a private company based in East Newport, New York that develops antivirus software which can be used with Microsoft's Exchange software, as well as with the Lotus Notes system.This takeover is seen by analysts to be hostile move on Microsoft's part, as it places the software giant in direct competition with market leaders Symantec and McAfee. Sterling Auty, an analyst with JP Morgan, told Reuters that he estimated that Microsoft could be competing for up to five percent of Symantec's business and up to eight percent of McAfee's revenue.Microsoft's shares rose $0.10 at midday to $26.26, while both McAfee and Symantec shares fell.Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT, HKSE:4338) has announced plans to buy back US$40 billion of its stock between now and 2011.(All further figures in this article are in U.S. Dollars.)Microsoft, the world's largest maker of computer software, will make a tender offer to repurchase $20 billion of its own stock by August 17, and will purchase another $20 billion by 2011.  This is in addition to a previous $30 billion stock buyback offer it completed two years ago.The company plans to accept offers in the form of a modified Dutch or “reverse auction”, and based on those offers for stock, come up with a price no less than $22.50 and no more than $24.75, that allows it to buy up to about 8.1% of the common shares outstanding, up to either 808,080,808 shares, or $20 billion.  The company stated that it will not purchase shares below a price stipulated by a shareholder, and in some cases, may actually purchase shares at prices above a shareholder’s indication under the terms of the modified Dutch auction.  Prior to the announcement, Microsoft shares were trading at $22.75, with the announcement causing share prices to rise $1.32, or 5.8%, to $24.17.Microsoft has been criticized in the past for "sitting on" huge reserves of cash without making additional purchases of companies or technology.  The company expects to sell more units of its Xbox 360 game console, which currently is unprofitable, helping to shore up weaker earnings from its Office flagship software package, of which a new version is not expected until sometime next year.On July 20 the company said profit for the year will be $1.43 to $1.47 a share, an increase from an April forecast of $1.36 to $1.41.   For the quarter ending September, expected profit will be 30-32c/share on revenue of between $10.6-$10.8 billion. For fiscal 2006, earnings were  11% higher than the previous year, at $12.6 billion on revenues of $44.28 billion, or $1.20 per share.  In the year-ago quarter, Microsoft reported net income of $3.70 billion, with legal expenses of 5 cents per share plus tax benefits of 9 cents per share.  This produced a net income of 34 cents per share for the quarter, opposed to the 31 cents which would have occurred without the tax benefits.  For the previous fiscal year, income was $12.25 billion on revenue of $39.79 billion, or $1.13 per share.Microsoft held an audio web-cast at 2:30 p.m. PDT (5:30 p.m. EDT) July 20 with Chris Liddell, senior vice president and chief financial officer, Frank Brod, corporate vice president and chief accounting officer, and Colleen Healy, general manager of Investor Relations.  The session may be accessed at the Microsoft website. The web-cast will be available for replay through the close of business on July 20, 2007.In a move aimed to prevent fines stemming from its antitrust lawsuit filed by the European Commission (EC), Microsoft announced that it will be releasing portions of the source code to its Windows operating system. The EC ruled in March 2004 that Microsoft had abused its position in the low-end server and media player market, and required that Microsoft "disclose complete and accurate interface documentation which would allow non-Microsoft work group servers to achieve full interoperability with Windows PCs and servers".  Microsoft reacted by making available 12,000 pages of technical documentation and up to 500 hours of technical support, but the EC came to the conclusion that it was not enough.Announcing that "we are putting our most valuable intellectual property on the table so we can put technical compliance issues to rest", Microsoft General Counsel Brad Smith asserted that Microsoft would be superseding the EC's requirements as a sign of good faith.  "While we are confident that we are presently in full compliance with the Decision, we wish to dispel any notion that Microsoft’s technical documents are insufficient", said Smith.The EC responded in a memo that it will study Microsoft's reply to the Statement of Objections once it receives the full details.  However, EC Competition Commissioner spokesman Jonathan Todd commented that "it would be premature to conclude access to the source code would resolve the problem of the lack of compliance with our decision."A similar offer was made by Microsoft in August 2002 during its antitrust lawsuit filed by the United States Department of Justice and several states' Attorneys General.  The resulting "Microsoft Communications Protocols Program" had suffered continuous criticism regarding excessive cost, paperwork, and non-disclosure agreements.  It is unclear at this time if Microsoft's planned "Work Group Server Protocol Program" will suffer from the same issues if accepted by the EC.Microsoft is expected to return to the EC courts in April.Microsoft announced on Thursday they are partnering with KIND Financial to help governments track the production and distribution of legal marijuana. Kind Financial, a California-based start-up company, began selling its Agrisoft Seed to Sale software three years ago. Microsoft is admitting Kind's software on the Government portion of its Azure cloud service.Although Kind Financial CEO David Dinenberg stressed to The Guardian they "absolutely do not touch the plant", his company does business with growers and distributors of marijuana, as well as the governments that regulate it. State law in twenty-five US states — but not US federal law — has legalized marijuana, whether medicinally or for recreational use.  Kimberly Nelson, Microsoft executive director of state and local government solutions, said they expect significant demand for technology to help states make sure cannabis distribution within their state is done according to their laws.Kind also provides kiosks similar to automated tellers (ATMs) to facilitate marijuana transactions in dispensaries. The distribution of marijuana is often done only with cash or through machines like the ones Kind offers since many banks in the United States shy away from the marijuana industry entirely. Microsoft is not interacting with this part of Kind's operations, however.Microsoft and Kind will apply for contracts with state governments for their software. Currently, they have applied to Puerto Rico, a US territory, where medical marijuana has recently been made legal. BioTrackTHC, a company similar to Kind Financial, already has contracts with Washington, New Mexico, and Illinois.Dinenberg said his company's partnership with Microsoft is a major step in advancing the legitimacy of cannabis-related businesses.A week after having been ordered to pay a one-and-a-half-billion dollar fine by courts in the United States, El Mundo reports today that Microsoft has won a case brought by Alcatel-Lucent against Microsoft involving the violation of patents on voice-recognition technology.Alcatel-Lucent's spokesman said that the company planned to appeal against the verdict by a federal judge in San Diego, California, and were confident of victory on appeal.On the other hand, Tom Burt, a member of Microsoft's legal team, said that Microsoft were confident that the appeal court would uphold the verdict of the trial court.Last week, a jury in the San Diego federal court upheld a complaint against Microsoft for the violation of patents on the MP3 format, used on computers and portable media players. Sources said that the $1.5bn fine, the largest ever awarded in a patent case, took into account the number of computers sold pre-installed with the Microsoft Windows operating system since May 2003.The verdict - which Microsoft has confirmed it intends to appeal - could have implications far beyond Microsoft's Redmond, WA headquarters, due to the high volume of devices which use the MP3 format; the format is the most popular method of storing digital music on portable music players, etc.After 33 years of managing software giant Microsoft, founder Bill Gates will retire from day-to-day management today.Gates will retain the title of Chairman but without executive functions and will only report for work once a week.The man who took a gut feeling of seeing personal computers in every household, each requiring a stable operating system will now pursue philanthropic activities under the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.Microsoft did not announce any major event to mark the day when its founder steps down but internal private activities were scheduled to take place at the company's headquarters at Redmond, Washington.In the year 2000, the functions of being Chief Executive of Microsoft was turned over to long-time partner Steve Ballmer.As Gates leaves day-to-day operations, two people will assume his two vital duties. Craig Mundie will handle the company's long-term planning while Ray Ozzie will handle the operations.Gates will focus more on helping out in causes he chooses through his foundation that is endowed with $38.7 billion and will soon gain more funds with his personal wealth and an endowment from billionaire Warren Buffet.Bill Gates founded Microsoft in 1975 which has since dominated the market for operating systems in personal computers. Gates managed close to 78,000 employees in 103 countries all over the world.In recent months, Microsoft's dominance has been threatened by Google which dominates the on-line industry and has business models that will soon eat up into Microsoft's core software businesses.Software giant Microsoft has been attempting to purchase Internet giant Yahoo! in hopes of leveraging the internet presence of Yahoo! in Microsoft's battle with Google.  The original offer for Yahoo! was $44 billion; however since this offer Microsoft has seen a revenue drop this last quarter which could greatly affect the software giant's ability to up the price again in hopes Yahoo! would accept.Revenues at Microsoft were down a total of 6%.  This includes a 24% drop in revenue from the Windows Operating System alone.  Stock prices of both Microsoft and Yahoo! have decreased during the merger discussions. Microsoft's next move is unknown but there has been talk of potentially going directly to the Yahoo! shareholders with a buyout plan.It is too early to tell how this will end, but Microsoft has made it known that it will try all available routes; up to and including a hostile takeover. Recent comments from Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer and CFO Chris Liddell have mentioned that not acquiring Yahoo! is also an option. Whatever Microsoft's plan is, the longer this takes, the more competitor Google will likely use this to their advantage is obtaining both clients and employees, says Juan Carlos Perez of IDG.Eight Hungarian migrant workers sacked from a Domino's Pizza franchise in Derby, England are said to have taken home virtually no pay for months because of illegal deductions.The claim is refuted by the company who said in a statement "We have begun a thorough investigation during which we have scrutinised the franchisee's employment practices. This took place with his full co-operation. The franchisee concerned is confident that he possesses the evidence required to refute these allegations. To the extent that we have been informed of all allegations and have reviewed all available evidence, we also believe this to be the case."The sacked workers are being supported in their claim by the workers union Unite. The union say the "there appeared to be a deliberate strategy of keeping the workers in debt to the company through a series of crippling deductions. The deductions included payments to cover the contract purchase of a car from their employer, insurance for the vehicle provided through their employer, and exorbitant rent for substandard accommodation, again provided through their employer. In addition, some workers had to pay fees of up to £180 for an "introduction" to the company. One worker earned just £5 in four months because of the constant and hefty deductions out of his wage packet. When the workers protested they were sacked."On November 1, 2006 the old five, ten, twenty and fifty cent coins will be illegal tender, but the Reserve Bank of New Zealand says there are still at least 100 million still to be returned.According to the Reserve Bank, most of the old coins have been lost in drains or buried in rubbish. "We think there is still another 100 million sitting around in people's homes," Brian Lang, currency manger for the Reserve Bank, said.Lang said: "So far, just over 280 million coins have been returned, but there are more out there. Since 1967 the Reserve Bank has issued more than a billion of the old 'silver' coins. So if you don't want to be stuck with loads of old coin - there's never been a better time to empty your coin jars, sweep the car glove box and rummage behind the couch cushions."The coins still awaiting to be handed in, by either spending them, taking them to a bank or donating them to charity, are estimated to be worth between NZ$5 million and $50 million."A last-minute burst of publicity may convince people to bring the coins in. It's a bit of a hassle though. Human nature being what it is, people just don't care," Lang said.The Karori Wildlife Sanctuary located in Wellington say that they have collected over $9,000 in old coins. Sanctuary spokesman, Alan Dicks said: "The campaign was particularly fitting because the old coins depicted tuataras and kiwis, both of which can be found living at the sanctuary. The money will go towards supporting general ecological restoration of the sanctuary. We want to get over ten grand, but the more the better."Lang said: "Though the coins will no longer be legal tender, banks will continue to exchange them until at least the end of the year," and the Reserve Bank will always exchange them. "We are still getting people coming in with two-dollar notes," Lang added.The International Labour Organization (ILO) released a major report Wednesday, finding that currently more than 12.3 million people are enslaved worldwide.  An estimated 2.4 million of them are victims of slave trafficking, and their combined labor generates profits of over 32 billion dollars annually.  Forced labor is "a social evil which has no place in the modern world," said ILO Director-General Juan Somavia.  "Forced labor represents the underside of globalization and denies people their basic rights and dignity... to achieve a fair globalization and decent work for all, it is imperative to eradicate forced labour," added Somavia. The new study confirms that slavery remains a major global problem to this day.  The report breaks down slaves by continent: 9.5 million forced laborers are in Asia, which is the region with the highest number1.3 million in Latin America and the Caribbean660,000 in sub-Saharan Africa260,000 in the Middle East and North Africa360,000 in industrialized countries210,000 in transition countries.The study also reveals that slavery is present in all regions and in all types of economies.Forced economic exploitation is more or less evenly divided between men and women, however forced commercial sexual exploitation involves almost entirely women and girls.  In addition, children bear a heavy burden, comprising between 40 to 50 percent of all slaves.  There are at least two victims of forced labor for every 1,000 people worldwide.MiniMax Discount, a recently-established joint venture between several Romanian and foreign investors, will open its first three discount stores between today and April 28. The discount stores, which will be similar to supermarkets, will open in the southern Romanian cities of Slatina, Urziceni and Târgovişte. MiniMax invested 750,000 euro per outlet, with each store having 1,000 m² of floor space and a parking area for 100 cars. The first store to be opened will be the one in Slatina, with the other ones opening by April 28.The company is planning to open a total of ten stores this year, as well as another twenty in 2006. It is expected that most of the stores will open in small- to medium-sized cities, of greater than 20,000 inhabitants, rather than larger cities of over 150,000 inhabitants. In a few years time, it has said that it plans to extend its network to over 100 stores.From Saturday, the minimum wage (in the United Kingdom) will be increased to £5.05 (approximately $8.94 USD) which will affect more than a million workers. People aged between 18 and 21 will have a 15p increase to £4.25. Over 21s will be able to get at least £5.05 an hour, up from £4.85.According to the Low Pay Commission the number of jobs had grown since the minimum wage was introduced in 1999 and so a further increase was necessary. "The increase will see well over a million low-paid workers with more cash in their pockets, many of them women working part-time," Brendan Barber, TUC general secretary, said. "But, as ever, with each minimum wage increase comes the predictable wave of protests from business saying that it cannot afford another rise."Further increases are expected to happen sometime in the future. In October 2006 the government said an increase for adults should be put to £5.35 and £4.45 for 18-21 year olds. This would have a "serious impact" according to Sir Digby Jones. "The UK is already edging towards the top of the international minimum wage league table."A minimum wage increase has come into effect in the United Kingdom. Workers of ages over 21 will now receive £5.35, which at current exchange rates is US$10.03. There was also an increase for persons under 21. It is estimated that 170,000 people in the United Kingdom do not receive the minimum payments for their work. £1.3m has been recovered by Revenue and Customs for underpaid workers.The minimum rate for persons aged 18-21 has increased by 20p to £4.45. Also, for persons aged 16-17, the minimum rate has increased by 30p to £3.30.The new United Kingdom adult minimum wage is roughly twice the United States' minimum wage of $5.15. The young person minimum wage of £3.30 is equivalent to about US$6.15, the state minumum wage in Florida and other US states.The federal minimum wage in the United States increased Thursday by 70 cents from US$5.85 to $6.55. This is the second of three increases to take place each year in the federal minimum wage under a law passed by Congress in 2007. Next year, the federal minimum wage is scheduled to increase to $7.25. Twenty-four states and the District of Columbia already have higher minimum wage settings than that of the Federal Government. The new minimum wage can be considered to be less than the wage level of 1997, which when adjusted for inflation, was the equivalent of $7.02. Adjusting for inflation the minimum wage 40 years ago was the equivalent of $10.06 in today's dollars, according to the U.S. Labor Department.District of Columbia law sets its minimum wage to automatically be $1.00 higher than the federal minimum. Eight states will have their state minimums increase to the federal minimum. 18 states automatically follow the federal minimum, while 24 already have minimum wage rates higher than the federal minimum. These range from Washington state at $8.07, California and New York at $8.00, to Florida at $6.79. Nevada sets its minimum wage at $6.85 unless health benefits are included, in which case the minimum is $5.85. Several states have their state minimums indexed to inflation. South Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana are the only states yet to set a minimum wage law.A number of cities, including San Francisco and New York, also have local minimum wage laws which set the minimum wage for jobs in those cities to figures higher than the federal minimum, and in some cases higher than the state minimum.  About two million workers will get an increase as a result of the change. Approximately five million will receive an increase from next year's minimum wage increase.A number of small businesses will have difficulties raising prices to cover the increase in costs, while other businesses in tight labor markets indicate the increase is irrelevant as employees are already being paid more than the federal minimum."Government price-setting has never been good for the economy, and they are setting the price of labor," said William Dunkelberg, chief economist for the National Federation of Independent Business. "If you want more people hired, you don't make it more expensive to hire them."File:New Zealand money.jpgThe minimum wage in New Zealand will be increased by 9.8% on 1 April, 2007, the biggest increase in New Zealand for seven years.The announcement was made today by Labour minister, Ruth Dyson, and will make the current minimum wage for workers over 18-years NZ$11.25 per hour, an increase $1.00 from the current wage of $10.25. Youth workers and youth workers being trained aged 16-years and 17-years will see an increase of $0.80 to $9.00, remaining at 80% of the adult minimum wage.Ms Dyson said: "The boost in the minimum wage will ensure that lower paid workers share the benefits of economic growth, encourage people to join the workforce and provide protection for some of New Zealand’s most vulnerable workers."The Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand has welcomed the announcement. Sue Bradford, spokesperson for the Greens' Industrial Relations, said: "There is no better time than during a strong economy for New Zealand to boost the current poverty level minimum wages."Ms Bradford said: "The rise announced today is not overly generous. When cost of living adjustments are taken into account, the $12 an hour minimum wage level called for by the Greens during the 2005 election campaign, has now moved to just over $13 per hour. If one applied the European Union social standard - which sets the minimum wage at two thirds of the average wage - we would be setting New Zealand's minimum wage at $13.66."However HealthCare Providers New Zealand is criticising the wage increases as currently the difference in minimum wage and the average caregiver wage rate is 10% ($10.25 and $11.33 respectively). Martin Taylor, chief executive officer, said: "If more funding is not made available then the government is agreeing to caregiving becoming a minimum wage occupation."Mr Taylor said: "We believe caregiving is an important job that deserves better wages, but you cannot pay out more than you are funded for. This sector is depended on government funding and we have already been waiting 9 months for DHBs to agree to our funding claim for the last minimum wage increase."The government believes that the change will benefit 110,000 adults of which the majority are woman, and 9,200 youth workers."With four months till the changes come into effect, businesses will have time to prepare. The date of 1 April was chosen to reduce compliance costs for businesses as it will coincide with the implementation date of four weeks’ annual holidays," Ms Dyson said.The government wishes that by the end of 2008 they will be able to increase the minimum wage of adults to at least $12.00 per hour, however the government will be keeping a close eye on the economy.The United States bridge that collapsed almost a year ago, spanning the Mississippi River in Minneapolis, Minnesota, is close to being reconstructed. The final sections of the northbound lanes of the new Interstate 35W St. Anthony Falls Bridge in Minneapolis, Minnesota were put in place on July 5. The final segment was raised with a barge-mounted crane from the Mississippi River below. A temporary bridge now connects the two segments.The remaining seven-foot gap will be closed in several days with concrete which is poured in place. The segments for the southbound lanes will now be raised and connected.  The segments were cast in a work area which was on the 35W roadbed and were then moved to Bohemian Flats, near the University of Minnesota West Bank campus.  A crane places each segment on a barge for delivery upstream to the bridge site.The bridge may be completed as early as September, well ahead of the scheduled opening date of December 24th.On September 29, Minnesota will become the first U.S. state to require diesel fuel sold at filling stations in the state to be blended with 2% biodiesel.  This follows the statewide mandate requiring ethanol to be mixed into gasoline—also a first by Minnesota—which took effect in 1997.  The biodiesel mandate was approved by the 2002 state legislature, and was sent to then-Governor Jesse Ventura.  Ventura allowed the bill to become law without his signature, stating his concern that the increased cost of fuel would affect the trucking industry—potentially spurring inflation—though he felt that this was nearly balanced by the positive impact the mandate would have on agriculture in the state.The law had an initial target date of July 1, 2005, but would only go into effect once production capacity exceeded 8 million gallons (30 millon liters) per year.  At the beginning of 2005, the state was only capable of producing three million gallons each year, but two new facilities in Albert Lea and Brewster increased state capacity twentyfold when they opened this summer.  Each of the two new plants can produce 30 million gallons (113 ML) annually.  Agriculture Commissioner Gene Hugoson verified production levels in the August 29 edition of the Minnesota State Register, meaning that the law will become effective following a month-long notification period.The prices of diesel and biodiesel have equalized, so the negative economic impact initially feared by Ventura are not expected to come to pass and the effect should be pennies more or less per gallon.  Despite the dramatic increase in capacity, biodiesel production is not yet a broad solution to shortages or high prices—in 2001, the state used 14.3 million gallons of petroleum every day.Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty said today that Essar Global has committed to fully comply with all U.S. and international law, including those prohibiting certain investments in Iran, and that he will support continued state assistance for Essar’s proposed steel project on the Iron Range.A few days after Indian company Essar Steel Holdings Limited acquired Minnesota Steel LLC, the governor of Minnesota announced that he "will strongly oppose any effort to provide state financial assistance to companies or entities that engage in prohibited business practices with Iran."  Governor Pawlenty recently returned from a trip to India.  He learned that Indian company Essar Global Limited is pursuing a project to build a refinery in southern Iran.There is no official word yet from Essar Group, but Iran's Petroenergy Information Network says Essar Group is expected to take a 60% stake in the project and that Essar's Ravi Ruia was negotiating for the project in Iran last week.The northern Minnesota project will be the first facility which includes all steps in steel production from iron mining to a US$1.65 billion steel mill.  The Iranian refinery will have a capacity of 300,000 barrels per day and cost $8-10 billion.A major oil pipeline in Minnesota exploded and caught fire, killing two workers. The pipeline carries oil from Saskatchewan, Canada to close to Chicago, United States, representing 16% of America's total oil imports.The section of the pipe that exploded was undergoing maintenance at the time to address a pinhole leak first identified three weeks earlier, and patched at the time with a metal sleeve. On Wednesday, the entire section was removed and replaced with a new one. When oil was reintroduced on Thursday morning, oil leaked where the new section joined the pre-existing pipe, triggering the fatal explosion.The fire was extinguished later the same day.The line is split between four separate pipes. After the explosion, all four pipes were shut down, resulting in the global price surge, but this subsided for the most part after it became clear that the three undamaged pipelines had returned to normal operation, restoring 80% of the line's capacity, and that the accident pipe is expected to be back in use in a matter of days."There were no problems found in that area where the leak occurred," reporters were told by Larry Springer, spokesman for Enbridge, the Canadian company that owns the line. High-tech equipment had been through the line in 2006 to check for any signs of problems.Enbridge identified the deceased as Dave Mussati Jr. and Steve Arnovich, both of whom were contract workers based in Superior, Wisconsin. The damaged section of pipe is in Clearbrook, which is approximately 350 miles Northwest of Minneapolis.Enbridge metallurgists have been sent to examine the failed section in an effort to determin the cause of the accident. Other Enbridge workers are working to clear spilled oil from the site. It is expected that once this is complete, the pipe will return to service. Global crude oil prices temporarily spiked by over US$4 per barrel but closed yesterday slightly above original prices.Governor Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota signed a bill into law on Thursday that requires the state to generate a significant amount of its energy needs from renewable sources.The amount of power generated by wind turbines in the state stands now at 895 megawatts. An additional 5,000 megawatts of energy from renewable sources will need to be added to Minnesota's electricity resources, which is roughly eight times more than the amount that currently comes from renewables. The bill signed by the Governor requires energy companies to provide 25 percent of power from renewable sources by 2025. Xcel Energy, which supplies approximately half of the electricity in the state, is required to provide 30 percent from renewable sources by 2020.Residents in Minyama, on Queensland, Australia's Sunshine Coast, have vowed to keep fighting the development of a 24-hour McDonald's on Nicklin Way. Last week, Sunshine Coast Regional Council officers recommended that construction be given the go ahead.Councillor Chris Thompson, who represents Division 4 in the Sunshine Coast Regional Council, has said that he will recommend that it be rejected at the general committee meeting."I'm pretty sure I'm the only councillor who already has a 24-hour McDonald's in my division,"  Councillor Thompson said, “we have enough issues with that one, and this is overkill.”The 24-hour McDonald's in Councillor Thompson's division, in Mooloolaba, is part of a larger complex and does not back onto residential premises.“I would have thought that the anti-social elements in society do not observe fixed days and hours,” protest group spokesman John Meyer-Gleaves said.“And council says the problem associated with increased vehicle noise has been addressed by stating that parking will be in the front of the building.“But all [drive-through] traffic goes around the back of the building and will impact on the residents of Chelsea Crescent.”Local member of federal parliament Peter Slipper was emailed for comment but has yet to reply.Sudanese-born British mobile communications tycoon Mo Ibrahim told a news conference in Tanzania today that some African countries are too small to keep functioning independently, and need to integrate in order to survive.Ibrahim, speaking at the beginning of a two-day-long event encouraging good governance on the continent, commented that "some of our countries, and I'm really sorry to say this, are just not viable....We need scale and we need that now — not tomorrow, the next year or the year after.""Intra-African trade is 4–5 percent of our international trade.   Why? This is unacceptable, unviable, and people need to stand up and say this," he continued.  "Who are we to think that we can have 53 tiny little countries and be ready to compete with China, India, Europe, the Americans?  It is a fallacy.""We are poor, we are hungry, we are going without. Something is drastically wrong. I think we have the right to ask our leaders: are they really serious?" he said.A reporter for the BBC suggested that the tycoon was talking about economic, not political, integration.Ibrahim also surprised many African leaders when he did not give out his Ibrahim Prize in October, worth US$5 million. The prize is given to former sub-Saharan African leaders whose governance has been deemed good. Prize judges didn't say why it wasn't given out this year. Former presidents Joaquim Chissano of Mozambique and Festus Mogae of Botswana both have received the prize in the past.In a third case of staggering sums billed for "unlimited" Internet access reported this week, a French emergency-room doctor from Fontainebleau beats all records with a €159,212 (US$237,417) bill. The telephone-number-sized bill covers one month's use of an unlimited 3G dongle on Orange's network; the beleaguered Dr Jean Spadaro has been battling this for six months."To begin with I thought it was a joke", said Spadaro, confirming a story from l'Observateur du Valenciennois; The same newspaper that revealed last week a similar case — Eric Gernez, a café owner in Petite-Forêt near to Valenciennes — who received a bill for €45,000. Christophe Aupy-Fargues, head of an insurance brokerage firm in Saint-Herblain, west of Nantes, and another unlimited 3G dongle user, confirmed to Ouest-France on Monday the blocking of payment on a bill for €39,500 demanded by Orange."I subscribed in November 2008 to a basic internet access by 3G dongle at €30 per month [...] seeing my bills reach sums going up to €860 in April, I decided in May to subscribe to unlimited access by 3G dongle with Orange business at €50 per month. When I saw my bill for May, I couldn't believe my eyes: €159,212, for one month's connection, it's impossible, especially as we don't use it all of the time" added Spadaro, the father of two children, aged sixteen and nineteen.On opening the envelope in June, he expected to read an amount neighbouring the cost of his subscription; but, to his horror, it was €159,212; a demand large enough to make an emergency-room doctor's head spin.Spadaro claims France Télécom (Orange's parent company) never explained to him that the "unlimited" package only related to the time spent surfing on the Internet — not the volume of traffic — limited to one Gigabyte per month. The package's quota corresponds to moderate usage (reception of simple emails for example). As normal Internet users, the members of the Spadaro family surfed Facebook, YouTube, sent emails with attachments, received same, &c. That volume of traffic proved to be costly. €0.17 per Megabyte, or €170 per Gigabyte. Until the bills arrived, the Spadaro family were using the Internet, ignorant of the cost being incurred.The doctor's bills, not listed in detail, are €53 for February, €346 for March, €860 for April before soaring to more than €159,000 in May. Spadaro also claims, with evidence of his letters in hand, he had increased the number of protest actions and received, in response, "warnings with threats of seizure".Battle-weary after six months of contacting his operator, Spadaro has lost all patience. "Since June, I've spent hours writing emails, letters or calling Orange to ask for an explanation. I've been passed from call centre to call centre, from customer services to debt collection. No one at Orange was able to give me the slightest clarification. A real wall", he said. He has never contacted a consumer association, "due to lack of time and also because I trusted the people with whom I was speaking".At the end of last week he stumbled upon the article on the Observateur du Valenciennois internet site concerning the case of Eric Gernez. He then also threatened Orange with the press. "The result did not tardy", he continues. "A customer services representative and a debt collector immediately contacted me by email November 16. And immediately afterwards I received a credit for €136,529". A first credit having already been sent to him in June, Orange now considers the dossier as "definitively resolved".This resolution does not satisfy Jean Spadaro at all, who simply wishes that the bill be cancelled. "I have been a client with Orange for 17 years. I don't want to attack their image, but here, enough is enough. It's a question of principles", he says, highlighting that "on forums, dozens of subscribers tell similar stories". Furthermore, the two credits do not reimburse him for all of the additional fees he has incurred. "The following months, Orange tried to debit the sum from my account, causing rejection fees from my bank and unpaid fees from the operator. Around €35 each time".Exasperated by the whole affair, Spadaro awaits the end of his current contract with Orange in February next year. "I will cancel all of my subscriptions to Orange: 3G+ dongle, but also mobile telephone and internet", he promises. He has been a client with the operator since 1997.Orange has promised to work with each case of overbilling. Interviewed on France 2 on Wednesday, Jean-Paul Cottet, director of the business market for France, said that the number of problems were marginal. According to him, 4,000 professionals have opted for a package with a 3G key. It is "a 24/24 but not unlimited offer. Out of these 4,000 cases, there are 1% which are a problem" he explained, listing about thirty such "absurd bills". "We will correct that", he promised. "We will work with each client".Jean-Paul Cottet pointed out that the general public offers better protection to the client. Once the authorised download limit is reached, the service quality diminishes but there is no overbilling.Asked about the information given to clients about the conditions of billing elements not included in the package, Elizabeth Alvez, communications representative for the regional department for the North of France, said that "all the tarification information is available at points-of-sale and on orange.fr. This information is given as part of the dialogue between the client and the vendor. We are obliged to communicate the prices." Nevertheless, one must first of all take the time to read the entire contract with the salesperson before signing.At the 1st day of WiMAX Forum Taipei Showcase & Conference, Ministry of Economic Affairs of R.O.C. Taiwan (MOEA Taiwan) not only set M-Taiwan Pavilion supervised by Industrial Development Bureau of MOEA Taiwan, but also signed MOUs with five world-class WiMAX companies to enhance the advance of networking industry in Taiwan especially in WiMAX environment.In the contract-signing ceremony, MOEA Taiwan chose Alcatel-Lucent, Motorola Inc., Nokia-Siemens, Starent Networks, and Sprint-Nextel to sign MOUs with different technologies such as interoperability testing (IOT) to help companies in Taiwan with testing and purchasing WiMAX networking devices and develop solutions with high prime costs to expand the opportunity in global marketing."Governments and networking industry in Taiwan is still promoting on M-Taiwan project, the investment with WiMAX infrastructure in Taiwan is the 2nd highest in the world, we estimate that by 2012, the production value of WiMAX will break NT$140 billion. With the MOUs signing, the industry development of WiMAX infrastructure in Taiwan will be improved rapidly with product testing and lots ways of applications to ensure the prime position in the global WiMAX chain." Steve Ruey-long Chen (Minister of Economic Affairs of Taiwan) remarked at the Ceremony.According to MOEA Taiwan, this MOUs signing is the 2nd time after signing with world-class companies like Intel, NEC, Nortel, and Rohde & Schwarz Technology. With this MOUs signing, it will improve the networking industry and WiMAX infrastructure in Taiwan.The number of mobile phone users in Moldova increased by 47.3 % in the first quarter of 2008 against the last year and exceeded 2.88 million. This information was published by the Moldovan National Electronic and Information Technology Regulator (ANRCETI). At the beginning of this year, the number of mobile phone users was of 1.88 million. The penetration rate of such services per one hundred inhabitants increased by 19.7 percentage points and approached 61%.The first million of mobile telephony users was registered in September 2005. A year and a half later the figure amounted to 1.5 million users. During the first quarter of 2008, mobile phone service suppliers connected over 205.8 thousand new users, by more than three times more against the first quarter of 2007.The local mobile phone market is divided between three GSM networks (Orange, Moldcell and Eventis) and one CDMA (Unité) mobile operator. Orange Moldova launched its network in October 1998, Moldcell in April 2000, Moldtelecom (under the trademark Unité) in March 2007 and Eventis in December 2007.Moldcell connected the most users to its network, achieving 103.9 thousand. Overall, as of April 1, 2008, Moldcell had 660.1 thousand users, Orange Moldova had 1.34 million users, Unite had 66.5 thousand users and Eventis had 12.5 thousand users.Molson Canada picks up Creemore Springs Brewery Ltd. as the company maneuvers to make an entry into the craft beer market.Creemore Springs of Creemore, Ontario, produces the locally popular Creemore Springs lager. The merger will allow the company to retain its identity."The Creemore brand image and brewing craft will remain unchanged," Creemore Springs Brewery chairman Bill Wilder said. "Molson understands and appreciates what is special about the Creemore brand and this makes them a great purchaser for the company."Industry observers are mixed on the benefits of the deal for Molson. The CBC reports one analyst suggests Molson may be trying to replicate the success of rival Labatt's premium beers. Others point out the small brewery model does not scale up well, and the attraction of a "boutique" beer fades in large-scale production.Molson Coors Brewing Co., formed by the US$3.4 billion merger in February of two family-run companies, Canadian Molson and U.S. Coors brewing companies, is the fifth largest brewer in the world by volume. (TSX:TAP.NV, NYSE:TAP)Yahoo announced plans to sell its HotJobs employment search service to Monster Worldwide for $225m, the companies said yesterday.  Monster currently controls one third of online jobs postings in the United States.  The two companies also struck a three-year agreement under which Monster will provide career and job content for the Internet giant's homepage in the U.S. and Canada. Terms of the deal include Monster being paid for  providing job-related postings for Yahoo's homepage in the US and Canada for three years and other expressions of interest. Yahoo, who bought HotJobs in 2001 for $436 million, last month agreed to sell email provider Zimbra to VMWare Inc. for an undisclosed amount, having it acquired for $350 million two years ago."HotJobs with its significant customer base plus the traffic agreement are an ideal complement to Monster's innovative recruitment solutions and global reach," said Sal Iannuzzi, chairman, CEO and president of Monster Worldwide. "Monster will be able to offer its employers a significantly larger pool of candidates across diverse geographies and industries," the company said in a statement.Buying Yahoo out of the online recruitment business leaves Monster with only one major competitor, Careerbuilder.com. "We have substantially added quality traffic, while substantially increasing our customer base," he added.HotJobs averaged 12.6 million unique visitors a month, according to Media Metrics comScore. HotJobs generates annual revenue of about $100 million while Monster's revenue totalled $905 million in 2009. Alexa.com rates HotJobs at rank 3 while Monster.com at rank 531.== Sources ==*Mike Swift. "Yahoo to sell HotJobs employment service to Monster for $225 million" — Mercury News, 3 February, 2010*Nick Zieminski and Alexei Oreskovic. "Monster to pay $225 million for Yahoo's HotJobs site" — Reuters, 3 February, 2010The deadlock held in place by the EU continues after the finish of a 2 day meeting at APEC today.  The EU stated that it will not budge on deliberalizing its tariffs on imported agricultural goods unless others provide more on industrial goods and services.  The EU has received criticism for not matching an offer by the US widely considered to be generous.  EU does not plan to make a further offer on agricultural issues before the next WTO ministerial meeting in December 13-18.The timetable for the current round of WTO talks requires an outline agreement in place for the December meeting.Rob Portman, the US Trade Representative, was not able to nail down some better detailed trade proposals.  "The Doha Development Agenda negotiations are in dire straits," Kim Hyun-chong, South Korean trade minister said.  He also believed that APEC members, specifically China and Japan, as well as the US, did not have "specific numbers" to offer as concessions.  US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice took the meetings as an opportunity to get APEC members to do more on terrorism.  "APEC nations must deepen our cooperation in the global fight against terrorism,' Rice said. "In the past year we have seen that the threat of global terrorism is still very real, with vicious new attacks in Indonesia and Russia and the Philippines," APEC ministers agreed that by the end of 2006 that all major airports will be safe from attacks by shoulder-fired ground-to-air missiles.Across Australia more than 100,000 people have rallied to protest against the federal government's controversial Workchoices workplace reforms. According to estimates by police, the largest rally was held in Melbourne where more than 80,000 people were thought to be in attendance. The earlier protest in Sydney attracted some 30,000 protesters.Smaller protests were held in other cities throughout the country.At most rallies, members of the opposition and union leaders addressed the crowd, criticising the Howard government's changes. Under the Workchoices system, centralised wage fixing was abolished and meal breaks, holidays and working hours became negotiable. Businesses with less than 100 employees were also given increased powers to dismiss workers. Unions and the opposition claim that the system will reduce worker's rights and wages.Australian federal opposition leader, Kim Beazley attended the Melbourne rally where he addressed the crowd. He said those who attended the rallies were patriots who were standing up to defend the Australian lifestyle. "This is a battle for ordinary Australian life," he said "This is a battle for Australian families. It's also a battle for basic dignity in the workplace. "You are the people that made this nation what it is. "You are the builders of this nation. You are the true Australian patriots." Mr Beazley again promised that a government under his leadership would abolish the reforms."When we get into office in 18 months time, we will rip up these laws," he said. "Then we are going to put in place laws based on true Australian values." The Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ACCI), which represents a large number of employers in Australia said the total number of protesters across Australia was less than 150, 000 and labelled the protests as a day of "inaction", despite unions calling for a "day of action".Peter Hendy, chief executive of the ACCI said the turnout figure is less than 10 per cent of the membership of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, which encouraged workers to participate in a "national day of action" to "protect rights at work"Mr Hendy said only 2 percent of Australian workers participated in the protests.South Australia Unions secretary, Janet Giles said the protests showed the dislike ordinary workers have for the laws."What today's demonstrated is that the momentum of this campaign is not waning, that union members, workers, community members are out today again to say we're still determined to campaign against these laws," she said.The U.S Consumer Product Safety Commission has recalled more products over the last few days, though not all because of excessive lead.While American toy companies have been rocked in the last few months by numerous unsafe Chinese-made products, mostly due to excessive amounts of lead in paint, a few of the latest recalls were actually due to design flaws.Also recently recalled are sunglasses and toy cars from the Dollar General chain of price-point retailers.Greek workers' unions claim that 70 to 100% of country's workforce has joined the general 24 hour long strike on Friday.  The general strike was called by labor umbrella organizations as a show of support for striking bank employees, who are in their third week of strikes.Private and public sector workers alike are protesting mass lay-offs, alleged age discrimination against employees, the lowering of pensions to 40% of former salary, the repudiation of collective bargaining agreements, while voicing support for the retention of the eight-hour work day.Buses operated between 8am until 9pm, while the metro, railway, and trams did not operate at all. Administration and civil servants stopped working for three hours during the day. Banks are working with emergency personnel, causing a shortage of currency and slowing commercial and financial transactions.  The president of the security guards' union, which includes employees responsible for filling automatic teller machines estimates that most machines will run out of money sometime tomorrow.Workers in other branches of the private sector, including shipping and tourism, also went on strike for a day.  The private sector accounts for roughly half the Greek workforce, with the other half are employed in the public sector.Independent estimates or reports on impact of the general strike are hard to find, as media workers has joined in the walkout, and broadcast news outlets did not operate at all from 1pm to 5pm. The strikes were followed by protests in several Greek cities.The Greek economy continues to grow, but growth has slowed since the close of the 2004 Summer Olympics and analysts had expected economic and political turmoil this summer. Greece had a high GDP growth rate prior to 2004, when it reached 4.1%. However, it is expected that for 2005, it will be around 2.7%.  Additionally, a recent survey by the National Statistics Service estimates the national poverty rate to be 20%, despite recent economic progress.A controversial proposal by New Democracy Prime Minister Costas Caramanlis would overhaul the country's Social Security system to include bank employees, who until now have had separate pension schemes and largely oppose the merger.There had been speculation that the wireless communications giant would scrap the phone after an underwhelming response from US operators, however CEO Ed Zander confirmed the company's intentions at the results presentation.The phone, when launched, will allow users to easily download digital music from Apple's popular iTunes music store onto their handset. The combination of mobile phone and MP3 player is a long awaited example of the much touted "technological convergence" often mentioned by the industry's CEO's.Wikinews will have a reporter live at Apple's WWDC keynote (when the software is likely to be released) on June 6 to cover the event.The Mozilla Foundation released the second major security update this week for their flagship browser Firefox. The fix patches a serious flaw in the way Firefox handles animated GIF image files. Firefox browsers infected by malicious code could experience a buffer overflow, temporarily locking up or "freezing" a user's computer, or even executing arbitrary code which could take over a user's computer.The flaw was discovered and reported by Internet Security Systems, Inc. The upgrade was the second major security fix in less than a month for the browser, which has grown in popularity to ten percent of the browser market in the United States. Although there were no known exploits of the bug, Chris Hoffman, director of engineering at Mozilla, told reporters, "[because] Mozilla is committed to delivering the most secure product possible, we decided to quickly issue an update to patch the bug."The Mozilla Foundation did not offer any details about the issue of vulnerability, but a second major security overhaul in such a short time underscores challenges faced by the nonprofit foundation as it goes head-to-head with the market leading Internet Explorer browser by Microsoft.The new release, Firefox version 1.0.2, "illustrates the dedication of the strong community of developers working on the product," according to Hoffman. "...we’re able to turn around patches much faster than a traditional corporation," he added.Users can download the update at no charge, and can find additional information at the Mozilla website.As the case between film studio Metro Goldwyn Mayer and file-sharing software firm Grokster continues in the US Supreme Court, protesters from the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) adopted a novel tactic. EFF Staff Technologist Seth Schoen arrived at the courthouse with several Betamax tapes. As Jack Valenti, until recently the president of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), arrived, EFF Media Coordinator Annalee Newitz asked Valenti to sign one of the tapes; Valenti complied with her request.In testimony before the US Congress in 1982, Valenti sided with an effort to outlaw Sony's early video cassette recorder standard, Betamax. The Valenti testimony included the oft-quoted phrase, "I say to you that the VCR is to the American film producer and the American public as the Boston strangler is to the woman home alone."The case now before the Supreme Court, MGM v. Grokster, has some similarities to the Betamax case of 1982. Both disputes concern new technologies used for copying media — exclusively video in the earlier Betamax case, all-digital media in the current case of Grokster. There are dissimilarities as well. A recent statement from Recording Artists' Coalition spokesperson and professional singer, Sheryl Crow, points out that with Betamax technology, "a second copy turned out to be of measurably inferior quality," while with Grokster, "one could possibly distribute millions of perfectly reproduced copies." Crow also quotes an expurgated version of the copyright clause of the US Constitution,"To promote the progress of...useful arts by securing ... to authors [sic] the exclusive right to their respective writings ..."The original text reads:"To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries;"Thursday, November 4, 2010 On Wednesday, students in Ireland clashed with Gardaí (police) after a student rally against suggestions the annual student fees may rise from €1,500 to €2,500 as part of austerity measures by the Irish government. The protest was organised by the Union of Students in Ireland (USI) who said over 40,000 took part in the rally at Government Buildings. The USI president, Gary Redmond, said a rise in fees would have a major impact on students and would be met with strong opposition.After the rally about 2,000 people staged a sit-down protest outside the Department of Finance. More than 30 people occupied the lobby in what they described as a "peaceful sit-in". A student who engaged in the sit-down protest outside the department said "I wanted action. We just had words."  Within minutes, Gardaí converged on the crowd with the riot squad, garda vans, dog units, and the mounted unit. Socialist Workers Party spokesperson Karl Gill said Gardaí had aggravated a peaceful sit-in.In violent scenes, Gardaí forcibly ejected students from the lobby and street as eggs, bottles, and bricks were thrown. People claimed protesters were pulled out "by their ankles", and one student said "they're beating every last one of them". During the scuffles people were visibly injured and bleeding. Students reported being  "kicked", "rammed", and "trampled" by Garda horses while sitting on the ground.Gary Redmond, USI president, said the "organisation is deeply disappointed at the destructive behaviour of a minority of people", and that “left-wing” groups had engaged in “anti-social violence” which diverted attention from its campaign. A student said, "we didn't want this", "the media is going to focus on is the riot and not the peaceful protest that we made. They hijacked the whole thing. Nobody will listen to us now."Gardaí said the event was hijacked by a group of “militant and aggressive” protesters. Several people were taken away by the Gardaí and three were arrested. Three Gardaí received medical attention including a Garda with a broken nose. The vice president of the National College of Art and Design Students Union, Wilm Abrook, thanked the Gardaí for their patience.Historically the Union of Students in Ireland have backed and organised similar occupations of government buildings. In 2004, members of the union occupied the offices of the Department of Education and Science which ended after a meeting with senior department officials. In 2009, the union organised the occupation of the Department of Transport and Department of the Environment. Aodhán Ó Deá, then president of the union. described the occupations as a “plan of direct action ... to target various departments and send them a message — not only to the Department of Education but to the whole Cabinet — that we’re against fees.”The 2008 Taipei CNC Machine Tools & Manufacturing Technology Show (MT duo) and Taiwan International Robot Exhibition (Robot Taiwan 2008) both began yesterday. These events are both taking place in the build up to Taipei International Machine Tool Show (TIMTOS 2009) at TWTC Nangang, which is due to take place next year.The 2008 MT duo and Robot Taiwan mainly focused on software designed for industry, rather than consumers. This is in contrast to the choice of software displayed in many Japanese Trade Shows, which often displays products designed for consumers.Robotics is a major industry in Taiwan. As a result the organizer of the event decided to refine "Manufacturing Taipei" and split it into the "Robot & Industrial Automation" of Manufacturing Taipei and "Robot Taiwan".There was also a "Taiwan International Robotics Forum" and "Seminars on MT duo" at the event. Both were designed to attract executives from IT, manufacturing, and machinery industries to promote the worldwide use of robotics in industry.Warner Music agreed on Tuesday to license its music videos to MTV for use on devices such as cell phones and other devices. This deal is said to help the recording industry to gain more revenue, despite declining CD sales. The cost of the deal was not disclosed.MTV plans to distribute these music videos as short segments and, in the future, offer full-length videos as part of a subscription. In addition, MTV wishes to use these videos in programs similar to VH1's Driven. Pricing is not available yet.Warner Music is the first label to license music to MTV for the purpose of offering them on wireless devices. MTV plans to get licenses from other music labels.News Corporation, owned by Rupert Murdoch, has made the decision to abandon a deal to take full control of broadcasting company BSkyB. The decision came amidst pressure from the British public and politicians, as British parliamentarians from the government and opposition parties prepared to vote in the House of Commons in London to urge Murdoch to drop the deal.The Murdoch move followed a series of damaging revelations about alleged phone hacking offences by journalists at the News of the World, which published its last edition on July 10. Labour leader Ed Miliband said the decision was "a victory for people up and down this country who have been appalled by the revelations of the phone hacking scandal and the failure of News International to take responsibility".Chase Carey, the president of News Corporation, said it would be "too difficult to progress in this climate." The corporation "remains a committed long-term shareholder in BSkyB," Carey said in a statement. "We are proud of the success it has achieved and our contribution to it."Politicians from around the political spectrum have expressed their disapproval on Murdoch over the allegations of phone hacking and praised his decision to drop the deal, with Nick Clegg, the deputy prime minister, saying the decision was "decent and sensible"; while Ivan Lewis, a senior Labour shadow minister, called the decision "a victory for the public of this country."Rupert Murdoch, the media billionaire giant at the head of News Corporation, flew to London today amid a growing storm over allegations of phone hacking at the News of the World, which this week closed down the bestselling newspaper in the country, saw a former editor of the newspaper arrested, and halted his hopes of taking full control of broadcaster BSkyB.After a devastating week for Murdoch which saw new allegations that journalists from the tabloid hacked into the phones of a missing schoolgirl and relatives of victims of the 7/7 attacks, his empire was in crisis last night as it emerged the British government had put on hold his bid to take over BSkyB.Investors rushed to ditch their shares BSkyB as Cameron announced an independent inquiry into hacking at the newspaper and Jeremy Hunt, the culture secretary, said it would be "some time" before a take-over bid was authorised after a massive public response. "Shareholders are discounting the possibility that this bid won't happen for the foreseeable future. Some people wonder if it will happen at all," said media analyst.Prime minister David Cameron was forced on the defensive Friday after the arrest of Andy Coulson, a former editor of the NotW who later went on to work at Downing Street. Cameron tried to distance himself from the allegations of phone hacking, but refused to apologise for hiring Coulson. "I decided to give him a second chance but the second chance didn't work. The decision to hire him was mine and mine alone," Cameron said on Friday. Coulson was bailed until later this year on Friday evening after he was questioned by officers working with Operation Weeting, which is investigating phone hacking, and his house was searched. As he left a police station in Lewisham, he said that "[t]here is an awful lot I would like to say, but I can't at this time."News Corporation executives are also facing new allegations that they have disrupted inquiries at Scotland Yard into hacking at the NotW by deleting millions of incriminating e-mails. A report in The Guardian newspaper indicated that the "massive quantities" of deleted e-mails revealed discussions between journalists and editors. Labour politicians have now demanded in a letter to Cameron that he start an inquiry before more evidence is deleted or hidden. Harriet Harman, the deputy Labour leader, said computers may be destroyed and journalists may become difficult to contact once the paper closes. A spokesperson for News International, the British arm of News Corporation, said the allegations of obstructing the police investigation were "rubbish".Journalists at the NotW were on Saturday putting together the final publication of the paper at News International headquarters in Wapping. There was fury in the newsroom of the tabloid on Friday as Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive of News International, told reporters the brand had become "toxic" and had to close. Sources at the paper said journalists who are being made redundant as the paper closes feel they are being sacrificed to save Brooks. "They have to make us redundant first and then they will recruit some people again," a reporter at the tabloid said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "They have to do that to show they're scrapping the old paper."Mean Fiddler was founded in 1982 by Vince Power, a native of County Waterford, Ireland. The company, which started life as a small but trendy club in London, grew rapidly in the 1980's to encompass a French restaurant and three venues in London; the Acoustic Room, the Powerhaus and Subterania.Today the company regularly organises some of the largest music events in Europe. It runs the Reading and Leeds music festivals and also owns a 39% stake in the Glastonbury Festival.British-born Muslim hair stylist Bushra Noah is currently undertaking legal action against the owner of a hair salon for alleged religious discrimination. Noah is suing London hair salon owner Sarah Desroiser. Desroiser who runs a salon in King's Cross, has said that she would not accept Noah as a stylist if Noah's hair was covered. Noah, like many devout Muslims keeps her hair covered in public places, believing it to be immodest otherwise. Noah claims that her headscarf is a fundamental part of her religious beliefs and that wearing the scarf would not interfere in her carrying out the job at all. Desrosiers said that it is not discrimination but rather that "the essence of my line of work is the display of hair. To me, it's absolutely basic that people should be able to see the stylist's hair. It has nothing to do with religion. It is just unfortunate that for her covering her hair symbolises religion." Desosiers added that she had worked with Muslims in the past and employs a Muslim accountant.Noah claims that the state of her own hair is irrelevant to her ability to style others hair. The last few years have seen a string of similar cases in Britain. Last year, there was a case over whether a British Airways employee could wear a prominent cross, and another case in which a teacher argued that she had a right to wear a Jilbāb (a traditional Islamic dress that covers almost the entire body) in the classroom. In that case, the teacher lost in the High Court.News Corp. has purchased a controlling interest in Jamba, the ringtone company created by VeriSign. The $188 million give News Corp. a 51% interest in the public-owned company.Jamba, and its American brand Jamster, will be merged into News Corp.'s Mobizzo. Mobizzo sells short video clips of television series. It is expected MySpace will integrate the ringtone sales somehow into News Corp.'s social networking website MySpace; MySpace recently announced it would sell music on its website.News Corp President and CEO Peter Chernin commented to Reuters that "wireless technology gives us an enormous opportunity to reach billions of mobile phone users with our content".The announcement was made this morning by News Corporation, which owns MySpace.The Namibian government has refused to remove value added tax (VAT) on the price of milk. The Namibian Dairy producers organization requested the Namibian directorate of local income in May 2006 to follow the example of South Africa and declare fresh milk as a basic need upon which no taxation is applicable. Mnr. Calle Schlettwein, permanent Secretary of the Namibia Ministry of Finance said the decision not to discard VAT on milk is because of two reasons: “This industry is already receiving advantages because of Article 26 of the African Customs Union (SACU),” he said. "Secondly, the ministry cannot decrease the country's tax basis. Namibia is a country that spend more than what it can collect through tax. We cannot afford to discard VAT on fresh milk."The price of fresh milk is to climb by 50c in the beginning of April 2007 following increases in production costs to producers. The dairy industry has warned of a collapse of the industry and a dependence on foreign imports if prices are not increased to match rising production costs.NXEC Trains Ltd, a subsidiary of National Express Group, has been awarded the contract to run the InterCity East Coast franchise and operate intercity rail services on the East Coast Main Line, a high-speed route connecting London with the north-east of England and Scotland. The company, which is to brand the service as National Express East Coast, will take over the franchise from the current operator Great North Eastern Railway (GNER) from December 9, 2007.GNER's contract was initially due to run until 2015 but was terminated early by the Department for Transport after its parent company, Sea Containers Ltd, found itself in financial difficulties which meant it was unable to pay the £1.3 billion it had promised in its bid to run the service.A number of other bids were made for the franchise. These were from Arriva, FirstGroup, and a partnership of Stagecoach, Virgin, and GNER.Richard Bowker, chief executive of National Express Group, said, "We are absolutely delighted that we have won the UK’s premier intercity railway.  We have won with a bid which is ambitious, deliverable and structured to generate shareholder value."National Express East Coast has begun operating intercity rail services on the East Coast Main Line connecting London with the north-east of England and Scotland after it was awarded the franchise earlier this year. GNER, the previous operator, had their contract terminated early when parent company Sea Containers Ltd encountered financial difficulties.GNER could not afford to pay the £1.3 billion premium it had promised the government, and whilst National Express have promised £1.4 billion, the larger contributions are scheduled for towards the end of the franchise when revenues should be better as increases in capacity and the estimated growth in rail travel take effect.The new operator, part of the National Express Group, has committed to making an number of improvements to the service as part of the franchise contract. One of the first changes for passengers travelling today will be that the on-board wireless internet service is now free for all passengers. Elsewhere on the UK railway network, today also saw TransPennine Express begin services from Manchester to Edinburgh and Glasgow after a change in the Cross Country franchise saw the services leaving Virgin Trains.On June 7, Mike Svonavec, the owner of the land in Somerset County, Pennsylvania where United Airlines Flight 93 crashed on September 11, 2001 has a US$10 million price tag for his property which is sought by the group, Families of Flight 93 and the United States National Park Service, (NPS) for building a memorial dedicated to those on the plane. Svonavec also placed a box on the crash site temporary memorial, where visitors can leave a "donation" to pay for his asking price for the land as well as the cost of  providing security at the site.The NPS has covered the donation box with a trash bag and told Svonavec in a letter to remove it by the end of Friday June 8, but Svonavec said that he will not remove the box."I have no intentions of removing the box from my property. My only plans are to try to cooperate with the Park Service with regard to the sale of the property," said Svonavec.Svonavec accused the NPS of trying to take over his property after they placed the bag over the box."It's just unbelievable to my mind that that's the direction they would take, taking control of the property like a guest would at your house," added Svonavec."The bottom line is we feel the National Park Service can't effectively carry out our mission without exercising the exclusive use and control of the site as provided for in our agreement with the property owners," said Joanne Hanley who is the Superintendent of the memorial.Although NPS tour guides are telling tourists and others who visit the memorial, they are shocked to learn that the money they donate is going to Svonavec and not the memorial. "They're alarmed that they may have given their money to something that they didn't want to give their money to," said one of the 43 guides who volunteer at the memorial, Donna Glessner.The land is currently under contract with the NPS and the memorial is allowed to be on the land according to an act of the United States Congress who in 2002 authorized the memorial to be placed on the land.Currently, the U.S. National Park Service only owns approximately 60 acres of the land. PBS Coals Inc. owns 864 acres of the land and Svonavec owns 273 acres. The entire field is nearly 2,000 acres.Today Virgin Money finalised a deal with the British Government to acquire the nationalised Newcastle upon Tyne-based bank Northern Rock for £747 million. During 2012, the bank will be rebranded as a Virgin company and the current Northern Rock customers will become customers of the enlarged Virgin Money.The Northern Rock bank had been nationalised in 2008 following the revelation that the company had received emergency support from the UK Government. Northern Rock had required support due to its exposure during the subprime mortgage crisis in 2007. Sir Richard Branson's Virgin Group had a bid for the bank rejected prior to the bank’s nationalisation. In 2010, while nationalised, the current high street bank Northern Rock plc was split from the ‘bad bank’, Northern Rock (Asset Management). Virgin have only purchased the ‘good bank’ of Northern Rock, not the asset management company.The deal which could have additional payments to put the total value of the sale to over £1 billion had been first announced on 17 November 2011 and was criticised by some as not being a good enough deal for taxpayers. Opposition such as the Labour Party requested that the National Audit Office investigate the sale, and for it to be put on hold. By the beginning of 2012, the deal had been approved by the Financial Services Authority and the European Commission for merger clearance.Jayne-Anne Gadhia will be Virgin Money's CEO and former deputy governor of the Bank of England, Sir David Clementi, will be Chairman. Virgin have also pledged to maintain an operational headquarters in Newcastle upon Tyne as well as maintaining the current branches.British bank Northern Rock has appointed the vice chairman of Barclays as its new chief executive. After 26 years at Barclays—the last two of which were as vice chairman—Gary Hoffman will replace Andy Kuipers. Kuipers, who has been with Northern Rock for 20 years, will be replaced at the beginning of October.Last September, Northern Rock suffered the first run on a British bank in over 100 years, and was forced to become nationalised. Today, Hoffman stated he would return the bank to private ownership "as a thriving, stable business". Some of his past roles include chairman of banking and chairman of Barclaycard. In his new role, he is expected to cut 2,000 of the 6,000 jobs provided by the company in an attempt to be able to pay back money owed to the Bank of England. He is to earn £700,000 per year, plus £400,000 in compensation from losses due to his moving. Including a bonus, he is expected to earn £1.5 million in his first year, making him Britain's highest paid public servant. Among other tasks, he will be working to pay back the £25bn loan Northern Rock got from the Bank of England by 2010, and reducing its mortgage lending from £100bn to £50bn.Northern Rock hit problems in September 2007. Issues in the mortgage market and public concern over the stability of the bank saw queues form with people keen to withdraw their funds following emergency support being provided by the Bank of England. With share prices plummeting as a result of issues in the United States sub-prime mortgage market, an unprecedented crisis struck one of the UK's largest banks. By February 2008, the decision was taken to move the bank into public ownership and it was nationalised. Today's appointment is the first step on a road to returning the bank to private ownership with significant measures required to cut the bank's costs, repay loans from the Bank of England, and transform the institution into one which is attractive to the stock market.On Thursday, President Ricardo Lagos announced the discovery of natural gas resources in southern Chile. The newspaper El Mercurio claims that this discovery could account for up to 25 percent of the country's natural gas needs. The discovery, found in Magallanes, could mean less dependence on foreign energy, specifically natural gas imported from Argentina. Currently Chile imports 97 percent of its natural gas and 98 percent of its oil. Magallanes has been an important producer of gas in the past, but resources were thought to have been exhausted until this discovery.Lagos was interviewed by the local Radio W, where he said that the discovery could help them meet consumption of natural gas in the country, as well as help Methanex, a methanol company that has had difficulty finding enough natural gas for import. The situation has caused Lagos to have Chile's state owned gas company, ENAP, build a plant for conversion of liquid gas. In addition, they have considered importing natural gas from Bolivia, Trinidad and Tobago, Australia, and Indonesia.An NBC employee won US$266 million from the California Lottery's Mega Millions drawing.The winner, wishing to remain anonymous, will receive $165 million in total, after federal taxes, reports spokesperson for the lottery Cathy Doyle Johnston.David Reese, a KNBC assistant manager, was informed by the winner around 2:30 local time Wednesday. Reese told the employees working the night shift to keep the name a secret until the winner wishes to step forward.Reese said the winner worked for NBC as a freelancer for four years, and her husband was laid off two weeks ago.L & L Hawaiian BBQ in Pico Rivera, California, sold the winning ticket with the numbers 9, 21, 31, 36, 43, and the "Mega Number" 8. Danny He, the owner of the BBQ, will receive $1 million from the lottery for selling the winning ticket.According to lottery officials, there was a 1 in 175,711,536 chance in winning with all six numbers with 38 other states and the District of Colombia playing as well."I consider it to be a reasonable demand that the economic burden placed on the current and future generations of Icelanders, in the form of a state guarantee for Icesave payments to the UK and Dutch governments, be subject to a national referendum," says the petition.The petition also demands a referendum be held; any bill not signed by the President must do so under the country's constitution. This constitutional clause has only once been invoked since the country's independence from Denmark in 1944. Ólafur challenged a media reform bill in 2004 which the parliament passed by a margin of only two votes. The bill which would have forced the breakup of Baugur Group due to a mix of media and business interests.The group collecting signatures and who handed over the petition to the President, InDefence, called the bill a "huge risk" for Iceland's economic future. "All projections based on realistic assumptions […] showed without doubt that Iceland would be unable to meet the payments stipulated by the Icesave loan agreements as set out in the disputed legislation," it announced in a statement.Organiser Magnus Arni Skulason made the comparison between repaying the debt and financing Iceland's health service. "We were able to represent our arguments to the president, and also on the occasion we handed over a petition to ask the president to reject the current Icesave bill," he said to the BBC. "The interest rate on the Icesave agreement for Iceland is like running the National Health Service of Iceland for six months."Magnus expressed preference for the previous legislation from the Icelandic government in August last year. That would have seen the interest paid limited and a time-limit on the period for payment where any outstanding amount would be written off after fifteen years.Icelandic Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir and her coalition government threatened to resign if the bill was not passed by parliament. It did so by a slim three vote majority: 33 in favour, 30 against. One junior minister has already resigned over the matter.Icesave was the online service offered by the Landsbanki bank and proposed high interest rates to investors. When it collapsed in October 2008 it had its accounts frozen and had to be rescued, losing 320,000 British and Dutch investors their savings. They were compensated in part by their own governments, which in turn looked to the Icelandic goverment to recompense them. In addition to the Landsbanki, the Glitnir and Kaupthing banks also had to be rescued by the Icelandic government.The €3.8 billion, to be repaid in installments starting in 2017 over eight years, represents 40% of Iceland's gross domestic product. Repayment of the debt is an important factor in the country's application to join the European Union.Vela International Marine, the Saudi Arabian company that owns the MV Sirius Star oil tanker which was captured by pirates on November 15, has begun negotiations with the Somali pirates.The Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al Faisal said that talks had begun, but he did not say whether a ransom would be paid. Vela International Marine, which is owned by state-owned Saudi Aramco, would only say it is "working toward [the crew's] safe and speedy return.""We do not like to negotiate with pirates, terrorists or hijackers," said Saud al Faisal in Rome, after speaking with Franco Frattini, the Foreign Minister of Italy.Dubai-based television network Al Jazeera broadcast an audiotape of a man who said he was with the pirates. He identified himself as Farah Abd Jameh."Negotiators are located on board the ship and on land. Once they have agreed on the ransom, it will be taken in cash to the oil tanker. We assure the safety of the ship that carries the ransom. We will mechanically count the money and we have machines that can detect fake money," the man said. He did not mention any specific amounts for the ransom.The British Foreign Office released a statement Wednesday which identified two of the crew as chief engineer Peter French and second officer James Grady. The rest of the 25-man crew are from Croatia (1), Poland (2), Philippines (19) and Saudi Arabia (1). They are all reported to be safe.Foreign Secretary David Miliband said that the Royal Navy was coordinating a European response.Dominique Montecer, the director of operations at GEOS Group, a corporate risk management firm, cast doubt on a military response."Everything is possible but it would take extraordinary means and organization, and the risk of an ecological disaster is very high. They are sitting on a bomb," Montecer said."It's certainly a very complex environment to work in — a Liberian-flagged vessel, owned by a Saudi company, in Somali waters, with so many different nationalities on board," said Lt. Nate Christensen of the United States Navy when asked about the possibility of taking back the Sirius Star by force."Shipping companies are already making decisions not to go through the Gulf of Aden, and making the decision to take the much longer route around the south of Africa," said Peter Hinchcliffe, marine director of the International Chamber of Shipping. "And with the increase in intensity of attacks, that is something that is going to be much more frequent. It's adding let's say an average of two weeks to the passage time."Since the capture of the Sirius Star, pirates in the Gulf of Aden have taken at least three other ships. These include a Chinese ship carrying wheat, a Greek bulk carrier, and a Thai fishing vessel.The International Maritime Bureau reports that Somali pirates currently hold 14 ships along with an estimated 250 crew members. Since January, there have been over 30 hijackings in the area, while another 60 ships have been attacked.Among the ships still held is the Ukrainian cargo ship MV Faina, which has a cargo of 33 Russian T-72 battle tanks, as well as other weapons. The Faina was hijacked on September 25.Meanwhile, the Indian Navy has reported that it encountered and destroyed what it called a pirate "mother ship" on Tuesday. India dispatched frigate INS Tabar last month to protect its merchant shipping in the Gulf of Aden. The pirate vessel reportedly threatened the Indian frigate after it was hailed.Several NATO members, as well as Russia, India and Malaysia have all sent warships to the region to protect merchant shipping in the area. The Combined Task Force 150, formed as a multinational coalition in the War on Terrorism, was restructured in 2006 to aid in anti-piracy efforts.Finnish company Neste Oil have announced that they intend to construct the world's largest biodiesel plant in Singapore at a cost of €440 million. The NExBTL facility will be Neste's third such project, and is intended to have a maximum capacity of 800,000 tonnes a year.Demand for biofuels is expected to rise greatly over the next few years, as they are often cited as a good way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and are viewed as a renewable alternative to crude oil which has been at record high prices in recent months.The site has been strategically selected to be close to Malaysia and Indonesia, both of whom are leading world suppliers of palm oil, which is intended to be the main fuel for the plant. Between them they account for 80% of global production. However, the use of palm oil is controversial, as some environmental scientists and campaigners believe using it will have a negative effect as increased demand in turn causes higher food prices and greater levels of deforestation.Earlier this year, Greenpeace attempted to stop a palm oil tanker ship destined to Neste's existing biodiesel plant in Porvoo, Finland, but failed to stop the delivery. In addition to the Porvoo plant, which began operations earlier this year and is at its capacity production of 170,000 tonnes, Neste plan a second plant to open in 2009.The new plant will increase demand for palm oil, as it will require 200,000 hectares of palm oil plantations to supply the million tonnes of oil it requires per annum. "The new plantations are to be set up mainly in Indonesia, and increasingly in swamp rain forests," said Greenpeace's Lauri Myllyvirta. When such terrain is cleared of trees, the peaty soil begins to dry out. "In the years that follow, it releases all of the carbon that had been stored in it", Myllyvirta continues. He concludes that he believes palm oil cultivated in such conditions produces ten times the carbon dioxide emissions of fossil fuels. Jarmo Honkamaa, director of Neste's biofuel sector, countered these claims with his belief that the gas balance remains positive and points to Neste statistics which say biodiesel diesel produces 40-60% less greenhouse gas emissions than standard diesel.Another potential problem has been highlighted by Citigroup, who voiced concerns that Neste may not be able to complete the project on time and within the intended budget. Recently, Neste added a standard diesel production line at their Porvoo refinery. This was finished this year, approximately one year late and at an actual cost of €750 million, versus a budget of €500 million. Neste CEO Risto Rinne said in response, "we have learned our lesson," regarding the miscalculations on the new facility, and said that this knowledge, coupled with that obtained during construction of the Porvoo biodiesel plant, had been factored into calculations regarding the Singapore plant.Construction on the third facility will start early next year, and is scheduled to end in 2010. Neste said in a statement that the investment was "part of Neste Oil's strategic goal of becoming the world's leading renewable diesel producer."Support for one of the earliest popular web browsers, Netscape Navigator, will be discontinued as of today. The browser, now owned by United States internet services company AOL, was once used by 90% of internet users, however the sharp decrease in usage to around 0.06% has lead to all support from AOL being stopped. The decision was said to be due to "AOL's current business focus and the success of the Mozilla Foundation."The move was announced in December, and it was said that all support was to cease on February 1, 2008.  This was extended until March 1, 2008 in order to allow AOL to "provide tools to ease the migration of existing Netscape browser users to ... alternatives" such as Mozilla Firefox or Flock.The decision means that there will no longer be any security patch updates, or new functions for the browser.Activision, publisher of the popular Guitar Hero series of video games which simulate the playing of rock music, has unveiled the next title in the franchise: Guitar Hero: Aerosmith.The game, which will focus entirely on the top-selling American rock band Aerosmith, is set to be released this June. The soundtrack will be composed of songs performed by Aerosmith or otherwise related to the band. Venues featured in the game will highlight different points in the band's career. "The premise is that it's going to cover the 30-plus years of the band, from high school all the way through the rock superstardom of today," said Kai Huang, head of RedOctane, a subsidiary of Activision.Developers even held motion-capture sessions with members of the band so they can appear in-game."We've put a lot of ideas into the game so that fans can have fun interacting with our music, getting inside our body of work and learning about the band's history," said Aerosmith guitarist, Joe Perry.Perry also commented on the effect he hopes the game will have on the music business. "On a larger scale, it's cool for us to be pioneers helping to rebuild the music industry through a format like video games. It's great for rock since the record companies are struggling to make sense of how things are changing. Fans want to get and experience music in new formats--and there are going to be some of them who will play the game, then pick up the guitar for real and start bands. It's what's happening now, and it's only going to build more momentum in the future. It's a massive change for the music business."The game will be released for Xbox 360, Playstation 3, Wii, and Playstation 2. It has not yet been rated by the ESRB.The British energy company BP will be attempting a "top kill" on the leaking Deepwater Horizon oil well by firing a mud and cement mixture into the blowout preventer on the sea floor later this week.  If successful, the oil well will be closed off with cement.  A backup plan in case of failure (there is an estimated 30–40% chance of failure) would be another containment apparatus. BP has been using the oil dispersant corexit to disperse the oil film into small droplets which mix with the seawater.  A riser insertion tube inserted into the largest oil leak site is collecting between 1,360 to 2,000 barrels of oil per day.  Two relief oil wells are also currently under construction for what is hoped will be a permanent solution to the oil spill.  This pair will take about 90 days to complete.$500 million will be forthcoming from BP for the gulf spill's impact on the environment and damage to regional ecosystems as far as where water currents may spread the oil.  BP also put forward a ten-year research plan to study the long-term effects of the oil spill on the environment.Controlled surface oil burns and skimming have removed some of the oil spill.  It is estimated that 5,000 barrels of oil a day are leaking from the ruptured pipe 5,000 feet (1,500 meters) below sea level.  A Natural Resources Defense Council marine biologist, Lisa Suatoni, said that only about 7 to 10 percent of oil from the Exxon Valdez spill was cleaned up in 1989.Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal wants an emergency permit for dredges which will contain the pollution. Homeland Security secretary, Janet Napolitano, is seeking viable options which may be more effective and better for the environment. “I am angry and I am frustrated that BP has been unable to stop this well from leaking and to stop the pollution from spreading.  We are 33 days into this effort, and deadline after deadline has been missed,” said U.S. Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar."This is a complex operation requiring sophisticated diagnostic work and precise execution. As a result, it involves significant uncertainties and it is not possible to assure its success or to put a definite timescale on its deployment." said BP.  "We’re doing things that have never been done before at that kind of depth, so it’s very fluid.  We’re not going to do it until we’re completely sure it’s right."The oil rig Deepwater Horizon suffered a gas explosion and sank April 22, 2010 off the coast of Louisiana resulting in 11 persons missing (and presumed dead) of the 126 on board.  BP and its business vendors were completing a new oil well at the time, constructing a layer of cement in the well to reinforce it, which resulted in the blowout.Vietnamese market sellers plan to open a new chain to compete with other supermarkets. The shops will run primarily in small towns and will offer food and drugs. They are to be opened in the next few years, said Nguyen Duong former chairman of the Prague-based Association of Vietnamese Entrepreneurs. For this purpose, they are buying available vacant shops from Czech retail chain Jednota. So far Vietnamese retailers focus on selling shoes, clothes, and electronics. This is to be changed now. After some time, when the shops will be successfully established, sellers will move from the outside to the inside. of buildings. "Within three to five years [Vietnamese] outdoor markets will disappear completely", Duong said. But it seems the new chain will have a hard time, as the market is getting saturated and even some bigger companies have decided to leave the Czech Republic. Last week Belgium-based retailer, Delvita, sold its supermarket to German Rewe group which will be rebranded to Billa.Neither the current Vietnamese business activities are without problems. Czech Customs confiscated products worth 50,000,000 CZK (€1,786,000) during the trademark falsification round-up Saturday. The inspection took place simultaneously in Pilsen, Prachatice, Chomutov, and Prague. "This sort of inspection will continue, we have positive experience with actions in the time before Christmas", said a spokesman of the Czech Customs agency.Following Friday's alleged rape of a woman in New Delhi by an Uber taxi driver, the city administration has directed Uber, and all other unapproved radio cab and internet-based taxi companies, to halt operations in the city. In the notification, issued by the Delhi transport department on Tuesday, it was said that only six radio cab companies are properly registered and will be allowed to operate in the city. Uber was initially blacklisted in the city on Monday for failing to run background checks on its drivers.The six online/radio-cab companies still permitted to operate in the city are Meru, Mega, Chanson, Yo, Air, and Easy.The decision came after Friday's alleged rape of a 25 year-old woman by an Uber driver. The victim stated she had booked a taxi through the Uber app Friday night, from a restaurant in Vasant Vihar, to take her to Inderlok. She then fell asleep during the commute; and, on noticing his fare sleeping, the driver drove to a secluded area near Buddha Garden and Ridge before assaulting her. Later the driver drove her home and left, warning her not to inform the police. The woman, however, managed to note down the car's registration number and take a photograph.The 32 year old accused was arrested on Sunday in his native village near Matura, and taken into custody until Thursday. Police have released information indicating the driver was previously arrested in 2011 in another rape case. At that time he was held in custody for seven months in Tihar jail, before being released by the court due to lack of evidence. On Monday, police stated the driver had also forged a police character certificate.Sources close to three distributors of the GNU/Linux operating systems have announced that Progeny, Mandriva and TurboLinux are working together on a new Enterprise Linux distribution in the hope of competing with Novell's and Red Hat's products. The new distribution will be Debian-based, making it the first Debian-based enterprise Linux distribution. According to eWeek.com, the distribution will support both Debian's native .deb package format (including APT) and Red Hat's original RPM system, in order to remain compatible with the many Red Hat-based enterprise distributions such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux and SUSE - according to one vendor, "Basically the objective is to produce a distro that can act like Debian, use the Debian repository, but any Red Hat engineer should be comfortable with it." The distribution will also include a (within Debian) pioneering Web-based service manager for easy system administration, comparable to RHEL's tools of late.The Western Australian Government has announced that after September 1, 2007 all construction approvals for new homes must comply with new Environmental regulations. The new regulations known as Five Star Plus will be implemented in two stages.Michelle Roberts, minister for Housing and Works, announced that the first stage would increase the cost of a new house by approximately AU$1000 with a second stage to commence next year, at a further cost to homeowners of $1000. “People building new houses should remember these costs would be offset by ongoing savings in water and energy bills of up to $750 per year,” she said.The first stage aims to reduce greenhouse gas omissions by 129,000 tonnes over five years. "This is the equivalent of taking 30,000 cars off the road, and (has) the same benefit achieved by planting 15 trees per household," said Roberts. The first stage will require house to have a range of measures including Solar, or five star rated gas or heat pump hot waters systems."It is estimated that if all homes in Western Australia upgraded to the Five Star Plus standards, there would be water savings of 30 gigalitres over five years," said Roberts. The standards will require water efficient taps, showerheads and dual flush toilets. As well, all new swimming pools will be required to have a pool blanket to reduce evaporation.The second stage of Five Star Plus will require the design to include alternative water supplies such as rain water tanks and grey water diversion systems.Concerns from staff within government have been raised about the influence of the Housing Industry Association (HIA) on the government's environmental initiatives. According to news source, The Age, a senior government official suggested that a more rigorous "building sustainability index" had been developed, but was dropped after intensive lobbying by Western Australia's HIA. "It was canned at the last moment after huge lobbying," said the anonymous government employee. "The HIA was very obstructionist."New figures released yesterday by the Central Statistics Office of Ireland confirmed that Dublin has the highest level of disposable income per person in the Republic of Ireland whilst Cavan, Donegal and Kerry have the lowest figures.Taking 100% to be the national average, Dublin's disposable income per person was 13.4% above the national average, compared to the bottom three counties which were up to 16.5% below the national average.According to the figures, only four counties in the country were above the average - Dublin, Kildare, Wicklow and Limerick. Six counties were less than 90% of the national average.The figures indicate that Southern and Eastern regions have the highest levels of disposable income in the country. The Western, Border, Midland and Northern regions have the lowest levels.The figures - althought the latest available - were put together in 2002. It is likely the situation has changed somewhat since then.A senior United States official has stated that the US insurance firm American International Group (AIG) has paid out US$218 million in bonuses to its executives, after receiving over $180 billion in federal aid from the government. The number is higher than the earlier figure of $165 million that was reported previously.According to documents obtained by a subpoena by Richard Blumenthal, the Connecticut attorney general, the bonus payouts were 32%, or $53 million, higher than the original number that was reported for most of the week. The documents also say that 73 people received bonuses of at least $1 million, and five were given over $4 million.Blumenthal stated that the updated amounts "further fuel the justified anger and revulsion that people feel", and intends to ask executives at AIG about the discrepancies in the numbers. He also stated that "unless the number can be explained, it will undercut any lingering rationale the company may have for these unjustified payments."A spokesperson for AIG, Mark Herr, has called Blumenthal's claims "incorrect." "The payments he appears to be referring to were made months ago, have been widely reported on and were specifically disclosed to the Treasury," he said.Blumenthal rejected AIG's explanation saying, "we heard a few explanations, but quite honestly, none of the apparent justifications hold water with me. Because whether the payments were made in December or March, I want to know how much they were."UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown has announced a review into the 'social effects' of gambling, throwing doubt over the government's previous plans to grant a license for a 5,000 m² 'supercasino'.The review, to take place in September, will look at "whether regeneration in the areas for the super-casinos may be a better way of meeting their economic and social needs than the creation of super-casinos". Gordon Brown made the announcement during Prime Ministers questions, in response to a question from Labour MP Andy Reed.The plan to allow the building of a single supercasino, and 16 smaller casinos, was set in motion by previous Prime Minister Tony Blair. An independent Casino Advisory Panel had recommended in February 2007 that the supercasino license should be granted to the city of Manchester, a recommendation which the Government was expected to follow.The new announcement by Gordon Brown throws doubt over these plans, and BBC News are quoting an unnamed 'Whitehall source' as having commented that the supercasino plan is "dead in the water".New currency notes are being introduced in Ghana today. The new currency, to be called the Ghanaian cedi, replaces the previous cedi which has been in circulation since 17 February, 1967. The Ghanaian cedi will be exchanged at 10,000 old cedis to one new Ghanaian cedi. The exchange rate against the U.S. dollar starts at GH¢0.92 to one U.S. dollar. The new ISO code for the currency is GHS, and the new symbol, GH¢.The change, which was originally scheduled by the Bank of Ghana to start on July 1, 2007, will instead start on Tuesday July 3, as the original date is Ghana's Republic Day. Monday, July 2, was declared a public holiday as the actual Republic Day fell on a Sunday. July 3, is thus the first day that the currency will be available to the public as banks open to the general public. This is because ATMs were shut down over the weekend so that the currencies could be checked and replaced in all of them nationwide. The old and new currencies will be used concurrently until the end of December 2007, when the old currency will cease to be legal tender. This is the third Ghanaian cedi to be introduced in the country since 1965.New Hawaii airline go! started interisland passenger service on Friday, but not before starting a fare war with Hawaii's two existing interisland carriers that culminated with one of them resorting to a free giveaway of seats on go!'s opening day.The new airline, a division of Arizona-based Mesa Air Group, started a fare war in March when it offered an introductory fare of US $39.00 one-way, which was matched by Hawaiian Airlines and Aloha Airlines.  Normal interisland fares prior to that point averaged about US$79 one way.The fare war intensified in the week leading up to go!'s startup, when go! on Wednesday announced a $19.00 one-way fare good during go!'s first month of operation. Hawaiian immediately matched the fare but not by Aloha. Thom Nulty, Aloha's vice president of marketing, initially dismissed the fare cut, saying, "Over the years, we've seen many startups come and go with goofy fares designed to steal passengers away from Hawaii's homegrown airlines."However, Aloha on Thursday went even goofier than both go! and Hawaiian, announcing a plan, called the "Great Go Away Giveaway," to give away 1,000 vouchers for free tickets at Hawaii airports on Friday morning on a first-come-first-served basis.  Eager passengers lined up at Honolulu International Airport as early as 7 p.m. Thursday night to snag the free tickets, and the 500 tickets allotted at Honolulu were gone by 9 a.m. Friday.Mesa Air CEO Jonathan Ornstein quipped on the name of Aloha's promotion, "They'd like us to go away so they don't have to give away seats."  He also announced that go's original $39.00 promotional fare will become permanent.Ornstein later reported that go!'s first day of operation went smoothly. "I think the day went really flawlessly, certainly in consideration it was our first day of operations," Ornstein said.The newly formed Icelandic coalition interim government will take office today, according to a coalition leader. The new government will also include a new prime minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, the country's and the world's first openly gay prime minister."If everything goes as planned now a new government will take over [this] afternoon," said Steingrimur Sigfusson, who heads the Left-Green Movement.On January 27, it was announced that the nation's coalition government had collapsed and dissolved following a banking financial crisis. In October of 2008, Iceland's banking sector collapsed and was largely nationalised. Iceland's interest rate is now 18%, with GDP expected to fall 9.6% this year. Inflation has reached 13.1%. Just before the announcement of the government taking office, nearly 1,500 people were protesting outside the parliament building over the collapsed government and the recent financial crisis, but protesters seemed happy about the change."The demands of the people have been met. Therefore today is a celebration," said protest organizer Hordur Torfason to the crowd who were cheering about hearing the news.The new minority coalition will consist of Jóhanna's Social Democratic Alliance and the Left-Green Movement with backing from the Progressive Party. Jóhanna will be replacing the current prime minister, Geir Haarde who resigned on January 26, and is the chairmen of the nation's independent party and a critic of Jóhanna. He criticizes her appointment because he believes she will not help the economic crisis, resulting in more government spending.The quick appointment of the new government also means an early election, which is scheduled to take place on April 25.The local government of Arad County in western Romania today launched a project calling for the creation of a new industrial area in the commune of Zimandul Nou. They have already allocated 0.3 km² for this project, with more land being expected to be allocated for the industrial precinct.The president of Arad Couty Council, Iosif Matula, says that the labour force in the area is qualified in industrial occupations, especially in the fields of textiles, furniture, electronics and tools industries. The site also already has all the necessary infrastructure, such as gas, access to sewage and a water purifying facility.The industrial area will be located on the outskirts of the Zimandul Nou commune, which is a fairly small, rural town. The proposed Zimandul Nou industrial area is one of the latest development projects by the Arad County Council, which has, since a few years ago, embarked on a fairly wide-ranging project of attracting foreign investment and developing further industry in rural areas.The county capital, Arad, with a population of nearly 190,000, is one of Romania's largest industrial centres and is a major centre for foreign investment, but the county council would like to see more industry heading to the rural areas. The Zimandul Nou precinct will be the eighth industrial zone in a formerly-rural area in the county. The other seven areas have already attracted combined foreign investments of over 120 million euro.Online organisations around the world are today testing Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) — a new system of Internet addresses hoped to resolve the issue of the present system being at capacity. World IPv6 Day is checking everything works as planned.The current IPv4 standard was set up in the 1980s; it gives everything on the Internet a twelve-digit address and allows for 4.3 billion combinations. With these exhausted, IPv6 is designed to increase the limit 340 undecillion — that's 340 trillion trillion trillion.Major websites including services run by Google, Facebook, and Yahoo! are taking part in the test, switching their content to use the new system. Facebook predicts 99.97% of users to be unaffected and Google anticipates 99.5% will not encounter problems. The remainder may encounter slow page loading.Fiji and Australia are among the first countries to have business-hours web traffic during the test. Internet Society of Australia President Tony Hill claims more than 100 global companies are involved.A New Jersey state appeals court ruled Tuesday that fifteen Spanish citizens can sue over claims of health issues related to asbestos exposure while working aboard United States Navy and Coast Guard ships docked at United States-Spanish military installations. The defendant, Ohio-based company Owens Illinois, Inc., had sought a trial in a Spanish court, an opinion which was shared by the Superior Court that had heard the case earlier. The three-judge panel appellate court overturned the decision of the Superior Court in a 3-0 ruling.The Spanish citizens worked aboard U.S. ships between 1950 and 1998, and claim that they were exposed to asbestos dust and fibers from piping insulation produced by Owens-Illinois. The piping insulation was originally manufactured in Sayreville, Middlesex County, and Berlin, Camden County, New Jersey. The workers say they suffer from diseases related to asbestos such as asbestosis. Owens-Illinois has headquarters in Toledo, Ohio and is a Delaware corporation.The New Jersey appellate panel ruled that the Superior Court judge did not consider where the plaintiffs wanted their case heard, and also held that the U.S. ships are considered U.S. territory and thus the workers' claimed health issues did not begin on Spanish land. Attorneys for Owens-Illinois argued that U.S. ships, when docked, are subject to the law of Spain, and so the case should be heard in Spanish courts.The court's opinion, written by Judge Anthony Parrillo, explained the ruling: "In sum, we conclude that defendant has failed to carry its burden to demonstrate that Spain is an available adequate forum to adjudicate the parties' dispute and therefore the motion to dismiss on forum non conveniens grounds should have been denied without consideration of public- and private-interest factors." The decision reversed the ruling of the Superior Court and remanded the suit back to that court for trial."I find it difficult to understand how an appellate division court can countenance keeping the cases in New Jersey when there is absolutely no relation to New Jersey. There is barely any relationship to the United States of America. They've made their decision," said counsel for Owens-Illinois, John Garde, in a statement in The Star-Ledger. No decision has yet been made on whether the company will appeal the ruling.Mitchell S. Cohen, attorney for the Spanish workers, said that the Superior Court judge should have considered that the New Jersey court was the only location where the lawsuit could have been tried before dismissing the case. "Spanish law will not allow, under the facts of these cases, to file a claim in Spain," said Cohen to the Associated Press. Cohen said that Spanish law states that a case cannot be filed in Spain because the alleged injuries occurred on U.S. territory.This is not the only asbestos-related lawsuit in which Owens-Illinois is cited as a defendant. The company is also a defendant (among other defendants) in asbestos cases filed in Ohio and other states. In an April 30 press release the company reported that asbestos-related payments had decreased slightly, stating: "Asbestos-related cash payments during the first quarter of 2008 were$40.2 million, down slightly from $41.0 million during the first quarter of2007." According to the press release, the company had 14,000 pending asbestos-related lawsuits as of March 31, 2008. In its balance sheet for the first quarter of 2008, the company reported US$835 million in asbestos-related liabilities.In a May 2 earnings call with financial analysts, Owens-Illinois Chief Financial Officer Edward C. White addressed asbestos-related expenses. "Only a small portion of our first quarter asbestos payments related to the company's proactive legal strategy to reduce risk and accelerate asbestos resolution on favorable terms. Nevertheless, this strategy continues and additional expected spending is reflected both on the current liability portion of our balance sheet as well as in our full-year cash flow projection,"  said White. "We exited the business 50 years ago and have been dealing with the legal issues for almost 30 years. For OI, this remains a limited declining liability, which we will continue to manage in a conscientious and responsible manner."Asbestosis is a disease resulting from asbestos exposure which causes lung scarring and can lead to lung cancer. Exposure to asbestos can also lead to a more serious condition known as mesothelioma. Mesothelioma is a cancer which develops in the sac surrounding the lungs and chest cavity, abdominal cavity, or the sac surrounding the heart. Patients with malignant mesothelioma generally do not have positive outcomes, and once diagnosed typically have six months to a year to live.Chris Christie, governor of the US state of New Jersey, complained on ABC's Sunday morning talk show This Week that TV series Jersey Shore promotes a negative image of the state. Prompted by a feature in The New York Times on Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi, one of the stars of the MTV show, interviewer Jake Tapper asked the governor whether he thought the series was positive or negative for the state. Christie unequivocally answered that the show was "negative for New Jersey... It takes a bunch of New Yorkers, drops them on the Jersey Shore, and tries to make America feel like this is New Jersey". He concluded, "I can tell people: they want to know what New Jersey really is? I welcome them to come to New Jersey any time."In a wide-ranging interview the governor also faced questions about local and national politics, including New Jersey's US$11 billion budget deficit. Specifically, he was challenged over his plans to not pay $3 billion into public pension funds, payments described by the interviewer as a "legal obligation". He said that he "wasn't going to put $3 billion into a failing pension system" and that there would be further reforms of pensions and health benefits.Christie was further questioned over his ongoing conflicts with teachers unions. He responded that "we can't have one sector of our society sheltered from the ravages of the recession, at the cost to people who have been hurt by the recession the most", citing the example of construction unions in New Jersey currently suffering unemployment between 35 and 50%.A New Jersey congressman says restrictions on federal stimulus money are hurting gaming destinations like Atlantic City, and he is seeking to repeal a provision banning the use of funds for casinos or other gaming establishments."The demonization of gaming destinations such as Las Vegas and Atlantic City for business travel is wrong, wrong, wrong," U.S. Rep Frank LoBiondo said Friday during a press conference in front of Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City.The $787 billion federal stimulus bill passed in February specifically prohibits casinos from applying for funds for infrastructure improvements and other similar projects. LoBiondo said Atlantic City is losing millions of dollars in business as a result of that provision.Casinos' revenues dropped 19.2 percent in February 2009 month compared to February 2008, according to the New Jersey Casino Control Commission. LoBiondo said $160 million worth of business and 120,000 visitors have chosen other cities for their tourism plans due to the stimulus bill, according to Atlantic City Convention Center figures.The administration also recently determined other groups like nonprofit organizations and local governments may not spend their stimulus money at casino properties. State officials said the rules are damaging a major pillar of the New Jersey economy."Are those jobs somehow less important or less meaningful than those in the manufacturing, retail or financial industries?" said Ken Calemmo, chairman-elect of the Greater Atlantic City Chamber.Anti-gambling officials said the stimulus law does not prohibit casinos from taking advantage of tax breaks, and Atlantic City officials should not complain about the stimulus bill because the city is too reliant on an unreliable revenue stream."There isn't a state, including New Jersey or Nevada, that could gamble themselves rich, any more than an individual could gamble themselves rich," said Tom Grey, field director for StopPredatoryGambling.org. "They should've diversified (the economy) instead of chasing their loss."But Joe Kelly, chamber president, said 35,000 people work at New Jersey casinos, and thousands more around the state work for outside vendors that depend on casinos for their business."It is not just an Atlantic County issue. It is not just a Cape May issue," Kelly said. "There's purchasing done by every county."LoBiondo is working to repeal the provision with U.S. Rep Shelly Berkley, co-chair of the Congressional Gaming Cascus, and has reached out to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, who has a history of representing the interests of the gaming industry.The owner of a New Jersey real estate investment firm has been charged with using $2 million of his company's money for construction at his home and other projects not related to work.Gary Klein, owner of the Asbury Park-based REI Group Inc., surrendered himself to police after a Monmouth County grand jury indicted him on one count of theft by deception charges.The charges were the result of a three-year investigation into his practices. Klein, 45, of Colts Neck Township, faces up to 10 years in state prison if convicted. Klein was released Friday after posting $75,000 bail.Klein attracted clients by telling them he would invest their money in projects that would result in returns of 12 and 85 percent. Prosecutors said the actions mirrored those of a Ponzi scheme.Robert Weir, Klein's attorney, said the operation was not a Ponzi scheme, but legitimate business investments that went bad as the economy declined. Weir also said Klein hired a receiver to try and return the investors' money once the investments started to go sour."It's a shame that a business that experienced a turn in the real estate market is now being treated as a criminal problem. That was not Mr. Klein's intent," Weir said to The Star-Ledger.Weir said the investments were used for building rehabilitation projects in Asbury Park and the construction of Florida condominium complexes, but authorities said Klein used the money to repay earlier investors who were cashing out, as well to help build his own home.A new drink called Robby Bubble has sparkled up some sparkled debate with distributors and Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) in Calgary, Alberta.The drink, similar to sparkling wine, is a non-alcoholic sparkling drink which is currently for sale in Alberta liquor stores. The bottle has the words "Party, Party!" with cartoon characters. Their slogan is "Celebrate like the grown-ups" and is shaped as a champagne bottle. It is under the approval of the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission.Tracy Franklin, president of MADD in Calgary, said: "It's calling out to kids, but the whole thing is geared as a champagne bottle, as an alcohol product ... Do we want to give them something, although it's non-alcoholic, and have them partying like an adult?"Other "adult products" marketed to children, such as candy cigarettes, have been banned in Canada. Studies have shown a link between the marketing of candy cigarettes to children and the promotion of smoking in later life. It had been shown that tobacco companies cooperated with candy manufacturers in the design of candy cigarettes.The Tobacco Act legislation in Canada has eliminated the ability of companies to market tobacco-looking products to children. In Section 27, the Act states, "No person shall furnish or promote a tobacco product if any of its brand elements is displayed on a non-tobacco product, other than an accessory, or is used with a service, if the non-tobacco product or service is associated with young persons or could be construed on reasonable grounds to be appealing to young persons."President of the German company responsible for the distribution of Robby Bubble, Darryl Weinbren, defended his product saying it is non-alcoholic and parents are responsible for serving their children the drink."I can understand Mothers Against Drunk Driving, and certainly I respect their objectives and what they are after. There wasn't any intention from our point of view to encourage kids to drink alcohol. It was just a matter of trying to find something that would meet a family celebration with something for their kids."A spokeswomen for the Alberta Gaming and Liquor Commission, Marilyn Carlyle-Helms, said liquor stores can distribute non-alcoholic drinks and if there were a health concern they would have disapproved them.For the first time in 40 years, the Royal Mint has chosen a new set of designs for the reverse of the coins, first introduced in the Coin Design Competition 2005. The designer, Matthew Dent of Bangor, North Wales, was paid £35,000  (GBP) for his designs, which depict the Shield of the Royal Arms spread over the six denominations below £1, with the entire shield embossed on the £1 coin.The new coins are expected to come into circulation this summer - and Mr Dent envisions a success: “I can imagine people playing with them, having them on a tabletop and enjoying them. I felt it was important to have a theme running through from one to another." he said, referring to the puzzle-like nature of the new design, which requires the coins to be arranged in a particular way to see the Shield of the Royal Arms.The chief executive of the Royal Mint, Andrew Stafford, has said that the obverse of the coins will still depict the portrait of the Queen, like it has since 1998. The old coins will remain legal tender until they slip out of circulation.A new shopping center in Washington, United States called Lakewood Crossing is planning on building and opening new stores. It was opened on September 21, 2006 with the opening of the Marysville, Washington Costco. The mall has still been in the planning stages since 2005. The developer is Powell Development from Kirkland, Washington and the mall is located in North Lakewood, Washington.There are more than 17 stores and more are being built. A Marshalls, Boston's Gourmet Pizza, Mongolian Grill, Discount Tire, and others are yet to open. The Washington State Department of Transportation say this could cause more traffic problems. The intersection of Washington State Route 531 and 27th Avenue (only way in and out) is "crowded and tight". Twin Lakes is now inaccessible because of the traffic.Plans to redo the traffic are coming soon. They plan to open a loop ramp on the interchange of Washington State Route 531 and Interstate 5 in 2009. Twin Lakes Avenue NE will be extended and a freeway ramp will be added soon, along with a bridge across Interstate 5.The new PlayStation 3 is getting more people lining up in stores than people walking out. EBay has pages full of PlayStation 3s, retailing at US$500-$600, auctioning at about US$3,000 up to US$5,000. The gaming console, which would normally sell for between five to six hundred dollars, sold out in minutes at stores across the US.Some incidents of violence have been reported. Two gunmen in Putnam, Connecticut, for example, came up to 15 to 20 people standing outside Wal-Mart a little after 3:00 a.m. EST and demanded money. One man resisted and was shot in the chest and shoulder. Police are now searching for the suspects.EBay is restricting PlayStation 3's to only experienced eBay sellers with high ratings. Only one PS3 can be listed per eBay account. The listing has to include a photo of the pre-order receipt and the seller must guarantee shipment within 30 days starting from the date of purchase.One individual stood in line for 3 entire days in order to purchase the PS3. He claimed to have bought the game console for $300 and then sold it on Ebay for a grand total of $3000.The new Antonov An-148 jet made its first commercial flight from Saint Petersburg, Russia to Moscow on Thursday.Starting with one of the busiest regional routes in Russia new Antonovs are to connect the other major destinations throughout Europe.The new aircraft was designed in the Ukraine by the famous Antonov design bureau and is manufactured in Voronezh, Russia. The twinjet features a high-wing design, glass cockpit and 68 passengers cabin with a 3.5 thousand km range at the average 800 km/h cruising speed.The first serial airplane has recently joined the fleet of Rossiya (the "Russia") airline under lease contract with Ilyushin Finance Company.A $5 toll proposal for travel on Interstate 95 is gaining momentum in North Carolina, and has passed this week in the Virginia General Assembly. Toll booths would be set up at the border between the two states to collect revenues estimated in excess of $150 million annually, money that would be split by each state to help pay for needed maintenance of the interstate highway.Virginia has apparently changed plans to go it alone with road improvement priorities to the I-95 section at the approach and departure corridors to Washington, D.C. The state strategy of partnering with private, for-profit road construction companies, such as Clark Construction Group and Fluor Virginia Inc., necessarily meant the placement of revenue collecting toll booths where they are least wanted and most inconvenient, on the already congested interstate travel points near the capital city of the United States.  Two proposals to widen the Springfield Interchange Improvement Project with more high-occupancy-vehicle lanes near Washington, D.C. on the Virginia side come at a combined cost in the range of $1.5 billion for the state to complete. A public-private partnership to fund the improvements, looked at by Virginia's Department of Transportation in January 2005, has now taken on a less region specific funding solution in favor of an interstate solution.As a practical matter, toll collection booths located at the North Carolina-Virginia state line would spare motorists in the most affected Virginia region the hassle and expense of toll payments, but it misses imposing a toll on roadway users who are most responsible for the needed improvements. That expense, as currently proposed, is passed on to motorists using I-95 for the longer haul.North Carolina governor Mike Easley has remained opposed to a Virginia-North Carolina Interstate Toll Road Compact. The estimated $4 billion in needed repairs to I-95 in that state, where in some places the roadway is 20-years-old, places a stress on budget resources necessary for the state to perform needed maintenance.Senator Clark Jenkins of Tarboro County in North Carolina proposed legislation "to get the discussion started about the concept."About 300 new or amended laws took effect at midnight of New Year's Day last Friday in Illinois, ranging from government ethics reform to driving laws. One law that is likely to affect residents' lives the most is a ban on reading or sending text messages through a hand-held device. Drivers who wish to text must put their vehicle on park or neutral while stopped in traffic or on the shoulder. The law also prohibits reading email or surfing the Internet, although using GPS capabilities is still allowed. Breaking this law is considered a primary offense, which means that law enforcement officers may pull violators over for it, similar to a seat belt violation.  Motorists also are prohibited from talking on their phones in a construction or school zone unless they are using earphones. Truck drivers outside the six-county Chicago area now have a speed limit of 65 mph, increased from 55 mph. In addition, injuring somebody while driving uninsured has become a misdemeanor, punishable with up to a year in jail or a $2,500 fine.  Former governor Rod Blagojevich's removal from office has led to new legislation to reform state government as well. Changes to the state's Freedom of Information Act requires government agencies to respond more quickly to requests for information. The Illinois Attorney General also gets broad powers to oversee enforcement of this law. In addition, lobbyists will have to pay a $1,000 annual registration fee, up from $150–$350. They will also have to report frequently on their activities and expenditures.New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority is proposing to make service cuts to close its expected US$343 million (€234m, GBP £211m) budget deficit.  The plan includes the elimination of multiple bus lines in The Bronx, Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn, the elimination of the W (Astoria, Queens to Lower Manhattan) and the Z (Jamaica, Queens to Lower Manhattan via Brooklyn) train services.  Also included in the plan are cuts of nighttime bus and train service."We're not going to rely on anyone else to do anything for us. We're going to rely on ourselves." MTA board member Mitchell Pally said, commenting on the New York state's budget plan cutting $143 million of tax revenue from the agency.  MTA Chairman Jay Walder has said in the past that he would not raise fares ahead of schedule.Gene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign, a commuter advocacy group, said that the agency should take money from its current construction and maintenance fund, and put it into maintaining these services.On May 29, 2005, the final phase of reconstruction of the Stillwell Avenue Terminal on Coney Island will be completed, with the reopening of the BMT Sea Beach Line to regular N service. N service currently stops one station short of Coney Island, at Gravesend-86th Street, and last reached Coney Island under regular service on November 4, 2001, though various General Orders caused by other closures have resulted in N trains running all the way.The Sea Beach Line began in 1879 as the New York and Sea Beach Railway, a steam-powered railroad. It was bought by the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company in 1897 and soon fitted with trolley wire, with connections to Manhattan via various elevated railways.Reconstruction into a four-track depressed line was finished in 1915, and subway trains running to Midtown Manhattan started using the line. The Sea Beach Line was the fastest of the four lines connecting Coney Island to Manhattan, especially when the express tracks of the Sea Beach Line (last used in 1968) were in use, as there were no express stations between the split from the BMT Fourth Avenue Line and Coney Island.The N was both the first service to be cut back from Coney Island and the last to return, and was the only one not replaced by a shuttle bus during its closure. The BMT West End Line (W, later D) was never cut back from Coney Island, but the BMT Culver Line (F) and BMT Brighton Line (Q) were cut back from September 8, 2002 to May 22, 2004 (returning to service May 23).On Friday, May 27, 2005, 9 trains on the New York City Subway will make their final run, ending rush-hour skip-stop service on the IRT Broadway-Seventh Avenue Line north of 137th Street-City College. During rush hours, the 9 is a skip-stop supplement to the 1, running the same route but skipping some stops in Upper Manhattan and the Bronx. At the same time, the 1 skips other stops, which are only served by the 9 at rush hours; some stops are served by all trains. This service pattern results in slightly faster trains, but longer waits for those going to or from skipped stations.9 service was started on December 12, 1988, at first running during rush hours and middays. In the mid-1990s, midday 9 service was dropped.The J-Z skip-stop services on the BMT Jamaica Line will not be affected, as many passengers ride straight through the skip-stop portion, making the faster service more worthwhile.The New York Times announced  on Thursday that it will start charging for full access to NYTimes.com, its online version.   Beginning March 28, U.S. visitors who do not subscribe to the print edition  will be allowed access to  20 articles a month. A digital subscription to  the website will be required to read additional content. The fee plan for Canadians is already in effect, allowing the NYT to "fine-tune the customer experience", according to the announcement.Unlimited access to articles will continue to be free for those users  reaching the Times through links from   search engines, blogs, and social media like Facebook and Twitter. The  NYTimes.com home page and individual section front pages will continue be freely accessible. The NYT unsuccessfully tried a pay wall six years ago. Due to declining profits and readership of its print edition, it is ready to try again. According to comScore, a marketing research company that measures online traffic,  NYTimes.com had  31.4 million individual visitors in February. It is the most-read newspaper site in the world, reported The Guardian."The challenge now is to put a price on our work without walling ourselves off from the global network, to make sure we continue to engage with the widest possible audience", wrote Arthur Sulzberger Jr., NYT company chairman.A Queenstown, New Zealand Automated teller machine (ATM) that was incorrectly stacked allowed customers to double their money. A contractor incorrectly stacked the NZ$10 note slot with $20 notes, and vice versa. The problem only affected small withdrawals of $20 or $10.Dozens of customers, mostly backpackers, exploited the Kiwibank ATM with several people making up to 40 transactions.Due to the complexity of the issue, the bank does not plan to attempt to track down the customers who got extra money, but they do plan to reimburse those who lost money.The New Zealand Commerce Commission is investigating Australian-based lottery competition company, TMG Asia Pacific Pty Limited, under alleged breaches of the Fair Trading Act after quite a few text-based lottery competitions have been running on New Zealand television.To enter the competitions, the entrants must answer a simple question and then text the answer to a special text number, 8555. The competitions are shown during advertisements on New Zealand television stations, and include possible prizes of televisions, game consoles, exercise equipment, and more.The Commerce Commission said that they have received around 180 complaints regarding the text competitions and the charges they incur on their mobile phones. The charges are when a person texts the correct answer to 8555 they are agreeing to sign up to their subscription based services which charges them NZ$3 for each text message received. A maximum of $15 is charged a month unless the special keyword to stop receiving text messages: STOP is texted. The Commerce Commission said that the complaints reflect that the entrants do not know about the subscription, even though the advertisements briefly state in fine print that the competition is a subscription competition, how much a received text costs, etc at the bottom of the ad. An employee of TMG Asia Pacific Pty Limited questioned about the subscription charges claimed that the majority of the charge for each text message sent to competition entrants goes to Telecom New Zealand, and a fraction is paid to them.The director of Fair Trading for the Commerce Commission, Deborah Battell, said: "[180 complaints] is an exceptionally high number of complaints for a single issue.""The Commerce Commission is investigating whether the disclosure of the terms and conditions of these promotions was adequate," Ms Battell said.In November of 2006 the Commerce Commission had contacted TMG Asia Pacific to discuss their concerns over their promotions. Ms Battell said: "The company has been made well aware of our concerns. The Commission has now asked the company to respond by 4pm, Thursday, 18 January 2007."SkyCabs International, a New Zealand company based in Auckland, New Zealand, has announced that it is planning to build a monorail in New Zealand's capital, Wellington for about NZ$300 million.SkyCabs International's plans are to build a monorail service that starts in Johnsonville which then travels into the central business district (cbd) and then finally goes to Wellington International Airport.The chief executive of SkyCabs, Hugh Chapman, said that it could be "...economically feasible." And that the monorail would be "a real opportunity." The monorail would also be environmentally friendly, according to Mr Chapman."SkyCabs' cabs could run in opposite directions on both sides of the beam - instead of on the top as standard monorails do - at speeds of up to 80kmh and carrying 4800 people an hour in each direction. A monorail around Evans Bay and Oriental Bay would blow tourists' minds," said Mr Chapman.SkyCabs is currently trying to raise $31.2 million so it can built a 600 metre track in Auckland to show investors and the public what the monorail will look like and how it will work as their technology is so far unproven and untested. The possible site is Rainbows End, a theme park in Auckland."Potentially, if we can prove it works, the market is about $25.4 billion a year," Mr Chapman said.Andrew Cutler, spokesman for the greater Wellington regional council, said: "SkyCabs had briefed some council staff on its ideas. However, given the council and Government recently committed to a $50 million upgrade of the Johnsonville rail line, SkyCabs would certainly not be constructing a Johnsonville-to-city monorail."File:New Zealand money.jpgThe New Zealand dollar (NZD) value rose and, for a short amount of time, was worth US$0.7932, the highest level in New Zealand since the dollar was floated in 1985 — 22 years ago.The value then dropped a little and as of 11.40 a.m. was trading at US$0.7925. This was due to the Reserve Bank of New Zealand announcing that it will intervene next week at their Official Cash Rate review if the dollar continued to rise.Economists are predicting that the NZD will now go above US$0.80.The cause of this rise was mainly due to the release of the June quarter retail sales data. The consumer price index data showed that sales increased by 1.2%, instead of the predicted 0.4%. The bigger than expected sales data were mainly due to supermarket, car and petrol purchases. In May, the core sales figures showed a 0.8% rise, these figures excluded car and fuel sales.Economist correspondents for Radio New Zealand have also said that a weak US dollar is also to blame for the rising New Zealand dollar. Danika Hampton, currency analyst for the Bank of New Zealand, says the NZD is looking expensive and doubts if it will maintain its current high figure.Michael Cullen, the finance minister of New Zealand, has said that investors will be hurt when the New Zealand dollar does fall. Dr Cullen personally believes that the NZD is currently overvalued.The Wellington Chamber of Commerce has called for the New Zealand Government to slow down it's spending. Charles Finny, from the Chamber of Commerce, says this is one of the core factors, more than the oil and housing markets, despite speculation. Worldwide oil prices are at a current 11-month high.The retails sales figures also resulted in Government bonds being weakened. The two-year and ten-year Government bonds are at 7.61% and 6.82% respectively.The Official Cash Rate is currently at 8%, due to other interventions by the Reserve Bank.The NZD is also trading well against the Australian dollar and Japanese yen.Today the New Zealand Government announced that they had a record surplus of NZ$11.5 billion for the 2005 and 2006 financial year. This amount was $2.5 billion more than the government expected to get, however $1.8 billion of the surplus was because of a change to the recording of the tax take.However the surplus is now going to put more pressure on the government to put tax cuts on the cards. Both the Labour and United Future parties are reviewing cutting business tax. But the National party says that with the big surplus they can afford to cut both business tax and personal tax.However finance minister, Doctor Michael Cullen, said the amount of cash available for tax cuts will be clearer in December.John Key, finance spokesman for National, said: "The surplus makes a mockery of claims made by Michael Cullen before the last election that tax cuts were unaffordable and would put at risk core primary services. When surpluses are this enormous, any veiled hope the government had that it is not overtaxing people will rapidly evaporate."Cullen said: "The Government's "robust" financial position was a firm base for the future, but it was not an indication of how much room he had for tax cuts or spending."Phil O'Reilly, Chief Executive of Business New Zealand said: "The business tax reduction from 33 to 30 cents planned for April 2008 could be brought forward to April 2007. The last time the business rate was cut, in 1989, business tax revenue actually went up. In the decade before 1989, revenue averaged around $1 billion a year, while in the decade after, it averaged nearly $3 billion a year - in other words, revenue nearly tripled."It [tax] should be put to use in a way that truly benefits New Zealand," O'Reilly added.The New Zealand government today has announced that they will not provide financial assistance to the Overlander train service between Auckland and Wellington, which is set to stop service on September 30, if no assistance is forthcoming. ONTRACK will retain the North Island main trunk line, while looking for tourism operators to start a tourist rail service.Trevor Mallard, acting Finance Minister, said: "In making this decision... Cabinet recognised that there was no prospect of the current Overlander service becoming commercially viable. It was not a fuel-efficient operation and at an average passenger rate of 50 passengers each way per day, it was used by relatively few people."It is cheaper and faster to travel either by bus or plane rather than the 12-hour train journey. "The fares already overlap with airfares, and the reality is that the service is just not well-used. It can not compete with low-priced air travel and coaches. Cabinet considered the regional implications of ceasing the Overlander service and accepted that the current bus services run by the InterCity Group met the needs of those communities," Mallard said.There has been numerous petitions from the public and from the Green Party of New Zealand to continue the Overlander train service, including one petition signed by 16,000 people presented at the Parliament Buildings on September 14, 2006. "While there have been a number of propositions about retaining the Overlander service, all of the propositions would require government funding in one form or another," said Mallard.Mallard said that the government will only support rail services if it significantly benefitted the community.The Government estimates that financial assistance to the Overlander train service would cost NZ$1.75 million a year."Finally, the government does recognise and value the importance of a viable and efficient rail network in New Zealand's transport infrastructure. This was a critical factor in the government's decision to buy the rail network back from Tranz Rail. The government has also committed $200 million to upgrade the national rail network between 2004/05 and 2007/08. A further $600 million has been provided to upgrade the Auckland rail network between 2005/06 and 2009/10."Reserve Bank of New Zealand Governor, Dr. Alan Bollard, says that the price of New Zealand houses is to fall after a meeting of central bankers at Switzerland.Dr. Bollard told Bloomberg Television, "house prices will start falling by the end of the year, as higher interest rates start to bite."He continues, "house price inflation has been a key driver of monetary policy, with prices rising by 69% between 2000 and 2005 according to OECD figures."Dr. Bollard comments, alongside an OECD report, that New Zealand has the most vulnerable property market in the world.John Fairfax Holdings Limited announced today that it will be purchasing the New Zealand online auction site TradeMe in a deal worth NZ$700 million.An additional $50 million will be paid out if earnings targets are met over the next two years. Sam Morgan, who founded Trade Me in 1999, is set to make over $220 million.Fairfax chief executive David Kirk said "I am delighted Sam Morgan will remain with TradeMe for a good period of time. We also welcome as new colleagues the entire Trade Me staff." TradeMe has 48 employees."The business will be run absolutely as it is today. There's not a lot we can do to improve the way the business has been run and developed."The purchase follows acquisitions of other online businesses worth AU$200 million by Fairfax since the late 1990s, which according to its competitor News Corporation have produced limited returns.TradeMe is New Zealand's largest auction site, and became the most popular website in New Zealand in 2005.During peak hours, TradeMe has approximately 30,000 - 50,000 people on line at any one time, and 565,000 auctions running. TradeMe has about 1.2 million members, representing a sizable proportion of New Zealand's population of around 4.2 million people. Trade Me accounts for over 60% of New Zealand's web traffic. The transaction needs to get final approval under the New Zealand Overseas Investment Act. This is expected to take place in April.New Zealand Post has introduced fees for redirecting mail to a new home and also holding mail from being delivered, the fees will be introduced from November 1, 2006, unless the redirector is officially old.The new fees will mean for the first two months you have mail redirection in place will cost NZ$20, instead of the usual free two months. It is double price for international going mail. It will cost $5 for residential users placing a hold on their mail, $10 for businesses per week.Graham Smith, marketing general manager for New Zealand Post, said: "The Redirection service provides peace of mind for busy people moving house and protects against other people receiving private mailed information."New Zealand Post says the reason behind the fee introduction is because it is expensive and includes a lot of labour as it is an entirely manual process. "It involves lots of manual intervention and the reprocessing and delivery of mail and we need to recover some of the costs of providing these services," Smith said.Elderly have been exempted from all hold charges and given the first two months of redirection for free."We thought long and hard about this decision.  We believe that the Redirection and Hold services still offer excellent value for money and provide our customers with a convenient way of making sure all their mail gets to them when they move, or keeping it secure when they are away from home," said Smith.It will cost $20 for two months redirection, $30 for four months, $45 for six months and $85 for a year, it is double for international. It will cost $125 for two months redirection for businesses, $190 for four months, $250 for six months and $475 for a year, it is, again, double for international mail.In order to save the lives of seabirds, the government of New Zealand has ordered the recall from sub-Antarctic waters of the entire fleet of New Zealand's 35 squid fishing boats.  Once at port, the boats are to take on independent observers to ensure that they follow codes of practice.  Violators of the new rules face a fine of up to NZ$100,000.Fisheries Minister David Benson-Pope said that "blatant bad behaviour" on the part of the boats, flouting a voluntary code of practice set up a year ago, demanded immediate action.  An Air Force aeroplane was sent on a tour of inspection last month.  Benson-Pope reported that observations from the inspection revealed that, contrary to the agreed code of practice:46% of the fishing fleet were not using equipment to scare sea birds away from vessels, with a further 8% only using it intermittently.30% of the fishing fleet were discharging offal (which attracts seabirds) while trawling or hauling nets, with a further 25% doing so intermittently.Only 30% of the fishing fleet actually complied with both mitigation and offal management requirements.Mr Benson-Pope referred to a voluntary code of practice adopted in the tuna fishing industry which he said had reduced death of seabirds by 95%.The Reserve Bank of New Zealand wrote to retails banks warning them that there will be a shortage on 20 cent coins (NZ$0.20) leading up to Christmas. They have now announced that they have distributed 4.75 million new twenty cent coins in the past week alone "...close to the number issued in a typical year."Ten million new coins are expected to arrive in the next few days.The Reserve Bank is wondering where all the new coins went, just five weeks after the new design was first introduced. Brian Lang, currency manager for the Reserve Bank, said: "The pattern of demand for new coins has been markedly different to that for the old coins." He suggests that people are keeping them in jars, like the old design coins.Some stores are already unable to give out twenty cent coins as they don't have any according to the Newmarket Business Association.Mr Lang said: "To put this into perspective, by 30 November, the Bank had issued almost as many 20c coins (49.6m) as 10c coins (53.0m). In the past issue of 20 cent coins would normally have been about half the amount of 10 cent coins."The head of Newmarket Business Association, Cameron Brewer, said: "...the Reserve Bank told us that they'd done a lot of work and that everything was going to be just fine. Well here we are just five weeks into the new coins and only days away from the Christmas rush, and the country's running out of its own currency."Mr Lang said: "The Bank has sufficient supplies of 10c and 50c coins for several years' normal issues.""...tens of millions of the old 20 cent pieces sit idle because they are no longer legal tender," Mr Brewer said referring to the old 'silver' coins that were used before the introduction of new coins. The Reserve Bank still doesn't know why the pattern of demand of twenty cent coins has changed."... such a staggering miscalculation by the Reserve Bank should never have happened," Mr Brewer said.A state house, owned by Housing New Zealand, in Glen Innes, Auckland is worth NZ$2 million, the most expensive state house in New Zealand. There were also three other houses in Auckland worth more than 1.4 million.Altogether there were 104 houses that were worth more than $700,000. Other high priced houses includes: A Lower Hutt house at $580,000, a Christchurch house at $690,000 and an Invercargill house at $520,000.The high price of the $2 million house is mostly because of the land where it is situated.Phil Heatley, National Member of Parliament and National's housing spokesman, said: "The properties should be sold to find homes for more than 11,000 families on Housing NZ's waiting list. In Auckland alone, the minister could trade the top four state houses, worth $6.3 million, and buy 16 state houses at average Auckland prices."Since 2002 Labour has either sold or disposed of 1,200 state houses, according to Heatley.Chris Carter told Parliament yesterday: "The tenants of the $2 million home have been there for eight years. That speaks volumes about the urgency this Minister attaches to the growing waiting list.""National wants to see a tougher line taken with those who repeatedly vandalise HNZ properties and we want to put an end to the situation where households earning more than $100,000 continue to qualify for state homes," Heatly said.The Parliamentary Finance and Expenditure Select Committee has today released the amendments it made to the Telecommunications Act of 2001. The regulation will most likely cause Telecom New Zealand to be split into three, one for each division. They will report to parliament in a weeks time. The three divisions will cover a fixed network access services unit, a wholesale business and the retail side of Telecom. All these divisions will still be run dependently by Telecom New Zealand under a fixed directors board. If Telecom cannot split itself then it will be penalised NZ$10 million, unless they have a good reason.Telecom New Zealand has said that the carving up of their company is "Not ideal..."Wayne Boyd, chairman of Telecom, said: "We made it clear that we preferred a simpler form of operational separation which we believed was better suited to New Zealand. This form of separation is more complicated and costly than we believe is necessary for New Zealand but we will work to implement it as swiftly as reasonably possible. With the reorganisation Telecom has been working on since early this year, Telecom has already made progress..."The government has welcomed the changes. "The committee's proposed amendments have been made public... The government will consider the recommendations before deciding on the next step in the progress of this bill," David Cunliffe, minister of communications and minister of information technology, said.The regulation is harsher than what Mr Cunliffe had originally planned for in his draft bill introduced into parliament on June 29.Part of the new bill is expected to cover unbundling of the local loop which was announced on May 3, 2006. The local loop is currently owned and operated under Telecom, New Zealand's telecommunications monopoly company.The new amendments will enable the government to deliver "faster, better broadband Internet access."The splitting of Telecom is similar to what happened to the British Telecom.New Zealand Post is set to new bring in four digit postal codes for New Zealand, at a cost of $80 million (NZD).The New Zealand Herald reported that a new postal code system will be revealed Wednesday, May 31.There will be 1800 different zones and an automatic mail sorter will sort the mail into 10,000 different mailboxes within the new zones.On Thursday everyone will get a sheet in their mailbox explaining the changes.New Zealand Post communications spokesman Richard MacLean said that hundreds of jobs will be lost, mainly in provincial areas such as Tauranga, Taupo and New Plymouth.Today New Zealand's new coins have been released. The new coins replace the 10, 20 and 50 cent coins, while the 5-cent coin is being removed from circulation for good.The new coins retain the same design as before but the 10-cent coin is now copper coloured. All coins except the 10-cent are now made from plated steel and nickel, making them lighter and cheaper to produce. The 10-cent coin is made from plated steel and copper.Brian Lang, Reserve Bank of New Zealand Currency Manager, said: "The introduction of smaller, lighter coins is one of New Zealand's biggest currency changes since the introduction of decimal currency on 10 July 1967."The Reserve Bank reports that they have issued 1,037 million coins since the introduction of decimal currency.However, people can still use their old change between now and 1 November 2006, when the old coins will cease being legal tender.A survey conducted by ACNielsen, on behalf of the Reserve Bank, in January 2004 shows that 51% liked the idea of the new coins initially.The ANZ Bank are asking for people to donate their old 5-cent coins to Plunket in their '5s for under fives' appeal.The state broadcaster of New Zealand, Television New Zealand (TVNZ), has announced its plans to fire at least 160 people because they have falling revenue, mainly from their NZ$9.3 million advertising loss.A memorandum, or "memo", was circulating the 1,100 employer, TVNZ yesterday from CEO, Rick Ellis, which stated that their "guesstimate" of job losses was around 130-160. 50 of the job losses will be from the news and current affairs department, where a total of 350 people currently work. The numbers are not set in stone, according to a spokesperson for TVNZ.The lay-offs have been expected since late last year where he announced it to a parliamentary select committee.The union which represents some of the staff working at TVNZ, Engineering Printing and Manufacturing Union, said that some of the staff are asking themselves how TVNZ will be able to start and manage the new digital 24 hour news channel with fewer staff. They are seeking to talk to TVNZ.In two weeks time, staff will be asked what they think of the proposed changes, which also includes a top level management restructuring. Steve Mahery, broadcasting minister, said, "The restructuring of TVNZ is an operational issue, and I expect they'll meet their charter requirements. How they structure the company to achieve this is entirely up to them."The Government of Newfoundland and Labrador announced, March 23, 2007, the launch of a new website to counter "misinformation about the sealing industry that is put in the public domain by international animal rights organizations."Minister of Fisheries and Aquaculture Tom Rideout, stated, "The sealing industry Web site is a key part of government’s plan to correct the misinformation on this all important industry. It will provide easy access to factual information on the Newfoundland and Labrador sealing industry to Internet users all over the world."The annual seal hunt in Canada is a source of controversy and ignites protest worldwide. Opponents of the harvest attempt to observe the hunt each year and stage protests in cities throughout the world. Boycotts of Canadian seal products and seafood have been called for."It is critical the public has easy access to factual information on the sealing industry," said Rideout. "There is a lot of misinformation in the public domain and the groups that are spreading the misinformation have a strong Web presence. In order to effectively counter this information, it is important that government has a strong presence as well."The website contains information on the history of the sealing industry, its economic importance, and utilization of the animal, once harvested.In addition to the website, the government will send a delegation of individuals to Europe on March 25 to meet with European parliamentarians and media regarding the seal hunt. The delegation will travel to Brussels, London, Berlin and The Hague.US-based News Corporation (formerly based in Australia) has announced its purchase of IGN Entertainment, a US-based online media group, for US$650 million. IGN's assets include popular video game sites IGN.com and GameSpy.com, as well as movie and game review site Rotten Tomatoes. IGN will become part of the News Corporation's Fox Interactive Media division, which will expand the company's online presence to become the fourth largest online media company, with over 70 million individual users and 12 billion page views per month when the takeover is complete.This deal is the third purchase of an online media company by News Corp since July. The current deals followed the previous purchases of Intermix Media and Scout Media. Over $1.5 billion has been spent by the company in acquiring online media this year, with another $500 million still to be spent under the current budget.News Corp has been criticized for spending too much to bring IGN into the fold, including paying off the latter's US$50 million debt, since IGN has never been very profitable. However, IGN revenue has sharply increased over the past year, and it may be a profitable addition once integrated with News Corp's other online holdings.News Corporation has succeeded in purchasing the Dow Jones & Company, the 125-year-old financial information firm and publisher of The Wall Street Journal in a three month long US$5 billion takeover bid. Rupert Murdoch is the chairman and chief executive officer of News Corporation. The Bancroft family, which owns 64.2% of the Dow Jones' voting power met Tuesday and finalized the deal amid opposition from some key members who were fearful that Journal's reputation and content would be altered. Last week, the board of the Dow Jones approved the sale, a $60-a-share bid which represents a 67% premium above Dow Jones's share price at the time of the offer. Yesterday, the News Corp. board gathered and gave the thumbs up for the acquisition, leaving only the Bancrofts to decide on the outcome.Dow Jones, which also owns Barron's Magazine, has been owned by the Bancroft family since 1902. Murdoch announced News Corporation's bid in May, and has maintained his company's position because of the lack of rivals. A Bancroft representative had approached other potential buyers, including billionaires Warren Buffett and Bill Gates, who both declined. To address concerns that the Journal will be negatively altered, Murdoch plans to add four new pages of coverage, and has agreed to form a committee to decide on hiring or firing any editors.News Corp. owns and operates dozens of large media companies, including the Fox News and British Sky Broadcasting television networks, newspapers The New York Post, The Australian, and The Sun, magazines TV Guide and The Weekly Standard, as well as internet assets such as Myspace and Photobucket.Several organizations have increased their Farsi services in the wake of the events surrounding the recent presidential election.  Google has added Farsi-to-English translation as one of its translation options to its Google Translate service.  Similarly, Facebook has launched a Farsi version of its web site.  The BBC has increased the number of broadcasting satellites that it uses for its Farsi news channel, BBC Persian Television.Google's translation services currently only provide translation from Farsi to English.  Franz-Josef Och stated that this was to enable people in Iran to communicate directly via the Internet with the outside world, saying "Like YouTube and other services, Google Translate is one more tool that Persian speakers can use to communicate directly to the world, and vice versa — increasing everyone's access to information.".  The company states that it is working to provide translation between Farsi and the other 40 languages that it provides on its Translate service.Facebook's Farsi version of its web site, which is still marked as a beta-test version, was launched rapidly, with, the company states, the assistance of more than 400 Farsi speakers who submitted translations of the contents of the site.Both companies state that their reasons for expanding their services are to promote communication, and are not politically motivated.The BBC has increased the number of broadcasting satellites that it uses for broadcasting its Farsi news channel.  This is, it states, in response to signal jamming of its broadcasts by the Iranian government.  (The Iranian government accuses BBC Persian Television, which is funded by the British Foreign Office, of being a propaganda service for the British Government.)  It states that its broadcasts on the Hot Bird 6 satellite had been aggressively jammed, and that therefore it was now also broadcasting from the Eutelsat W2M satellite, and planned to start broadcasting from Nilesat as well in the near future.The deadline for a compromise between Sony and Toshiba in the battle over the next generation DVD format is drawing closer as studios start planning their Christmas releases. Sony, with their Blu-ray Disc format, has already started embedding the new technology into their next-generation gaming console, the Playstation 3.  Meanwhile, Toshiba has secured deals with both NBC Universal and Paramount Pictures to use their format, HD-DVD.  Many industry watchers fear that the battle of these two formats will bring some serious consequences.  Some think this may repeat another VHS and Betamax format war, however others fear that because there is no clear winner, consumers will hold off until there is reassurrance that only one format will survive.  NBC Universal and Paramount Pictures have both withdrawn earlier announcements of releasing movies this year on the next generation formats.  Some industry insiders say it would be unlikely that any movies would be released this year based on a unified format of the two sides as it would take a few months to adjust the technologies from both sides and come up with a single format.The owners of the teams of the National Football League agreed Wednesday night at 7:35 p.m. EDT--25 minutes before a final deadline of 8:00 p.m. EDT--to a collective bargaining agreement extension proposal put together by the NFL Players Association.  The final vote was 30-2, with Ralph Wilson of the Buffalo Bills and Mike Brown of the Cincinnati Bengals voting no.Faced with a severely limiting salary cap of US$94.5 million in 2006 and the total loss of the salary cap in 2007, potentially ending the era of parity in the NFL, the owners' final caveat was not with the NFLPA, but with themselves.  They were arguing over the continuation of revenue sharing, and how it should proceed through the CBA extension.  In the end, owners agreed to a three-tiered revenue sharing system:  The top five revenue teams would each pay the highest share into the revenue sharing pool, teams 6-10 would each pay the middle share, and teams 11-15 would each pay the lowest share.  The lower 17 teams would then split the revenue sharing pool.The CBA extension permits the salary cap to rise to $102 million for the 2006 season, and $109 million for 2007.  It also extends the maximum proration period for signing bonuses to five years in 2006, then six years in 2007, before returning to five years in 2008.The owners and the NFLPA have been working on a CBA extension for nearly two years.  If the deadline had passed Wednesday night, then the current CBA would have ended after the 2007 season, with the owners fearing a strike and a possible challenge from another professional football league, like the USFL in the mid-1980s.  This fear is substantiated by the 2004-05 strike in the NHL, during which an unsuccessful challenge was made by a re-formed World Hockey Association.Actor Nicolas Cage was seen around various Washington, D.C.-area monuments this week by Wikinews contributor Patrick Mannion, filming the sequel to 2004's National Treasure. He was seen on March 28 outside on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, sitting in his chair talking with a director. Cage has also been seen in the company of costars from the earlier film. The Memorial was closed to the public by police and park rangers while filming took place.The sequel to the 2004 film, entitled National Treasure 2: Book of Secrets, is currently filming through April 16. In addition to the Lincoln Memorial, crews were also spotted along the Capitol's small Reflecting Pool, outside the White House, and in Layfette Square.The District of Columbia hopes to see a large economic return on the film by granting the long-term filming rights and a financial incentive to keep filming in Washington on-location, instead of doing principal photography and then moving to another city where production costs are cheaper.President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria  announced that Nigeria will complete repayment of all debt owed to the Paris Club of creditors by Friday. The Director General of the Debt Management Office (DMO), Mansur Muhtar confirmed that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) would transfer $4.5 billion to the recipient countries  on Friday.The Paris Club is an informal group of creditor governments from major industrialized countries. Under the terms of an agreement signed last year, Nigeria will pay $12.4 billion in exchange for a debt cancellation of an estimated $18 billion, representing about 60% of the $30 billion Nigeria owed the Paris Club creditors. The agreement is the biggest debt relief deal for an African nation. Nigeria, Africa's largest producer of oil, has used "windfall" earnings from the prevailing high oil prices in making these payments. The Paris Club agreement was negotiated in October 2005, with the Nigerian delegation headed by Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, the minister of finance. The deal is part of the free-market reforms pursued by President Obasanjo. The announcement comes in the wake of the endorsement of the reform programme by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which marks the last step for the debt relief deal to be completed. Nigeria is the first country to qualify for the IMF's Policy Support Instrument (PSI), which provides assessment and endorsement of a country's economic policy by the IMF, for those countries that do not require fund assistance. Speaking before the commencement of the Federal Executive Council meeting at the Council Chambers, State House, President Obasanjo said, "By Friday, April 21, we would have cleared ourselves of all debts owed to Paris Club."  He also added, "Considering the outstanding debts to the London Club and those owed internally, we are not out of the woods yet."A Nigerian "free puppy" scam has been circling the internet for months without any reports on television or on the radio. Just yesterday the Toronto Star reported about a Mississauga, Ontario, Canada woman, on September 10, who was scammed by a Nigerian man (Paul) claiming to be a Christian missionary who could no longer take care of his puppy.In April, the CBC reported that the Toronto Humane Society issued a warning for residents to watch out for the new scam, and to not respond to them. Humane Society communications officer Lee Oliver told the CBC that the only contact method, for an ad about a "free" puppy published in a newspaper, was email. After he emailed the person he received an email response in broken English saying the customer would have to pay $500.According to the women the advertisements are published in newspapers, such as free Toronto daily newspaper 24, and online. She saw the ad at Livedeal.com, a website which warns about making foreign purchases, and proceeded to email the person in Nigeria who was offering a "free" female Yorkshire Terrier pup. The ad called "GORGEOUS YORKSHIRE TERRIER FOR FREE GRAB HER NOW!!!" had a picture of a "Yorkie" in a white basket.The seller of the puppy asked the women over the phone to pay $200 for the shipping fee, the next day he asked for $250 to put the dog in a crate, and again the next day $50 for ownership. He did not tell her it would amount to $500. On the third day he asked for $100 for a shot for his puppy. She immediately contacted authorities."Are you trying to call me a scam? I'm a family man," he said. "I am a man of God. I am a missionary," Paul told a reporter for the Toronto Star."Me and my family don't have enough time for baby ... I want a good Christian home for my baby ... I love this baby," he said. "Why all these questions? Why are you accusing?"According to Oliver, a nearby Toronto resident also responded to the scam.Warnings have not only been issued in Canada but also in the Cayman Islands. The United States also has many citizens that are victims of the scam.Finnish symphonic power metal band, Nightwish, has announced details about their latest studio album, which will be the first to feature new Swedish lead vocalist Anette Olzon, who recently replaced Tarja Turunen.Among the details released is the name of the new album, which until now had been unrevealed. The album will be called Dark Passion Play. Nightwish have also released a full track listing for the album and revealed that as well as Eva, which has already been released, the song Amaranth will be released as a single.Nightwish have also announced release details. The album will debut in the band's native Finland on September 26 from record labels Spinefarm Records and distributed by Universal Music Group. It will be released in the US and the rest of Europe two days later, with the US label being Roadrunner Records and the European label being Nuclear Blast Records. Nuclear Blast will release Amaranth on August 24 and Spinefarm/Universal will release it on August 22.Approximately 9,000 Romanian miners will be made redundant in 2006, slightly more than the 7,000 which are expected to be laid off this year. This comes as part of a government program for 2005-2008 which seeks to maximise efficiency in Romania's mining industry, as well as reduce the number of mines and quarries in the country, while progressively bringing down the number of workers in this industry. As agreed with the European Union as part of accession negotiations, Romania must cease to provide major state aid to mining companies after 2007, when the country will become a member of the EU. Until then, it must gradually reduce subsidies to state-owned mining companies, in order to comply with European Union competition law.Romania's mining industry currently employs 47,000 people, quite significantly less than the 175,000 it employed in 1997, before restructuring took place. A major reform in the industry took place between 1997-2000. This time around, from 2004 onwards, restructuring is expected to be more gradual. Out of the workers who have been laid off from 1997 onwards, around 100,000 have accepted voluntary redundancy, while 8,000 have retired and 12,000 have found other jobs in the private sector. By 2010, the government expects that more than 340 mining units will be closed throughout the country.On the 20th birthday of Nintendo's mascots, Mario and his brother Luigi, Nintendo has released the newest addition to the popular Game Boy line.The Game Boy Micro is the smallest handheld release by Nintendo to date. Unlike other handhelds in the Game Boy Advance series, the Game Boy Micro can only play Game Boy Advance games and not games designed for the original Game Boy system. The handheld features a new link port, includes multiple removable faceplates, and additional faceplates can be purchased separately. This system has an MSRP of USD$99.99.Two days of ministerial talks have ended without agreement and evidence of a possible deadlock between developing and developed countries. 148 member countries are trying to reach a consensus on how to proceed with the Doha round of talks which are scheduled to be agreed in 2006. However, they are now behind the deadlines they set and the Geneva meeting saw no progress. Richer countries are being accused of demanding too many concessions in return for opening up trade and reducing subsidies while they say that the poorer countries are holding them to ransom by blocking progress.The governments of those nations paid out the money individuals had lost and the bill is designed to compensate them. However, the bill is unpopular with the public as 70% of them are said to oppose the measure, which critics have claimed will slow recovery for the Icelandic economy. A petition was given to the President demanding he refuse to sign the bill.The constitution states that there must now be a public referendum on the issue. The UK has threatened the island nation's 320,000 inhabitants with economic isolation and has requested intervention from the European Union, which is currently considering an application from Iceland for membership. The national assembly has brought forward a planned meeting from the 26th to Friday.Minister for Foreign Affairs Össur Skarphéðinsson met with every foreign ambassador in Iceland yesterday to discuss the matter. He also met with Mark Flanagan of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which currently has a deal to loan funds to Iceland. Flanagan later said that so long as the IMF scheme was funded repayment of the Icesave money did not affect this.The Common Council requested on Tuesday that a picture be found on what many thought was the site of a previous hotel.The Proposed Elmwood Village Hotel would be placed on the intersection of Elmwood and Forest. It was suspected by residents and business owners in the area that hotel once stood in the same spot.The Elmwood Village hotel is a proposed development by Savarino Construction Services Corp. In order for the project to proceed, at least five buildings (1119-1121 Elmwood) would need to be demolished. All five houses are currently occupied by businesses and residents.After some research, a freelance journalist writing for Wikinews was able to determine that there was never a hotel on the proposed Elmwood Village Hotel site. However; there was a temporary hotel located on the northeast corner of Elmwood and Forest.Buffalo was the host of the Pan-American Exposition from May 1 until November 2, 1901. It was a fair designed to feature the latest in technology, including electricity. There was a midway, athletic events, and had African, Eskimo, and Mexican villages. However; what is likely the most famous event that took place at the exposition was the assassination of then President William McKinley on September 6, 1901. He was shot by Leon Czolgosz just outside the Temple of Music and died eight days later while in the home of John Milburn on Delaware Avenue in Buffalo. Just a short time later, Theodore Roosevelt was inaugurated on September 14, 1901 at the Wilcox House on Delaware Avenue in Buffalo. Nearly eight million people attended the exposition.During that time several hotels and rooming houses were built around the exposition including The Elmwood at 717 Elmwood, the Hotel Elmhurst at Forest and Lincoln Parkway, Hotel Gibbs  1005-1021 Elmwood, the R. Palmerton Merritt at 441 Forest and The Norman at 422 Forest. None of these hotels or rooming houses exist today.Probably the most famous hotel that was built during the exposition was the Statler's Pan-American Hotel built by Ellsworth Milton Statler A freelance journalist writing for Wikinews has obtained the only known reproduction photo of the hotel [pictured at the top]. The hotel stood on the northeast corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo, had 2,100 sleeping rooms and accommodations for 5,000. At the time, the Statler was the largest hotel [based on the number of rooms] ever constructed. It was also the largest temporary hotel. It was three stories high, plastered on the inside, made mostly of wood and was covered with ornamental staff on the outside, which made it semi-fireproof. Every room was an outside room and was well lighted and ventilated. It was located within one block of the exposition's main entrance.The Statler was built for only one thing, the exposition. Work began in 1900 and finished just before the beginning of the exposition. When the exposition ended in November, the hotel was taken down.Maps from 1894 show that there was no hotel, let alone any buildings or houses on the intersection. However; research did show that the homes 1119-1121 Elmwood, the buildings that would be demolished to build the Elmwood Village Hotel, were built sometime before 1915 but were not on the intersection prior to 1902.Based on research conducted at the Buffalo Historical Society, it was concluded that between the years of 1890 and 1902, no other major hotel existed in the area. In fact, research had shown that almost every hotel built in the area, existed only during the time of the exposition. Research also indicated a hotel or a rooming house at 1089 Elmwood around 1901-1903. The only known name of the hotel was the John C. Hill Hotel. The hotel was in the house now called the Atwater House. The house was the first house to be built on the east side of the block.The Atwater House is currently vacant and owner Pano Georgiadis wants to demolish it to expand his restaurant. The house was built by 1894 and the original owner and builder of the house is currently unknown. Its earliest known occupant was Edward Atwater who in 1862 founded the oil refinery company of Atwater & Hawes in Buffalo. The site of this company was recently uncovered in the Canal District during an archeological dig. At the moment, current research does not show any connection between the two men.On Monday in Canberra, the Australian government released its annual budget, one that promises a A$1.5 billion surplus for the year, but little was said of the potential impact of the budget on Australian sport in an Olympic year when Australia is looking to earn the fewest medals since the 1996 Games in Atlanta. There were no apparent surprises for the sports sector in Australia in this budget. The budget, available online, claims A$380 million has been spent preparing for the 2012 Olympic Games. According to Keith Lyons, the University of Canberra Director of the National Institute of Sport Studies, sport is an important part of Australian culture and the development of sport enjoys bipartisan support. The sport "budget supports infrastructure developments and reflects a renewal of Australian sport venues post Sydney [Olympics] 2000. The Active After School investment reflects a commitment to support participation and engagement in physical activity and sport."  When Tony Naar of the Australian Paralympic Committee was asked about the impact of the budget on his organisation's efforts, he said there was little to report as there were "very few previously unannounced initiatives... the overall level of program funding was in line with the final year of the current funding cycle".The budget promises to support cricket, specifically the 2015 Cricket World Cup, and soccer (football) with the 2015 Asian Cup by allocating funding for facility improvement. A$50 million will be spent on redeveloping the Sydney Cricket Ground, A$30 million on redeveloping the Adelaide Oval, and A$15 million on redeveloping the Bellerive Oval in Hobart. A partnership between the government, New South Wales Government and the Sydney Cricket and Sports Ground Trust will cover additional costs associated with the Sydney Cricket Ground with work completed by 2014.   Local sporting infrastructure will be supported in the budget with A$30 million earmarked for this, A$10 million specifically to improve Melbourne's Olympic Park Precinct, A$5 million to support football in western Sydney, and A$3 million for Football New South Wales to build a new headquarters.  The budget promises assistance to parents to defray the cost of their children's extracurricular activities including sport as part of the SchoolKid Bonus, which will replace the Education Tax Refund.  Support for school based youth sport with A$39.2 million allocated to Active After-School Communities, a program that reaches 190,000 children, which encourages them to participate in school sports. In an attempt to curb drowning deaths of young children, an initiative has been launched to improve water safety that will be run through early childhood centres.  A$19.2 million was extended to the Australian Sport Commission to run its Active After-School Communities program in 2012/2013 with similar funding for 2013/2014. 2,000 schools and 1,300 after/out of school programs will benefit from the funding.Community Street Soccer was allocated A$1.0 million for 2012/2013 and A$1.6 million for 2013/2014.  Aimed at bringing the homeless and unemployed into the community through participation in soccer, Reclink Australia will be given the funding to implement the program.A$4.8 million was allocated to the Clontarf Foundation in New South Wales to support local sport and utilised elsewhere encourage Indigenous girls to participate in sport in Western Australia, Northern Territory, Victoria and Queensland through the Sporting Chance Program.Canberra's Centenary celebrations are addressed in the Federal budget, with A$2.6 million allocated for 2011/2012, A$2.0 million allocated for 2012/2013 and A$1.0 million allocated for 2013/2014.  Some money will go towards sport as a part of these celebrations. The Federal government is investing in Glenorchy, Tasmania, budgeting A$8.7 million in the redevelopment of the King George V sports and community precinct, with the money given to the local government.  Not all of the money is earmarked for sport, with some money paying for a dedicated office for the Migrant Resource Centre.A$1,870,000 less was budgeted for the Australian Sports Anti-Doping Authority from what was actually spent in 2011/2012's budget.  The government expects A$5.8 million in savings in the next four years because of changes in athlete doping testing. In the 2011/2012 budget year, A$2,729,510 was spent on Regional Australia, Local Government, Arts and Sport in special appropriations.  The 2012/2013 budget earmarks A$1,117,783 for this category.  All money in the category is allocated in line with the Local Government (Financial Assistance) Act 1995.  In the Sport and Recreation Special Account out of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet appropriation budget, the cash flow and balance opened the budget year with A$920,000 and receipts totaled A$317,000. In the Department of Regional Australia, Local Government, Arts and Sport appropriation budget, the Sport and Recreation Special Account had has an opening balance of A$949,000. Estimates for receipts for 2012/2013 are A$537,000, up from A$220,000 in actual receipts in 2011/2012's budget. The Australian Sports Commission spent A$214,534,000 in 2011/2012 in their first budget category, and have a smaller budget of A$101,942,000 for 2012/2013 in the same category. In their budget second category, they spent A$54,159,000 in 2011/2012, with the 2012/2013 budget increasing the budget to A$166,201,000.  For total appropriations, the first area decreased by a total of A$117,170,000 and the second area saw an increase in of A$114,353,000.The microcredit Grameen Bank and its creator, Muhammad Yunus, are jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize "for their efforts to create economic and social development from below."Most people were expecting the founder to be nominated for the Economics Nobel prize but the Norwegian Nobel Institute decided to award him the Peace Prize for his attempt to destroy poverty, emphasizing women who have to "struggle against repressive social and economic conditions". Yunus, from Bangladesh, said "We want the same kind of unity in politics like the unity that has been created by the Nobel prize award," at a press conference at the bank's office in the suburbs of the Bangladeshee capital, Dhaka.In 2005, the Nobel Peace Prize was also awarded jointly to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Mohamed ElBaradei (محمد البرادعي) (Egypt).Nokia, the mobile phone manufacturer based in Nokia, Finland, has negotiated the takeover of Chicago, United States Geographic Information Systems software development company Navteq for US$8.1 billion.Nokia are paying $78 per share in Navteq, who employs 3,000 people and operates 168 offices spread across 20 countries. Nokia, meanwhile, is the world's largest mobile phone manufacturer.The price comes in at only three cents a share more than current stock market prices, but these prices have recently risen steeply after rumours surfaced that the company may be subject to a takeover deal. However, share prices fell 1.7% after the deal was confirmed as fact.“Location based services are one of the cornerstones of Nokia's Internet services strategy. By joining forces with Navteq, we will be able to bring context and geographical information to a number of our Internet services with accelerated time to market,” said a statement by Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, Nokia's chief executive. Meanwhile, MarketWatch had a slightly different take on events, using the headline “Nokia bets men will spend anything to avoid asking directions.”Announced early Wednesday morning at Nokia's GoEvent, in a plan to expand the company's revenue, Finland-based company Nokia Inc. is developing a mobile phone similar to its rival iPhone, which will be available in the near future for Nokia customers. The phone is expected to be available by 2008.Most of the features are the same as the iPhone's. They include music, games, and many other features, even ones that the iPhone may not have. Ovi (in Finnish meaning "Door") will be the door for more than 2 million songs and games available for download on the new device. Users will be able to download wirelessly in their own home or anywhere there is access to a computer.But this is not the first time Nokia has made an attempt like this to increase its revenue. In October of 2003 the company revealed the N-Gage, a game-playing cell phone, but was "stocked-out" due to poor sales. The N95 smartphone, which was released in the U.S. on April 7, 2007 (before the iPhone on June 29, 2007) includes WiFi, a GPS, a music player, and a 5 megapixel digital camera. The three other phones that were revealed at the event in London will be in-stock next quarter. The new N81 and the modified N95 smartphones were among the revealed at yesterday's event; the N81 is a new member to Nokia's smartphone family; the N95 has been modified by having more memory and a sleeker LCD screen.When Nokia was asked about the striking similarity between this and the iPhone, Nokia's Executive Vice President and General Manager of Multimedia, Anssi Vanjoki, said, "If there is something good in the world then we copy with pride."Nokia first demoed their iPhone rival August 29th.  During their demo they omitted the fact that the demo was for the software to be in use, not the actual hardware.[1]Nokia, the Finnish telecommunications firm has issued a warning that 46 million BL-5C batteries on popular phones it sold from December 2005 to November 2006 could be faulty and overheat. After recording approximately 100 incidents, the Finnish firm said on Tuesday the problems could affect 46 million batteries manufactured by Matsushita between December 2005 and November 2006.In a statement on the company's website, the mobile phone manufacturer said, "Nokia has identified that in very rare cases the affected batteries could potentially experience over heating initiated by a short circuit while charging, causing the battery to dislodge.""Nokia has several suppliers for BL-5C batteries that have collectively produced more than 300 million BL-5C batteries. This advisory applies only to the 46 million batteries manufactured by Matsushita between December 2005 and November 2006. There have been approximately 100 incidents of over heating reported globally. No serious injuries or property damage have been reported."Users who have such batteries should go to the Nokia website at www.nokia.com/batteryreplacement to see if they have an affected battery, and if so, to order a replacement if they desire.Nokia Inc., the international mobile phone manufacturer headquartered in Finland, has launched their own online music and game downloading service to the public.They are hoping to challenge other phone manufacturers who offer similar downloading services and also other online stores such as the Apple iTunes store.Along with this announcement Nokia also revealed they will release new handsets that are better suited as multimedia players.Nokia's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, said: "Looking into the future, we will deliver great devices, combined with compelling experiences and services, to make it easy for people to unlock the potential of the Internet."The service, named the "Nokia Music Store", will charge between €6 and €10 for a game while a single music track will cost €1 and €10 for a whole album. The service will initially be available on Nokia's N81 and N95 models, but the media is anticipating the service to become available on more models soon after launch.Fourteen million phone chargers have been recalled by Nokia amid fears that they could cause electric shocks. Despite the recall there have been no reported injuries. Chargers from the AC – 3E, AC – 3U and AC – 4U are the models in question. The models affected were made between June and October 2009. The chargers, made by the Chinese firm BYD, are mainly sold in Europe and North America. BYD has stated that it will pick up the costs of the replacements. An investigation by Nokia revealed that the charger covers became prone to coming off and revealing the components, increasing the risk of electric shocks. Customers can determine whether their charger is faulty on the Nokia website. Nokia has released a statement saying the recall is a “proactive, precautionary measure”.Mobile telephone company Nokia, the world's largest manufacturer of mobile telephones, based in Finland, has today lowered its forecasts for the number of mobile handsets to be sold in 2008 by 1.5%, due to the current economic crisis. It lowered its forecast for the total number of mobile phones to be sold in 2008 to 1.24 billion, down from 1.26 billion. Nokia also stated that it's "preliminary estimate is that the industry mobile device volumes will be down in 2009 compared to 2008, impacted by the continuing overall economic slowdown.""In the last few weeks, the global economic slowdown, combined with unprecedented currency volatility, has resulted in a sharp pull back in global consumer spending," stated Nokia, explaining it's reasons behind it's move. "The weaker consumer spending has impacted many industries, including the global mobile device market. The mobile device market has also been negatively impacted by the more limited availability of credit, which has limited the purchasing ability of some of our trade customers."Nokia's share price has fallen on the announcement of this news. The company opened today trading at US$12.43. It has since fallen to a low of $12.22, although it has now recovered.The company plans to reveal more details on its 2009 forecasts at its "Capital Markets Day" in New York on December 4.North America's oldest retailer, Canada's Hudson's Bay Company (HBC), will be transferred from one American owner to another. NRDC Equity Partners, LLC, owners of U.S. department store Lord & Taylor, will purchase HBC from the estate of Jerry Zucker, who died in April.In 2006, the fate of HBC was first in doubt when Zucker bought it for $1.1 billion from another American owner. The businessman wanted to convert The Bay into a more upscale department-store chain.Zucker had also begun remodeling the company's Zellers chain to imitate the Target Corporation, creating wider aisles, expanding outlets, and selling at prices that matched those of the Wal-Mart Canada Corporation.NRDC plans to introduce up to 15 Lord & Taylor stores in Canada by converting some of HBC's existing properties, which include stores such as The Bay, Zellers and Home Outfitters. Under the deal announced on Wednesday, NRDC will support a newly-established holding corporation, the Hudson's Bay Trading Company, with $500 million in funding.The Hudson's Bay Company was established in 1670 to support trade and development throughout the northern North American territory that is now Canada.According to the National Institute of Standards and Technology, Daylight Saving Time will end on November 4, 2007 at 2:00 a.m. local time for most of the United States and Canada.This change is different from previous years due to a U.S. mandated daylight saving time change, which was caused by the Energy Policy Act of 2005.The next change to regular Daylight Saving Time will be in 2038.On Wednesday, U.S. President Barack Obama met with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto in Ottawa. This marks the first time Canadian, U.S., and Mexican leaders have met since 2014, as 2015's summit was not arranged in the harsh political relations at the time.Among the topics discussed were trade and the countries' economies, and current world events such as the U.S. presidential candidates and the United Kingdom's recent vote to leave the European Union.North America has a combined economy representing over 25% of the world's GDP (gross domestic product) with a little over 7% of the world's population. The countries' combined GDP has risen since 1993 from US$8 trillion to about US$20 trillion in 2016.The "Three Amigos" have shown an agenda geared towards green energy: pledging to generate 50% clean power across North America by the year 2025, implement a joint study about the addition of renewable energy sources in North America, and implement ten energy-efficiency standards and tests on equipment being traded throughout the continent.Trade was also a big topic of discussion, with the leaders affirming support not only for NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement) — something controversial in the U.S. political campaign — but also the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), with Mexican President Peña Nieto stating: "We are fully convinced that by working together [...] we can be the most competitive region in the world". Justin Trudeau also said by December 1 of this year Mexicans will no longer require visas in order to come to Canada. The leaders held a trilateral press conference with the media after the summit. During the conference, President Obama scorned presidential candidate Donald Trump, calling his rhetoric "nativism or xenophobia".President Barack Obama also addressed a joint session of the Canadian Senate and House of Commons.  Obama was the seventh president to do so — his other six predecessors being Harry Truman in 1947, Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1953 and 1958, John F. Kennedy in 1961, Richard Nixon in 1972, Ronald Reagan in 1981 and 1987, and Bill Clinton in 1995.Obama spoke about the relationship between Canada and the United States, saying the border was the "longest border of peace on Earth". He also said the United States "could not ask for a better friend or ally than Canada."North Carolina Governor Mike Easley signed into law a new minimum wage for the U.S. state Thursday. The increase of US$1 will raise the rate to US$6.15. Easley said that the new law will make it easier for North Carolinians to deal with the rising cost of living. The new law will become effective on January 1 next year. This is the first raise to the North Carolina minimum wage in nearly nine years.Last Sunday in Pennsylvania, Governor Ed Rendell signed into law a phased-in US$2 minimum wage increase. For businesses with 10 employees or more, the rate will increase by US$1 on January 1 next year, then increase by another dollar on July 1."Signing this bill into law gives me personal gratification," said Rendell to cheering crowd of minimum wage workers at the signing ceremony in Philadelphia. The last time Pennsylvania made a change to the federally mandated minimum was in 1988. Recent state level legislative initiatives to raise the minimum wage have failed in 18 U.S. states, according to the National Restaurant Association.A total of 20 other U.S. states — Alaska, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington and Wisconsin, plus the District of Columbia — have raised the minimum above the federal mandate.  The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act, enacted in 1938, has been continuously amended by Congress over years with increases that make the federally mandated minimum wage what it is today, US$5.15 per hour. The last time the federal government raised the rate was in 1997.US$25 million of North Korean funds previously frozen in a Macau bank has been transferred to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.  The money was released late last week, and transferred from Macau to the Federal Reserve in New York City, and from there to a Russian bank and then into an account controlled by the North Korean government.Pressure is mounting from the international community on the Pyongyang government to shut down its Yongbyong nuclear reactor.  North Korea has been refusing to move forward due to the freezing of these funds in 2005.The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) has received US$25,000,000 frozen in 2005 as part of the general crackdown on the communist state.The funds had been frozen in a Macau bank after the United States earlier alleged that the money was gained from activities including  money laundering and counterfeiting. The DPRK had demanded return of the money as a precondition to engaging in the six-party talks.  In February, the U.S. agreed to allow North Korea to retrieve their funds.Northrop Grumman and Airbus parent company European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company EADS N.V. (EADS) have unexpectedly defeated Boeing for a US$40 billion (GB£20.1 billion) contract to supply the United States Air Force (USAF) with 179 new aerial refueling tankers at a rate of 15 a year.It is the biggest contract of its kind since the Joint Strike Fighter program. That contract was fought for between Boeing and Lockheed Martin, Lockheed ultimately winning the contest.JSA Research defence analysist Paul Nesbit said that Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) operations across the aircraft's fifty-year service life could push the value of the contract as high as US$100 billion. Northrop Grumman CEO Ron Sugar said in an interview "Everyone told us we were crazy, that we had no chance. But we took a big swing and in this case, we hit a home run."USAF officials said that the contract had been awarded based on competence, track record and competitive pricing, with UBS analyst David Strauss saying "The key decision was the amount of fuel the bigger plane could carry. In the armed services, you can never have too much gas in the air." USAF also denied that creating jobs in the US was a factor; job supply had been the reason Boeing were expected to win, with the airframer promising 44,000 new positions at 300 suppliers in 40 states.The Northrop Grumman KC-45 tankers - more often known as KC-30s - are based on the Airbus A330 MRTT. The first four aircraft will be assembled at the main Airbus factory in Toulouse, France but by 2010-11 production of the remainder will be carried out at a facility in Mobile, Alabama. This is thought likely to create 1,500 to 2,000 jobs and support 25,000 others. 60% of the parts will be supplied by domestic manufacturers. EADS had previously announced plans to shift much production to the US due to the current weakness of the dollar.General Arthur Lichte, head of USAF's Mobility Command, said it is hoped the first aircraft can be tested in 2010 and in operation three years afterwards. USAF's chief of staff  General Duncan McNab stated "The tanker is the number-one procurement priority for us right now. It is the first step in our critical commitment to recapitalize our aging fleet to move, supply, and position assets anywhere."There is still a possibility of Boeing challenging the decision; Boeing themselves were successfuly challenged by Lockheed and Sikorsky in 2006 over a US$10 billion contract to supply search and rescue helicopters to the Pentagon. A statement by Boeing given by Boeing spokesman William Barksdale said “Obviously we are very disappointed... Once we have reviewed the details behind the award, we will make a decision concerning our possible options.” Washington senator Patty Murray, who hails from the same state where Boeing bases their commercial airliner operations, said in a critical statement "We are shocked that the Air Force tapped a European company and its foreign workers to provide a tanker to our American military. At a time when our economy is hurting, this decision to outsource our tankers is a blow to the American aerospace industry, American workers and America's military." Washington representative Norm Dicks said he too was "shocked", releasing a statement saying "This decision is even more disappointing because the Air Force had previously favored the Boeing 767 tanker and we were prepared to move forward with the production of 100 tankers in 2003, before the process was halted due to the Boeing scandal. I regret that it has taken so long to respond to what was—and is—an urgent need to replace these older aircraft. And even more regrettable is the decision to award the contract to Airbus, which has consistently used unfair European government subsidies to take jobs away from American aircraft workers." Kansas senator Sam Brownback said "It's stunning to me that we would outsource the production of these airplanes to Europe instead of building them in America. I'll be calling upon the Secretary of Defense for a full debriefing and expect there will be a protest of the award by Boeing." Todd Tiahrt, a Kansas representative, said "We should have an American tanker built by an American company with American workers. I cannot believe we would create French jobs in place of Kansas jobs."A group of Washington politicians released a joint statement saying "We will be asking tough questions about the decision to outsource this contract... At a time when our economy is hurting, this is a blow not only to our state, but more than 40 states across the country who would help build this national plane." Alabama Governor Bob Riley said "To say this is a great day for Alabama is a monumental understatement. This will go down in history as one of our greatest days." Ralph Crosby, EADS's North America CEO and ex Northrop executive commented the business has "committed our full resources to support this vital program for our prime contractor, Northrop Grumman, the Air Force, and the war fighters that this system will serve for decades to come. We already have begun the work necessary to expand our U.S. industrial footprint in support of this important program." EADS chief executive Louis Gallois commented “This major selection is a win-win for our customers, for allied industrial cooperation and for EADS. It signals a quantum-leap forward in our commitment to the US defence customer, reflects and supports our global strategy to increase EADS’s industrial presence in key markets and our goal to balance the company’s defence and commercial portfolios.” General Arthur Lichte said “This will be an American tanker, flown by American airmen with an American flag on its tail and, every day, it will be saving American lives. Boeing had initially agreed to lease 100 tankers, but in 2003 a scandal erupted when it emerged that Boeing executive Michael M. Sears arranged a job for USAF official Darleen Druyun while negotiations were still underway. Both served jail sentences for corruption charges and a competition was opened up to award a new contract.A routine upgrade of anti-virus software has disabled tens of thousands of PCs in China, according to local media reports. The faulty upgrade caused Symantec's Norton AntiVirus software to remove critical Windows XP system files, the reports state.The system files moved or deleted by the software include netapi32.dll and lsasrv.dll, according to Sohu News. The software incorrectly identifies the files as being infected with the Backdoor.Haxdoor trojan. With these files removed, Windows XP will no longer start up, and even the system safe mode no longer functions. Only Chinese-language versions of Windows appear to be affected so far.The Norton AntiVirus application is part of Norton's 360 suite and it is pre-installed in many PCs sold in China, indicating that the problem could potentially affect millions of users.Statoil ASA (Statoil), a Norwegian state-owned oil company, entered into an agreement Friday to purchase all outstanding common shares of the privately held Canadian firm, North American Oil Sands Corporation (NAOSC). The deal is reported to be worth CAD2.2 billion in an all-cash transaction.NAOSC is an Alberta-based oil company founded in 2001. It manages 1,110 square kilometres of oil sands leases located in northern Alberta. It is estimated that the NOASC oil sands hold approximately 2.2 billion barrels of oil reserves. The company is planning to develop an extraction project and an upgrading facility. When the project is completed, NAOSC expects it to produce over 200,000 barrels of bitumen per day. The upgrading facility would then process the bitumen into synthetic crude oil.The NAOSC board of directors has approved the bid from Statoil unanimously, and has recommended that its shareholders accept the offer. One of the largest shareholders of NAOSC currently is Paramount Resources Ltd. (TSX:POU). Paramount announced Friday that it had entered into a lock-up agreement with Statoil, which calls for Paramount to sell its 30.9% interest in NAOSC to Statoil ASA for a cash deal worth approximately $682 million."We are impressed by the performance and competence held by the employees in NAOSC,” said Helge Lund, chief executive of Statoil. “Combined with Statoil’s experience and commitment to prudent operations, we are well-positioned to develop the resources in a sustainable manner, creating value for Statoil and its shareholders."Statoil suggests that the development plans for the NAOSC oil sands includes an application of Steam Assisted Gravity Drainage (SAGD) technology, which, according to the company, leaves a smaller environmental footprint than strip mining. Statoil admits, however, that heavy oil production, such as is required in the oil sands, is "energy intensive and challenging in an environmental perspective." The company said it intends to capture the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions from its oil sands production and store it underground.Under new environmental regulations announced Thursday by Canadian Environment Minister John Baird, companies that can't meet new intensity targets for CO2 emission reductions will be able to purchase offset credits or contribute to a technology fund, at an initial cost of $15 per tonne of emissions. New plants would have three years before they were obligated to begin reducing their emissions.However, Julia Langer, director of the World Wildlife Fund's global threats program, told the Globe and Mail that the initial exemptions for new plants and the technology fund contributions would undermine the government's new environmental plan. "This is a regulatory plan that is geared to business as usual for the tar sands sector," said Langer.The Statoil-NAOSC transaction is expected to close by the end of the second quarter of 2007.Last years quota of 670 was raised this year despite fishermen failing to reach their quota last year. Environmental activists from groups such as Greenpeace have denounced the increase. Speaking to the Associated Press, one activist said "Increased whaling is no solution for the problems along the coast." However despite international opposition, it is unlikely Norway will end whaling anytime soon.Norway is the only country in the world to allow commercial whaling. Iceland and Japan do so solely on a research basis. Whale meat is used as steaks and in hamburgers and sausages in Norway. The number of whales caught by Norway has steadily increased since resumption of whaling in 1993, with the 226 caught that year rising to over 500 in 1997 and 670 in 2003.The economic argument is that whaling provides employment and economic stimulant for fishery, logistic, restaurant and other related industries in developed countries. However many countries continue to argue that, if properly developed, whale-watching could be far more profitable and create far more jobs than whale killing.Phase two of Nottingham, England's Express Transit system (NET) received a boost last Thursday, when it was announced that the Government had approved both of the proposed additional lines to extend the network further into the Nottinghamshire area. Construction of the two lines, which will take the system to Chilwell and Clifton, could begin before the end of the year.The plans were originally turned down on cost grounds, but following successful negotiations between Nottingham City Council and the two companies bidding to construct the line enough savings have been found to allow the scheme to receive the green light. Around 20% is now believed to have been saved from the cost of the project, though no exact figures of either the original cost or savings made have been announced by the council, and according to a transport boss the project has had no changes made to it to accommodate these.Under the private finance initiative (PFI) deal, which is how the funding for phase 2 will be secured, private firms bid to win the contract to build and run the tram network, before then later leasing it back to the council who pay for its use on an ongoing basis. The two consortia bidding to build and operate the network are Tramlink Nottingham and Arrow Connect, the preferred bidder of which will appointed in the near future.However, despite the news of the approval for the lines by the Government, the final hurdle has not yet been jumped, and they could still never make it off the drawing board. The announcement only means that Nottingham City Council — who are the sole promoters of the scheme following the withdrawal of the Tory-led County Council — can continue the process and, if the final business case is given full approval, will then be able to award the concessionaire contract to the successful bidder.The NET system was opened in March 2004, and the original line, Line One, runs for a distance of 14km between Hucknall and Nottingham City Centre, with a short spur also serving Phoenix Park — near to the M1 motorway. Once completed, Lines Two and Three, operating to Clifton via Wilford and Chilwell via the Queen's Medical Centre and Beeston, will continue on from the current terminus at Station Street, over a new bridge across Nottingham railway station, and diverge to their separate termini shortly afterwards. The lines will add a further 17.4km to the network.After making the announcement on Thursday, Transport Minister Norman Baker said: “Line One of the Nottingham tram has proved to be a great success in encouraging people on to public transport. These proposed extensions provide the opportunity to continue this success, and give people in the south of Nottingham quicker, more convenient access to the city centre, as well as helping to regenerate sections of the city."Following the spending review last year, we challenged Nottingham City Council to look again at the cost of the Nottingham light rail extension, to be funded through the private finance initiative, to ensure we get maximum value for every pound we spend."The Department has been working closely with the local authority involved to ensure this project is affordable. I am delighted that the Council has risen to the challenge and has identified savings from its original estimated costs."By finding savings, I can confirm that we are today allowing this project to move another step forward within our funding approval process.” Nottingham City Council’s Chief Executive Jane Todd also commented: “This is a very positive development. We have worked hard with government to ensure that NET phase two is delivered as cost effectively as possible. A preferred bidder will now be appointed in the very near future who will work with the council to finalise contracts which will hopefully be signed later in the summer. NET Phase Two is crucial for the future of Nottingham's economy and to attract new jobs to the City”.If final approval is given for the lines, construction work will begin before the end of the year, with a view to the extended system opening in 2014.The Swiss pharmaceutical company Novartis is about to challenge patent rejection in India before the Supreme Court of India. The court case is to begin on March 28.Should the complaint be successful millions of people may no longer be able to purchase necessary medication.The object of special attention is Imatinib, a medication used to treat certain cancers, which is marketed by Novartis as Gleevec (USA) or Glivec (Europe/Australia/Latin America).The desired interpretation of patent law would give Novartis a renewal of another twenty years for its patent on the medication.Over six years Novartis has been struggling over different interpretations of article 3(d) of Indian patent law, which rules the patenting of variants of already approved medicines. On March 28 Novartis will present another interpretation of article 3(d) restricting it to "discoveries", while the patent application would constitute an "invention".Novartis' head of corporate research in Basel, Paul Herrling, told the journal Nature: "[The case is] about the rewarding of innovation where markets exist, not about impeding access to medicines for poor patients. [...] We think that Gleevec is a fundamental breakthrough in medicine. If 3(d) can be used to prevent the patenting of results of innovative biomedical research, it will certainly be a disincentive for both Indian research-based pharmaceutical companies and for foreign companies wanting to be active in India. This would be to the disadvantage of Indian patients."Brook Baker from the Northeastern University School of Law in Boston, Massachusetts, a professor in the Program on Human Rights and the Global Economy (PHRGE), explained the situation as follows: "Novartis would like the Supreme Court to adopt a low-threshold standard whereby slight improvements will count as significantly enhanced efficacy. [...] If this low-hurdle standard is adopted, companies will be able to evergreen their patents in India much as they do in the United States. [...] India is a major exporter of generic medicines to developing countries, including 80% of the medicine now used to treat over 6.6 million people living with HIV/AIDS. India's status as the pharmacy of the poor and of the developing world is actually under attack."Médecins Sans Frontières has set up the protest web page "Novartis, Drop the Case!", with information about the court case.NRMA, one of Australia's largest insurers, has come under scrutiny following the release of a scathing report into its online smash repairs system.The report by the New South Wales Government's Staysafe committee found that NRMA's online repair tendering system was "unsafe". NRMA has said it has no intention of suspending the system despite the findings.The report, which was released yesterday found that "[The] system of allocating damaged motor vehicles to smash repairers without the repairers physically inspecting the damaged vehicle before quoting for work ... is an unsafe system in its current form". According to committee member and Port Stephens MP John Bartlett the vehicles were "being repaired to the standard of a brick and the crumple zones at the front and rear no longer worked and all the impact was being felt in the cabin".According to the report "the system would lead to cost cutting and unsafe repair practices, with the quality of repairs lowered by encouraging smash repairers to take short cuts". According to NRMA, only minor "cosmetic" repairs are put through the system - however often there can be further damage which is only evident after a complete inspection. The NRMA system simply places photographs of the vehicles on its website where approved smash repairers bid to carry out repairs.David Brown, head of claims and assessments at NRMA, said this of the report: "[W]e totally reject the findings of the report, in fact we find the report's fundamentally flawed with no evidence of safety issues, and [it] has been prepared without seeing the system first-hand". He further added that the system would not be scrapped.The New South Wales police fraud squad have been recognised for their efforts and successes in credit and debit card fraud in Singapore last week according to a statement issued today. The award was presented at the Visa Asia Pacific Risk Management Conference.The award recognises efforts made by police to reduce credit card skimming attacks. Skimming occurs when either an ATM or merchant's terminal is modified to record a copy of a customer's card. This data is then sold on the black market.The award received by NSW police was one of three presented at the conference. The National Police Agency of Japan and the Economic Crime Investigation Departments of Shenzhen and Guandong Provinces of China were also acknowledged with awards.Assistant Commissioner Graeme Morgan from the State Crime Command said the award recognised the amount of work done by the squad in reducing credit card fraud. "The effectiveness of the squad is demonstrated by the results achieved by these detectives, who are amongst the best in the world," he said.Detective Superintendent Colin Dyson, Commander of the fraud squad applauded his team for receiving the award. "It's a reflection of the enthusiastic and thorough work being carried out by the squad's detectives to dismantle organised crime groups, particularly recent strike forces that have led to significant arrests for credit card counterfeiting and skimming offences."Visa's Executive Vice President for Australia and New Zealand, Bruce Mansfield, said that NSW Police play a key role in reducing credit card fraud in Australia. "In Australia, we are fortunate to have the best per-capita card security surveillance systems in the world and this is matched by a strong commitment from law enforcement agencies to fight and track down those trying to defraud the system.""NSW Police exemplifies this commitment with dedicated strike forces focusing on organised crime gangs, both local and international. It is playing a critical role in the dismantling of organised crime groups engaged in credit and debit card skimming," Mr Mansfield said.The Supreme Court of New South Wales has upheld a non-publication order protecting details of a lawsuit filed against Australia's richest person, Gina Rinehart, from being published. The lawsuit filed by Rinehart's daughter, Hope Rinehart Welker, is a dispute based on a trust fund created by Rinehart's father, Lang Hancock. The non-publication order was upheld based on the family's wealth, image and any influence the details revealed in court may have on business details. The beneficiaries of the Hope Margaret Hancock Trust are Gina Rinehart, and her four adult children: John, Bianca, Hope and Ginia.Rinehart is estimated to be worth $10 billion and is the current chairman of Hancock Prospecting, an iron ore business she inherited from her father.The Philippines and other members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are becoming alarmed over the rapid increase of global oil prices and are seriously looking into prospects of building nuclear powered plants to energize the electric needs of the 10 member nations of ASEAN.The heads of Asean Power Utilities/Authorities (Hapua) Council got together in Manila this week and are forming an ASEAN Power Grid.Energy ministers and delegates from ASEAN member countries, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines are pursuing alternative sources of energy and connecting the power grids of the member countries.A task force was created by the Philippines Department of Energy that will look into the possibility of using nuclear power as a counter-measure to dependence on oil to power up the Philippines and the rest of ASEAN's power generators.Energy secretary Angelo Reyes also received the recommendations from a six-man team from the International Atomic Energy Agency on the prospects of operating the moth-balled Bataan Nuclear Power Plant.The Bataan nuclear plant was first built in the late seventies under the administration of President Ferdinand Marcos but was scrapped by President Corazon Aquino in 1986 owing to kick-backs in the plant's construction and safety concerns.Reyes stated that the council and the department was also looking into alternative sources of renewal energy such as solar and wind power, biomass, geothermal and hydro-electric to reduce dependency on fossil fuel.For the time, the Philippines has implemented several measures on conserving energy particularly the conversion to compact fluorescent lights (CFLs).Workers at two nuclear facilities in the United Kingdom walked out today in the continuing row about foreign workers.Contract staff at the Sellafield nuclear recycling facility in Cumbria walked out this morning. They were joined by staff at Heysham nuclear power station in neighbouring Lancashire. Workers at sites affected by industrial action last week walked out again today, with 200 leaving the Fiddlers Ferry Power Station in Cheshire and a further 1,000 at Grangemouth oil refinery and Longannet power station.The UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown had condemned the wildcat action on Sunday, calling it "counterproductive". This drew criticism from unions and opposition parties as he had previously promised "British jobs for British workers" at the Labour Party's conference in 2008. Brown has insisted that clarification of European Union law and European Court of Justice decisions will allow people to see that discrimination doesn't take place in future.The Secretary of State for Business Lord Mandelson has backed the site's owners Total S.A., telling the BBC that the company had "very strongly refuted" the allegations and that he believed them to be right. He added that the media was "feeding this xenophobia". He added that he hoped the rebuttal would calm the situation, saying "I hope in the light of that people will be reassured and call off these unofficial disputes".This drew an angry reaction from the GMB union. General Secretary Paul Kenny said "Peter Mandelson is in denial about the nature of the problem that has given rise to the dispute. Overseas companies are refusing to employ UK nationals on projects in the UK. That is not right".Lord Mandelson's shadow, Kenneth Clarke, also condemned the strikes on behalf of the opposition Conservative Party, saying "I understand people being worried about their jobs. I don't think this is the right way to demonstrate it". Some Labour MPs, however, have expressed more sympathy with the strikers. Health Secretary Alan Johnson called for EU law to be changed to stop global companies undercutting local wage rates, while former minister Frank Field said "This form of contract clearly cannot go on, where contracts are awarded and there's free movement of companies but those companies then restrict who can apply for those jobs". Another former minister, Peter Hain, also sided with the strikers, blaming the government for "gold plating" EU law (making EU-derived laws stronger or stricter than the original directive) and telling them to "stick up for British workers". The leader of the Liberal Democrats Nick Clegg sounded a warning note about changing British or EU law, saying that "any attempt to ban EU citizens from jobs in Britain would be a massive own goal. If every EU country followed suit, we would have to cope with a massive influx of British people who work overseas".The unofficial protests began on Friday, when workers in industrial plants across the country walked out in sympathy with the staff at Lindsey Oil Refinery in North Lincolnshire. The refinery are striking over the awarding of a contract by the French-owned site to an Italian company. This led to 200-300 Italian and Portuguese workers arriving at the plant. Unions allege that British workers were actively prevented from applying for the jobs.Protests have continued today outside the refinery.The U.S. Department of Labor has released data showing that more than 1,000 private military contractors have been killed in Iraq and Afghanistan, in response to a Freedom of Information request filed by Reuters.The number is based on insurance claims filed on behalf of contractors that had been killed, and includes both U.S. and foreign contractors. As of March 2007, an additional 10,569 contractors have been wounded in Iraq and 2,428 in Afghanistan.There are disputes about the exact number of contractors in Iraq, but it is estimated to be between 130,000 and 180,000 U.S.-paid private military contractors, compared to 157,000 U.S. military personnel.Despite beliefs that the contractors all belong to large military-oriented groups such as the British intelligence firm Aegis or Blackwater USA which has been labelled "mercenaries", the jobs of contractors killed have been as varied as electrical engineer Ronald Schulz, translator Kim Sun-il and truck driver Murat Yuce.According to official figures, the unemployment rate in the United Kingdom has risen to 7.8%, its highest level in thirteen years. 2.435 million people in the country are now without jobs. The rise is higher than that predicted by economists, who forecast an increase to 7.7%.The Office for National Statistics reported that average earnings rose at the slowest rate since 2001, when records began. Excluding bonusues, incomes increased at a yearly rate of 2.5% in the quarter to June, less than the 2.6% in the quarter to May. Including bonuses, average earnings rose by 2.5%, a rise from the previous figure of 2.3%.Before the release of the figures, Business Secretary Peter Mandelson announced that UK stimulus plans had managed to save about half a million jobs in the country. "The Treasury estimates that there would have been at least, probably far in excess of, 500,000 more jobs lost in the recession had it not been for the government's and the Bank of England's intervention," he said to BBC Radio.New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg chastised U.S. President Barack Obama's leadership on Monday following the collapse of the Congressional super-committee designed to reduce the federal budget deficit. Though he also criticized Congress, Bloomberg focused his attacks on Obama, arguing "It's the chief executive's job to bring people together and to provide leadership. I don't see that happening." According to The Telegraph, the comments renew speculation that Bloomberg will mount an Independent run for president in 2012 against Obama, who is currently seeking re-election as a Democrat.Though he rarely involves himself in national politics, Bloomberg felt it necessary to discuss the failure of the twelve person super-committee, which Congress commissioned last summer at the president's urging as part of the debt-ceiling compromise.  The committee, which was supposed to find ways to reduce the budget deficit by $1.2 trillion in ten years, announced that no such agreement could be made.  Bloomberg accused Congress of "political cowardice" on the issue, but emphasized that "The executive branch must do more than submit a plan to a committee - and then step aside and hope the committee members take action. That's not how any CEO would run a business."White House communications director Dan Pfeiffer defended Obama, arguing that he completed his job by "put[ting] forward a detailed, balanced, $3 trillion deficit reduction plan [that] overwhelming majorities of Americans support." Pfeiffer blamed Republican lawmakers for the failure by "adhering to rigid ideological dogmas".Bloomberg has stated on numerous occasions that a "short, divorced, Jewish billionaire" such as himself, would not be a formidable presidential candidate. However, according to an NBC-Wall Street Journal poll, he would draw 13 percent support in a three way match-up with Obama and a Republican candidate.According to Democratic strategist Dan Gerstein, Bloomberg, who is in his final term as Mayor, "hasn’t quite figured out what his next act is, but the one thing he knows he wants is to stay relevant and continue cultivating his brand as the independent, sane, grown-up voice in American politics."Former New York City Mayor Ed Koch believes an Independent like Bloomberg has a "major chance" of being elected in 2012, and hopes he pursues this as his next act.Archipelago and Instinet are innovative e-trading (electronic trading) companies, and formerly were the two largest American rivals to NYSE and NASDAQ, in recent years taking increasingly large portions of their market share.  The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other regulatory agencies still have to review and approve the transactions, particularly with respect to US securities law and antitrust law, in order to ensure that the marketplace remains lawful and competitive.  Other pending issues for NASDAQ include obtaining the approval of Instinet shareholders, as well as customary closing conditions.  NYSE must obtain the approval of its members and Archipelago shareholders.These changes, a reaction to increased e-trading competition and a changed regulatory environment, will result in NASDAQ and NYSE trading each other's shares and attempting to grab market share, which many hope will drive down transaction costs and ultimately benefit consumers.  However, at least one commentator, Dan Ackman writing in Forbes, has noted that the trading commission at the NYSE currently averages less than a nickel (US$0.05) per share, and was less enthusiastic about potential efficiency gains from electronic trading at the exchange.The transactions are also intended to make the two leading American stock exchanges more globally competitive with such exchanges as the London Stock Exchange, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, the Toronto Stock Exchange, and the Australian Stock Exchange located in Sydney.Individual letters detailing Progressive Enterprises' latest pay offer have started arriving at locked-out supermarket worker's homes in a move which bypasses their unions.  The 500 distribution workers yesterday rejected the company's base 3 and a half percent pay increase, claiming it doesn't cover inflation. The company has couriered letters directly to the nearly 600 affected workers, saying it wants them to be fully informed. "We believe our offers of a wage increase are fair, reasonable, sustainable, and consistent with the retail industry where pay increases are in the 3 to 4 per cent range," Mr Hamnett said. "We wanted to make sure that after [the offer] went to the union, it went our employees."Strikers are now into their third week without pay in three cities, stocks in many supermarkets are running low. Unions are annoyed no progress has been made to secure a national collective agreement. The National Distribution Union says Progressive's latest offer fails to meet the pay parity workers from different sites are seeking.But the company's spokesperson, Marty Hamnett, says the offer is fair and reasonable, and he's waiting to hear what individual workers think of the offer, rather than the unions.The dispute involves 500 workers in Auckland, Christchurch and Palmerston North who went on strike on August 25 in a dispute over a single collective agreement and a pay rise. They were subsequently locked out on August 28.Today the New Zealand Finance Minister, Hon. Dr Michael Cullen,  presented the 2006 New Zealand Budget to the  House of Representatives. There is a NZ$8.5 billion OBERAC surplus and a NZ$1.5 billion cash surplus.It has been labelled as the "Bondi Budget"  by National leader Don Brash, "Helen Clark and Michael Cullen believe there is a place for tax cuts - it's called Australia" he said. The budget allocates new operating spending of $9.6 billion and capital of $2.7 billion over the next four years.Key issues in the budget includes:The Telecom New Zealand local loop unbundling (released earlier due to leak).$1.3 billion extra for transport.$3 billion  extra for health care, over the next four years.$361 million extra for schooling$166 million extra for tertiary education and skill training$162 million extra for early childhood educationO'Reilly Media is opening up editing of its books through Safari Books Online, the company's joint venture with the Pearson Technology Group.  The company is allowing ordinary people to buy access to manuscripts before they are finalized.Customers are given access to software to that allows them to make notes on the manuscripts, to expose errors, or make suggestions.The project is intended to improve the content, find technical errors and make sure that examples make sense and are relevant, rather than proofreading. The service is similar to the ordinary nightly builds of open source software projects.  The manuscripts will be updated as the author and editor make changes.A beta version of the service, named Rough Cuts, has four books available and O'Reilly intends to add up to eight more in the first quarter of 2006.Customers get an "evolving manuscript", a manuscript that hasn't "been fully edited, subjected to final technical review, or formatted for print."  The books will become available between two to six months prior to the intended publication date.A developer's recent glossy sales brochure hails the Coliseum Gardens housing development in East Oakland as the most comprehensive development to date for one of Oakland's largest nonprofit housing developers, but close scrutiny of the project reveals that only 4 out of the 178 low-income public housing families displaced by the development actually managed to return to the newly rebuilt housing complex that was recently christened as Lion Creek Crossings. Phase 1 of the 20 acre project at the Coliseum Gardens/Lion Creek Crossings mixed income housing development was completed in June of 2006, with phase 4 of the development expected to be completed by December 2008.  Documents reveal that as an effort to reduce violence and drug trafficking within and around the Coliseum and Lockwood communities of Oakland, the HOPE VI program enabled the Oakland Housing Authority (OHA) to use nearly $61 million in federal funding to displace Oakland's low-income communities from the above mentioned locations.  These projects are only a small part of what is known as the Oakland Coliseum Redevelopment Area, which is approximately 11 square miles in size, extending from 22nd Ave., all the way to the San Leandro City limits, and is located between E. 14th St., and the Oakland Estuary/Airport. The OHA's Board of Commissioners approved the selection of the East Bay Asian Local Development Corporation (EBALDC), the Related Companies of California (Related Companies), and Chambers General Construction as co-developers of the Coliseum Gardens public housing site during its board meeting on October 21, 2002. As partners in the development project, the OHA owns the land, and the developers own the buildings.As a result of the OHA approval, local nonprofit housing developer EBALDC and Related Companies, LLC., out of New York City, created Creekside Housing Partners, L.P., to take control of Oakland's public housing property at the Coliseum Gardens site.After the eviction of 178 families and the demolition of their 178 public housing units during 2004, Creekside Housing Partners (CHP) moved as quickly as possible to rebuild and finish off "phase 1," of their project. Phase 1 of the development is managed by Related Companies, the tenants pay their rents to the New York based firm, and during the past 6 months the developers have moved people into 115 newly rebuilt housing units at the development.Twima Early works at the management office of Related Companies located at Lion Creek Crossings and was eager to help shed some light on whats been going on at the newly privatized public housing site in East Oakland. In an October 18 interview, Twima Early said, "During the past 6 months, we have completed phase 1 of our project and moved people into 115 housing units at our new development. Out of the 178 families who were originally displaced by our project, the OHA sent us a list of 13 families who were eligible to move back into this location, and only 4 of those families actually moved into our new development." "It seemed odd that the Housing Authority would only allow 13 families to move back into this location, and I can't explain why so few were allowed to return," said Early.  When Randy Shaw of the Tenderloin Housing Clinic learned how few of the original public housing tenants that were actually allowed to move back into the Coliseum Gardens/Lion Creek housing development, he said, "The Hope VI program has once again proved to be the major cause of the displacement of low-income people. I've never heard of numbers so skewed before in regards to the displacement of families who were promised that the Hope VI project would be beneficial to them."Since 1994, Oakland officials and the Federal Government have targeted Oakland's poor with nearly $84 million in federal funding through the Hope VI program.The privatization of Oakland's public housing units have been occurring at a rapid pace. When wealthy billionaire Stephen M. Ross, CEO of Related Companies, teamed up with local nonprofit housing developer EBALDC to re-develop the Coliseum Gardens/Lion Creek housing complex, it became apparent that the developers made out much better than the displaced families did.   Carlos Castellanos of EBALDC is involved in the Coliseum Gardens/Lion Creek development, and when I asked how did this project benefit the families who used to reside there or how is the City of Oakland benefitting from the displacement of so many families, Castellanos said, "These are loaded questions and not something that I want to talk about. I think that a lot of those tenants did not really want to move back, and I think that you really need to talk to the Housing Authority to find out what happened to all of those families." Vivian Haine resided in a public housing unit near the Coliseum Gardens site, and said, "About a year ago, Kim Boyd the site manager where I resided at, told me that I'm lucky to be living here even if there is no money for repairs at this building, because they didn't have enough funding to finish off the project at Coliseum Gardens, and most of the evicted tenants had no where to go. I believe that many of the families displaced from the Coliseum Gardens development couldn't find any housing to move into and may have become homeless," Haine said. Records show that on June 24, 2006, the OHA's Board of Commissioners approved the use of market rate rents in its Project-Based Section 8 program at the Coliseum Gardens/Lion Creek development, to cover a $600,000 funding shortfall after the EBALDC/Related Companies claimed that they needed more money to complete phase 3 of the project. A Sept. 19, 2006, OHA memo mentions that EBALDC/Related Companies are co-developing the rental portion at Coliseum Gardens/Lion Creek Crossings site, which will include 157 units of public housing. The total number of rental units, including public housing, now planned is approximately 440 units, plus another 28 units of for-sale housing which are planned to be developed by Chambers Construction Company.  With the demolition of 178 public housing units by the developers, and only 157 public housing units being rebuilt at the Coliseum Gardens/Lion Creek Crossings housing site, theres been a net loss of 21 public housing units at this location.The OHA and City of Oakland continue to funnel millions of dollars to the EBALDC/Related Companies partnership, in an effort to privatize part of Oakland's public housing program in East Oakland.Since its inception, the Hope VI program has resulted in the demolition of more than 120,000 public housing units across the nation, only to be replaced by 40,000 mixed income units, and less than 12% of the displaced families have managed to gain entry back into the locations they were originally evicted from. In order to make way for the new housing projects being developed that resulted in the privatization of the nation's public housing properties, around 30% of the displaced families are given Section 8 vouchers, 49% are moved into other public housing units, and most of the rest of the tenants often end up losing their rental assistance.United States president-elect Barack Obama has announced Shaun Donovan as his choice for the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Donovan is currently New York City's housing commissioner.The announcement was made in Obama's weekly address, in which the president-elect discussed his reasons for selecting Donovan, and discussed the importance of what he announced will be his department."To stem the rising tide of foreclosures and strengthen our economy, I’ve asked my economic team to develop a bold plan that will dramatically increase the number of families who can stay in their homes," stated Obama in his address, adding "few will be more essential to this effort than the Department of Housing and Urban Development.""From providing shelter to those displaced by Katrina to giving help to those facing the loss of a home to revitalizing our cities and communities, HUD’s role has never been more important," continued Obama. "Since its founding, HUD has been dedicated to tearing down barriers in access to affordable housing -- in an effort to make America more equal and more just. Too often, these efforts have had mixed results."Following the above comments, Obama described why he selected Donovan.  "That is why we cannot keep doing things the old Washington way. We cannot keep throwing money at the problem, hoping for a different result. We need to approach the old challenge of affordable housing with new energy, new ideas, and a new, efficient style of leadership. We need to understand that the old ways of looking at our cities just won’t do... No one knows this better than the outstanding public servant I am announcing today as our next Secretary of Housing and Urban Development -- Shaun Donovan.""As Commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development in New York City, Shaun has led the effort to create the largest housing plan in the nation, helping hundreds of thousands of our citizens buy or rent their homes," continued Obama. "Prior to joining Mayor Bloomberg’s administration, Shaun worked both in business, where he was responsible for affordable housing investments, and at one of our nation’s top universities, where he researched and wrote about housing issues. "Donovan previously worked as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Multifamily Housing at HUD, and was acting FHA commissioner under the Clinton administration.Barack Obama, the US President, has announced a budget plan worth US$3.83 trillion for next year. The budget includes additional spending for job creation, but cuts for other areas. The president also forecast that the national debt would reach $1.56 trillion in 2010.Among the cuts proposed include scrapping the Constellation program, a plan to send astronauts to the Moon by 2020, and capping some domestic spending programmes for three years. Overall, the cuts are predicted to save $250 billion. There is also $100 billion in tax incentives aimed at hiring workers. US residents with incomes of over $250,000 per annum, however, would be given higher taxes, partially offsetting that.Other increases in the proposed budget include; $48 billion for veterans' medical care, or an increase of eight percent; $53 billion for homeland security; $310 million to shut down the Guantanamo Bay prison. He also suggested freezing spending for some federal programs and departments and programs for three years, exempting Medicare, Social Security, and national security.In order for the budget to take effect, Congress must approve it by the beginning of the fiscal year starting October 1.When introducing the budget, Obama stated that "we [...] continue to lay a new foundation for lasting growth. Just as it would be a terrible mistake to borrow against our children's future to pay our way today, it would be equally wrong to neglect their future by failing to invest in areas that will determine our economic success in this new century."At the White House, he also commented: "It's a budget that reflects the serious challenges facing the country. We're at war. Our economy has lost seven million jobs over the last two years. And our government is deeply in debt after what can only be described as a decade of profligacy [...] "It's very important to understand," the president said. "We won't be able to bring down this deficit overnight, given that the recovery is still taking hold and families across the country still need help."The budget plan reads: "These estimates do not reflect any policy decisions about specific military or intelligence operations, but are only intended to indicate that some as-yet-unknown costs are anticipated.""It will be impossible to bring the deficit down unless the economy is up. The budget the president is sending Congress today puts a priority on those objectives." The president blamed the previous George Bush administration for the financial difficulties, saying: "Over the course of the past 10 years, the previous administration and previous Congresses created an expensive new drug program, passed massive tax cuts for the wealthy and funded two wars without paying for any of it, all of which was compounded by recession and by rising health care costs. As a result, when I first walked through the door, the deficit stood at $1.3 trillion, with projected deficits of $8 trillion over the next decade.""It will be impossible to bring the deficit down unless the economy is up. The budget the president is sending Congress today puts a priority on those objectives. It keeps one eye on the economy and the other on the deficit," remarked Democrat Representative John Spratt from South Carolina.United States President Barack Obama unveiled his administration's 2010 United States federal budget on Thursday. The budget calls for a record US$3.6 trillion in spending.The new budget will use a $1.75 trillion deficit, which would be nearly four times greater than any previous deficit and is $250 billion larger than what was projected just days ago due to a proposed new spending for another bank bailout."We will, each and every one of us, have to compromise on certain things we care about but which we simply cannot afford right now," said President Obama. "What I won't do is sacrifice investments that will make America stronger, more competitive and more prosperous in the 21st century — investments that have been neglected for too long."House of Representatives minority leader John Boehner was critical of the budget. "We can't tax and spend our way to prosperity," he said. "The era of big government is back, and Democrats are asking you to pay for it.""Given the economic catastrophe that we face, to go right into the teeth of that hurricane and plan for some ambitious expansion of government that goes beyond the triage element is bold to say the least," Norman J. Ornstein, a political scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, told Reuters.$634 billion of the budget is "dedicated [to] financing reforms to our health care system," according to Obama. Analysts reporting for the BBC and Reuters both conclude that, if passed, it lays a ground-work for a form of universal health care.Barack Obama has set tougher emission targets in a White House speech. He said, the USA intends to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions "in the range of" 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83 percent by 2050. Obama will attend the Copenhagen international climate meeting next month, and is going to offer these figures as an official climate change policy.Obama has also set interim targets for better intermediate control. These are a 30% cut by 2025 and a 42% cut by 2030. But Obama's climate change speeches aren't going very far: Mr Obama is not planning to be present at the summit during the last days, when the world leaders might most possibly finally make a treaty to replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol.To compare, the European Union speaks about cutting its emissions by 20% cut by 2020 and 80% by 2050. But the starting point of the EU and of most of other nations is 1990, while Obama's numbers are in terms of 2005 emissions. The plans proposed by Obama are with a steeper end compared with EU, thus making a slower start.Emissions cuts targetsObservers say some accumulation effect can be caused by domestic policies, which take long to implement on a proper scale, but then give a faster emissions cut. Such policies can include improvements in vehicle fuel efficiency, industries-specific limitations, etc. The White House announcement also contains the list of US representatives at the Copenhagen conference:President Barack ObamaInterior Secretary Ken SalazarAgriculture Secretary Tom VilsackCommerce Secretary Gary LockeEnergy Secretary Steven ChuEnvironmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. JacksonCouncil on Environmental Quality Chair Nancy SutleyOffice of Science and Technology Policy Director John HoldrenAssistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol BrownerA schedule of US Center presence was made up for certain dates in December, so that the exact ways to achieve the cuts will be discussed.US president Barack Obama decided to arrive to Copenhagen climate change summit on December 18, contrasting with his previous plan to arrive on December 9.Obama's Nobel Peace Prize events take place in Oslo around December 1. He decided not to go to Copenhagen before them, delaying his arrival instead.The purpose of the summit is to finalize a treaty to succeed the 1997 Kyoto Protocol. Robert Gibbs, the White House official press secretary, commented, saying that presence of the USA president at later days might encourage more serious results:"The president believes that continued US leadership can be most productive through his participation at the end of the Copenhagen conference on December 18th rather than on December 9th. There are still outstanding issues that must be negotiated for an agreement to be reached, but this decision reflects the president's commitment to doing all that he can to pursue a positive outcome."Danish Prime Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen welcomed Mr Obama's move, saying that "President Obama's presence is an expression of the growing political momentum towards sealing an ambitious climate deal in Copenhagen."Greenpeace International's political climate coordinator Martin Kaiser also talked about the timetable plan change optimistically: "After a global outcry, President Obama has listened to the people and other world leaders; he has come to his senses and accepted the importance of this potentially historic meeting. Now that he has moved the date, he needs to move his targets and his financial contribution to be in line with what climate science demands."The decision of the President came after his talk with Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and British Prime Minister Gordon Brown. Some commentators say that the President could have felt the world leaders' optimistic approaches to the December forum, therefore deciding to delay his invigorative arrival to a more critical point.United States President Barack Obama announced on Tuesday that he is nominating Ben Bernanke for a second term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve, the central bank of the United States.Obama made the announcement during a brief break from his vacation at Martha's Vineyard in Massachusetts."The man next to me, Ben Bernanke, has led the Fed through one of the worst financial crises that this nation and the world has ever faced. As an expert on the causes of the Great Depression, I'm sure Ben never imagined that he would be part of a team responsible for preventing another. But because of his background, his temperament, his courage, and his creativity, that's exactly what he has helped to achieve. And that is why I am re-appointing him to another term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve," the President said."Ben approached a financial system on the verge of collapse with calm and wisdom; with bold action and outside-the-box thinking that has helped put the brakes on our economic freefall," Obama added."We have been bold or deliberate as circumstances demanded, but our objective remains constant: to restore a more stable economic and financial environment in which opportunity can again flourish, and in which Americans' hard work and creativity can receive their proper rewards," Ben Bernanke said while accepting the nomination.Ben Bernanke, who succeeded Alan Greenspan on February 1, 2006, will now face a Senate confirmation hearing."There will be a thorough and comprehensive confirmation hearing," said Senator Christopher Dodd, who is the chair of the Senate Banking Committee. "I expect many serious questions will be raised about the role of the Federal Reserve moving forward and what authorities it should and should not have.""I am extremely pleased to learn that Ben Bernanke has been nominated for a second term as chairman of the Federal Reserve," read a statement by Jean-Claude Trichet, the President of the European Central Bank. "We have had an excellent and very close working relationship during the current episode of exceptional challenges for the world economy. The Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank have, together with other central banks, initiated an unprecedented level of close cooperation, which has been key in coping with the present situation."United States President Barack Obama has signed a US$787 billion stimulus package, entitled the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009, into law on Tuesday at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science in Denver, Colorado. He called the bill "the most sweeping recovery package in our history" at a signing ceremony."I don't want to pretend that today marks the end of our economic problems, nor does it constitute all of what we're going to have to do to turn our economy around," Obama said at the ceremony, "but today does mark the beginning of the end — the beginning of what we need to do to create jobs for Americans scrambling in the wake of layoffs."The beginning of what we need to do to provide relief from families worried they won't be able to pay next month's bills. The beginning of the first steps to set our economy on a firmer foundation, paving the way to long-term growth and prosperity."Vice President Joe Biden praised the president on his work getting the bill passed. "Less than a month into his presidency, the president is about to sign into law what is, I believe, a landmark achievement," he said. "Because of what he did America can take a first very strong step leading us out of this very difficult road to recovery we find ourselves with. So, on behalf of our country and its people, Mr President, let me presume to say: thank you, we owe you a great deal." According to Obama, the package is intended to save or create up to three and a half million jobs, and increase rebuilding infrastructure and consumer spending. 34% of the package is devoted to tax cuts equalling $286 billion, and a further $120 billion will be used to fund infrastructure projects, such as road-building and transportation. 64% of the package will be allocated for money for social programs and spending.Most Republican lawmakers opposed the bill when it was voted upon in the Senate and the House last week. The House passed the bill without any Republican support, and only three Republicans voted for it in the Senate."Our nation is in recession, and responsible action is required to help our economy protect and create jobs, this isn't it," said John Boehner, the House Republican minority leader. "The flawed bill the President will sign today is a missed opportunity, one for which our children and grandchildren will pay a hefty price."Republican National Committee chairman Michael S. Steele said he was disappointed by what he thought was the president's lack of a bipartisan approach in passing the bill: "In these difficult economic times, it is imperative that Republicans and Democrats work together to create new jobs and grow the economy. Instead, Congressional Democrats worked behind closed doors to write legislation that will fall short of creating the promised new jobs, but will guarantee a larger debt burden on our children and grandchildren." US stock markets were lower today, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average losing 3.29% or 258.62 points at the end of the day to a level of 7,591.79.According to administration officials, US president Barack Obama is to announce a partial government spending freeze to try and lower the country's current US$1.4 trillion deficit in the 2011 budget.Obama is due to make the announcement tomorrow, in his State of the Union address. The budget cut would not include defence, homeland security, international affairs expenditures, or veterans affairs."We are in the midst of fighting a war and have security needs. We're going to fund those security needs as necessary," said an unnamed government official. "The savings from the three-year freeze will amount to $250bn over the next decade. The freeze, which would halt "non-security discretionary spending", is to carried out between 2011 and 2013, the official noted.Critics of the freeze said that the cuts, which are estimated to remove $10–$15 billion from the 2011 budget, wasn't sufficient.  "This is like announcing you're going on a diet after winning a pie-eating contest," said Michael Steel, a spokesman for  House of Representatives Republican leader John Boehner.  Government officials, however, said that the move would save $250 billion over the next decade.According to Democratic Senator Mark Begich from Alaska, the U.S. Department of the Interior has decided to halt all new Arctic exploratory oil drilling applications until 2011. The response is believed to be caused in part by the two current oil spill disasters (that of the Deepwater Horizon Incident and more recently the Alaska oil pipeline malfunction). However, Begich is not happy about the actions taken by the White House. "I am frustrated that this decision by the Obama administration to halt offshore development for a year will cause more delays and higher costs for domestic oil and gas production to meet the nation's energy needs," Begich claims.Last September, the state of Alaska made a public notice about Shell's desire to drill off the coast of the Beaufort Sea, placing experimental drilling rigs at two drill site location: "Torpedo" and "Sivulliq"."Shell is committed to undertaking a safe and environmentally responsible exploration program in the Chukchi Sea and Beaufort Sea in 2010," said Shell Oil Company President Marvin E. Odum to the U.S. Department of the Interior's Mineral Management Service (MMS).Odum follows with, "I am confident that we are ready to conduct the 2010 Arctic exploratory program safely and, I want to be clear, the accountability for this program rests with Shell."Chuck Clausen, director of the Alaska project at the Natural Resources Defense Council is not so optimistic: "Hazards present in the Arctic can include frigid temperatures, presence of sea ice, gale-force winds, intense storms and heavy fog ... The potential for loss in the Arctic is great."Odum believes that the climate in the arctic will make any spill easier to clean up because, "Arctic conditions create differences in responding to oil in cold and ice conditions.  Differences in evaporation rates, viscosity and weathering provide greater opportunities to recover oil.  In Arctic conditions, ice can aid oil spill response by slowing oil weathering, dampening waves, preventing oil from spreading over large distances, and allowing more time to respond."However, Clausen believes that there are no current systems to remove oil from icy ocean waters. This is not the first time that President Obama's administration has taken the environmentally cautious path in Alaska.  The President put Bristol Bay off limits to oil and gas exploration until 2017. Bristol Bay currently is one of the top salmon fishing grounds in the state.Interior Secretary Ken Salazar is expected to give a speech at Thursday's White House address, regarding the suspension of Arctic oil drilling projects.After 100 days in office, United States president Barack Obama gave a speech on Wednesday, speaking about the swine influenza outbreak and the struggling economy, both described by the Los Angles Times as "two wars."  He used a prime time television slot to showcase his message throughout the United States.During his speech, he said, "If you could tell me right now when I walked into this office... that all you had to worry about was Iraq, Afghanistan, North Korea, getting healthcare passed, figuring out how to deal with energy independence, deal with Iran and a pandemic flu, I would take that deal. I would love a nice, lean portfolio to deal with, but that's not the hand that's been dealt us."Obama also said the economy was not the only problem. There are threats to the country including "...terrorism to nuclear proliferation to pandemic flu."Regarding the swine influenza outbreak, he said that the U.S./Mexico border will not be closed because closing the border does not fix any problems, claiming that this method did not work in the past. Instead, he said that the best method for preventing the spread of the flu is hand washing, covering one's mouth while coughing, and staying home when one feels sick. The Los Angeles Times described Obama "more like school nurse in chief than commander in chief."On the topic of waterboarding, Obama said, "I do believe that it is torture."Timothy F. Geithner, Barack Obama's nominee for Secretary of the Treasury, had his confirmation hearing on Thursday in the United States Senate. If confirmed he will succeed Henry Paulson in this position, which is analogous to the finance minister in other nations.During Geithner's testimony in the Senate, he said that the Obama administration believes China is "manipulating" its currency. The New York Times says this suggests a confrontational stance toward China on trade issues."President Obama backed by the conclusions of a broad range of economists believes that China is manipulating its currency," Geithner said in his written responses to the Senate.In his spoken response, Geithner said he would "use aggressively all diplomatic avenues open to him to seek change in China's currency practices.""The signal this sends is not good [for China-US relations]", said Charles W. Freeman, a fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies and former head trade negotiator for China at the Office of the United States Trade Representative. "It opens a Pandora’s box. We need the Chinese to hold onto their Treasury and agency debt."China "will be more than annoyed — they don’t like being singled out, and they don’t like countries explicitly criticizing them for the way they run their economy," said Nicholas Lardy of the Peterson Institute for International Economics.Bloomberg L.P. said that US treasury securities dropped in value following Geithner's statements."It has to be done very carefully," said Frank Vargo, VP at the National Association of Manufacturers. "You know the world has changed a lot with the financial crisis and China has a lot in U.S. Treasuries. This needs to be done in a cooperative, not a confrontational, way.""But...we all know the Chinese currency is deliberately undervalued," Vargo added.Geithner was also questioned about taxes he failed to pay on income earned while working for the International Monetary Fund. However, this issue was largely forgiven by the senators.Senator Orrin Hatch said he was certain Geithner was "a person of great integrity, even though he’s made these mistakes."Senator John Cornyn said he was "willing to give Mr. Geithner the benefit of the doubt" on his tax mistakes.Senator Jon Kyl was not as forgiving on the tax issue. "He [Geithner] has not been as candid with me or the committee as I think he should have been," Kyl said.US law requires the Treasury to list countries that manipulate their currency. Former Secretary Paulson cited the 21% appreciation of the yuan since July 2005 as evidence that China was not manipulating the exchange rate, and kept China off the list.In his first annual State of the Union address Wednesday night, United States President Barack Obama urged Americans to overcome a deficit of trust in government and work together to solve a damaged economy and other problems.Obama acknowledged that many Americans are frustrated and angry, doubting whether he can deliver the change he promised in his 2008 campaign. But he said change is not easy, and he will continue to pursue it. "We do not quit. I do not quit. Let us seize this moment-to start anew, to carry the dream forward, and to strengthen our union once more," he said.In his hour-long speech before both houses of the United States Congress, the president several times confronted the public anger that has caused his approval ratings to slide. "We have to recognize that we face more than a deficit of dollars right now. We face a deficit of trust-deep and corrosive doubts about how Washington works that have been growing for years," he said.Much of Americans' frustration concerns the nation's stubborn 10-percent unemployment rate. Obama called for a number of initiatives to address the problem and urged the Senate to join the House of Representatives in passing a second jobs bill. "People are out of work. They are hurting. They need our help. And, I want a jobs bill on my desk without delay," he said.Among the president's economic goals are doubling U.S. exports in five years and freezing most domestic government spending for three years, starting in 2011. Obama also called upon lawmakers to continue earmark reform, saying, "Tonight, I'm calling on Congress to publish all earmark requests on a single Web site before there's a vote, so that the American people can see how their money is being spent."Obama urged Democratic lawmakers not to abandon the effort to reform the U.S. health care system, one of his administration's main priorities. "Do not walk away from reform. Not now. Not when we are so close. Let us find a way to come together and finish the job for the American people," he said.He called on both Democrats and Republicans to overcome their bitter partisan divisions and work together to pass legislation to solve problems. "What frustrates the American people is a Washington where every day is Election Day," he said. "We cannot wage a perpetual campaign where the only goal is to see who can get the most embarrassing headlines about the other side.  A belief 'if you lose, I win.'"On foreign policy, President Obama again pledged to remove all U.S. combat troops from Iraq by the end of August. "But make no mistake: this war is ending, and all of our troops are coming home," Obama said.He also said he is confident the United States will succeed in the war in Afghanistan and that diplomatic efforts are helping isolate Iran and North Korea for their pursuit of nuclear weapons. He also addressed critics of his foreign policy agenda, such as former Vice President Dick Cheney saying, "Let's put aside the schoolyard taunts about who is tough. Let's reject the false choice between protecting our people and upholding our values." Another plan announced by Obama is to end the U.S. military's controversial "don't ask, don't tell" policy on sexual orientation of service members that has existed since the Clinton administration saying, "This year, I will work with Congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies gay Americans the right to serve the country they love because of who they are." He added, "It's the right thing to do."Obama also addressed the recent ruling by the Supreme Court of the United States in Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission saying, "With all due deference to separation of powers, last week the Supreme Court reversed a century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests – including foreign corporations – to spend without limit in our elections." In a break of decorum, Associate Justice Samuel Alito appeared to mouth the words, "No, not true", in response, according to many commentators.File:Bob-McDonnell sm.jpgThe Republican Party's response to the president's speech came from the governor of the state of Virginia, Bob McDonnell. McDonnell gave the speech from the chamber of the Virginia House of Delegates. He said Democrats are spending too much and causing an unsustainable level of debt. The newly inaugurated governor said, "What government should not do is pile on more taxation, regulation and litigation that kill jobs and hurt the middle class."He also said Americans want affordable health care, but do not want the government to run it.McDonnell also criticized the Obama administration's handling of the suspect accused of trying to blow up Northwest Airlines Flight 253 on Christmas Day. He said he does not agree with the decision to try the Nigerian suspect, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab in the Detroit airliner plot in a U.S. civilian court.McDonnell is one of several Republicans who have recently won elections in states which the Democrats swept in 2008.Following the announcement this week by U.S. President Barack Obama that he supports the legalisation of marriage for same-sex partners, the Obama campaign claims to have received an increase in donations and support from lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) supporters.Financial support for Democratic politicians by LGBT groups had fallen to the lowest rate in 16 years, with only $590,000 raised so far in the election cycle. A June fundraising event planned in Los Angeles and focused on the LGBT community is likely to sell out and Obama's campaign team is seeking to expand the event. Chad Griffin, the incoming head of LGBT campaigning group the Human Rights Campaign, said that the President's statement on marriage "will further energize an already excited base". Obama supporter and Silicon Valley entrepreneur Wade Randlett said that the announcement "reminds people of the Obama they worked hard for in 2007, 2008. Someone who takes strong, bold stands".The sex advice columnist Dan Savage wrote on Twitter: "Gay people better get out there and support the president. If he loses in November, we'll be blamed."Opponents of same-sex marriage have also used the President's statement on the issue to raise money: the National Organization for Marriage (NOM) have run a three-day long "money bomb" fundraiser this week which raised $20,000. NOM plan to increase the amount spent on supporting candidates in federal elections this year.Lebanon's transportation minster said that the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed into the Mediterranean Sea on Monday didn't follow the directions suggested by the air traffic control tower after departing from Beirut in a thunderstorm. He said that the aircraft turned opposite the heading indicated by controllers.All ninety people aboard Flight ET409, which was headed to Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, were feared dead. The jet reportedly went down in fire at around 02.30 local time, disappearing from radar screens after leaving the airport."They asked him to correct his path but he did a very fast and strange turn before disappearing completely from the radar," commented Transportation Minister Ghazi Aridi. He added: "Nobody is saying the pilot is to blame for not heeding orders. There could have been many reasons for what happened. [...] Only the black box can tell."Defence Minister Elias Murr also commented that the plane didn't follow instructions upon takeoff. "A command tower recording shows the tower told the pilot to turn to avoid the storm, but the plane went in the opposite direction. We do not know what happened or whether it was beyond the pilot's control."Ethiopian Airlines' CEO, Girma Wake, however, countered Aridi's comments, saying that it is too soon to draw any conclusions. "Rushing remarks, I don't think that helps anybody," he said in the Ethiopian capital.Lebanese officials, meanwhile, have ruled out foul play as being the cause of the aircraft's crashing. The Associated Press quoted Ethiopian Airlines as saying that the pilot in control of the downed plane had twenty years of experience, although it did not disclose his name.According to an unnamed aviation analyst, Lebanon controllers were directing the Ethiopian flight for the first two to three minutes of the flight due to the thunderstorms, and noted that this was standard procedure during inclement weather.US-based airline pilot Patrick Smith remarked that the plane could have crashed for many reasons. "Had the plane encountered extreme turbulence, or had it suffered a powerful lightning strike that knocked out instruments while penetrating strong turbulence, then structural failure or loss of control, followed by an in-flight breakup, are possible causes."The British oil company BP has said it will pay the cleanup costs from a severe oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.In a statement on its website posted earlier today, BP pledged to take responsibility for cleaning up after the Deepwater Horizon oil well ruptured, adding it would pay what it called "legitimate and objectively verifiable" compensation for claims of damage or injury."We are responsible, not for the accident, but we are responsible for the oil and for dealing with it and cleaning the situation up," said BP chief executive Tony Hayward on the TV show Good Morning America, claiming the company was not at fault for the collapse of the oil rig itself, whose equipment was provided by another company, Transocean.Transocean spokesman Guy Cantwell responded by saying: "We will await all the facts before drawing conclusions and we will not speculate."The Deepwater Horizon exploded on April 20 and killed eleven workers. The cause of the disaster is not known.The price for a barrel of oil dropped after news broke that Al Qaeda's leader in Iraq Abu Musab al-Zarqawi had been killed in a US airstrike Thursday. The death of al-Zarqawi seems to have been interpreted by the market as good news for the future supply of oil from the region.This is against the backdrop in 2006 when the price of oil had reached a record high of $70 a barrel.Today on the New York Mercantile Exchange light crude futures for July dropped from over $70 a barrel to a low of $69.54 before rising to $69.63 for a $1.19 loss. "There's less of a terror threat in Iraq now," said Naohiro Niimura, vice president of energy derivatives at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd, in Tokyo, who gave his reason for the fall.Iraq lies over one-third of known oil reserves but since the Iraq war in 2003 has been unable to pump more than 2 million barrels a day - 1 million less than prior to the coalition invasion. In May exports were said to be 1.5 million bpd.The line on a graph that plotted oil price had done a steady incline over recent years, though many factors are involved in the price of a barrel of oil so it is almost impossible to say how much the troubles in Iraq contributed to this rise. Iraq's exports make up the largest proportion of its Gross Domestic Product and a significant proportion of world supply. Investors were said to have been worried about developing in the country citing lack of security and legal protection.Al-Zarqawi, known for videotaped beheadings, suicide bombing campaigns against coalition forces and civilians and reportedly some attacks on oil infrastructure inside Iraq, had claimed responsibility for bombing three hotels in Amman, Jordan. It was hoped the death of Osama bin Laden's operative in Iraq would remove a man who had opposed the US-backed Shiite-led state and western influence in the wider-region. The Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri Maliki's recent appointment of new security and home affairs ministers also may have affected the oil market. Director general of marketing and economics at the Iraqi oil ministry said both pieces of news together were "a positive indicator for security," said Shamkhi Faraj. Other voices sounded a note of caution against the optimism: "The situation in Iraq has now become so chaotic, that it transcends the death of one man, influential as al-Zarqawi was," said Edward Meir.The analyst at Man Financial believes the threat to the Iraqi oil industry is political as well as physical."Yes, al Qaeda attacked oil installations but they were not the only actors and they were not the main actors," he said. "There is also a new factor -- political parties that are using threats against oil to gain leverage."In an announcement about oil, Thursday, Deputy Prime Minister Barham Salih of the Iraqi government said it hoped to produce 4.3 million bpd in four years.The explosion of an oil pipeline in San Martín Texmelucan de Labastida in central Mexico has killed at least 27 individuals and injured 56 others. Twelve of the dead are children. Over 100 homes were damaged and at least 30 of them were destroyed. The explosion had an estimated blast radius of three miles.Describing exploding gas tanks that flew through the air, Carlos Hipolito, who fled the scene with approximately 60 relatives, described the incident to Milenio Television as a "catastrophe". Living ten blocks from where the explosion occurred, 58-year-old Jose Luis Chavez explained that he had heard a minimum of two loud explosions and witnessed flames rising over 10 meters (30 feet) into the air.It is thought that at the Petróleos Mexicanos (Pemex) pumping station where the incident occurred, a gang of criminals were attempting to illegally tap crude oil from the pipeline when they punctured it. Valentin Meneses, Puebla state interior secretary, stated: "They lost control because of the high pressure with which the fuel exits the pipeline."Pemex has explained that the theft of oil from the pipelines causes them to lose hundreds of millions of dollars every year. Juan José Suárez Coppel, the head of the company, stated that the pipeline section near to the location of the blast was tapped illegally on 60 occasions. He also reported that across Mexico, 550 cases of illegal tapping had occurred.Expressing his condolences to the families of those that had died because of this incident, Mexican president Felipe Calderon stated that the federal government is to launch an investigation to try to establish the identities of the offenders and apprehend them.Crude oil prices fell by $0.32, to $63.95 a barrel, after a report showed lower than expected losses in oil supplies due to Hurricane Katrina.According to a report published by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), crude oil stocks declined by 6.5 million, to 315 million barrels. The department also announced that 57% of the production capacity in the Gulf of Mexico is still down, versus 97% the day after the storm.The DOE said it expected that production would not return to normal until December.Yesterday, economists warned that one of the impacts of Katrina on the US economy would be a reduction in the number of jobs by up to 400,000. They also said the country's GDP, in the second half of 2005, could be 1% less than expected, due to the surge in oil prices.The Executive Director of the International Energy Agency (IEA), Claude Mandil, announced a collective action by members of the 26 nation agency. An agreement was reached to supply an additional 60 million barrels to the market over the next 30 days. The biggest contribution of total response comes from North America (52%), then by Europe (30%), and finally the Pacific region (18%). The share of these increases is based upon of the consumption from each of the IEA member areas.Oil, natural gas, and gasoline futures prices are all rising in anticipation of the Hurricane Rita landfall on Friday.  The market price for crude oil is rising about 1% a day, while gasoline futures rose 5% both Wednesday and Thursday.  Natural gas prices are also rising, with NYMEX Henry Hub price index showing an increase of over 3.5% on Thursday.  Oil refineries in the path of the storm, despite the pressure exerted by rising oil prices, are expected to increase their prices which in turn will be reflected at the pump.The price for crude oil is expected to reach US$68 a barrel after reaching the all-time high in the U.S. at $70.85 on Aug 30, in fear of the landing of Rita along the U.S. Gulf Coast. Along the Texas gulf coastline, whose key U.S. oil production facilities were largely untouched by the catastrophic Hurricane Katrina onslaught three weeks ago, production and distribution facilities have been battened down.Rita was downgraded to a Category 3 storm Friday as it neared the coast. The storm, packing sustained winds of 125 mph, appears headed for the border between Texas and Louisiana. Hurricane force winds extend up to 60 miles from the center, according to the National Hurricane Center. The storm, currently, is the third-most intense hurricane ever recorded in the Atlantic, just behind Gilbert in 1988 and the 1935 Labor Day hurricane. Regions of Texas near where the storm is expected to land is home to the biggest concentration of U.S. oil refineries, accounting for 26 percent of the nation's total capacity. After Katrina made its landfall in Louisiana last month, four damaged refineries in Mississippi and Louisiana were shut down, crippling 5 percent of the US capacity. Eighteen of the 26 refineries in Texas are located on the Gulf of Mexico with a combined distillation capacity of 4 million barrels daily.The National Weather Service has issued a flood watch for the Texas coastline, including Galveston, where the nation's largest oil refinery belonging to Exxon Mobil Corp. is located."Some of those refineries in Texas, they're at sea level. It's a table top, it floods very easily, said Ed Silliere, vice president of risk management at Energy Merchant LLC in New York. Plants have shut down as Rita advances. Shell Oil shut down its seventh-largest refinery in Deer Park, Texas. There is no date set for resuming production. Conoco Philips is shutting its Old Ocean, Texas, refinery. BP is pulling some workers from its Texas refinery and shutting parts of the fourth largest plants in US. Valero, the largest U.S. refiner, said it is closing its plants in Texas City and Houston, with the shutdown to be completed by midday Thursday.The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) agreed at its meeting in Vienna on Tuesday to effectively suspend its quota system for the first time since 1991 Gulf War to relieve the rising oil price by pumping an estimated additional 2 million barrels of oil a day, which will begin at Oct 1 and last for 3 months.The head of the U.S. Energy Information Administration (the statistical and analytical wing of the U.S. Department of Energy), Guy Caruso, criticized OPEC for constraining production to keep prices high after the 11-member oil cartel pledged to make available the additional 2 million barrels daily."Without question," Caruso said Wednesday when asked during a Senate Commerce Committee hearing whether OPEC has contributed to soaring oil prices, "OPEC policy has been to constrain production and collude... Under the FTC definition of collusion and price-fixing, yes." According to OPEC, 62 percent in U.K., and 24 percent of fuel prices in the U.S. consist of taxes. Consuming nations have a responsibility to invest in refineries and to lower taxes if they want lower fuel prices, OPEC President Sheikh Ahmad Fahd al-Sabah said. He is the oil minister of Kuwait.At US$135 a barrel, the price of oil today reached a new high. BBC News has reported that this recent increase is due to figures showing a large decrease in the US petroleum supply.However, as of 20:00 UTC prices have fallen nearly two percent since yesterday and are back below $131. Over half of oil executives believe that the price will fall to US$100 a barrel toward the end of the year according to an  Associated Press report.The U.S. average retail price for regular gasoline also recently increased to a new all-time high, with the price going up 6.9 cents to 379.1 cents per gallon. This was the eighth consecutive week for the US average price to increase.Air France-KLM recently said that they would be challenged by the rising oil price. American Airlines has announced thousands of job cuts.In addition, the U.S. has seen the cost of food rise significantly, an issue which food manufacturers and retail stores blame on the high price of fuel required for transportation. For example, CNN.com reports a 16.7% increase in the cost of hamburger buns, a staple item for many U.S. families.Crude oil rose to an all-time high during trading in Asia to close at US$86.13 a barrel, up $2.44. The price of Brent Crude futures was at $84.40 at 6:39 a.m.. Crude stock futures at 6:08 a.m. (eastern time in the United States were trading at $87.52, nearing $90.00 a barrel.The spike is being blamed on fears that Turkey is going to attack Iraqi Kurdish Militants of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) after they killed 13 Turkish soldiers on October 7. On Monday, the Turkish military asked Parliament for permission to lead a mission into Iraq to hunt down militants.There are at least 60,000 Turkish troops along the Iraq-Turkey border.Investors are rushing to fund new ventures in renewable energy as Americans continue to see rising gasoline prices at the pump. The price for crude oil continues to rise to new record highs ($75 per barrel of crude oil on NYMEX as of Friday's close). According to the results of a survey reported by the San Francisco Gate, in the 1st Quarter of 2006 investments in the clean technology sector has increased by 13% to $3.36 Billion in the US. In addition to attracting venture capital, clean technology companies are receiving a buzz from high profile investors.Bill Gates, Founder of Microsoft, announced last week that his venture group (Cascade Investments) initiated the purchase of 25.5% ownership in Pacific Ethanol Inc. Pacific Ethanol is an ethanol production company that plans to expand operations by opening a new facility in California. Gates is not alone in high profile investments into the clean energy market, Bob Metcalfe (Founder of 3COM and Inventor of Ethernet), who acts as the managing partner of Polaris Ventures, announced the VC's first investment into the energy market. Polaris, which manages over $3 Billion in funds, invested $6.8 million into GreenFuel Technologies Corporation of Cambridge, MA. GreenFuel Technologies is an emissions to biofuels company, that utilizes natural algae in their patented bioreactors to turn greenhouse gas emissions from power plants into rich bio fuel. Polaris's investment into GreenFuel was part of the company's $18 Million Series B financing round that also included a high profile venture capital investor: Draper Fisher Jurvetson. When asked about the new industry venture, Bob Metcalfe said, "Energy has got to be one of the top five problems the world faces, and it's been frustrating to watch activists and politicians fail to solve the problem,...Now it's time for the entrepreneurs and scientists to give it a try." According to the International Energy Association, demand for renewable energy fuels will more than quadruple in the next decade. The current jump in oil prices is fueling investment into this relatively new market as investors view clean technology as an emerging opportunity rather than a public relations campaign. As gasoline prices continue to rise, alternative fuels become respectively cheaper and more attractive. In his latest State of the Union Address, President Bush outlined a plan to direct new investment into ethanol production and other clean technologies. According to a poll conducted by CBS News, Americans now see gas prices as one of their top three main concerns. With pressure coming from constituents, politicians are beginning to exert pressure on new spending on renewable technology to promote energy independence. Yet another front in this debate is that of environmental concern. With global warming on the rise, and many European governments eagerly searching for a Carbon Dioxide solution, the promise of reducing these emissions by 46% (as claimed by GreenFuel's bio reactor system) begins to resonate as a promising environmental and business opportunity.International oil prices sank on Thursday as investors worried that a looming global recession will lower demand.Crude oil for future delivery fell to below US$71 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, its lowest price in more than a year. In London, Brent crude oil for November dropped below $66 a barrel.Oil prices have dropped more than 50 percent since hitting a record high of $147 a barrel in July. A report released today showed an unexpected increase in inventories. Analysts expected only a 1.9 million barrel increase last week, but the actual amount was 5.6 million barrelsThe Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) cut its estimate for crude oil demand next year in a report released Wednesday. OPEC, which was planning on having an emergency meeting next month on the issue of lower oil prices, pushed forward the meeting to next week. The cartel is expected to cut production by 500,000 barrels a day, in a bid to boost oil prices. Saudi Arabia, which initially did not support the cut a few weeks ago, now supports such a move.Some Asian governments are under pressure to reduce domestic fuel prices in light of the decline of the price of oil. In China, some drivers are paying more for gas than drivers in the United States, which last occurred several years ago. India, China, and Indonesia appear to be to content to keep the price at the same level; however, some other Asian governments have lowered the price already. Malaysia and Vietnam have cut prices and are expected to do the same if oil drops some more.The International Energy Agency announced that its member states will release 60 million oil barrels from their strategic reserves next month. "All 26 member countries will take collective action", said the agency in its statement. The announcement was in response to the crude price surge after disruption of oil supply in the Gulf of Mexico caused by Hurricane Katrina.Earlier today Javier Solana, chief of the European Union's foreign policy, said the EU can provide the US with reserves of the member states. Also OPEC is considering taking action.  The United States and Japan already plan to release oil from their reserve stocks.Oil prices fell slightly today, following the IEA statement, as expected. US light crude fell US$1.57 to US$67.90 a barrel.Oil has risen to a new all-time record high during trading in Asia, passing US$91.10 at 10:23 p.m. on October 25 (eastern time).In electronic trading at the NYMEX Crude Futures in the United States touched a record price of, at US$92.22, according to Bloomberg, setting another record all-time high. On the IntercontinentalExchange Brent Crude futures reached US$89.30 (basis December) as of 8:34 a.m..NYMEX Crude closed at $91.86, while ICE Brent closed at $88.69, at the conclusion of Friday's trading.The raise come when the United States announced that it had an "unexpected loss" in the nation's stockpile of oil. The fear that Turkey may launch a large scale attack on Kurdish Militants inside Iraq is also being blamed for the raise in prices and the U.S. imposed more sanctions on Iran for continuing to enrich uranium.Australia's Commonwealth Banks states that the raise is "being supported by an increase in geopolitical tensions and also market developments. The US has announced that it is imposing new sanctions on Iran, Oil markets also continued to have an eye on developments related to the current tensions between Turkey and Kurd rebels in Iraq."OPEC has agreed that by November 1, 2007, they will increase the amount of barrels of oil they produce by 500,000 barrels a day. The U.S. says that they would like that number increased.Oil prices attained a six-month high on Friday, on new signs that the U.S. economy may not be contracting as fast as was believed.U.S. crude oil prices reached US$66.47 a barrel, a level not seen since last November. Brent North Sea crude oil was up $1.13 to $65.52 at the end of the week, after peaking at $65.70, also the highest level since November.This comes soon after a report released by the U.S. Commerce Department showed that the U.S. GDP fell by 5.7%, revised from the original figure of 6.1%.Analysts predict that oil prices will continue to rise amid more positive economic news, especially from economic giants such as India and Japan."Oil market participants' conclusion that the worst of the recession has passed and that a recovery in demand must be at hand was bolstered overnight by higher than expected first quarter growth in India and a sharp jump in Japan's April industrial production," said MF Globa's John Kilduff."We've got a lot more optimism about the economic outlook than we did. The market is factoring in a recovery in demand by the end of the year," said an analyst for the Commodity Warrants Australia, Toby Hassall.Oil prices rose dramatically on Monday after a major Alaskan oil field shut down operations, halving the total output of oil from Alaska. Coming on top of the ongoing violence in the Middle East, the price of Light, sweet crude for September delivery rose by $1.23 to US$75.99 a barrel in early afternoon Asian trading at the New York Mercantile Exchange.London brent crude peaked at $77.73/barrael.The shutdown of the Prudhoe Bay oil field "caught traders by surprise", says Victor Shum, an energy analyst in Singapore. "The Middle East violence is a threat to the oil supply, but Alaska is a real disruption".The oil field began shutdown procedures on Sunday due to severe corrosion and a minor leakage from an oil transit line. The total shutdown process is expected to take a few more days. BP Exploration Alaska, Inc, the company running the field, has said that oil production will be reduced by 400,000 barrels per day, or nearly 8% of the total U.S. oil production.BP officials do not know how long the field will stay offline.Crude oil prices surged to a new record of over $75.00 a barrel on Tuesday closing at a price of $75.17. In Europe, Brent crude oil] rose to $74.59. In less than a month, prices have risen $10, back to the record highs set after Hurricane Katrina caused refineries to shut down in August 2005. Prices are also 42% higher than a year ago.Political instability in oil-producing countries is seen as a major cause of this rise. The standoff over Iran's nuclear program has led to strong words being exchanged and a possibility of sanctions being imposed on Iran, the world's fourth largest producer of oil. Violence in Nigeria earlier this year has led to a drop the country's production by almost a quarter.  Nigeria is Africa's largest oil exporter and is also a major supplier of gasoline-rich crude oil to the United States, where demand is set to increase as the "driving season" begins next month. Edmund Daukoru, the president of OPEC and Nigerian oil minister said on Tuesday, "The current shoot up we are experiencing is as a result of the Iran problems and it's not helped by the flare up between Israel and the Palestinians. But mainly it's the threatening statements being made against Iran as a result of its nuclear program."800 miles of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline System were closed down following a spill of thousands of barrels of crude oil south of Fairbanks, Alaska. A power failure following a routine fire-command system test caused relief valves to open and crude oil overflowed near the Fort Greely pump station 9.  The valves opening allowed a pressure release for the system and oil flowed on a pad to a tank that can hold 55,000 barrels (2.3 million gallons).  As of Wednesday afternoon, the tank vents were still leaking probably from thermal expansion inside the tank. Another secondary containment area below the tanks capable of holding 104,500 barrels was not yet filled to capacity. The spill coordinator for the Department of Environmental Conservation, Tom DeRuter, said that the oil spill contamination should be confined to the graveled oil containment liner.  "Safety is their No. 1 objective right now.  As soon as it is safe to move in, then they'll get the power on and try to empty that tank out. As long as everything is in that liner, it gives us time," DeRuter explained.40 people had been evacuated from the Fort Greely site, and the Prudhoe Bay station has been reduced by 84%.  "We're going to take as long as we need to make sure the site is safe before we start back up," said Alyeska Pipeline Service Company spokesperson Michele Egan.  There is capacity in reserve tanks for 48 hours during this slow down of production.About 650,000 barrels per day run through the Trans-Alaska Pipeline between Prudhoe Bay to the Port of Valdez oil tankers.  The majority of shares in Alyeska are held by BP Exploration, Alaska (BPXA) which is also currently addressing the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico.BP addressed a 267,000 gallon crude oil spill in Prudhoe Bay, Alaska in 2006 resulting in a lawsuit against BP Exploration.A fierce storm on Sunday resulted in massive 18-foot waves, which split a Russian oil tanker in two and sank two Russian freighters nearby. The tanker spilled at least 560,000 gallons of fuel into a strait which leads to the Black Sea, and officials say it may take years to clean up. The tankers sank in the Strait of Kerch, which links the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov in the northeast. The two ships were carrying a total of around 7,150 tons of sulfur, according to Sergei Petrov, Russia's Ministry of Emergency Situations regional spokesperson.The tanker was carrying nearly 1.3 million gallons of fuel oil, and was stranded several miles from shore. Emergency workers were prevented from collecting the spilled oil immediately due to stormy weather; the head of the state environmental safety watchdog Rosprorodnadzor, Oleg Mitvol, said "there is serious concern that the spill will continue". Workers eventually managed to begin work on cleaning up the spill, an effort which may be long-term. Tar-like sands laden with oil and seaweed were piled on the shore, while oil-covered birds in slick-covered water tried to flap their wings. Regional coast guard officer Anatoly Yanhuck said once weather improves they will begin pumping oil from the tanker, then tow the ship to port.Two fuel-loaded barges and Turkish freighter Ziya Kos also ran aground in the area, but there was no further environmental damage, said Petrov. Ten ships altogether were sunk or run aground in the area of the Black Sea near the Straight of Kerch and the Straight itself; a Russian freighter carrying metal was also reported as having sunk near the port of Sevastopol on Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula. One of the sulfur-carrying freighters reported three crew members as drowned, and five more as missing, while two members of the sunk freighter carrying metal were reported as drowned and another remains missing.  The oil tanker's 13 crew members were all rescued safely, and all members of the second freighter were also reported as safe. Captains had been warned Saturday morning of the stormy conditions, regional prosecutor Maxim Stepanenko told Russia's Vesti 24. The oil tanker was not built to withstand fierce storms, having been designed to transport oil on rivers during Soviet times, he said. Chemist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Ocean Service office of response and restoration, Jim Farr said the sulfur spill from the two freighters wouldn't create a "hazardous situation", a statement backed up by Alexei Zhukovin, expert with the Emergency Situations Ministry's branch in Southern Russia.  Although on land sulfur is used as a fungicide, in a marine setting it wouldn't act as one, said Farr; instead a sulfur spill can be compared to dumping sand on a reef and smothering it, or placing a blanket on a bed of grass. Long-term effects are more difficult to speculate on, however, without better knowledge of the area and its currents. Oleg Mitvol said that although the sulfur spill doesn't present an environmental danger, the two freighters might also leak fuel oil from their tanks, adding to the pollution.Russia, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Georgia, and Ukraine all border on the Black Sea.The two ships involved in the collision were the oil tanker MT Bunga Kelana 3 and the bulk ship MV Wally, which collided around thirteen kilometers south of Singapore.  The tanker received an estimated ten meter gash on its left side, while the bulk ship sustained only minor damage.  After the incident, both ships moved away from the spill and are now anchored.The oil slick has moved north, and is now now encompassing an estimated four square kilometers around six kilometers south of Singapore.  Emergency teams from both Singapore and Malaysia have been mobilized, and around twenty vessels are taking part in the clean-up operations.  Both containment booms and chemical dispersants are being used to clean up the oil.The spill is not expected to have any major effects on shipping; Victor Shum, an official from a consulting firm in Singapore, said that "[i]f it is contained within an oil retaining booms, it may not disrupt shipping traffic. There is no comparison. That one has really no limit at this stage."  Shum also expressed environmental concerns, saying that "certainly the concerns are there. Even if it is contained, it will take some time to clean up."No crew members from either of the ships involved were reported to be injured.Buffalo, New York developers have been stymied by old real estate deeds. The prospective Elmwood Village Hotel may be scuttled and businesses now located there may be forced to move. Frustrations over property located in an area once known as "Granger Estates" circulate around a clause in the original deeds over land divided by then-owner Erastus Granger in the early 1800's. According to the documents, "no business establishment of any kind whatsoever" shall ever be constructed on the property, and they shall forever be exclusively for residential use only. Also prohibited are barns, farms and stables. Sam Savarino, CEO of Savarino Companies, the prospective hotel developer, announced that his legal research team found the restrictions on properties located between 1109 and 1121 Elmwood Avenue which also stated in part that "no businesses, hospitality establishment of anykind whatsoever" shall ever be permitted to be built on the property. Savarino, whom is expected to contest the restrictions, said that his company could have ignored the findings, but that, "we can't risk the future of a multimillion-dollar project on the hope they wouldn't be discovered. Our opponents would have had a field day if they'd surfaced after the fact." Savarino said his attorneys and researchers are anticipated to determine "exactly what weight the restrictions carry and if there's a way for the courts to negate them." Existing businesses are also jeopardized. Hans Mobius, owner of some of the restricted properties upon which a carriage house is built, said, he wasn't aware of any restrictions, and "never had a reason to research the deed and title documents." He confidently added that, "the lawyers can get this taken care of." Other threatened businesses include Don Apparel, H.O.D. Tattoo,  Forest Plaza Art Gallery and Allentown Music. ==Sources== Sharon Linstedt. "Restrictions in old deeds threaten hotel" — Buffalo News, November 18, 2006The following is the eleventh in a monthly series chronicling the U.S. 2012 presidential election. It features original material compiled throughout the previous month after a brief mention of some of the month's biggest stories.In this month's edition on the campaign trail: Wikinews chronicles three of the lesser-known speakers at the 2012 Democratic National Convention, a controversial pastor and write-in candidate talks to Wikinews about the unrest in the Middle East, and the ballot-qualified American Third Position Party (A3P) presidential nominee travels to Iran to meet President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.A 55-year-old unidentified male died Saturday after his silver Peugeot motor vehicle collided with a red and white articulated truck and tanker on the A15 road.According to the Humberside Police, the road traffic accident happened on the A15 near the small village of Hibaldstow, North Lincolnshire at approximately 0739 UTC on Saturday. Although the sole occupant of the Peugeot was fatally injured, the occupant of the lorry was uninjured.A spokesperson stated: "Officers would like to speak to anyone who witnessed the collision or the vehicles prior to the collision." An investigation has begun to try to establish whether the icy and snowy weather conditions were a factor in this collision. The police have commented that it is too early to know whether the weather conditions were a factor in this crash.Twenty percent of the American public believes that socialism is superior to capitalism, says a poll by Rasmussen Reports released on Thursday, April 9.Asked the question "Which is a better system - capitalism or socialism?", 53% of those polled found capitalism the better system, 20% preferred socialism, and 27% were unsure. The survey did not define either capitalism or socialism, but Rasmussen also cites a December 2008 result saying that 15% of Americans prefer a government-managed economy.Analysis of the poll's data by website FiveThirtyEight.com furthermore found that support for capitalism was closely correlated with income; respondents earning under $20,000 a year having an eight percentage point preference for capitalism, while those earning more than $100,000 a year expressed a fifty-seven percentage point preference for capitalism. Rasmussen noted that socialism had much broader support among people under 30, where 33% support socialism and 37% support capitalism, than among any other age group.Socialism has found support in several countries, with member parties of the Socialist International in government in over 50 countries around the world and with several other regimes describing themselves as socialist or communist; the 20% result Rasmussen finds is comparable to the electoral support for the New Democratic Party in Canada. Support for an independent socialist movement in the United States, however, has historically been limited. Socialist candidate Eugene V. Debs won 6.1% of the popular vote in 1912, and two members of the Socialist Party, Victor L. Berger and Meyer London, were elected to the United States Congress before the Great Depression. This brief flirtation with socialism is contrasted against the times during and following the First World War and Second World War, which were marked by "Red scares" — periods of pronounced anti-communism — in the United States.Currently, only a single member of the United States Congress describes himself as a socialist: Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. The Social Democrats USA (SD USA), one of the successors of the Socialist Party of America, has expressed solidarity with the 76-member Congressional Progressive Caucus, which Sanders founded in 1991. It supports positions such as a living wage, universal health care, and the right of workers to form trade unions and engage in collective bargaining.SD USA executive director Gabriel McClosky-Ross offered Wikinews an exclusive statement on the Rasmussen poll result:While support for socialism in the United States may be growing, Rasmussen's polling finds that absolute majorities of the American public support both capitalism and free markets. Meanwhile, anti-communist sentiment remains strong in many segments of the US population, with opposition to socialism being a defining feature of Conservatism in the United States.In an exclusive statement to Wikinews, John F. McManus, President of the anti-socialist John Birch Society, offered  the John Birch Society's position on the poll result:Americans currently most often cite the economy as their number one concern in polls, ahead of terrorism. In December 2008, workers at the Republic Windows and Doors factory in Chicago staged a union-backed factory occupation in a fight against company management — a return to tactics of direct action from the historically more subdued American organized labor movement.On April 10 2009, Alabama representative Spencer Bachus (R-Alabama) told the Birmingham News that seventeen members of the US House of Representatives are socialists. He did not specify which members.Across Egypt hundreds of thousands have taken to the streets for the day, marking exactly one year since the outbreak of protests leading to 83-year-old longstanding ruler Hosni Mubarak's downfall. The country's decades-long emergency rule was partially lifted this week; meanwhile, a possible economic meltdown looms and a newly-elected parliament held their first meeting on Monday.Despite the new parliament, military rule introduced following Mubarak's fall last spring remains. Echoing the demands from a year ago, some protesters are demanding the military relinquish power; there are doubts an elected civilian leader will be permitted to replace the army.The brief unity against Mubarak has since fragmented, with Secularists and Islamists marking the revolution's anniversary splitting to opposing sides of Cairo's famed Tahrir Square and chanting at each other. Initial demonstrations last year were mainly from young secularists; now, Islamic parties hold most of the new parliament's seats — the country's first democratic one in six decades.Salafis hold 25% of the seats and 47% are held by the  Muslim Brotherhood, which brought supporters to Cairo for the anniversary. Tahrir Square alone contained tens of thousands of people, some witnesses putting the crowd at 150,000 strong. It's the largest number on the streets since the revolution.Military rulers planned celebrations including pyrotechnics, commemorative coins, and air displays. The Supreme Council of Armed Forces took power after last year's February 11 resignation of Mubarak.Alaa al-Aswani, a pro-democracy activist writing in al-Masry al-Youm, said: "We must take to the streets on Wednesday, not to celebrate a revolution which has not achieved its goals, but to demonstrate peacefully our determination to achieve the objectives of the revolution," — to "live in dignity, bring about justice, try the killers of the martyrs and achieve a minimum social justice"Alexandria in the north and the eastern port city of Suez also saw large gatherings. It was bitter fighting in Suez led to the first of the  revolution's 850 casualties in ousting Mubarak. "We didn't come out to celebrate. We came out to protest against the military council and to tell it to leave power immediately and hand over power to civilians," said protestor Mohamed Ismail."Martyrs, sleep and rest. We will complete the struggle," chanted crowds in Alexandria, a reference to the 850 'martyrs of the revolution'. No convictions are in yet although Mubarak is on trial. Photos of the dead were displayed in Tahrir Square. Young Tahrir chanters went with "Down with military rule" and "Revolution until victory, revolution in all of Egypt's streets".If the protestors demanding the military leave power get their way, the Islamists celebrating election victory face a variety of challenges. For now, Field Marshall Mohamed Hussein Tantawi — whose career featured twenty years as defence minister under Mubarak — rules the nation and promises to cede power following presidential elections this year.The economy is troubled and unemployment is up since Mubarak left. With tourism and foreign investment greatly lower than usual, budget and payment deficits are up — with the Central Bank eating into its reserves in a bid to keep the Egyptian pound from losing too much value.Last week the nation sought US$3.2 billion from the International Monetary Fund. The IMF insists upon funding also being secured from other donors, and strong support from Egypt's leaders. IMF estimates say the money could be handed over in a few months — whereas Egypt wanted it in a matter of weeks.The country has managed to bolster trade with the United States and Jordan. Amr Abul Ata, Egyptian ambassador to the fellow Middle-East state, told The Jordan Times in an interview for the anniversary that trade between the nations increased in 2011, and he expects another increase this year. This despite insurgent attacks reducing Egyptian gas production — alongside electricity the main export to Jordan. Jordan exports foodstuffs to Egypt and has just signed a deal increasing the prices it pays for gas. 2011 trade between the countries was worth US$1 billion.The anniversary also saw a new trade deal with the US, signed by foreign trade and industry minister Mahmoud Eisa and U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk. President Barack Obama promises work to improve U.S. investment in, and trade with, nations changing political systems after the Arab Spring. Details remain to be agreed, but various proposals include US assistance for Egyptian small and medium enterprises. Both nations intend subjecting plans to ministerial scrutiny.The U.S. hailed "several historic milestones in its transition to democracy" within a matter of days of Egypt's revolution. This despite U.S.-Egypt ties being close during  Mubarak's rule.US$1 billion in grants has been received already from Qatar and Saudi Arabia but army rulers refused to take loans from Gulf nations despite offers-in-principle coming from nations including Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and United Arab Emirates. Foreign aid has trickled in; no money at all has been sent from G8 nations, despite the G8 Deauville Partnership earmarking US$20 billion for Arab Spring nations.A total of US$7 billion was promised from the Gulf. The United Kingdom pledged to split £110 million between Egypt and Arab Spring initiator Tunisia. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development says G8 money should start arriving in June, when the presidential election is scheduled.The African Development Bank approved US$1.5 billion in loans whilst Mubarak still held power but, despite discussions since last March, no further funding has been agreed. The IMF offered a cheap loan six months ago, but was turned away. Foreign investment last year fell from US$6 billion to $375 million.Rights, justice and public order remain contentious issues. Tantawi lifted the state of emergency on Tuesday, a day before the revolution's anniversary, but left it in place to deal with the exception of 'thuggery'. "This is not a real cancellation of the state of emergency," said Islamist Wasat Party MP Essam Sultan. "The proper law designates the ending of the state of emergency completely or enforcing it completely, nothing in between."The same day, Amnesty International released a report on its efforts to establish basic human rights and end the death penalty in the country. Despite sending a ten-point manifesto to all 54 political parties, only the Egyptian Social Democratic Party (of the Egyptian Bloc liberals) and the left-wing Popular Socialist Alliance Party signed up. Measures included religious freedom, help to the impoverished, and rights for women. Elections did see a handful of women win seats in the new parliament.The largest parliamentary group is the Freedom and Justice Party of the Muslim Brotherhood, who Amnesty say did not respond. Oral assurances on all but female rights and abolition of the death penalty were given by Al-Nour, the Salafist runners-up in the elections, but no written declaration or signature. "We challenge the new parliament to use the opportunity of drafting the new constitution to guarantee all of these rights for all people in Egypt. The cornerstone must be non-discrimination and gender equality," said Amnesty, noting that the first seven points were less contentious amongst the twelve responding parties. There was general agreement for free speech, free assembly, fair trials, investigating Mubarak's 30-year rule for atrocities, and lifting the state of emergency. A more mixed response was given to ensuring no discrimination against LGBT individuals, whilst two parties claimed reports of Coptic Christian persecution are exaggerated.Mubarak himself is a prominent contender for the death penalty, currently on trial for the killings of protesters. The five-man prosecution team are also seeking death for six senior police officers and the chief of security in the same case. Corruption offences are also being tried, with Gamal Mubarak and Alaa Mubarak accused alongside their father Hosni.The prosecution case has been hampered by changes in witness testimony and there are complaints of Interior Ministry obstruction in producing evidence. Tantawi has testified in a closed hearing that Mubarak never ordered protesters shot.Hisham Talaat Moustafa, an ex-MP and real estate billionaire, is another death penalty candidate. He, alongside Ahmed Sukkari, was initially sentenced to death for the murder of his ex-girlfriend, Lebanese pop star Suzanne Tamim. A new trial was granted on procedural grounds and he is now serving a fifteen-year term for paying Sukkari US$2 million to slit 30-year-old's Tamim's throat in Dubai. Her assassin was caught when police followed him back to his hotel and found a shirt stained with her blood; he was in custody within two hours of the murder.The court of appeals is now set to hear another trial for both men after the convictions were once more ruled unsound.A military crackdown took place last November, the morning after a major protest, and sparking off days of violence. Egypt was wary of a repeat this week, with police and military massed near Tahrir Square whilst volunteers manned checkpoints into the square itself.The military has pardoned and released at least 2,000 prisoners jailed following military trials, prominently including a blogger imprisoned for defaming the army and deemed troublesome for supporting Israel. 26-year-old Maikel Nabil was given a three year sentence in April. He has been on hunger strike alleging abuse at the hands of his captors. He wants normalised relations with Israel. Thousands have now left Tora prison in Cairo.Thai low-cost air carrier One-Two-Go Airlines has announced that it will be grounding all 16 of its aircraft immediately until September 15. The news comes as legal action against the airline and associated companies begins over the September crash of Flight 269, which killed 90 people, mostly foreigners.Udom Tantiprasongchai, founder of the airline, has said conditions were hard for airlines with fuel prices having doubled within a year. He says 70% of operating costs are taken up with fuel, and the airline has already raised fuel surcharges again by 100 baht to 850 baht per leg."In this kind of environment, anyone can go (bankrupt) anytime," said Urdom, who declined to comment on the impact the present financial situation has had on his airline, saying only that they "are financially sustainable." He also said that the airline could return to service with ease if prices dropped, noting that, "if the situation improved with fuel prices being lowered and the profitability outlook was better, we could be airborne again."The airline began operations in 2003; it is a subsidiary of Orient Thai Airlines. Orient Thai, which will continue to operate as normal, recently opened Thailand's first freight-only airline, Orient Thai Cargo, with a pair of Boeing 747-200Fs bought from Japan Airlines.Urdon said that a major part of the problem is that eight of the company's aircraft are MD-11s, which consume large volumes of fuel. He also said that a collapse of a damage limitation scheme with rivals Nok Airlines and Thai AirAsia had affected his decision. Both rival carriers were also struggling financially. One-Two-Go has already cut many routes.The news comes as the first families of victims of Flight OG269 launch legal action against the airline, as well as parent airline Orient Thai and lessor Grandmax Group. Already confirmed to be involved in the action are Richard and Margaret Collins as well as Steve and Jean Jones, parents of Alex Collins, 22, and Bethan Jones, also 22, an unmarried Welsh couple who, a few days into a round-the-world trip, were among the 123 passengers on board. Alex was reported missing but quickly confirmed to have died, while Bethan died ten days after the accident with her family at her bedside, bringing the final death toll to 90."We believe the air crash was completely avoidable and those responsible should be held to account. While we accept that nothing can bring Alex and Bethan and the other people who lost their lives back, we are keen to make sure we prevent this from happening again," said the families in a joint statement. "We will be forcing One-Two-Go Airlines to prove in court that they are not a low cost, low safety airline," said James Healy-Pratt, head of aviation at Stewarts Law in London. He also said that the action will be brought before courts in the United States.Two web sites purporting to sell tickets to the 2008 Summer Olympic Games due to open in Beijing, China on Friday have been the subject of lawsuits from the International Olympic Committee in United States courts in recent weeks. The web sites, beijingticketing.com and beijing-2008tickets.com, were designed to resemble official sites and often appeared above the official sites in Google searches, and scammed some victims out of up to US$50,000 each for tickets to events such as the Opening Ceremony and swimming, which were listed despite the official Beijing ticket web site stating that tickets to all events had sold out as of July 27. The sites are believed to have taken in millions of dollars in total.Ken Gamble, a private investigator from Sydney, Australia, believes the sites are operated by Terance Shepherd, whom Gamble has been tracking for several years in relation to other fraudulent web sites selling tickets to events such as the FIFA World Cup. According to Gamble, Shepherd's modus operandi involves setting up the fake web sites, overselling the tickets, and then failing to produce the tickets. "The story's always the same," Gamble said, "it's an 'unfortunate mistake' or someone has 'let them down'. They promise a refund, which never happens, and the credit companies end up paying all the refunds." Shepherd owns a home in the London suburb of Blackheath, although authorities believe he is currently hiding in Barbados.On Monday, beijingticketing.com customers received an email from someone named "Alan Scott", claiming that the site's ticket supplier had filed for bankruptcy. The email recommended that customers should contact their credit card companies to seek refunds "immediately", and said that the company would set up a call centre to provide assistance to its customers. However, the site has been shut down and a phone number previously listed on it has been disconnected. The company's address, in Phoenix, Arizona, was found to be an empty office space. Visa International has stated that victims who used their Visa card to pay should be able to get their money back, but it is not yet clear whether the same will apply to all customers.Partygaming Plc, the worlds largest online poker company, has announced that it intends to float on the London Stock Exchange by the end of this month. Although it has not yet set a price, analysts in The City are speculating that the flotation could value the firm at up to STG£5bn. Such a valuation would make the flotation the largest in four years.The Gibraltar-based company, which owns the Partypoker brand, intends to sell 23% of the company in the flotation. If the company's initial public offering is successful, the firm will enter the FTSE 100 Index (the top 100 firms on the exchange by value). Its value would be greater than that of both British Airways and Boots.Partygaming Plc was founded in 1997 by Anurag Dikshit and has since grown at a huge rate - doubling profits in the past year alone to STG£371m. At peak times it attracts 70,000 simultaneous players.In 2004, the amount of online purchases and transactions in and from Romania through the VISA card system grew substantially, indicating Romanians are increasingly confident in online shopping.Based on statistics published by VISA International, the total amount of electronic sales in Romania for 2004 exceeded US$5.7 million. VISA Card holders in Romania also made more than 41,000 transactions throughout the year via the Internet.The most significant growth of the year was in December, when most purchases are made on account of the Christmas season. 28% of all online sales in 2004 occurred in December. Cătălin Creţu, from VISA Romania, claims that, "It is a tradition to offer gifts to friends and family in the holiday season. We are pleased that Romanians are deciding to honour this tradition with the aid of a modern and innovative means of payment." He also stated that Romanians now have access to over 30,000 sellers throughout the world who are part of the Verified by Visa program, which guarantees the reliability of purchases through its network. The Verified by Visa program is used by more than 15 million people worldwide.Zappos.com, one of the largest online retailers of shoes and apparel, disclosed Sunday that it was hit by a cyber attack. The attack compromised as many as 24 million accounts. Personal data may have been taken, but credit card numbers are encrypted and thus cannot be stolen.Information that may have been compromised includes customers shipping addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, account passwords and the last four digits of any credit card used. Though credit card numbers are encrypted by the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, other personal information is often not. This is common practice among e-commerce websites.  Todd Feinman of Identity Finder told USA Today, "Visa and MasterCard fight to protect credit card numbers, but there's no one fighting for the individual consumer whose e-mail address falls into the possession of hackers."Zappos.com required its users change their account passwords. It notified users of the required change and updated on the situation through an email. They also advised users to change their password on other websites if it is similar to the one used on Zappos.In a blogpost, Zappos CEO Tony Hsieh said "We've spent over 12 years building our reputation, brand, and trust with our customers. It's painful to see us take so many steps back due to a single incident. I suppose the one saving grace is that the database that stores our customers' critical credit card and other payment data was not affected or accessed."Comscore Media Metrix Canada has reported that Online Retailers in Canada have seen significant increase in traffic to their websites.  In December 2005, 17.9 million shopped retail web sites, an increase of 13 percent over December 2004.At the top of the list is eBay with 10.9 million visitors, an increase of 16 percent over December 2004.  Amazon was next with 6.5 million, an increase of 21 percent.Best Buy, Canadian Tire, Apple, Sears, and Walmart are among the retailers who all saw an increase in online retail sales.Flowers and home furnishings purchases also showed big increases from a year ago.All across the Canadian province of Ontario, college teachers have gone on strike, leaving more than 150,000 students in 24 colleges without classes.The Ontario Public Service Employees Union rejected the final offer from college management, after negotiations at the Delta Chelsea Hotel in downtown Toronto.This strike comes just a month before many student's scheduled graduations. If courses are extended into the summer, to compensate for lost school time, students' ability to maintain jobs to pay for their education would be severely limited.“A prolonged strike would not only affect college students, but also have a ripple affect on the Ontario economy and workforce. Potential employers are expecting 44,000 new graduates and 100,000 returning students to enter the workforce this May, families have made summer plans, and some seasonal businesses may experience a significant loss if the school year does not finish on time,” says Tyler Charlebois, Director of Advocacy for the College Student Alliance. “I hope for the sake of Ontario, the provincial government takes this situation as seriously as we are and takes action as necessary.”OPSEU was asking for more teachers, smaller classes, and more faculty time for students. A strike vote was 80.4% in favour of action. Humber had the least support for the strike, with only 67.0%, followed by St. Lawrence with 67.7%. St. Clair, Boréal, Centennial, and Sault all had more than 90% support.CEO of the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation, Corp., Duncan Brown, has stepped down after recent allegations that lottery retailers are winning more than customers."By mutual agreement, Duncan Brown and the Board of OLG have decided a change of leadership is appropriate," the lottery corporation said on Friday. "Brown has stepped down from his post as CEO."Before Brown joined OLG in 2004 he was CEO of the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario. He has worked in the lotto industry since the 1970s.A new CEO will be chosen by the Board in the coming months, the Interim CEO will be chosen in a few days.The CBC has raised new security concerns over the instant scratch tickets sold by the OLGC. CBC's the fifth estate reported in a special investigation on October 25 the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation's (OLGC) tickets are not being given to lottery winners and are claimed more often by the retailers who sell them averaging at CAN$500,000. The report investigated several aspects of the lottery retail trade, including a report that tickets were stolen by the clerks of convenience stores. One reported case involved a convenience store clerk who, after checking the ticket bought by a customer who brought suit, said he did not win. Retailers appeared to win prizes more often than the general public. However it also appeared that retailers were a core audience of the lottery games and due to that, statistically, could be expected to win more than the general public. The study found that the retailers were winning about 2.5 times more than the general audience and spending almost twice as much on their tickets. Retailers spent CAN$23.30 over the past four weeks. The average person spends CAN$12.30."We are here to make sure that all of our players have confidence in our process," OLG chief executive Duncan Brown said. "Lottery retailer means, in our broad definition, anybody that works for a lottery retailer or is related to a lottery retailer. That’s 140,000 people ... in Ontario....What was missing from the fifth estate’s numbers was the frequency of play by the retailers." There were 30 complaints referring to the instant scratch tickets from 1999 to 2006. Only once ware charges laid by police. Nine cases had special investigations, winnings totaling at CAN$3,629.Retailers could, in a process called "pin pricking," attempt to uncover codes printed on the instant scratch tickets under a latex coating that show which card is the winner.In the wake of earlier allegations, OLG devices were installed for anyone who wanted to check their own tickets, for security reasons."Any time someone connected with the OLG tries to claim a prize we conduct a higher level of investigation than what we would do with somebody who is not associated with OLG. And this includes looking at the tickets very carefully, especially in the case of scratch tickets," Teresa Roncon, a spokeswoman for the OLGC said.At a news conference in Toronto, Canada on March 26, 2007, Ontario Ombudsman André Marin called on the provincial government to transfer regulation of its lottery system from the Ontario Lottery and Gaming Corporation (OLG) to the Alcohol and Gaming Commission of Ontario. This request follows an investigation the ombudsman's office undertook, 3 months ago, into the allegations of theft and fraud carried out by ticket retailers.The results of the investigation into the allegations were detailed in Marin's report, entitled A Game of Trust, released earlier in the day. The OLG has been ordered to transfer relevant files over to the Ontario Provincial Police, to determine whether a criminal investigation is warranted."The OLG is fixated on profit rather than on public service," Marin suggested in his opening statement. "It is too close to its retailers, who are not just its frontline sales force but some of its best customers," he continued. "It has lost sight of the fact that it is supposed to be a guardian of the public trust."The investigation was launched by Marin at his own intitiative, rather than inresponse to an individual complaint. Ombudsman investigators looked into the case of Bob Edmonds, a 78-year-old man who was cheated out of a CA$250,000 winning ticket by an unscrupulous retailer, as highlighted in a CBC television exposé. Over the course of the investigation, the Ombudsman’s Office received more than 400 other complaints related to OLG.Marin indicated that, since 1999, "at least 247 retail owners or their employees have won major lottery prizes", some of which he acknowledged were legitimate. He also reported that the OLG paid out "millions of dollars in prizes to retailers making dishonest claims...in amounts anywhere from $250,000 to $12.5 million."Marin found a systemic pattern of wrongdoing by some retailers, who he deemed to be the OLG's "partners in profit", with the OLG overlooking the abuse. Marin suggested that rather than get tough, "the OLG actually considered relaxing the rules on insiders."In his report, Marin proposed 23 recommendations including a zero-tolerance policy for retailer dishonesty, an adjudicative process to deal with disputed prize claims, a retailer code of conduct and the use of “secret shoppers” to test the retailers adherence to it."We accept the findings of these reports and the organization is moving quickly to implement the recommendations," said OLG Board Chair Michael Gough in a news release. "OLG has learned a great deal from the Ombudsman's report. It is fair, comprehensive and thoughtful," continued Gough.The total revenue from lotteries to the provincial government in Ontario for fiscal 2005-2006 was CA$6.36 billion. News of the resignation of OLG's CEO Duncan Brown, was reported just days before the ombudsman's report was tabled.On Monday, February 18, many people in the Canadian province of Ontario are to get a new holiday from work and school.Under new legislation passed shortly after their re-election in October, the provincial Liberal government under Premier Dalton McGuinty introduced the statutory holiday, called Family Day, to be celebrated on the third Monday of every February, starting this year."There is nothing more valuable to families than time together. And yet it seems tougher than ever to find, with so many of us living such busy lives," McGuinty was quoted as saying in a press release."That's why, on the third Monday of this coming February — and every February from now on — Ontarians deserve a new statutory holiday — Family Day."The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has agreed to drastically cut the daily production of oil by 2.2 million barrels per day (bpd). In a decision reached in Oran, Algeria, energy ministers from all 12 OPEC members agreed to make the largest cut in OPEC's history. Oil prices have fallen from a high of $140 in July to just around $40; a decrease of $100. OPEC has cut 4.2 million bpd since September, when the price of oil decreased suddenly over fears of a global recession and lower usage of oil. With this new decrease, production by OPEC members will be 24.845 million bpd. Saudi Arabia is taking the majority of the cut by decreasing their production by 1.2 million bpd.In the statement released by the organization, they wrote "...that crude volumes entering the market remain well in excess of actual demand: this is clearly demonstrated by the fact that crude stocks in OECD countries are well above their five-year average and are expected to continue to rise. Moreover, the impact of the grave global economic downturn has led to a destruction of demand, resulting in unprecedented downward pressure being exerted on prices..."OPEC faces a tough task in trying to level the price of oil to a reasonable amount. Most experts and oil officials believe that $75 is the 'fair price' for a barrel of oil. Chakib Khelil, the OPEC president, said during the meeting that "OPEC has a long-established record in meeting the challenges it faces, however tough they may be. The challenge facing the oil market today is clearly a formidable one."Russia, which is not a member of OPEC, also agreed that a cut was needed and would cut its production by 600,000 barrels. OPEC will also urge other non-OPEC members who are oil exports, to cut their production. Mexico and Norway are two of the largest oil producers that not members of OPEC. Russia's action is not official, and the country has had a history of failing their pledge to cut their output.The president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Chakib Khelil predicts that prices of world crude oil could reach the US$150 to $170 range per barrel before this year's summer ends.In an interview on the French news channel France24, Khelil who is also Algeria's energy minister, also stated that prices won't reach $200 per barrel when asked as to how far would prices would go up.During the interview, Khelil said that prices would depend on how far the United States puts pressure on oil producer Iran, over its nuclear program and on the stability of the euro, Europe's currency.In a transcript of the France24 interview, the OPEC President said, "I think that the devaluation of the dollar against the euro, if everything goes as I think it will, will be of the order of perhaps 1-2 percent and this will probably generate an $8 rise in the price of oil," he said.The OPEC president blamed the weakness of the U.S. dollar as the main reason for the current prices of oil.Khelil was also quoted saying, "You can see it, every time there is a strengthening of the dollar, there's a drop in prices."Come September, Khelil said that the thirteen member countries of OPEC will review its hands off policy on the sky rocketing prices of world crude oil.Western nations has been pressuring OPEC to increase oil production to halt the soaring oil prices.The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) announced today at the 142nd meeting of its Conference in Vienna, Austria that it will continue it's policy of trying to support market stability by maintaing a balance between supply and demand despite the fact that demand is slowing and inventories are growing. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, oil contracts for October fell as low US $64.85 before settling at the end of trading at US $65.61, a decline of 64 cents for the day. This follows a drop from their peaks at the start of the Israel-Hezbollah conflict in July of US $77.03 a barrel.Having outlined his manifesto in his last pre-election radio broadcast, beleaguered Thai Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra has failed to deflect calls for his resignation.Offering an increased minimum wage, additional debt relief for farmers, and pay rises for civil servants the PM starts the election campaign with his Thai Loves Thais (Phak Thai Rak Thai) party in good shape for the snap election announced last Friday.Thaksin's dissolution of the lower house of parliament, and move to re-establish his authority through elections has met with criticism from leaders in the troubled southern provinces as well as from political opponents.  Zafi-in Jae-loh, the deputy chairman of Narathiwat Islamic Committee said the move would do nothing to help the situation faced by ethnic Malay Muslims in the south.  The three southernmost provinces, Narathiwat, Pattani, and Yala face near-daily bombings and shootings with a considerable armed forces presence contributing to tensions in the area.Opposition parties concerned that the three years early election will not resolve the current political situation have announced that they may boycott the April 2 poll.  The Democrats (Phak Prachatipat) and the smaller Great People's Party (Phak Mahachon) took over 25% of the vote in the February 2005 elections. Third placed at the last election with 11.4% of the vote, the Thai Nation Party (Phak Chart Thai) have yet to announce their decision, leaving party leader Banharn Silapa-archa to decide.Despite the upcoming election, and in the face of rumours of violence, a mass protest against the Prime Minister still went ahead.  The People’s Alliance for Democracy was reported to be monitoring a crowd they were suspicious of ahead of the rally in Sanam Luang, Bangkok.  However the main rally went off peacefully.  Noon saw the arrival of former politician Chamlong Srimuang with the Santi Asoke Buddhist sect, including barefoot monks and nuns.  Reports indicated that the total number in attendance and supporting the call for the now-caretaker Prime Minister to go were in the tens of thousands.  Many protesters vowed to stay overnight.  Alluding to past protests that had toppled Thai governments, Chamlong said "We can eat anything, sleep anywhere. Tonight we will sleep here".  Anti-Thaksin banners displayed at the open-air rally stated that the he had "No right to rule", while others read "Thaksin=Toxin" below an image aimed at comparing the PM with Adolf Hitler.Calls for the PM to go have a long history, with his policy of pursuing his opponents through the courts drawing the attention of the King, thus leading to Thaksin dropping cases against media firebrand, Sondhi Limthongkul.  A challenge through the country's Constitutional Court was brought by 28 of the country's senators following the PM's family selling their 49% share in Shin Corporation tax-free.  The sale, to Temasek Holdings, was widely seen as allowing control of key telecoms infrastructure to pass into foreign hands.  Wikipedia describes Temasek as, "the investment arm of the Singapore government."US-based Oracle Corporation announced Friday it had acquired Innobase OY for an undisclosed sum. Innobase is a Finnish company that has developed several open-source database technologies. They are best known for InnoDB. InnoDB is an add-on storage engine for MySQL used by many popular websites, including Slashdot, EDS/Sabre, Yahoo Finance, Google and Wikimedia. It is an open source tool, distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL).“Oracle has long been a supporter of open source software such as Linux and Apache. Innobase is an innovative small company that develops open-source database technology. Oracle intends to continue developing the InnoDB technology and expand our commitment to open source software.” said Charles Rozwat, executive vice president of Database and Middleware Technology at Oracle.Innobase is the 11th company to be acquired by Oracle in under a year. The most recent acquisition was of rival Siebel Systems on September 13 for $5.85 billion.US-based Oracle Corporation announced earlier today that they are buying rival US-based Siebel Systems for $10.66 USD per share. Siebel shareholders have the option to receive the $10.66 per share in cash or in Oracle stock. This deal is valued at approximately $5.85 billion USD. Siebel Systems'  Board of Directors has already voted in favour of the acquisition. Founder Thomas Siebel has also given his support. A special meeting will soon be held for Siebel stockholders to vote on the acquisition. If all goes well the deal should close in the early part of next year.After acquiring Siebel; Oracle, which specializes in database applications, will become the second largest software company. Oracle has offices in more than 145 countries, and employs over 50,000 people. This acquisition will make Oracle the largest customer relationship management (CRM) applications company in the world. CRM applications include accounting, inventory management and customer management software. "Siebel's 4,000 applications customers and 3,400,000 CRM users strengthen our number one position in applications in North America and move us closer to the number one position in applications globally", said Oracle CEO Larry Ellison."Today is a great day for Siebel Systems' customers, partners, shareholders, and employees," said Thomas M. Siebel, Chairman and Founder of Siebel Systems.  Many analysts predicted the acquisition of Siebel after Oracle bought competitor PeopleSoft for $10 billion USD, last December."There's no doubt we're gaining share across all product lines," said Oracle's CFO, after a quarter where net income grew 29% and revenue grew 30% to $3.6bn.  Applications license revenue climbed 78% on a constant currency basis. CEO Larry Ellison noted that, in comparison, SAP saw its application license revenue grow a more modest 8%.  Oracle's president claimed 88 head-to-head wins against SAP in the quarter.Some commentators noted that, though impressive, Oracle's results may not persist. Unlike industries with huge fixed costs, competitors in the software industry can quickly gain and lose market share through new product launches and mergers.Ovum noted that the integration of acquisitions such as PeopleSoft, JD Edwards, and Siebel now seem to have been accomplished, and that both Oracle and SAP are benefitting from the increasing symbiosis between the middleware and application markets.SAP replied with a statement noting that it offers "market-leading SOA applications today, while Oracle's next-generation applications exist only in PowerPoint and won't be delivered until 2008 or beyond."Orange Romania, the country's largest mobile phone operator, announced that its client base increased in the first quarter of 2005 (January-March) from 4.93 million to 5.29 million subscribers, an increase of over 7%.Additionally, Orange's income rose by 46.2%, from €122 million to €178 million. €167 million in income came from the Orange network, while the remainder came from the company's other investments. Company representatives were pleased with the results, and are confident that the objectives to the year as a whole are likely to be achieved.Romania currently has approximately 10.6 million mobile telephone subscribers, a rate that is rapidly expanding. Orange Romania has nearly 50% market share. By the end of 2005, the number of Romanian mobile phone subscribers is expected to reach 11.5 to 12 million.The Chicago city council passed an ordinance on Wednesday a week ago that requires retailers such as Target, Home Depot, and other big box-store operations to pay a higher wage than the state minimum and offer benefits to their employees within Chicago city limits. The mayor of Chicago, Richard M. Daley, opposes the ordinance, though he has yet to state whether or not he intends to exercise his veto power. Because of the ordinance, Target has already put on hold the building of one store in Chicago's south side and other new developments are in jeopardy. The ordinance applies to stores of at least 90,000 square feet operated by companies with more than $1 billion in annual sales. Starting in July of 2007, employees of these stores have a minimum wage $9.25 per hour and $1.50 per hour in benefits. By 2010, this will rise to $10 and $3, respectively. After 2010, the increases will be tied to the cost of living.The current state mandated minimum hourly wage rate is $6.50 for an Illinois employee.A copy has been obtained of the lawsuit filed against the City of Buffalo for allegedly fast-tracking a seven million dollar hotel proposal.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a 72-room, seven-million-dollar hotel proposed by Savarino Construction Services Corporation and designed by architect Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group. Its construction would require the demolition of at least five buildings, currently at 1109-1121 Elmwood, which house several shops and residents. Although the properties are "under contract," it is still not known whether Savarino Construction actually owns the buildings. It is believed that Hans Mobius, a resident of Clarence, New York and former Buffalo mayoral candidate, is still the owner. The hotel is expected to be a franchise of the Wyndham Hotels group.According to official court documents, there are more defendants than previously thought. Documents state that not only Buffalo's Common Council and Planning Board are named in the lawsuit, but also the Mayor of Buffalo, Byron W. Brown, Savarino Construction Services Corporation, Hans J. Mobius and his son Hans S. Mobius owners of the properties at stake, Pano Georgiadis, owner of Pano's Restaurant on Elmwood, and Cendant Corporation, the parent company of Wyndham Hotels are also named in the suit.According to the lawsuit, during the length of the trial, Savarino Construction along with their employees, Hans Mobius and his son are not allowed to make any alterations or "engage in the physical alteration" of any of the said properties, 1109-1121 Elmwood and 9999 Forest. The suit also states that the owner of 605 Forest, Pano Georgiadis is also to follow the same rule.The suit also states that Hans Mobius, his son and employees or "agents" are not allowed to "take any step, lawful or otherwise, to terminate [the] petitioners, Nancy Pollina and Patricia Morris," owners of Don Apparel at 1119 Elmwood "tenancies." Although the business is owned by Pollina and Morris, they are without a lease.Within the suit it states that the rezoning of the properties 1119-1121 Elmwood and 605 Forest, by the Common Council, from a 'R3' Dwelling District to a C2 commercial zone "constitutes as impermissible 'spot-zoning'" and is "not in accord with a well-considered plan for the development of the community and is null and void." According to the suit the courts of New York have defined spot-zoning as "the process of singling out a small parcel of land for a use classification totally different from that of the surrounding area, for the benefit of the owner of such properties and to the detriment of other owners." The suit also states that the proposed site for the hotel is different from the surrounding properties because none of the zoning classifications, 'EB' [Elmwood Avenue Business District], 'R3' [Dwelling District], 'R1' [One Family District] and 'R2' [Dwelling District], permit the construction and operation of a hotel.It is alleged that Savarino Construction "failed to utilize forms obtainable from the city clerks office, failed to include an accurate map or survey showing the location of all buildings and structures and failed to include the names and addresses of each of the owners of the properties to be rezoned."It is also believed that recommendation in regards to [hotel] compatibility, different land uses, traffic studies, community character, population density, relations between other residents and business owners, public convenience, governmental efficiency, and achieving and maintaining a satisfied community, were to be sent to Erie County's Planning agency and was to refer Savarino's rezoning application and site plan to the agency, however; the lawsuit alleges that although a referral was given to Savarino, it "does not appear that the 'full statement of such proposed action' was forwarded to the County [Agency]." The suit also alleges that the Common Council "failed to wait the 'statutorily-mandated' 30-days after the County's Planning Agency's receipt" of recommendations from the Council. The County's Planning Agency replied to the recommendations, however; the Agency replied on March 27, 2006, just six days after the Council made its recommendations, falling well short of the "statutorily-mandated" thirty days. The Agency's reply however, did not support or oppose the recommendations or hotel proposal.Public hearings are required to be registered by the City clerk to the City Planning Board, and according to the suit, "no record" of the Public hearing on March 7, presenting the initial proposal to the public, was made within the City's Clerk office or Planning Board.The suit also alleges that the Common council and Planning Board also violated the State's Environmental Quality Review Act or SEQRA and the City's Environmental Review Ordinance by allowing the Planning Board to be the "lead agency" instead of the Common Council. A lead agency is an involved agency principally responsible for undertaking or approving an action and therefore responsible for determining whether an Environmental Impact Statement or EIS is needed, according to the SEQRA regulations. The suit also states that the hotel proposal "constitutes an action under the SEQRA" because the project could "affect the environment by changing the use, appearance or condition of any natural resource or structure that requires one or more approvals from an agency or agencies" and that the Common Council and Planning Board are "obliged to comply with both the letter [recommendations] and spirit of the SEQRA review process" which include identifying the areas of environmental concerns and taking a "hard look" at them. The suit also claims that the Common Council has the "sole authority to grant Savarino Construction's rezoning request" and "to approve the special development plan," but it also claims that the Planning Board is "an involved agency" but that it is "clearly subordinate to that of the Common Council" therefore the decision made by both the Council and Planning Board to allow the Planning Board to be the 'lead agency,' is in "violation" of the State's SEQRA and "renders all determinations" made by the Planning Board and Common Council on March 14, 21, and 28, 2006, "void and unauthorized." It goes on to say that the Council "proceeded without or in excess of their jurisdiction, and/or made a determination in violation of lawful procedure, affected by an error of law, and/or in an arbitrary and capricious manner." It also states that unless the requirements of the SEQRA are met, then the petitioners have the right to "seek a temporary restraining order" from the Court if circumstances require it.The suit also states that a failure to grant a preliminary injunction, through the courts, will result in "irreparable injury" to the petitioners and that the Council and Planing Board have failed to comply with the requirements of the SEQRA and have violated several other state laws and city codes.So far, Savarino Construction has not responded to any calls or e-mails. District councilman Joseph Golombek also has not responded. Georgiadias was unavailable for comment.A preliminary hearing is scheduled to take place at 9:30 a.m. on June 8, 2006 in the Supreme Court building at 50 Delaware Avenue in Buffalo, on the 8th floor, part 31.An Afriqiyah Airways-owned aeroplane, originating from South Africa, has crashed on approach to Tripoli International Airport in Libya at around 06:00 Eastern European time (0400 UTC). Initial reports indicated everyone on board died, which officials say is 93 passengers and 11 crew, but later developments say an eight-year-old boy was the sole survivor; however, this is unconfirmed.The plane left Johannesburg in South Africa with the aim of transferring at Tripoli before heading to the final destination, United Kingdom's London Gatwick Airport. Officials have ruled out terrorism as a cause of the crash, which is still undetermined.  A security official said the plane "exploded on landing and totally disintegrated."In a statement, Afriqiyah Airways said, "We extend our deepest sympathy to the families and friends of the victims[;] the search and rescue mission has now been completed."The crew on the plane were all of Libyan nationality, officials claim, while the passengers included Libyans, South Africans, Dutch and Britons. In response to reports of British citizens being on board the crashed plane, the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office said, "We are urgently investigating. A consular team from the British Embassy are on their way to the airport. Consular staff in Tripoli are urgently seeking further details."Over 60 miners  were killed in an abandoned gold mine shaft near Welkom, in the Free State province of South Africa, after a fire broke out inside the mine.36 bodies from the Harmony Gold mining company Eland mine shaft were brought up earlier on the weekend from depths up to 1.4 kilometers (1 mi). On Tuesday, 25 more bodies were recovered by other illegal workers."We suspect there was a fire on the 18th of May. We never saw any smoke. Over the weekend [30 May] we were informed by other illegal miners that people had died," said Tom Smith, Chief Operating Officer for Harmony's South Region, "The bodies are not burnt. It seems more of a case of gas or smoke inhalation. I don't know if there are any more bodies down there, we just have to wait." The workers may have died from poisonous gasses, smoke inhalation, suffocation, cave-ins or carbon monoxide poisoning.Harmony gold mine will not send anyone in to the mine as the conditions are extremely dangerous and abandoned shafts are without safety equipment. Illegal workers may gain access bypassing security at one mine site, and exit via a series of interconnected underground tunnels many miles away.Harmony is internationally the fifth largest gold mining company and has bought up old, abandoned mines. Police were seeking relatives to help identify the bodies, and are instigating an investigation into the circumstances. Almost 300 "gold pirates" were arrested over the past two weeks at the Eland mine shaft alone. Thousands of illegal workers can be underground, and remain working for weeks and months continuously. "These are ex-miners and unemployed people - we need to target the syndicates," said Smith.There are over 4.18 million unemployed in South Africa due to the economic decline, and another 1 million may soon join the ranks. Susan Shabangu, the minister of mining, extended her condolences.Welkom, with a population of over 400,000 is located 160 kilometers (99 mi) northeast of Bloemfontein, the provincial capital.New research revealed earlier this week indicates that some 257m camera phones were shipped worldwide in 2004. The survey carried out by Strategy Analytics showed that camera phone sales have soared over 200% from 84m in 2003 to the 257m last year.The huge surge in sales means that camera phone sales now outnumber digital camera sales four to one. The mobile phone market ended the year as follows:Nokia - 18 percent market share,Motorola - 17 percent,Samsung - 13 percent,Others - 52.1 percent.Despite the astonishing growth last year, the survey predicts a future increase to more than 350 million camera phones sales this year.The British millionaire businessman and owner of Segway, Inc., the manufacturer of Segway PT, Jimi Heselden OBE, has died after apparently crashing one of the company's electric scooters over a cliff in West Yorkshire, England. He was 62 years old. Heselden, who was pronounced dead at the scene, is thought to have crashed his scooter into the River Wharfe while riding around his estate. A spokeswoman from West Yorkshire Police released a statement confirming Heselden's death. She said "Police were called at 1140 yesterday to reports of a man in the River Wharfe, apparently having fallen from the cliffs above." She added that a "Segway type" vehicle had been recovered from the water.After working in the mines after leaving school, he founded Hesco Bastion after being made redundant in the 1980s. He acquired Segway PT in 2010 with Hesco Bastion. A spokesperson for the company said: "It is with great sadness that we have to confirm that Jimi Heselden OBE, has died in a tragic accident near his home in West Yorkshire. Jimi is perhaps best known for his charity work with Help for Heroes and the Leeds Community Foundation. A £10m gift to the foundation earlier this month saw his lifetime charitable donations top £23m. Our thoughts go out to his family and many friends, who have asked for privacy at this time."Mike Svonavec, the owner of the land in Somerset County, Pennsylvania where United Airlines Flight 93 crashed on September 11, 2001 has set a US$10 million price tag for his property, which is sought by the group, Families of Flight 93 and the United States National Park Service for building a memorial dedicated to those on the plane. Svonavec says that the price is fair market value for the 273 acre property and the organization would not be charged for the exact site of the crash. The organization has offered to buy the land for no more than $500,000 at least three times.Currently, the U.S. National Park Service only owns approximately 60 acres of the land. PBS Coals Inc. owns 864 acres of the land and Svonavec owns 273 acres. The entire field is nearly 2,000 acres.The permanent memorial is estimated to cost $58 million and is scheduled to be constructed starting in 2008 or 2009. On the ten-year anniversary of 9/11, a ribbon will be cut at the site.Svonavec has also placed a box on the crash site temporary memorial, where visitors can leave a "donation" to pay for his asking price for the land as well as the cost of  providing security at the site. Funding was provided for the cost of security, but in February the funds were already used up and Svonavec says he can no longer afford to keep the land maintained and secure. Reports say that the security company that is currently in charge of security charges $10,000 per month. "That land has been paid for with 40 lives...the donation box is an insult to that cost. I think Svonavec believes his land, because it has the blood of my cousin and 39 other people, it's worth more," said Patrick White, Vice President, Families of Flight 93.American heavy metal performer Ozzy Osbourne, who became famous as the lead vocalist for Black Sabbath and later as a solo act, has raised more than US$800,000 for The Sharon Osbourne Colon Cancer Program, founded by his spouse Sharon Osbourne at the Cedars Sinai Hospital, by auctioning off personal items.A number of the items that he auctioned off over the two day period have been seen on his reality TV show The Osbournes, which featured home life with Sharon, Ozzy and their two children. Amongst some of the higher-priced items were a carved walnut Victorian-style custom built pool table which raised $11,250, a painting from Edourad Drouot which fetched $10,500, a pair of Ozzy's famous round glasses which raised $5,250 and a dog bed given to Sharon by Elton John which sold for $2,375.Some more famous items were also amongst the 500 lots offered. Ozzy's black satin coat, complete with bat-wing cape, raised $3,300 and a hand-painted floral cup used regularly on The Osbournes made $1,625. A bronze plaque of a demon's head that was regularly seen in its position adorning the front door of their house had been expected to go for $800 to $1,200instead raised $8,750. A wire model of the Eiffel Tower from on the kitchen table sold for $10,000, while skull-covered trainers Ozzy had worn reached $2,625. Bidders came from as far away as Germany to buy what they could from his mansion in Beverly Hills, California.However, three cars included in the auction failed to attract bidders and did not sell. They were a 2006 Bentley Continental Flying Spur, estimated at $160,000 to $180,000, a 2005 Cadillac CTS-V sedan estimated at $30,000 to $40,000 and a 1950 Oldsmobile Futuramic 88 Club Coupe previously owned by author Danielle Steel estimated at $40,000 to $50,000. Sharon had earlier said of the cars "We're not great car people. They really don't do a lot for us.Darren Julien, president of Julien's Auctions, which organised the two-day sale, said "It did very well. It raised some good money for a very worthy cause.""For a celebrity garage sale, it was pretty spectacular.," he went on. He also commented on the fact that there was fierce competition for the many artworks included. "We had Ozzy fans bidding against these sophisticated fine art buyers, which you don't see every day. For the most part the metalheads were outbidding the art crowd."New York —American manufacturing giant Proctor & Gamble (P&G) plans to acquire Gillette Co. for US$57 billion in stock. The purchase plan calls for P&G to swap 0.975 shares of its stock per share of Gillete Co. P&G also announced a stock buyback program in which they would purchase up to US$22 billion of shares over the next 18 months. Including the stock buyback program, the merger is being financed by 60 percent stock and 40 percent cash.P&G is known for brands such as Ariel and Tide washing powder, Max Factor cosmetics, Pringles potato crisps (chips) and Hugo Boss and Lacoste perfumes.Gillette, known for brands such as Gillette razors, Oral B dental care, and Duracell batteries, has had growing problems with the growth of private labels and price cuts demanded by large supermarkets.After the acquisition is completed, Gillette's CEO James Kilts will be P&G's vice-chairman. Kilts said that he expects that this acquisition will cause additional mergers to take place."I believe the consumer product industry needs to consolidate," said Kilts, "we believe we can bring these companies together and create a juggernaut."P&G and Gillette have a combined market capitalization of about $185 billion US, which will make it the largest in the sector.Thailand's People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) has petitioned the country's Election Commission to disqualify caretaker Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra from the upcoming April 2 election and to postpone it, to bring an end to the current political crisis.  According to the Bangkok Post, approximately 1,000 PAD protesters rallied outside the election commission's headquarters to mark delivery of the petition.Parinya Thewanarumitkul, a law lecturer at Thammasat University, claimed at a Thai Journalists Association forum that he had evidence that the PM had abused his position by using government resources to aid in the organisation of a March 3 rally of Thai Rak Thai supporters.  In addition, Parinya expressed doubt that the required 500 MPs would be returned, due to the main opposition party election boycott and the requirement for 20% of the eligible electorate to vote for a candidate, even when the candidate stands unopposed.Thailand's Democrats, the current main opposition party, who are boycotting the April 2 election, raised doubts over the validity of a number of Thai Rak Thai candidates' listings.  Calling for the Election Commission to investigate these allegations, Pichai Rattanadilok na Phuket of the National Institute of Development Administration also highlighted the 46 constituencies where the Prime Minister's party stands unopposed, viewing vote buying as a possibility in these areas.According to Democrat claims, over 200 people who applied to be on ballots failed to meet the requirement to have maintained party membership for 90 days prior to the announcement of the election.  It isn't just the candidates of smaller parties that have caught the eye of the Democrat panel examining candidate credentials. They claim that at least three of the Thai Rak Thai candidates should be disenfranchised due to having not voted during the 2005 election.  The three accused — including the party's deputy leader — dispute the claim that they failed to vote.  Party deputy Somchai Sunthornvat claimed it was a person with the same name who had failed to vote, and threatened to sue the Democrat party for making the allegation.While PAD protesters demonstrated away from Government House, the beleaguered PM returned unnanounced from his election campaigning in the country's northeast.  In addition to his having been continuingly called upon leave office, his key privatisation policies had been dealt a serious blow by the ruling that the privatisation of the state-owned power company EGAT was unlawful.Judges overturned two royal decrees that had been the foundation of the plan for Thailand's largest ever IPO.  Supporters of the eleven civic groups that had filed the petition with the court greeted the decision with cheers.  Mention of conflicts of interest in the privatisation process adds fuel to the accusations of anti-Thaksin groups, who accuse the PM of leading a government that indulges in cronyism.The Pakistan government has formally launched the country’s first policy on renewable sources of energy. The policy offers attractive incentives to investors willing to exploit this environment-friendly but largely unexplored sector especially for power generation. The ‘Policy for Development of Renewable Energy for Power Generation – 2006’ has already been approved by the Economic Coordination Committee of the Cabinet.Images of Pakistan International Airlines sacrificing a goat went viral on Monday as the beleaguered state-run airline resumed ATR flights. All ten ATRs in its fleet were grounded last week in the aftermath of a crash near Havelian earlier this month. PIA ground staff ritually slaughtered the black goat beside an ATR-42, the same type of aircraft lost in the disaster. The move is thought to ward off bad luck in Pakistan. The ATR-42 was the company's first ATR back in service following the crash. PIA said on December 15 they had chartered a Lockheed C-130 Hercules from the air force to resume cancelled services.PIA Flight 661, an ATR-42 just under ten years old, crashed into mountainous terrain in the Abbottabad region of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa two weeks ago. The crash killed all 47 on board and left burning wreckage strewn for several kilometres.PIA still operate five ATR-42s and five ATR-72s. The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) announced inspections on December 11. The airline expected disruption to flights to smaller airports. Flight 661 was heading to Islamabad, having taken off from Chitral on a domestic flight. The plane reported engine trouble and lost control before the crash.PIA sacrificed the goat at Islamabad's Benazir Bhutto International Airport, ahead of a successful test flight to Multan. PIA stated ground staff acted on their own volition and were not influenced by managers.Another PIA ATR experienced troubles ahead of takeoff on December 11 and aborted the flight. The airline denied local media claims an engine caught fire. Pakistani media has claimed Flight 661 was operating with some known technical faults. The Aviation Herald reports receiving information to the contrary, and the airline also denies this.The CAA has left decisions on returning aircraft to service at the discretion of PIA and ATR. A CAA letter to PIA expressed concern over engine failures at the airline, and accused PIA of "shortcomings in maintenance [and] quality assurance."The latest crash is the tenth time a PIA aircraft has been written off since 2000. Only one other such accident was fatal, the loss of PIA Flight 688 in 2006. Flight 668, a Fokker F-27, crashed on takeoff. The disaster killed 45. That accident also involved an engine failure and a loss of control.The ATR-42 can carry up to 48 passengers. It is a twin-engine turboprop capable of using unpaved runways. PIA said the C-130 would be used for flights to Gilgit. With one ATR-42 declared airworthy as of December 15 PIA also said flights to Chitral could be expected to resume soon. A flight on December 15 using the C-130 was postponed by one day.Chairman Azam Saigol quit on December 12 for what he said were personal reasons. He had been drafted in to replace Nasser Jaffer following controversy generated when crews staged strikes to protest planned privatisation. The airline loses around 12-to-15 billion rupees annually, with taxpayers making up the shortfall.Saigol has been on PIA's board since 2013. The company said it needed a chair since changing organisational structure under provisions in the Companies Ordinance of 1984. He became chairman in May and is a prominent industrialist nationally, heading up major organisations. Saigol had been working for free, PIA said on December 12 ahead of his resignation.The government has offered his job to several candidates, all of whom have turned it down.Another issue for the airline comes in the form of a recently-submitted notice in the Senate. Filed by the People's Party of Pakistan, it describes an 'illegal' sale of a PIA Airbus A-310 to a German firm. Senator Saleem Mandviwalla said the jet had a valid certificate of airworthiness and originally went to Malta to be used in a film. Mandviwalla said the plane ended up in the hands of a German museum and was sold without the PIA board's consent. Federal Minister Muhammad Zubair said the aircraft was sold for for 290,000 euros despite being worth millions. Mandviwalla has called for a criminal investigation.In the continuing Safety Investigation Board's investigation into Flight 661's crash, a team of French and Canadian experts from ATR reached Islamabad on December 12 and took forensic samples from the wreck site. The team, assisting the safety board, was also there to plan wreckage removal.The crash site is remote, with conventional vehicular access ending several kilometres away. Rescuers had to walk the remainder.PIA state the aircraft was maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, including engine changes. The airline also say the crashed plane's engines were inspected, as standard, ahead of its final flight. An airline spokesperson asked journalists to refrain from speculating on the accident's cause.Bodies have been identified using DNA analysis, with at least sixteen returned to families. Identification was undertaken by the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS).The dead included six members of the same family, leaving behind a fourteen-year-old girl. Haseena Gul is entitled to tens of millions of rupees (equivalent to hundreds of thousands of euros) in compensation and numerous people have come forward claiming to be her relatives; she had remained with a friend in Chitral to study while her family travelled to Islamabad.Gul is currently receiving treatment from PIMS for psychological problems. "They will not let me study in Chitral," she appealed to the government. "Please have me shifted to Islamabad where I can study and fulfil my parents' dream."Also on board was Junaid Jamshed, a celebrated popstar who abandoned music in favour of preaching after joining Tableeghi Jamaat. Jamshed ran a nationally successful fashion business. His wife joined him on the flight. Other passengers included Osama Warraich, who was a senior civil servant in Chitral, and two infants.On Monday, Flight 898 to Kuala Lumpur diverted to Karachi. A replacement aircraft reached its destination over four hours late. PIA denied media claims the original plane suffered bursts in its hydraulics, but did not clarify what had happened. Also on Monday Flight 764 from from Jeddah to Faisalabad arrived ten hours late. All 130 passengers had their luggage left behind; PIA said it could take up to two days before they were reunited with their belongings.Pakistani Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani has launched Pakistan's first international container train service from Islamabad to Istanbul via the Iranian capital, Tehran, as a trial project of the Economic Cooperation Organization to boost Pakistan's trade with Turkey and Iran. The train is carrying 20 containers on its first journey from Islamabad railway station, delivering 14 to Tehran and 6 to Istanbul and will cover 6,500 kilometres in two weeks.Minister for Railways Ghulam Ahmed Bilour said a successful trial phase of the freight train service would be followed by a passenger train service in an effort to boost tourism in the region.There are also hopes the route will eventually provide a link to Europe and Central Asia.Eleven years ago the Panama Ports Company (PPC) got a concession to manage Panamanian Ports at the gates of the Panama Canal — Balboa and Cristobal. They made a contract with Panamanian State to get this concession. This concession began a conflict between ex-workers of these Ports (previously managed by Panamanian State by Port Authority) and PPC. These Port Authority's ex-workers says PPC violated a law written in 1992. The law states that during any privatization of State property, including land and enterprises, the workers must be offered to buy shares of the land or company.  The contract doesn't state any offer of shares to the ex-workers.Representatives of ex-workers claim that they must receive a pay, because the shares were not offered to them.On the last 3 years, Jose Sanchez (pictured) has set some meetings with PPC representatives. Almost all meeting were suspended because PPC representatives have not attended them. It may seem that no one in Panama outside the engaged parties knows about the dispute. According to Mr. Sanchez there is a mass media campaign to hide events of this conflict.Long queues are forming outside UK petrol stations as motorists rush to buy fuel ahead of protests against fuel tax.Consumer groups such as 'The Fuel Lobby', the group behind the fuel protests in 2000, have given conflicting reports on plans to blockade refineries to prevent supply of petrol stations.  Action started at 6am this morning, with a low turnout of protesters at refineries.  Further protests are planned at forecourts and on various roads for the remainder of the week.  Welsh protesters plan a 20mph rolling roadblock on the M4 motorway, starting at 7am on Friday, September 16.The government has told the public there are enough petrol supplies to last for 80 days, but petrol stations themselves may be set to run out much faster as large numbers of people fill up their tanks in anticipation of shortages. An eyewitness has said that as well as filling up their vehicle tanks, people are taking spare tanks. Bill Johnson, a petrol station manager in Cornwall, told the Guardian that he found it necessary to restrict petrol supplies to account holders only. He said: "They were shouting, 'You fucking bastards, I've got to get to work.' It wasn't pretty, people are just getting greedy."Matthew Carrington of the Petrol Retailers' Association called on Gordon Brown to reduce tax.  "His tax take goes up as the price goes up, " he said.Two explorers have set off from Knightsbridge, London Wednesday morning (0900 GMT) in a propeller-powered dune buggy heading for the Sahara. Giles Cardozo, age 29, from Dorset, with chief pilot and expedition leader Neil Laughton, age 45, an ex-SAS officer, will fly and drive the amazing two-seater vehicle more than 6,000-km (3,750-miles) to fabled Timbuktu on February 20. "I just can't wait to see their faces when we fly in and start playing football with them. I don't think they will be able to believe somebody in a flying car has just visited them," 'extreme golfer' Mr Laughton said before the departure. Timbuktu (Timbuctoo; Koyra Chiini: Tumbutu; French: Tombouctou) is an isolated city in Tombouctou Region, in the West African nation of Mali. They will traverse Europe and Africa about 42 days to arrive at the city in Mali, West Africa before returning home via Senegal. The home-made 450-kilogram Skycar has been designed by Cardozo in just 18 months. It is the world's first road legal bio fuelled flying car. It is a four cylinders modified Rage Motorsport off-road racing buggy which was approved by the government last month. It runs on bioethanol and is powered by a modified 140bhp Yamaha R1 superbike engine with a lightweight automatic continuously variable transmission from a snowmobile.The team invested about £250,000 ($380,000) to make the 1000cc engine Skycar desert-proof. In its maiden voyage, the flying car will be escorted by up to 13 people convoy including an eight-wheel truck, two Toyota Land Cruiser 4x4s and several motorbikes. It has left London's Sheraton Park Tower hotel, heading through the capital to Dunsfold airfield in Surrey. The team had initially planned to take the air route across the English Channel, but the 35km flight was vetoed by aviation authorities. Skycar is required by law to obtain a license from Britain's Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), including a permit from the British Microlight Aircraft Association (BMAA). Skycar spokeswoman, Charlie Bell, however clarified that the team was "in liaison with the CAA and they are looking to finalize the permit," adding that it is in order for the rest of the trip.The Skycar will thereafter fly over the high-altitude Pyrenees near Andorra, and would cross over the 14-km (nine-mile) Strait of Gibraltar. The prepared journey also includes the route through Mauritania, Atlas Mountains in Morocco and into Mali. It will further cross the harsh environment of Sahara’s remote “Rub' al Khali" (empty quarter), for up to two weeks amid real fears of terrorist attacks.The expedition will not have an easy task, especially since the Skycar will be tested to the limits amid punishing operating environments and weather conditions. "Clearly the reliability of the car is crucial," said Mr Laughton. "We're going to have to cope with wind chill temperatures as low as -30 deg C and blistering heat of up to 50 deg C. But it's been fully tested at a secret location and it 100 per cent works," he added.The Parajet Skycar is a prototype flying car. It was developed by British paramotor manufacturer Parajet. The flying car utilizes a paramotor and a parafoil attached to a modified dune buggy to achieve sustained level flight. Should the engine fail, the vehicle can glide back to the ground. Should the canopy rip, an emergency reserve parachute would be deployed. It requires three minutes to convert it from a car to an aircraft. The prototype runs on biodiesel and is fully road-legal.In 2004 British engineer Giles Cardozo, a paramotor manufacturer, has invented a fan-powered flying car to prove the Skycar is real and works. “I started making a paramotor on wheels that you sit on and take off and it suddenly occurred to me, ‘Why not just have a car that does everything?’” Cardozo said. His Wiltshire-based company Parajet built the paramotor that the adventurer Bear Grylls did fly near Everest in 2008. In 1998, Grylls, aged 23, became the youngest British to ascend Mount Everest. In May 2007, Grylls and Cardozo departed from Pheriche, about 32 kilometres south of Mount Everest.Cardozo has claimed he may finally have made it. “I’ve been dreaming about making flying cars since I was a boy, thinking about all the ways it could be done and seeing how all the other people in the world have done it wrong. No one’s ever made one that really does work that you can go out and buy. But here’s the ultimate solution: it’s cheap, it’s safe, it works, all the technology’s already there. So I pushed ahead and thought, ‘We’ve got to do it’,” he said.If the Skycar becomes successful, Cardozo’s company plans a limited production with a selling price of  £35,000 to £40,000 for a standard model and £60,000 for a high-performance sports version. “It will be a serious aircraft but also a proper road machine, with acceleration to match your average sports car,” says Cardozo. “I’m not going to sell millions of them but even if we sell 20 we’ll be laughing,” he added.The explorers, with the aid of sponsors, supporters and benefactor Sir Ranulph Twisleton-Wykeham-Fiennes, 3rd Baronet OBE (known as 'Ranulph (Ran) Fiennes'), have aimed to raise more than £100,000 for some charities including an African orphanage.Services were slowly restored after an unscheduled strike by SNCF drivers closed one of Paris's six main railway stations.Gare Saint-Lazare was closed from 10 am local time on Tuesday morning.Members of the Sud Rail labour union later voted to return to work, and the station re-opened at 7 pm the same day.Gare Saint-Lazare is Europe's third busiest station, and its lines serve Paris suburbs, as well as inter-city routes to Normandy in northern France.Parker who turns 40 Friday and is best known for  her role as the Manolo Blahnik shoe-crazed Carrie Bradshaw on the HBO comedy, Sex and the City, was ousted after less than one year of a multi-year contract.  She signed a three-year $38 million deal with the San Francisco-based retailer in mid-2004 and has only appeared in ads for the company since the 2004 holiday season."While Gap will always seek partnerships with celebrities, musicians and rising stars, we don't have any future plans to sign a single person to a multi-season deal like the unique and special relationship we enjoyed with Sarah Jessica," Gap said in a statement Monday, stopping short of calling the ad campaign a failure. One such rising star slated to appear in the upcoming summer white denim promotion for Gap is 17-year-old Grammy-nominated British singer Joss Stone. Although Gap would not say its Parker ad campaign was less than successful, the same can not be said for stock market pundits. "If you're like me, and have gotten a little sick of hearing Sarah Jessica Parker sing about how much she likes being a girl on those Gap commercials," Alyce Lomax, a stock market commentator for The Motley Fool web site, said. "Investors who have been watching this stock know that despite the best efforts of Ms. Parker and the creative teams that came up with the ads, Gap's quarterly fashion sense continues to be, well, flattish ... in the meantime, other, hotter retailers have stolen the show."In a statement to reporters, Parker called the spilt with Gap a mutual decision, and walks away $38 million richer and recently signed a 2-year deal with former employer HBO to develop future programming for the network. Parker is also scheduled to appear in two upcoming comedy films, a movie adaptation of the Comedy Central series, Strangers with Candy, as well as The Family Stone, costarring Diane Keaton and Claire Danes.A 40-foot section of scenic Highway 1 about 12 miles south of Carmel, California crumbled into the Pacific Ocean on Wednesday, preventing access to the popular tourist area of  Big Sur from the north.The collapse of the southbound lane of the two-lane highway, also known as the Pacific Coast Highway, follows several days of rain. The soil under the northbound lane is also in danger of giving way. Drivers heading north were blocked at the Bixby Creek Bridge; the rest of the  road has been closed to traffic indefinitely. A long closure is expected to hurt the tourist business upon which Big Sur and and the tiny surrounding communities depend.The  California Highway Patrol (CHP) said no one was injured.The section that collapsed is on a curve south of the Rocky Creek Bridge,  where the highway clings to  the scenic Santa Lucia Mountains, and near the Bixby Creek Bridge,  one of the "iconic" arch bridges that make this stretch of the highway with its dramatic vistas such a well-known scenic drive.The cause of the collapse was not apparent as the road surface looked new, and no seeping water was visible. "It's basically just nature," a CHP officer  said.With Highway 1 closed, drivers wishing to access Big Sur from the north could go inland on Highway 101  and pass through  the Salinas Valley. To return to the coast drivers must pass over a steep, winding mountainous road. This route adds at least an hour to the journey.A passenger was killed Monday evening after a fire started in a washroom aboard a train near Leighton Buzzard, in Bedfordshire, England. Emergency services were called to the London Midland train, where they found the body of a female passenger who had suffered burns.British Transport Police confirmed one female individual was killed in the blaze. A spokesperson said: "The deceased woman has injuries consistent with burns, no other person is believed to have been involved in the incident. Officers from the fire and ambulance services are on the scene."The fire has caused serious disruption to trains on the West Coast Main Line. A spokesperson for Network Rail said they were attempting to reopen two of the four tracks on the line as London Midland scrambled to organise a replacement bus service.London Midland said no-one else was injured in the incident. "The fire appeared to have been in the toilet," a spokesperson said. "A passenger reported the fire to a conductor. All the other passengers got off safely."U.S. security officials have cleared a Delta Airlines passenger jet diverted to New Mexico to take off again because "no suspicious items" had been found. The aircraft was reportedly initially diverted after the crew found a note with the word "bomb" written on it in the lavatory, but security officials have declined to comment on the nature of the "potential security threat".Delta Airlines 1706 — a domestic U.S. flight between Detroit and San Diego — diverted to Albuquerque International Sunport in Albuquerque, where the Boeing 737-800 aircraft was taken to a remote area of the airport. Passengers were interviewed by FBI agents, and dogs searched all the luggage on board. No one has yet been arrested, but the note has been determined to be hoax.One passenger said the captain spoke over the intercom, saying: "We're getting ready to divert. It's probably a hoax, but we've got to take this very seriously." After being cleared of any threat, the aircraft was expected to continue to San Diego.“People are not paying with cash anymore,” Alex Demir stressed when asked about rising gas prices. Increasingly, they opt to pay with plastic. The payment method involves no transaction fee, is safer than cash if lost or stolen, and is more convenient. The plastic Debit and Credit Cards also mean people, if they choose to, can pay at the pump and skip making the trip inside the station. No wonder its use is on the rise.Demir is the owner-operator of the Shell gas station that changed over on Thursday from what used to be a Texaco. He expects pump prices to hit $2.50 a gallon before levelling and the sticker shock wears off.Demir estimates he passes along in the form of higher gas prices a nickel per gallon due to the surcharge he incurs from processing electronic purchases. Each time a buyer uses plastic to make a payment, he submits the receipt to a bank to process for having the money credited into his account. The bank keeps 3% of the total amount of his transactions as a processing surcharge, or fee.When the use of plastic was first gaining acceptance in the gas pumping business, people who used plastic paid a higher price, about 3 cents a gallon, when at the time gas cost about a dollar a gallon. Then advertising campaigns offering “Credit same as Cash” started, and changed the business standard to where now all stations charge the same, regardless of cash or plastic payment.“The banks are making a lot of money on this,” Demir says. Now that the price of gas has more than doubled, the fees banks collect on processing these plastic transactions has more than doubled too. The entire transaction banks use to process these payments is electronic, involving hardly any labor at all. But the processing fee remains unchanged, which means a fat paycheck for banks.Now maybe he and other gas stations will go back to offering a discount for cash. Processing plastic transactions is a variable cost to Demir over which he has no control when his pump prices are 'Credit same as Cash". The use of plastic directly affects his profit margin by the 3% processing fee.When asked about high gas prices from suppliers, he dismissed the notion with a wave of his hand. “They control everything,” he said.The first thing to catch my eye when I approached what used to be a Texeco gas station, was a guy up in a man-lift beside the pump price sign. Seeing heavy equipment being used to change what I thought were the gas prices, I thought, "Gawds, these prices are getting out of hand!"After stopping in later and talking with the owner, I was impressed by how elated he was on the subject of bank processing fees. This was news to me. So I reported it.The man-lift I saw earlier is absent from the photograph I took. They had used the lift to change the pump price sign from Texaco to Shell.Online money transfer company PayPal is reportedly blocking over $20,000 in donations from the website Something Awful, donations intended for the American Red Cross hurricane Katrina relief efforts. Rich Kyanka, founder of Something Awful, reports that the account he set up for Red Cross donations has been suspended by the eBay-owned subsidiary due to "suspicious behavior". According to Kyanka, PayPal is requesting "proof of delivery", even though there is no item being purchased and the account was set up to accept donations. The account remains frozen. Kyanka is attempting to solve the problem by faxing various documents to PayPal in order to prove the legitimacy of the drive. According to recent updates posted on the Something Awful website, Kyanka was requesting that refunds were issued for all donations that were sent. According to Kyanka, the account was frozen because PayPal has no link with the Red Cross. A solution proposed by PayPal was to have all donations go to the United Way. While initially accepting offer, Kyanka reconsidered when Something Awful readers objected to having their donation sent to the United Way — partly due to the organizations troubled past. Instead of the PayPal donation setup, Kyanka has requested that readers send any donations directly to the Red Cross.Something Awful, despite being a humor website, has a history of running donation drives for certain causes, including purchasing ballistic chest plates and body armor for a platoon in the US Army's 25th Infantry Division during the 2003 Iraq War. The Something Awful webservers are located in New Orleans where Hurricane Katrina hit.The online payment service PayPal has received a banking licence in Luxembourg, promoting it to the status of a bank. As a consequence PayPal will move their headquarters to Luxembourg.Since 2004 PayPal had the status of an Electronic Money Issuer supervised by the U.K. Financial Services Authority. Having an official bank status opens new prospects for the company: "This will allow us to actively scout retailers in different European countries. With our British licence, we could only do that in the U.K. itself, and in other countries we could only react to requests of the retailers themselves," Christopher Coonen, General Manager of PayPal Southern Europe and Benelux, explained.The change will not affect existing customers dramatically, says Coonen: "We are going to inform them of the new status, and they will have to accept our terms of service again." He also said that for now, there were no plans to use the new licence to offer traditional banking services, but the possibility was being evaluated by PayPal. Working with local partners would be an option to accomplish this, according to Coonen.The British newspaper The Daily Telegraph speculates that the move is part of a strategy to compete with Google's payment service Google Checkout, which launched in the U.K. last month.PayPal has 130 million users worldwide, and 35 million customers in Europe. Payments via its mother company eBay continue to make up 60% of PayPal's revenues. More than half of Britain's internet users have a PayPal account.The program, based in Owings Mills, Maryland, has been on the air continuously for 35 years, becoming one of the longest-running programs in U.S. television history. It had been struggling to regain audience lost after the producers fired long-time host Louis Rukeyser in 2002 and signed a controversial deal with AOL Time Warner to co produce the show with the editorial staff of Fortune magazine.According to a report in the New York Times, after Rukeyser's dismissal, 22 of the show's regular expert guests vowed never to appear on the program again. Rukeyser was later hired by cable channel CNBC, where he hosted a program that aired in direct competition with Wall $treet Week in the U.S. eastern time zone until he fell ill in December 2004.Pennsylvania lost 41,000 jobs in February, the largest one-month span of job loss in the state in more than 13 years. According to media reports, about 1 in every 140 Pennsylvania jobs were lost in February, marking the worst drop-off in a single month since January 1996.Since the recession began, Pennsylvanians have lost more than 100,000 jobs, leaving the state with less jobs than it had in July 2005, according to state figures."It's clearly beginning to hit Pennsylvania in a way that it hasn't so far," Mark Price, labor economist with the Harrisburg-based Keystone Research Center, told the Associated Press. "Hopefully this is a blip, but we're going to definitely continue to lose jobs, hopefully not at this pace."Governor Ed Rendell announced the numbers Thursday, the same day he called on Philadelphia-based oil refiner Sunoco to reverse its plans to cut 750 jobs, or about 20 percent of the salaried workforce.Rendell said Sunoco should rescind the cuts because last year, the company made US$776 million in profit."In fact, although 2008 earnings were below expectations in the first two quarters, earnings in the last two quarters of 2008 were robust, to say the least," he said, according to The Philadelphia Inquirer.Sunoco officials said the move was a necessary response to a downturn in its oil-refining and chemical manufacturing businesses.General Motors Corporation (GM), an American automaker which has filed for bankruptcy protection, announced on Friday that the Penske Automotive Group (PAG) was selected to purchase Saturn Corporation. The transaction should be completed in October.The purchase includes rights to the Saturn brand, its five current models and its dealership network. Two models would be discontinued, the Sky and Astra.  GM would continue building the Aura sedan, the SUV's, Vue and Outlook for at least two more years.Saturn has 350 dealers across the United States. The dealers employ more than 13,000 jobs and sell only the Saturn autos. Canadian Saturn dealers are not included in the deal.According to Penske future Saturn vehicles will be fuel economy focused.  An expert indicated that this would move Saturn back to its roots of a entry level car company.  PAG is in talks with several international automakers to replace GM after 2011. Automotive News reports that Renault Samsung Motors of Korea is the most likely candidate.Penske wants Jill Lajdziak, Saturn's general manager, and Tom LaSorda, former Chrysler President to head up the company when it is independent of GM.Serra Automotive in Grand Blanc Township, Genesee County, Michigan, is in talks to take a partial ownership in a new Saturn lead by Penske.PepsiCo has acquired Poland's Star Foods, a leading maker of snacks, for an undisclosed sum.  The deal strengthens its position in Poland in snacks sales such as potato chips.  More than half of PepsiCo's total sales is from snacks, less than 20% is from soft drinks.  Star Foods was selling potato chips under the brand Star Chips, and corn snacks under the brand Mr. Snaki.  Star Foods was privately held by the Mitzalis family, Advent International, Copernicus Capital Partners, and Cazolico S.A.PepsiCo Inc. is in line to get its first female chief executive before the end of the year. Steven S. Reinemund, chairman and CEO of the U.S. soft drink and snack food giant, announced his retirement via press release effective in May, 2007. Reinemund, 58, said he was leaving to spend more time with his family.The same PepsiCo release confirmed that Indra Nooyi, currently president and CFO, will take over for Reinemund. Nooyi's current position will be split in two. The first is scheduled to be filled by Richard Goodman, 57, currently CFO of PepsiCo International, who will become CFO. Hugh Johnston, 44, currently senior vice president of transformation, was promoted to the newly created post of executive vice president of operations, procurement and information technology.Nooyi, 50, is a Yale-educated daughter of a middle class Indian family, according to her official biography. She is scheduled to succeed Reinemund, in October, the company said. Reinemund reportedly will stay with PepsiCo until May, 2007. Together, Nooyi and Reinemund have guided PepsiCo through several large take-overs and has seen the company overtake The Coca-Cola Company both in terms of sales and market value. Coca-Cola is still the No. 1 soft drink maker based on U.S. and global market share. A significant portion of PepsiCo's sales revenue comes from non-drink brands in its Frito-Lay and Quaker Oats product lines.Some on Wall Street were surprised by Reinemund's retirement announcement, according to news reports. Monday, the  stock (ticker:PEP) closed up $0.62 at $63.95 per share on the NYSE.Citizens from Punta Arenas, Chile, the world's southernmost city and capital of the Magallanes and Antártica Chilena Region, remained on strike Wednesday after Chilean President Sebastián Piñera announced an increase in natural gas prices by 16.8 percent, in that region.Citizens from Punta Arenas and politicians are demanding that Piñera maintain subsidies on natural gas. "We want dialogue, to continue talking in a serious and responsible way about the future of Magallanes," Ena von Baer, the government spokeswoman, said on Wednesday morning.Piñera's government justifies the increase of the gas price "as a technical decision in response to its declining reserves." Two persons were killed amid the protests in the capital of Magallanes, on Tuesday night.Peruvians living near the site of a release of mercury are preparing to sue a U.S. mining company, announcing last Saturday that they will bring their case before a Denver judge.On June 2, 2000, a serious accident in the province of Cajamarca, in Peru, poisoned many residents with mercury, a highly toxic heavy metal. A truck from Newmont Mining Company dumped two metal canisters of mercury along an Andean highway, in the communities of San Juan, Choropampa, and Magdalena. Curious townspeople (mostly children) picked up the silvery droplets, and some even drank some of it. Many residents became sick from severe mercury poisoning. Some of those who came in contact with the mercury suffered blindness, and one even had a purplish rash on her body.Over 300 people directly suffered the effects of mercury poisoning.As the owners of the Yanacocha mine which produced the mercury, Newmont Mining offered up to US$6 thousand to more than 700 local residents, but over 1,100 others are still engaged in a legal battle with Newmont over the case.In today's global economy, many international businesses have looked overseas to maintain their profits, but environmental law professor James Otto is asking about the cost to the environment and public health. "Any company that wants to mine internationally now must not only have the legal right to mine but also a 'social license' to operate," he said. "Peru has been a wake-up call."As the Peruvian residents gear up for their lawsuit against Denver-based Newmont Mining, the world's largest gold mining firm, some of these important questions may finally be answered. After the breakdown of mediation talks with Newmont on January 20, the residents and their lawyer decided to stop negotiating behind closed doors and take their case to the public. Last Saturday, March 5, 2005, they announced that they are bringing their suit before Denver District Judge Robert Hyatt. "If successful," states Ken Krowder who represents the plaintiffs, "[this] would mark the first time an American firm is held accountable for environmental damages overseas."This is not the first time Newmont Mining has had trouble with an emerging Third World environmental movement. Recently, in August 2004, a US$543 million lawsuit was filed against Newmont Mining by the Indonesian Environmental Ministry and local villagers. They claim that pollution caused by the company’s mining activities has caused serious illnesses and other health problems, including skin disease, tumors, birth defects, and a decline in fish stocks, a staple food. One particular mining practice used frequently by Newmont Mining in Indonesia is submarine tailings disposal, a waste disposal method for mercury and arsenic that is outlawed in the United States.At least six Newmont Mining managers, including an American and an Australian, face up to 15 years in a Jakarta prison for environmental and corporate crime in that case.The local Peruvian residents are continuing their fight for safer mining practices and compensation for existing damage and injuries. Thousands of local townspeople protested against the Yanacocha mine last fall, demanding protection for the local water supply.Newmont Mining officials have blamed the June 2000 mercury spill on a contractor, and have lost the battle to keep the case out of the American court system.Today, at 12:00 p.m. EDT (UTC-4) the Animal rights group People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) staged a "naked" protest in White Plains, New York. The target of the protest was British fashion house, Burberry, and their fur practices.Two "naked" female PETA members, wearing nothing but bikini bottoms and body paint held billboards with the slogan, "When plaid goes bad." The body paint was done in the trademarked Burberry Check plaid design.Two other PETA members were there handing out leaflets and showing a video presentation. The painted protesters were spattered with far less fake blood than other documented PETA protests in this campaign.PETA is protesting Burberry for the company's use of fur in its products and how it is obtained. The group has staged similar protests around the world in its ongoing "BloodyBurberry"-campaign.The protest took place at the intersection of Westchester Avenue and Bloomingdale Road in front of the The Westchester, an upscale shopping mall owned by Simon Property Group. Burberry has a retail store in the mall.This corner is far from the mall's entrances and sees little pedestrian traffic. However, it does see heavy traffic by motorists, before whom the protestors were in plain sight. While Wikinews was on the scene, police and news media were the only other pedestrians.The police presence was significant, numbering at least two vehicles and two mounted police officers. But since there was no crowd to control, they just hung back. Media was also there in numbers. At least two television crews could be observed.As far as Wikinews can tell, Burberry has yet to make any public comment about any of the "BloodyBurberry" protests.Movie studio company, New Line Cinema has announced that movie director Peter Jackson will never be allowed to work on another New Line film. This announcement will also mean that Mr Jackson will not be allowed to film the prequel titled The Hobbit to The Lord of the Rings films he directed.The announcement was made mainly because New Zealander Mr Jackson and his partner, Fran Walsh, filed a law suit against New Line in 2005 as they believed New Line owed them much more money than they received for The Lord of the Rings trilogy as shown to them by a partial audit of The Fellowship of the Ring. Mr Jackson described it as "financial anomalies," which New Line refused to account for. "Fundamentally, our legal action is about holding New Line to its contractual obligations and promises." The film trilogies have so far managed to earn US$3 billion in ticket sales since 2001.New Line has repeatedly refused permission for Mr Jackson to audit the other films in the trilogy The Two Towers, and The Return of the King, even though Mr Jackson described film auditing as a common practice. "We don't understand why New Line Cinema has taken this position," Mr Jackson said.In an interview with the Sci Fi Wire, Robert Shaye, co-chairman of New Line and executive producer of The Lord of the Rings, said that New Line does not want to do any films, including The Hobbit, with Mr Jackson in the future. "I do not want to make a movie with somebody who is suing me. It will never happen during my watch.""I don't care about Peter Jackson anymore. He wants to have another $100 million or $50 million, whatever he's suing us for," Mr Shaye said.Mr Shaye said he has been offended by the lawsuit brought to his company by Mr Jackson. "He got a quarter of a billion dollars paid to him so far, justifiable, according to contract, completely right, [but then] turns around without wanting to have a discussion with us and sues us and refuses to discuss it unless we just give in to his plan."However Mr Jackson claims that he had been trying to discuss it with New Line, saying: "We attempted to discuss the issues raised with New Line for over a year but the studio was and continues to be completely uncooperative. ... Nobody likes taking legal action, but the studio left us with no alternative."Mr Jackson has said that he has and will continue to have the highest respect and affection for Mr Shaye and has said that he regrets he has taken the lawsuit personally."[Jackson's] either had very poor counsel or is completely misinformed and myopic to think that I care whether I give him [anything]," Mr Shaye said.Mr Shaye has said he is disappointed that many of the stars in The Lord of the Rings trilogy had refused to celebrate New Line's 40th anniversary. Mr Jackson said that the reason for that was probably because Mr Shaye had issues with the cast years before the lawsuit arose.Live music venues in Edinburgh, Scotland are awaiting a review later this year on the 2005 licensing policy, which places limitations on the volume of amplified music in the city. Investigating into how the policy is affecting the Edinburgh music scene, a group of Wikinews writers interviewed venue owners, academics, the City of Edinburgh Council, and local band The Mean Reds to get different perspectives on the issue. Since the clause was introduced by the government of the city of Edinburgh, licensed venues have been prohibited from allowing music to be amplified to the extent it is audible to nearby residential properties. This has affected the live music scene, with several venues discontinuing regular events such as open mic nights, and hosting bands and artists.Currently, the licensing policy allows licensing standards officers to order a venue to cease live music on any particular night, based on a single noise complaint from the public. The volume is not electronically measured to determine if it breaches a decibel volume level. Over roughly the past year there have been 56 separate noise complaints made against 18 venues throughout the city.A petition to amend the clause has garnered over 3,000 signatures, including the support of bar owners, musicians, and members of the general public. On November 17, 2014, the government's Culture and Sport Committee hosted an open forum meeting at Usher Hall. Musicians, venue owners and industry professionals were encouraged to provide their thoughts on how the council could improve live music in the city. Ways to promote live music as a key cultural aspect of Edinburgh were discussed and it was suggested that it could be beneficial to try and replicate the management system of live music of other global cities renowned for their live music scenes. However, the suggestion which prevailed above all others was simply to review the existing licensing policy.Councillor (Cllr) Norma Austin-Hart, Vice Convenor of the Culture and Sport Committee, is responsible for the working group Music is Audible. The group is comprised of local music professionals, and councillors and officials from Edinburgh Council. A document circulated to the Music is Audible group stated the council aims "to achieve a balance between protecting residents and supporting venues".Following standard procedure, when a complaint is made, a Licensing Standards Officer (LSO) is dispatched to investigate the venue and evaluate the level of noise. If deemed to be too loud, the LSO asks the venue to lower the noise level. According to a document provided by the City of Edinburgh Council, "not one single business has lost its license or been closed down because of a breach to the noise condition in Edinburgh."In the Scotland Licensing Policy (2005), Clause 6.2 states, "where the operating plan indicates that music is to be played in a premises, the board will consider the imposition of a condition requiring amplified music from those premises to be inaudible in residential property." According to Cllr Austin-Hart, the high volume of tenement housing in the city centre makes it difficult for music to be inaudible.During the Edinburgh Festival Fringe during the summer, venues are given temporary licences that allow them to operate for the duration of the festival and under the condition that "all amplified music and vocals are controlled to the satisfaction of the Director of Services for Communities", as stated in a document from the council. During the festival, there is an 11 p.m. noise restriction on amplified music, and noise may be measured by Environmental Health staff using sophisticated equipment. Noise is restricted to 65dB(A) from the facades of residential properties; however, complaints from residents still occur. In the document from the council, they note these conditions and limitations for temporary venues would not necessarily be appropriate for permanent licensed premises.In a phone interview, Cllr Austin-Hart expressed her concern about the unsettlement in Edinburgh regarding live music. She referenced the closure of the well-known Picture House, a venue that has provided entertainment for over half a century, and the community's opposition to commercial public bar chain Wetherspoon buying the venue. "[It] is a well-known pub that does not play any form of music", Cllr Austin-Hart said. "[T]hey feel as if it is another blow to Edinburgh's live music". "[We] cannot stop Wetherspoon's from buying this venue; we have no control over this."The venue has operated under different names, including the Caley Palais which hosted bands such as Queen and AC/DC. The Picture House opened in 2008.One of the venues which has been significantly affected by the licensing laws is the Phoenix Bar, on Broughton Street. The bar's owner, Sam Roberts, was induced to cease live music gigs in March, following a number of noise complaints against the venue. As a result, Ms Roberts was inspired to start the aforementioned petition to have Clause 6.2 of the licensing policy reviewed, in an effort to remove the 'inaudibility' statement that is affecting venues and the music scene."I think we not only encourage it, but actively support the Edinburgh music scene," Ms Roberts says of the Phoenix Bar and other venues, "the problem is that it is a dying scene."When Ms Roberts purchased the venue in 2013, she continued the existing 30-year legacy established by the previous owners of hosting live acts. Representative of Edinburgh's colourful music scene, a  diverse range of genres have been hosted at the venue. Ms Roberts described the atmosphere when live music acts perform at her venue as "electric". "The whole community comes together singing, dancing and having a party. Letting their hair down and forgetting their troubles. People go home happy after a brilliant night out. All the staff usually join in; the pub comes alive". However licensing restrictions have seen a majority of the acts shut down due to noise complaints. "We have put on jazz, blues, rock, rockabilly, folk, celtic and pop live acts and have had to close everything down." "Residents in Edinburgh unfortunately know that the Council policy gives them all the rights in the world, and the pubs and clubs none", Ms Roberts clarified.Discussing how inaudibility has affected venues and musicians alike, Ms Roberts stated many pubs have lost profit through the absence of gigs, and trying to soundproof their venue.  "It has put many musicians out of work and it has had an enormous effect on earnings in the pub. [...] Many clubs and bars have been forced to invest in thousands of pounds worth of soundproofing equipment which has nearly bankrupted them, only to find that even the tiniest bit of noise can still force a closure. It is a ridiculously one-sided situation." Ms Roberts feels inaudibility is an unfair clause for venues. "I think it very clearly favours residents in Edinburgh and not business. [...] Nothing is being done to support local business, and closing down all the live music venues in Edinburgh has hurt financially in so many ways. Not only do you lose money, you lose new faces, you lose the respect of the local musicians, and you begin to lose all hope in a 'fair go'."With the petition holding a considerable number of signatures, Ms Roberts states she is still sceptical of any change occurring. "Over three thousand people have signed the petition and still the council is not moving. They have taken action on petitions with far fewer signatures." Ms Roberts also added, "Right now I don't think Edinburgh has much hope of positive change".Ms Roberts seems to have lost all hope for positive change in relation to Edinburgh's music scene, and argues Glasgow is now the regional choice for live music and venues. "[E]veryone in the business knows they have to go to Glasgow for a decent scene. Glasgow City Council get behind their city."Ms Martina Cannon, member of local band The Mean Reds, said a regular 'Open Mic Night' she hosted at The Parlour on Duke Street has ceased after a number of complaints were made against the venue. "It was a shame because it had built up some momentum over the months it had been running". She described financial loss to the venue from cancelling the event, as well as loss to her as organiser of the event.Sneaky Pete's music bar and club, owned by Nick Stewart, is described on its website as "open and busy every night"."Many clubs could be defined as bars that host music, but we really are a music venue that serves drinks", Mr Stewart says.  He sees the live music scene as essential for maintaining nightlife in Edinburgh not only because of the economic benefit but more importantly because of the cultural significance. "Music is one of the important things in life. [...] it's emotionally and intellectually engaging, and it adds to the quality of life that people lead."Sneaky Pete's has not been immune to the inaudibility clause. The business has spent about 20,000 pounds on multiple soundproofing fixes designed to quell complaints from neighboring residents. "The business suffered a great deal in between losing the option to do gigs for fear of complaints, and finishing the soundproofing. As I mentioned, we are a music business that serves drinks, not a bar that also has music, so when we lose shows, we lose a great deal of trade", said Mr Stewart.He believes there is a better way to go about handling complaints and fixing public nuisances. "The local mandatory condition requiring 'amplified music and vocals' to be 'inaudible' should be struck from all licenses. The requirement presupposes that nuisance is caused by music venues, when this may not reasonably be said to be the case. [...] Nuisance is not defined in the Licensing Act nor is it defined in the Public Health Act (Scotland) 2008. However, The Consultation on Guidance to accompany the Statutory Nuisance Provisions of the Public Health etc (Scotland) Act 2008 states that 'There are eight key issues to consider when evaluating whether a nuisance exists[...]'".The eight key factors are impact, locality, time, frequency, duration, convention, importance, and avoidability. Stewart believes it is these factors that should be taken into consideration by LSOs responding to complaints instead of the sole factor of "audibility".He believes multiple steps should be taken before considering revocation of licenses. Firstly, LSOs should determine whether a venue is a nuisance based on the eight factors. Then, the venue should have the opportunity to comply by using methods such as changing the nature of their live performances (e.g. from hard rock to acoustic rock), changing their hours of operation, or soundproofing. If the venue still fails to comply, then a board can review their license with the goal of finding more ways to bring them into compliance as opposed to revoking their license.Nick Stewart has discussed his proposal at length with Music is Audible and said he means to present his proposal to the City of Edinburgh Council.Dr Adam Behr, a music academic and research associate at the University of Edinburgh who has conducted research on the cultural value of live music, says live music significantly contributes to the economic performance of cities. He said studies have shown revenue creation and the provision of employment are significant factors which come about as a result of live music. A 2014 report by UK Music showed the economic value generated by live music in the UK in 2013 was £789 million and provided the equivalent of 21,600 full time jobs.As the music industry is international by nature, Behr says this complicates the way revenue is allocated, "For instance, if an American artist plays a venue owned by a British company at a gig which is promoted by a company that is part British owned but majority owned by, say, Live Nation (a major international entertainment company) — then the flow of revenues might not be as straightforward as it seems [at] first."Despite these complexities, Behr highlighted the broader advantages, "There are, of course, ancillary benefits, especially for big gigs [...] Obviously other local businesses like bars, restaurants and carparks benefit from increased trade", he added.Behr criticised the idea of making music inaudible and called it "unrealistic". He said it could limit what kind of music can be played at venues and could force vendors to spend a large amount of money on equipment that enables them to meet noise cancelling requirements. He also mentioned the consequences this has for grassroots music venues as more 'established' venues within the city would be the only ones able to afford these changes.Alongside the inaudibility dispute has been the number of sites that have been closing for the past number of years. According to Dr Behr, this has brought attention to the issue of retaining live music venues in the city and has caused the council to re-evaluate its music strategy and overall cultural policy.This month, Dr Behr said he is to work on a live music census for Edinburgh's Council which aims to find out what types of music is played, where, and what exactly it brings to the city. This is in an effort to get the Edinburgh city council to see any opportunities it has with live music and the importance of grassroots venues. The census is similar to one conducted in Victoria, Australia in 2012 on the extent of live music in the state and its economic benefit.As for the solution to the inaudibility clause, Behr says the initial step is dialogue, and this has already begun. "Having forum discussion, though, is a start — and an improvement", he said. "There won't be an overnight solution, but work is ongoing to try to find one that can stick in the long term."Beverley Whitrick, Strategic Director of Music Venue Trust, said she is unable to comment on her work with the City of Edinburgh Council or on potential changes to the inaudibility clause in the Licensing Policy. However, she says, "I have been asked to assess the situation and make recommendations in September".According to The Scotsman, the Council is working toward helping Edinburgh's cultural and entertainment scene.  Deputy Council Leader Sandy Howat said views of the entertainment industry needs to change and the Council will no longer consider the scene as a "sideline".Senior members of the Council, The Scotsman reported, aim to review the planning of the city to make culture more of a priority. Howat said, "If you're trying to harness a living community and are creating facilities for people living, working and playing then culture should form part of that."The review of the inaudibility clause in the Licensing Policy is set to be reviewed near the end of 2016 but the concept of bringing it forward to this year is still under discussion.Apple is being accused of anti-gay discrimination after it made available  a free app for the iPhone and iPad that aims to help "homosexual strugglers" through bible teaching. The app was released in mid-February by Exodus International, a Christian ministry that wants to provide a "refuge for people looking for help in their journey out of homosexuality." To date, over 130,000 people have signed a petition requesting Apple to withdraw the app.The app was developed  by Exodus International. The statement on its website says, "Exodus is a Christian ministry that supports those wanting to reconcile their faith with their sexual behavior." It stresses that Apple has given the app a "4+" rating meaning it  contains "no objectionable content." The app gives users "freedom from homosexuality through the power of Jesus", according to the group.Truth Wins Out, a gay rights activist group that campaigns against "ex-gay" ministries  encouraging people to change their sexual orientation,  launched a petition on the website of  change.org requesting that Apple remove the app. It accuses Exodus of using "scare tactics, misinformation, stereotypes and distortions of LGBT life to recruit clients." It says Exodus is attempting to reach young people with a   message that is especially "dangerous" in light of recent suicides of LGBT youth.Wayne Besen, leader of Truth Wins Out, says the message of Exodus International constitutes hate speech.Jeff Buchanan of  Exodus International, said the app is intended to reach those that  share the church's beliefs. "We are reaching those with unwanted same sex attraction," he said. "We were disappointed to see this petition. What we're asking for is fair and equal representation on the Apple platform. We see this as a religious freedom." The issue highlights the problems Apple faces if it becomes involved in policing the content of the countless religious apps in its store, any of which has the potential to be offensive to someone. "It's an issue of tolerance," Buchanan said. "We're simply asking that we have the same opportunity to voice our message as others."Apple is well known for strictly monitoring the content of  the apps offered to users of its gadgets, and excludes sexually explicit material, offensive speech and images, and last November banned an app that entreated users to speak out against gay marriage.The petrol price reductions seen across most of Australia have been short-lived for those living in the regional New South Wales city of Bathurst. An investigation by Wikinews has discovered retailers in Bathurst were late to lower petrol pricing and have been amongst the first to increase them.Following a threat by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) to publically shame fuel retailers and oil companies, most fuel outlets across Australia reduced prices by 5 to 10 cents per litre. The ACCC argued that the wholesale cost of petrol was around 10 cents per litre higher than the Singapore market, which Australia benchmarks itself against.On January 24, the price of Unleaded fuel in Bathurst dropped only 2 cents from 119.9 cents to 117.9 cents. Today, Coles Express on Durham Street has increased the price of their unleaded fuel to the previous level of 119.9 cents.Wikinews has discovered in its investigations that the price of unleaded petrol at sites in the Blue Mountains and Sydney's Inner-West have either stabilised or reduced by a further 1 to 2 cents following the initial mid-January price cuts.Unleaded petrol 93 km from Bathurst at Medlow Bath was a whopping 12 cents per litre cheaper, at 107.7 cents. Fuel in Sydney's Inner-West was only 2 cents per litre less than Medlow Bath, despite being a similar distance apart. Curiously, the price of fuel in Medlow Bath has been stable, while the price in Sydney's Inner-West has actually dropped by 1 to 2 cents.Pfizer CEO Jeffery Kindler has announced that 2,410 jobs will be cut in Michigan, taking out three plants in the state. Pfizer has also announced that they will cut a total of 10 000 jobs by next year. The Ann Arbor, Kalamazoo, and Plymouth sites are representatives of the world's largest drug manufacturing company. A portion of these jobs will be reassigned in Pfizer plants in cities such as La Jolla, CA, Groton, CT, and Sandwich in the United Kingdom. These cuts come after Pfizer's newest drug in development, torcetrapib, was scrapped late last year due to unexpected side effects.The money spent researching the drug Torcetrapib ended with the loss of millions of dollars. This comes as a bigger blow to the region when coupled with ongoing losses to major car manufacturers in the Detroit area, and Gov. Jennifer Granholm said today, "We’re going to have a whole ‘Stick Around Ann Arbor’ campaign for these employees, because we want them to stay here."Among the other groups affected are Ann Arbor schools, to whom Pfizer pays millions of dollars, and local businesses. Most employees declined comment, as they are being asked by Pfizer not to talk with the media.The Philippine economy grew by 5.9%, annual rate, during the second quarter of 2012 which is less than the first quarter's figure of more than 6% annual rate, as reported by The Associated Press. According to Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan, strong domestic demand from the services sector and spending from money remitted by expatriate Filipinos helped boost the nation's economy despite the ongoing global economic crisis. In spite of this growth, numerous risks still lurk around the corner, said Balisacan. He said that changes in China and the El Niño remain as the biggest challenges to the economy. Balsican also noted that poor infrastructure may also have a negative impact although spending on infrastructure, which may cost nearly $200 million in investment, may contribute to growth.The Philippines central bank has cut key interest rates three times already this year in order to continue this economic expansion. Analysts, such as economist Eugene Leow of Singapore-based DBS bank, agree that, "There is definitely room to further cut rates if needed," in order to promote further growth.According to government figures published on Tuesday, Philippine exports fell by 41% in January to the lowest levels in eight years. The plunge was preceded by a 40.4% year-on-year loss last December.Philippines' January export receipts equaled US$2.494 billion, the lowest figures since April 2001, when exports were at $2.246 billion. The statistics are down 6.8% month-on-month from last December.The National Statistics Office said that electronic exports, which comprise over half of the country's exports, dropped 48.4 percent to $1.345 billion, almost an eleven-year low.The government planning office announced that the export predictions for this year had fallen to 6-8%, down from their original estimate of 1-3%."We expect the [export] losses will taper off in February and March. Export growth will still be negative but it will be less than in January," said the president of the Philippine Exporters Confederation, Sergio Ortiz-Luis, to the AFP news agency. "It looks like exports will be negative for the whole year, even assuming there is a recovery in the second half. It will be difficult to end up with positive growth at this point."A powerful blast has razed a fireworks factory 50 kilometers (31 miles) south of the Philippines capital Manila shortly before noon on Thursday, killing at least eight people and injuring more than 70 others, Cavite Governor Ayong Maliksi said. Four of the eight fatalities have already been identified by factory officials. They are: Clodelio Iso, Rodelio Iso, Marlon Rodrin, Angelo Francisco and Gerardo Amparo. The fire was declared to be out at around 2:33 p.m. local time (UTC+8).Most of the explosion victims were employees of the Starmaker Fireworks Factory (SFF) located in Barangay Conchu, Trece Martires City. They were rushed to the General Emilio Aguinaldo Memorial Hospital, Korean-Philippines Friendship Hospital, Treceno Medical Pavillion and Mark Jem Hospital, and are still being treated for third-degree burns and cuts from glass shards, said Ryan Lucero, acting area manager of SFF factory and the Office of the Civil Defense-Regional Disaster Coordinating Center.Richard Rivera, SFF spokesman, said the firm meets "global security standards." Founded in 1995, the firm pioneered synchronized music and pyrotechnics, which it also exported to other countries. SFF has promised to extend aid to the blast victims. "The company is saddened over what happened," he said. The accidental fire sparked by the fireworks blast has spread to the nearby Yoshita corporation.Several houses and a church near the fireworks factory were also damaged by the powerful blast which created several craters inside the factory's compound. One crater measured at least 200 meters wide. "It was really frightening. We scampered for safety because the ground was shaking and on fire. Then, body parts started flying around together with metal and wooden debris," said Juanito Salvatos, a gardener who was near the factory.According to Cavite police Superintendent Reynaldo Galam, the mutilated bodies of two men and a woman were recovered outside the SFF compound near a residential area in Trece Martires city. Jonathan Seramillo, Cavite NBI medico legal officer, said a commercial area, including the Cavite Provincial Capitol, suffered damages even both are one kilometer away from the explosion site, while 2 vehicles were also damaged."The 10:45 a.m. explosion inside the half hectare SFF pyrotechnics compound was so loud that it was heard as far as 500 meters away from the scene of the blast," said Galam. "The explosion was so powerful that it broke window panes even at the municipal hall more than a kilometer away,” said Mayor Melencio de Sagun Jr. The explosion has also caused part of the factory roof to land more than 1.5km (1 mile) away, and toppled concrete walls. Sagun Jr. has cited reports that "the incident stemmed from a test of fireworks that went awry," adding that the fireworks were to be delivered to the SM Mall of Asia in Pasay City. "The one who tested it violated a rule barring testing inside the compound," he added, and explained that the factory is inside an industrial zone. The blast has also shattered the glass of two adjacent semi-conductor plants, injuring some of the employees."Shockwaves shattered windows and toppled concrete fences of nearby homes, knocking out electricity and raining down unexploded fireworks in the area," said Army Col. Romeo Ucag, who assisted in putting out the blaze, adding, "he heard the explosion and saw a thick column of smoke from his post in Tanza, Cavite, six miles (10 kilometers) north of Trece Martires."Amid thick black smoke enveloping the fireworks factory three hours after the explosion, human body parts have scattered meters away from the fireworks factory. "There are body parts scattered outside," said Galam, adding that "police and health officials were trying to account for the estimated 100 staff." According to Senior Superintendent Hernando Zafra, director of the Cavite provincial police, "they could not yet determine the cause of the explosion, which was heard by people three kilometers away from the site." Authorities have also continued to sift through the rubble of the explosion. Zafra has said most of the victims could not be identified because their bodies have been dismembered and charred beyond recognition. Earlier, he has counted 43 people inside the factory being treated for injuries. Zafra has further noted that police arson investigators and National Bureau of Investigation officials are on the site to probe the cause of the explosion. Frederick Bragas of the OCD-RDCC 4-A said "forensic experts are now determining the identities of the fatalities."Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo assured local and foreign investors in the country that the government has placed national security on its top priority as alert levels against possible terror attacks were raised in the capital region Metro Manila and in Mindanao island.Arroyo while speaking before the 8th CEO Forum of the Semiconductor and Electronics Industries in the Philippines in Makati City asked for help and more information on any possible terror cells in the country. Arroyo emphasized that, "The strong cooperation between the vigilant public and our security forces will deny the terrorists any room to carry out sinister plots."Six people were killed and thirty others were injured during separate bomb attacks in the provinces of Sultan Kudarat and North Cotabato in southern Philippines.Government security forces have blamed the terror group Abu Sayyaf for conducting the bombing. The Abu Sayyaf has alleged links to Jemaah Islamiyah, the Southeast Asian terror cell of Al-Qaeda.Mrs. Arroyo called on local village securities to be more vigilant so they can become force multipliers in the war against terror.Amid news of a drop of the Philippine peso for a sixth straight week, Philippine President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo on Thursday asked all members of the cabinet to resign, preparing the road for change in the administration.In the past month the peso has fallen 3.1 percent due in part to accusations that Arroyo cheated in last year's elections, as well as accusations that her family members have been taking kickbacks from illegal gambling operations.The central bank may move to buy the peso in an attempt to stem the decline and raise lenders' reserve requirements so they have less money to bet against the currency.While Arroyo was asking for the resignations, Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima and other officials, including Tax Commissioner Guillermo Parayno, Customs Commissioner Bert Lina, Budget Secretary Emilia Boncodin and Trade Secretary Juan Santos, called for Arroyo's resignation. The text of their statement is available here.However, Arroyo refused, and while addressing the nation via radio she said "I am not resigning my office. To do so under circumstances that connote an Edsa 3 (the third people's revolution) would condemn any successor to the possibility of an Edsa 4, then an Edsa 5, and so on and so on, unless our political system were first reformed to make it more responsive to the people's will, such that changes in leadership come about in an orderly and stable manner..."Arroyo said that the time had come to face the fact that the political system had degenerated so much that partisan agenda is coming before national interest.She pointed to the huge emigration from the country as an indication of the large problems within, while endless scandals and conflict seem to plague the southeast Asian nation.The President ended her address by promising to bring a resolution to all that has plagued the country.The Philippine Department of Agriculture (DA), local health and agricultural teams Sunday have started slaughtering, burning and burying roughly 6,500 hogs at a farm in Pandi, Bulacan in Central Luzon on Sunday after three farm workers became infected with Reston ebolavirus (ERV) of the virus group Ebola, as a precautionary measure and to protect the local livestock industry."We culled around 300 heads—piglets and growers—in two and a half hours; we tried to start the process at 5 p.m. Sunday; after three hours we disposed of 442 hogs; that includes transporting the hogs to an area in the farm where they will be disposed of; with this rate and with some improvements in the procedure tomorrow, we expect to complete the depopulation by Wednesday,” Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) head Davinio Catbagan said. "With the problems we encountered last night, we may go beyond Thursday," he added.But according to Dr. Eric Tayag, the 56-man team's five captive bolts used in stunning the pigs malfunctioned, for which reason, they decided use instead .32 caliber pistols. "We need to finish this off because sometimes it rains," he said. But due to other problems, 12 policemen were ordered to use instead .22 caliber guns for  80-120 kilograms pigs. The pig depopulation in the Pandi farm has reached 1,237 Tuesday amid strong rains as schedules have been set from 5 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. daily, Cecilia Yacob, head of the Bulacan Provincial Public Affairs Office, said.Monday's culling was witnessed by representatives from the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO), animal welfare observers, Bulacan Gov. Joselito Mendoza and Pandi Mayor Roberto Oca. The slaughter has been estimated to cost 16 million Philippine pesos (₱), which include hog farm owners' compensation and the cost of culling for five to seven days. "As of late Tuesday the depopulation teams have culled 2,663 pigs, compared to 442 on Sunday, 795 on Monday and 1,426 on Tuesday; as of early afternoon on Wednesday, the numbers have reached 3,482," said Dr. Davinio Catbagan. According to Agriculture Secretary Arthur C. Yap, the culling team has slaughtered 2,078 pigs, bringing the total to 4,741 on Wednesday. The number of hogs had increased to 6,500 from 6,000 as some mother pigs gave birth amid the depopulation.But according to Dr. Joy Gomez, provincial public health officer of Bulacan, six members of the depopulation team at the Pandi "Win Farm" have complained of fatigue, headache and dizziness, and have been closely observed by a team of doctors.The state will compensate the farmers, however "it cannot be [100% of the market price.] A range of about 25%-50%, but it has to be discussed [with the farm owner]. At 25%-50%, the government may pay the farm owner ₱6.28 million-15.625 million, plus the cost of animal culling operations," said Yap. A polymerase chain reaction test to check the virus' presence was conducted by the United States Centers for Disease Control (US-CDC) to verify ongoing transmission. "Of 160 pig blood samples that were positive for antibodies, 133 came from Bulacan and 27 from Pangasinan as reported by RITM. Those from Bulacan were traced to pigs at different age groups while those in Pangasinan were found in sows and just one piglet. This means that there is on going viral transmission in Bulacan but past infection with recovery was the case in Pangasinan,” Yap explained.The agriculture officials earlier announced that the depopulation will be carried out in a "humane" manner, following current Office international des épizooties (OIE) procedures that ensure protection of animal welfare in the Bulacan farm. According to Philippine Department of Health (DOH) Secretary Francisco Duque, the quarantine of the hog farm in Palauig, Manaoag, Pangasinan has been lifted after finding no traces of viral transmission. According to Yap, test results conducted by a joint mission of FAO, the World Animal Health Organization, WHO and their local counterparts, reveal that viral transmission continues to exist in Pandi hog farms, which is only 0.5% of the 13 million pigs raised throughout the country.DOH officials also say a pig farm worker in Cabanatuan City in Nueva Ecija, who had no direct contact with sick hogs, has tested positive for Immunoglobulin G antibodies against the Reston ebolavirus, which is non-lethal, unlike the Zaïre, Bundibugyo, Côte d'Ivoire and Sudan strains, according to FAO."The additional positive human sample, showed signs of antibodies for Ebola Reston, was traced to a slaughterhouse male worker and was not sick during visits by the investigation team. He does not recall any direct contact with sick pigs but remembers having flu-like sickness in the past twelve months," a DOH statement said, also confirming four pig farm workers and a butcher from Bulacan and Pangasinan tested positive for the antibodies last month."Ebola Reston poses a low risk to human health at this time," said DOH Secretary Dr. Duque. "147 human samples have been tested for Ebola, but only six have tested positive. But stay away from kilawin, and half-cooked pork," he added. The laboratory tests of 147 blood samples from workers in the affected areas were conducted by the Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM) and the US-CDC. RITM has also reported that "1039 pig blood samples collected by the expert mission yielded negative results on antigen tests," the DOH said. The 24 other workers tested were all found negative for ERV infection. "To date, all close contacts of humans with positive anti-bodies who were tested remained anti-body-free signifying absence of illness in affected humans that can lead to possible human-to-human transmission," Dr. Duque said. The RITM and the US-CDC also tested 160 pig blood samples: 133 of which came from the Bulacan farm and 27 from the Pangasinan farm; of the 133 blood samples from Bulacan, 19 tested positive for ERV; none of 27 samples from Pangasinan were affected. Global experts said they will continue to conduct research studies of the Ebola strain to determine how it can be controlled. FAO of the United Nations has initially committed ₱10 million to buy additional kits. "We support the Bureau of Animal Industry to expand surveillance in other areas," said Kazuyuki Tsurumi, FAO representative in the Philippines. "We have not committed any amount of money... [but] we are ready to support a wider surveillance and capacity-building for more tests," Tsurumi explained."We can't speculate. We don't know the source of this virus, how it's being transmitted. We're studying that," said Soe Nyunt-U, WHO Representative in the Philippines. "Our current issue is that the test kits are limited because we are depending on the [United States] CDC [Center for Disease Control and Prevention] to send those kits. If we are going to extend the surveillance both in the animal and human side, we need more test kits," he added.Both the DA and DOH officials have decided to expand the scope of the testing for the Reston ebolavirus by inspecting and monitoring hog farms in the whole of Central Luzon, Calabarzon, Southern Luzon and Pangasinan province after the culling of the 6,500 pigs."As a precautionary measure, while there are many questions left unanswered, these ERV-contaminated pigs should be extinguished so we can move forward and study the virus," said BAI Director Davinio "Dave" Catbagan. "In six months we might be finished testing Regions 3 and 4 depending on the assurance of the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention [in Atlanta Georgia, USA] to give test kits. In Region 3 alone, the government would need to test farms in 566 villages that would require around 36,000 kits, but the country only has 10,000 kits" Mr. Catbagan said. "The expanded tests will cover the provinces of Aurora, Bataan, Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Tarlac and Zambales in Central Luzon, and Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal and Quezon in Calabarzon," Mr. Catbagan added.Mr. Catbagan has assured infected hog farm owners in Pandi they would be properly indemnified after the country's first large-scale animal depopulation process. "We are finalizing the indemnification contract. But we will make sure the indemnification would not be open to abuse," he said. Fatteners and piglets cost an average of ₱3,000-4,000 per head, boars cost ₱25,000-30,000, and sows cost ₱14,000-15,000.Juan Lubroth, senior officer of the Infectious Disease Group of FAO’s Animal Health Service, has arrived on Wednesday to discuss in detail with government officials how the agency can support in the wider surveillance. The DA and DOH officials and other government agencies met last Thursday to discuss and finalize the procedure in the burning of 6,500 pigs in Pandi, Bulacan."The Bureau of Animal Industry and the provincial government of Bulacan, experts carrying out the ₱500,000 five-day depopulation would observe three guidelines, namely: the main disposal, water safety, and environment protection. The depopulation process will involve stunning the pigs unconscious, burning them in a 6-foot deep pit, then burying them at the site. We want to make sure that our means would not violate the Animal Welfare Act. We are also ensuring that there would be no seepage," Governor Mendoza explained."Local authorities have decided to use electric prods and a ₱70,000 captive bolt pistol with a blunt rod to stun the 6,000 pigs in Pandi, prior to slaughter burning using rice hulls before burying them in a pit dug inside the hog farm," said Dr. Davinio Catbagan."About 40 health workers — clad in special hog mask suits and are tasked to facilitate the depopulation — would then dump the pigs into 10 30x30-foot pits that can accommodate 600 pigs each. The pits are located some 30 feet from the infected pig farm," said Mr Eric Tayag, head of the National Epidemiology Centre. "The cull could take up to seven days to complete," Mr Tayag added. A truckload of disinfectants was prepared amid  rice husks to be used in the burning.The Pandi culling will be the first large-scale depopulation because of a disease, according to Samuel B. Animas, chief of BAI's animal health division. "Only one to three pigs are slaughtered at a time in backyard farms during the foot and mouth disease infection [in the 1990s]," he added.Meanwhile, at the 18th hog farmers convention, which was launched on Monday at Club Filipino, the president of the National Federation of Hog Farmers, Albert R. T. Lim, Jr., said hog farmers have feared the effects of Reston ebolavirus virus on industry, since hog exports were banned due to the outbreak. "We are also apprehensive that if we keep on talking about this thing, some people might just misconstrue or misunderstand what they are talking about and people might get scared," Lim said.The government has spent about ₱10 million to maintain the two quarantined hog farms in Bulacan and Pangasinan. "Anyway, we always have our hog producers in Mindanao to supply Luzon if necessary. I am more concerned about our exports although the Ebola scare also somewhat affected local demand," Lim said.Amid the nationwide ERV scare and probe, local authorities have seized more than 200 kilograms of rotten pork meat at a local market in Pasay City Wednesday. Barangay officials in Maricaban district have intercepted the banned ‘hot meat’ and arrested Roberto Clet and Rafael Fruelda, who were indicted under the "Consumer Act of the Philippines." The statute punishes the illegal sale of unsafe products like double-dead meat with penalty of ₱1,000 to ₱10,000 and not less than six-months but not more than five years of imprisonment.Local police has also arrested four vendors and seized their 3,000 kilos of "botcha" (rotten pork meat or "double dead meat") at MC Market in Balintawak, Quezon City Wednesday evening, and allegedly delivered from Bulacan. The four suspects were charged for violation of the Consumer Act of the Philippines and Republic Act 9296 or the Meat Inspection Code.In December, international experts initially probed outbreak among Philippine pigs, wherein about 6,000 pigs at Pandi and Talavera farms were tested for the Reston ebolavirus. "There is no salmonella outbreak in Eastern Visayas, Region 8, said Dr. Archie Lluz, Chief of Regional Animal Disease and Diagnostic Laboratory of the Department of Agriculture in the region. But hog specimens from Leyte and Babatngon, where 270 swine deaths and cases of sick pigs were reported, were examined by lab tests. The results revealed cutaneous "Pasteurella hemolytica", a type of bacterial infection which causes swine deaths due to loss of appetite, dehydration, fever and diarrhea.According to the DA, sick pigs had been culled from Babatngon, Tacloban City, Alangalang, Santa Fe, Palo, Pastrana, Dagami, Burauen, Tabontabon, Lapaz, Mayorga, and Abuyog in Leyte; Sogod in Southern Leyte; Catbalogan, Calbiga, Daram, and Santa Rita in Samar; and Lope de Vega in Northern Samar. Swine infections have spread to 18 towns and one city in Eastern Visayas.The Reston ebolavirus is suspected to be a subtype of the Ebola virus or a new filovirus of Asian origin. It was first discovered in crab-eating macaques from the Philippines at a laboratory in Reston, Virginia. The same lab then recorded an outbreak of viral hemorrhagic fever among monkeys imported from the Philippines in 1990. The Reston ebolavirus strain was discovered among monkeys in the Philippines in 1996, and in Italy in 1992.African strains of the virus caused deaths of about 50 percent to 90 percent of those infected with prior symptoms of lethal bleeding and organ failure, the WHO said. "Since the 1970s, scientists, veterinarians, microbiologists and physicians have been looking at thousands of species to see if they can find this elusive reservoir, and we have been pretty much empty-handed," Juan Lubroth, head of infectious diseases in the animal health unit of the Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome, explained. "Unlike the three subtypes, Zaire, Sudan and Ivory Coast, which can cause hemorrhagic symptoms, Reston does not. There has been no evidence that Reston can cause significant illness in humans. When Reston was previously found in monkeys, few animal handlers were infected but only one had very mild symptoms," the DOH's official website announced.In January 1997, the Philippines Department of Environment and Natural Resources ordered the immediate slaughter of some 600 monkeys in Ferlite, a breeding farm in Laguna, to prevent an outbreak of Reston ebolavirus.Amsterdam-based electronics company Gemalto has announced that it has developed a way of putting Facebook compatibility on to a mobile phone SIM card, to allow mobile phones with no data or internet connection to access the popular social networking site.The report, appearing on the Slovenian tech site Monitor, says that users will be able to communicate directly with the site via SMS messages, as well as being able to exchange messages online and having the facility to write on other Facebook users walls. The formal announcement of the technogical breakthrough was made at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, on February 14.Users will see the changes to the website appear as messages on their phones, so they will be able to keep track of updates to the site. The announcement has drawn much interest from mobile phone companies and service providers, who are keen to take advantage of the new functionality which would significantly increase revenue due to the scaling up of SMS messages passing through their networks."Increasingly people want to be able to stay connected and communicate with their friends on Facebook anytime, anywhere. Gemalto has developed a creative solution in Facebook for SIM that enables people without mobile data plans to stay connected to their friends on Facebook in an affordable way," Gemalto's Head of Mobile Business (Facebook), Henri Moissinac, said in a statement.The Pichilemu, Chile Wastewater Treatment Plant, which has been already working for months, was announced to be officially inaugurated today, according to Pichilemu News. The plant is located in the eastern side of the city, near its entrance by San Antonio de Petrel.The plant was constructed in part as a result of complaints by Agrupación Ciudadana por un Pichilemu Limpio (Citizen Group for a Clean Pichilemu). The group's goal was to protect the coastline and stop water pollution. The group was formed in 2005, after it became known that the Mayor of Pichilemu, at the time Jorge Vargas González, supported the construction of an outfall right in front of the Governorate building of Cardenal Caro Province, as the original ESSBIO's (Empresa de Servicios Sanitarios del Bío Bío; in English, Sanitary Services Company of the Bío Bío) proposal said, according to Pichilemu News. Vargas said that the outfall was "the great solution to get rid of the wastewaters of Pichilemu."Although the plant's construction started in March 2008, the final project, which took into account Agrupación por un Pichilemu Limpio's complaints, was originally announced  three months later during Fiesta por un Pichilemu Limpio (Festival for a Clean Pichilemu) by Mayor Marcelo Cabrera Martínez and Environment Minister Ana Lya Uriarte. According to ESSBIO, 3.885 billion pesos (7.88 million US dollars) were invested in the construction of the wastewater treatment plant.The inauguration will be attended by Minister of Public Works, Hernán de Solminihac, Mayor Roberto Córdova, along with other national, regional, and local authorities, according to reports.Marwoto Komar, pilot of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, a Boeing 737-400 which overshot the runway in Yogyakarta, Indonesia on March 7, killing 21, has spoken to the media for the first time about the accident. Five of the deceased were Australian."I am deeply, deeply mourning for the victims and for the Australians," Mr Komar told News Limited . A recent report found his actions to be chiefly responsible for the disaster, finding that he had ignored fifteen automated warnings that he was going too fast, and describing him as fixated with landing. As a result, he is likely to face criminal charges.Mr Komar broke down outside his Jakarta residence as he told reporters “I didn't plan for this to happen. The point is that I want people to know I am deeply in mourning and also that I understand what the families feel. I just did my job as normal, as usual, flying as a pilot.”Mr Komar is currently undergoing psychological treatment for mental problems caused by the crash. His flying license has been suspended. "Every day I am here at home, I have never run away. I have explained everything to the KNKT (Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee) and to the police," he said.Mr Komar said he couldn't comment on technical aspects of the crash, or of the criticisms of his conduct, as the matter is still under police investigation. He is likely to face negligence charges which carry a prison sentence if convicted.Three other Garuda employees are currently being questioned in Jakarta by police as part of the investigation. They've been told that they are being interrogated as "witnesses".Meanwhile, Emirsyah Satar, managing director of the airline, has announced an intention to resume flights to Europe next year, assuming success in a current bid to get the airline off the list of air carriers banned in the EU, where all Indonesian airlines were placed earlier this year. He suggested Amsterdam as the most likely destination.Pirates have seized control of the Sirius Star, a Saudi-owned oil tanker off the coast of Kenya and are steering her towards Somalia, reports the US Navy. The ship was captured roughly 830 kilometers south-east of Mombasa and is reportedly heading towards the Somali port of Eyl.The oil tanker was carrying over 2 million barrels of oil at the time of her capture, and was on her way to the United States via Cape Town. Reuters claimed that news of the attack raised crude oil prices around the world.Vela International Marine, the ship's owner, has said the Sirius Star is fully loaded. The oil could be worth up to US$100 million. The US Navy reports that all 25 crew from the United Kingdom, Croatia, the Philippines, Poland, and Saudi Arabia are 'safe'.The area off the East coast of Africa has seen a significant amount of piracy. In 2007, one-third of the world's piracy incidents occurred in this region.Hijacking off the coast of Somalia has become increasingly common over the last decade.  Over the last year multiple countries have expressed concern or committed their navies to dealing with Somali pirates. Most recently, South Korea has announced intentions to send one of its destroyers after five South Koreans were kidnapped in a Japanese cargo ship hijacking. The Sirius Star is the largest ship captured by pirates in the area to date. This also sets a record for the farthest from the shore that pirates have struck.New Zealand's Hell Pizza company sparked a storm of protest on Thursday after putting 170,000 condoms in mailboxes.Hell Pizza, located in 18 cities throughout New Zealand, included a condom and explicit instructions on how to use it during sex in its small pamphlet delivered to promote its "Lust" pizza, and has attracted more than 30 complaints to the Advertising Standards Authority.Groups such as Family Life International, Focus on the Family and the Catholic Church have condemned the campaign as encouraging children to use the condoms and follow the "explicit instructions" contained in the packet and called for a boycott of the company. "From the feedback we're getting a lot of people are making complaints to the Advertising Standards Authority and are boycotting Hell's Pizza, and we encourage that."The church had received a number of complaints from people offended at finding a condom along with the advertising in their letterbox, Bishop Browne said. Bob McCoskrie, national director of the group Family First said Hell Pizza had crossed the line of what was decent and acceptable advertising material to be put in letterboxes of families and that the connection between "meat-lovers" pizzas and condoms cheapened women and the act of sex, and that Hell Pizza's advertising has previously been cheeky and fun, but he thinks the line has now been crossed. "It is offensive to families to have condoms and explicit sex instructions put in their letterbox, and it is unacceptable for Hell Pizza to link pizza with the intimate act of sex," McCoskrie says.McCoskrie says children and families should be protected from offensive grubby advertising.  "It is time we started protecting our children and families. Family First believes the Advertising Standards Authority will be receiving plenty of complaints about Hell Pizza's latest advertising campaign."Hell Pizza's director Warren Powell refused to apologise for distributing the condoms.Powell says the company discussed the promotion with Family Planning and the Aids Foundation and they completely support the campaign."While the primary aim of the campaign is to promote our Lust pizza, let's not forget that promoting the use of condoms has important public benefits," said Warren Powell."Government and public agencies distribute these things for free to young people.""Before this campaign started we rang a number of these agencies and offered them our excess condoms at no charge."Irish architecture magazine, Plan, has been sold for €300,000 to the Commercial Media Group. Commercial Media Group is the publisher of both Construction Industry Magazine, and Off-Site Construction Magazine.Plan, which was founded 35 years ago, is published on a monthly basis and has a circulation of 3,500. Its readers generally work in the building industry and many are members of The Royal Institute of Architects of Ireland, The Institute of Designers in Ireland, and The Chartered Institute of Builders.Camera company Polaroid has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States. The firm, famed for the introduction of instant photography, says alleged fraud by the founder of their parent group is to blame.Owned since 2005 by Petters Group Worldwide, Polaroid says that the group's founder Tom Petters is "under investigation for alleged acts of fraud that have compromised the financial condition of Polaroid." Authorities believe Petter, currently in police custody, was running fraud worth £3 billion, something he denies.Petters Group, itself, filed for bankruptcy in October.  Both firms now face restructuring, which Polaroid is confident won't affect daily operations — in fact, the company is "planning for new product launches in 2009," and claims to have "entered bankruptcy with ample cash reserves sufficient to finance the company's reorganization under Chapter 11."Polaroid has further said that employees will be paid without interruption, and that while members of Petters Group are under investigation for fraud, Polaroid's management is not. The company, based in Minnesota, also has subsidiaries which will enter bankruptcy with it.A 39-year old woman, Lakeysha Beard, talked for more than half a day while on an Amtrak train going from Oakland, California to Portland, Oregon. The loud cellphone conversation lasted sixteen hours last Monday, after which police stopped the train for twenty minutes at Salem, Oregon to arrest the woman.According to the British newspaper Daily Mail, Amtrak has no policy forbidding passengers from talking on the phone on a moving train.In the train's  car, a few passengers asked the woman to put the phone away or to stop a few times during the conversation prior to notifying the train staff. Staff members were unable to convince the woman to end the conversation and stopped the train to arrest the woman and halt the disruption.As British newspaper Metro mentioned, this cellphone conversation doesn't beat the record 51-hour phone call by Sunil Prabhakar of New Delhi in 2009.Sydney, Australia etiquette expert Alex Travers, remarking on a train incident in March, said there is a lack of respect for public transportation from younger generations. The U.S. woman in the current incident, Lakeysha Beard, is 39 years old. Travers said, "I'm afraid we are all in a very bad place as far as we feel about our public transport. People think poorly of it, so therefore they are getting on it with a poor attitude." She called youths "me-oriented" and said that they "do what they want to do" without thinking about others on the vehicle.The remaining six workers staging an occupation in Newport, Isle of Wight, England have left peacefully after police entered their factory.After barricading the office which has served as a living quarters for 19 nights against police entry, three of the workers, Justin Moody, Mark Smith, and Dave Arbuthnott, exited via a fire escape escorted by security staff; two, Ian Terry and Mark Flower, abseiled down the factory's wall; and Jaymie Rigby jumped thirty feet from a balcony to the bushes below. Rigby was examined at a local hospital after the jump but was found to be in good condition and released. The six were processed by police but not arrested.The six, who as part of a group of around 25 entered the factory on the evening July 20, had been conducting their occupation in a bid to get the government to nationalise the factory. Despite rising profits and rising orders, Vestas has decided to close their production facilities in the United Kingdom and most of their facilities in Denmark, at a cost of 1900 jobs, in order to concentrate on growth in North and South America and in Asia. The Vestas factory in Newport does not produce blades for the UK market and the company has refused both a £6 million grant and offers from the government to assist the company in re-tooling the plant for production of British blades.The company, in turn, blames the British government for making it too hard to obtain planning permission for on-shore wind farms. A Vestas spokesman, commenting to the BBC about the end of the occupation, said, "we have always understood the frustrations of the workers but have been surprised at the length of this action." The evicted workers say that, after spending time with their families, they plan to return to the protests against Vestas, joining the impromptu camp of hundreds of protesters which has sprung up outside the factory gates. The Vestas occupiers have received support from a broad coalition of left-wing political parties, trade unions, environmental groups, the Tory-dominated Isle of Wight Council, and a handful of MPs; today, the last major left party which had not joined the coalition, Arthur Scargill's Socialist Labour Party, released a statement saying  The SLP's spokesman, Alan Johnson, went on to tell Wikinews that the occupiers "have our full support." None of the three large parties dominating the British parliament have backed the Vestas workers, however, although the ruling Labour Party has recently sponsored talks between among the coalition of trade unions supporting the occupiers.Police served the remaining occupiers notice to vacate the premises yesterday at noon; Vestas's first attempt at obtaining a warrant was stymied in court when the defence successfully argued that notice requiring possession had not been correctly served to the occupiers.The occupiers lived in the factory twenty-four hours a day during the occupation, sleeping in a 1600-square-foot (149-square-metre) office, maintaining hygiene as well as possible in the factory's bathrooms, and eating one small meal a day — initially from the contents of vending machines, then from what the company management supplied supplemented by whatever protesters were able to get over the fence surrounding the factory. The RMT, which has arranged legal representation for the Vestas occupiers, has accused Vestas of violating human rights and at one point said it would arrange to have a helicopter airlift food into the workers.The end of the Newport occupation does not represent the end of unrest at Vestas's facilities in the Isle of Wight, however. A number of workers at Vestas's smaller plant in Cowes occupied the plant there on the evening of August 4, with activists from the RMT and environmental groups taking to the roof and waving flags proclaiming the occupation.The Metropolitan Police Service has confirmed that a police officer and a police community support officer were stabbed in the west of London, England. The officers were stabbed at a bus stop in the Ealing Broadway region of the city about 1505 UTC while examining bus tickets. The man stabbed the two in an attempt to evade arrest. The pair were subsequently transported to hospital by ambulance. The police community support officer was seriously injured, having been stabbed in the arms. However, he was not thought to have suffered life-threatening injuries. The police officer was stabbed in the neck. His injuries were considered life-threatening.The alleged attacker, a 30-year-old male, was arrested at the scene of the attack. According to reports, he was wanted by the police for recall to prison. When it became clear that he was going to be arrested, he drew a knife and stabbed the two.Koon Midam, a witness to this incident, commented: "The man was asked to show a valid ticket and went into a violent rage. Very quickly the problem escalated as he drew his knife and made a few quick slashes. It was more of a shock for the first few moments and then there were the cries, the Pc dropping to the floor and the man lashing out again."Another male witness described the events. "I could see two policemen sprinting to the back of a police car to retrieve a green first aid kit," he said. "They rushed back to assist a policeman who had blood on him. I then noticed another policeman who was walking slowly and then collapsed on the pavement. His arm fell to his side. As I drove away I also noticed a number of policemen pinning a man to the ground. He was shouting. What disturbed me most of all was the amount of blood on the pavement, it was clear that someone was very seriously injured."Boris Johnson, Mayor of London, has uploaded a message to the social networking website Twitter regarding this incident. In the tweet, Johnson states: "Shocked by the stabbing of a police officer & a PCSO in Ealing. No place for this on the streets of London".Polish Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński has ordered the pharmaceutical company Jelfa to halt production following revelations that Jelfa had placed mislabelled medication on the market, whose use could be potentially fatal. Jelfa distributed vials labelled as Corhydron, a hydrocortisone used to treat allergies and inflammation, but in fact containing Suxamethonium chloride, a drug normally used to cause muscle paralysis during emergency surgery. The Health Ministry has appealed to people suffering from asthma or allergies to check their medication and return any Corhydron ampoules they possess to the pharmacy.Polskie Radio reports that the mislabelling was discovered a month ago, but Jelfa and the Polish Health ministry did not inform of the problem. Prime Minister Jaroslaw Kaczynski ordered Jelfa to halt production until it can assure the Polish Government that it can properly manage its production. The Polish Outlook reports that that drug companies in Poland were operating unregulated since December, 2005 as the regulations has expired. The government was putting in place new regulations.The owner of Jelfa is AB Sanitas, the largest drug producer in neighbouring Lithuania. The shut-down has been questioned by the  Lithuanian Prime Minister Gediminas Kirkilas, who expressed concern over the situation and said that he wants to try to settle the issue diplomatically.World leaders and protesters are heading to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in the eastern United States for the G20 summit set to begin this Thursday in Pittsburgh. Politicians at the summit will be discussing ways to help solve the global financial crisis while protesters will advocate everything from universal health care to an end to capitalism.Activists met in Pittsburgh on Saturday to discuss the issues they wanted to push. Speakers included state senator Jim Ferlo of Pittsburgh who rebuked what he called the myth of the free market."I want to unite people in peaceful speech and peaceful discussion," Ferlo said. "I encourage each one of you to take to the streets this week." An extra 4,000 police have been transported to Pittsburgh ahead of the summit, and between 100 and 200 nonviolent prisoners were released from the local jail to make room for protesters.Meanwhile the G20 leaders are sparring over whether or not to cap banker bonuses in financial industries. G20 ministers also plan to discuss rising protectionism.At the Group of 8 meeting earlier this year in London the group decided to pledge $750 billion to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The IMF is seeking for more money from the G20 and is responsible for loaning money to countries in exchange for the implementation of free market policies. G20 countries are responsible for 80% of the world's trade.Roberto Cipresso, one of Italy's most respected winemakers, has gone into business with Savanna Samson, a New York porn star, whose real name is Natalie Oliveros.The wine world had previously suspected that Cipresso's collaboration with Samson would be little more than a publicity stunt. Such fears evaporated when U.S. wine expert Robert Parker rated their effort at 91, describing it as "an outstanding wine of exceptional complexity and character".Samson's husband, Daniel Oliveros, who introduced her to the winemaker, is a Manhattan wine merchant. The couple met when she was a dancer at Scores, a popular strip club. Savanna Samson's last film earned her the porn industry's highest award for best all-girl sex scene.  Her best-known films are Big Blowout, Fetish Underground and Poke Her.Roberto Cipresso's previous investor was Pope John Paul II.Porsche and Volkswagen family owners agreed on Wednesday to merge the companies, creating one large “integrated car-manufacturing group”."In the final structure, 10 brands shall stand below an integrative leading company alongside each other, whereby the independence of all brands and explicitly also of Porsche shall be ensured," said the Porsche Automobil Holding SE company.A task force has been set into place to discuss details of the merger over the next month.  This task force embraces managers and representatives from the works council of both companies as well as the state of Lower Saxony.  Porsche based in Stuttgart, Germany was previously controlled by the Porsche and Piëch families voting stock.Porsche had previously tried to raise its 51% shares in Volkswagen to 75% in a take-over bid. A special German law grants Lower Saxony enough power to veto decisions with its 20% share in the VW company."I'm certain that we can and will advance our partnership in the difficult current year 2009, [and] have the stuff to develop the powerhouse of the international automobile industry" said Martin Winterkorn chairman of the Volkswagen Group (Volkswagen AG) and Scania AB.The merger would help Porsche with its €9 billion debt which it incurred partially due to the ailing economy as well as its attempt at a takeover bid.On Friday, German automobile manufacturer Porsche reported that its August-April sales saw a drop of 28%, to 53,635 vehicles, after demand for luxury vehicles plunged as a result of the ongoing global financial crisis.The firm also reported the revenue in the first three quarters of its fiscal year, which was at 4.64 billion euros after having fallen 15%. The overall decrease in revenues was due, in large part, to the decrease in sales of the company's 911 model, which accounts for a significant portion of sales. The 911 unit sales were lower by 18% for the year."In the first nine months of the ongoing fiscal year, the Porsche subgroup could not avoid the downward trend that has overtaken the worldwide automobile industry," the automaker said."This is certainly no surprise, but the fact that there is no reference to earnings any more in the outlook could be seen as a negative sign," said an analyst for Sal. Oppenheim, Christian Breitsprecher, noting that the forecast "remains very unspecific".Portugal received on June 29 a Russian Beriev 200 airplane that the Portuguese Government has rented for two months. The stated objective is to test the aircraft during the forest fire season, allowing the Ministry of Internal Administration to determine if it should buy it.The correspondent agreement agreed to by the Portuguese vice-Minister of Internal Administration, Fernando Rosa Andrade, and the director of the Russian company Beriev, Victor Kobzev, will cost Portugal €1,234,000 (USD 1,552,802) for two months rent and maintenance. The objective is to test the aircraft in real firefighting situations this summer, these tests will then provide information for the Ministry of Internal Administration, so that this can make a final decision about a purchase.With the double of capacity for the transport of water and fire retardants of other aerial firefighting aircraft that usually operate in Portugal, mainly the Canadair CL-415, the Beriev will operate throughout Portugal, independently of its base. The Beriev's capacity is almost twice that of the Canadair, 12,000 L/h and 6,160 L/h respectively."As of June 1, the aircraft will enter in operational tests in real environment, during 60 days", Gil Martins, operations commander of the National Center of Rescue Operations, told Rádio de Renascença News Agency."The Beriev is an amphibious aircraft of the same type as the Canadair, that transports a dozen tons of fire retardants, the double than a Canadair aircraft", Martins added.The aircraft arrives Thursday night at Monte Real Air Base, were he will stay until August 31, and will be visited tomorrow (July 1) by the Minister of Internal Administration, António Costa.The plan is to purchase four heavy aircraft for fighting forest and ground fires which will become available in 2008. In addition to the order of airplanes the Government as purchased six medium and four light helicopters, in two separate bids, in which the deal for the six medium helicopters caused the dispute of an multimillion dollar war between the three competing companies in the courts.The international contest was launched by the Portuguese Government in November 2005 for six medium helicopters was participated in by: Heliportugal, Helisul, Helibravo, Eurocopter and the Polish PZL. With the decision made by a jury of seven members, in April the Cabinet decided to purchase from Heliportugal six Kamov 32 helicopters worth 42.1 million EUR, scheduled to arrive June 1.Early this month the Polish company PZL interposed an action for a provisional legal remedy to the Supreme Administrative Court. In June 21 the Portuguese company Helisul made a plea for the decision of the Cabinet in April 27.With about 3.2 million hectares of forest in 1995 and 2.5 million hectares in 2005, Portugal lost about fifth of its forest in ten years to forest fires.Volkswagen announced the Palmela, Portugal factory - Autoeuropa - has been chosen to produce a new car model beginning the first quarter of 2008, but did not specify the model to be produced."The decision to produce a new model in Autoeuropa is the result of the competitive cost of production of the factory, well as the favorable conditions of the cooperation established by the Portuguese government and the workers," announced Wolfgang Bernhard.José Sócrates, prime minister of Portugal, said he was "satisfied with the decision of Volkswagen to produce a new model in the factory of Palmela," and considered that the decision, "reflected the confidence [of the investors] in the Portuguese economy."Volkswagen will reveal the new model to be produced next week. By 2008, the factory at Palmela will only be producing the multi-purpose vehicle Sharan and the Eos models.With the end of the production of the multi-purpose vehicle, the factory needs to guarantee new product lines, since the new Eos is not sufficient to maintain the current 2,790 workers.The Volkswagen Autoeuropa produced a total of 79,896 vehicles last year, of the models Volkswagen Sharan, SEAT Alhambra, Ford Galaxy and Volkswagen Eos, against the 95,660 vehicles produced in 2004.Recently Wikia, a commercial company co-founded by Jimmy Wales and Angela Beesley, announced that it would be making changes in the appearances of its wikis, specifically making advertising more prominent. This change to mix advertising directly into the content has led many Wikia hosted sites to begin discussions regarding leaving Wikia hosting for their own. As Wikia's business model hinges entirely upon user-generated content, large numbers of sites leaving could leave Wikia in financial trouble. Wikia has lost editors and volunteer "janitors" as a result of this.Some changes were made to make sure Wikia doesn't lose its community; one of them being the ability for logged-in users to turn off advertisements in their personal preferences, which would eliminate the ads from all other pages except the main pages of different Wikia wikis. However, this didn't help much and several wikis, most notably the Transformers Wiki advised their users to switch to Firefox browser and install the AdBlock plugin to remove advertisements. The problem was the excessive advertisements on every content pages which most of the Wikia communities didn't agree with. Since the new Monaco skin version 3.1. was rolled out across all Wikia-hosted wikis, Wikia introduced a set of "main page column tags" meant to aid in main page designing while minding Wikia's new advertisements. Most, if not all Wikia's English-language wikis, such as Wookieepedia, the Star Wars Wiki, Wiki 24 and WoWWiki have converted their main pages to use these new main page column tags. Wikia's "helpers", people working as interns for Wikia, have helped to convert wikis to the new main page layout. However, some wikis, such as the Transformers Wiki opposed the change to their main pages and thus refused to convert their main page to use the main page column tags. Newly-created Wikia wikis will have a main page that has the main page column tags by default.Certain Wikia-hosted communities have criticized their host for trying to make Wikia look like one big website to please the advertisers when the communities would prefer to stay independent from other Wikia's wikis.During the rollout of the new Monaco skin, the phrase "Wikia will never host pop-up adverts." was removed from Wikia's terms of use and later reinstated into the terms. Several users thought that this might hint of upcoming pop-up ads at Wikia.The World Bank, an organization that provides loans to developing countries, warned Thursday that rising food prices are driving millions of people deeper into poverty.Robert Zoelick, World Bank president, said that food prices have risen 36% over the last year,  pushing 44 million more people into poverty since last June. About 1.2 billion people are extremely poor.He warned that a further increase of 10% in the cost of food would move  an additional 10 million persons into extreme poverty, and there was no sign of a near term  reversal  in  the inflation of food prices, which affects the developing world disproportionately. "We have to put food first and protect the poor and vulnerable, who spend most of their money on food,"  said Zoellick. “The general trend lines are ones where we are in a danger zone… because prices have already gone up and [food] stocks are relatively low,” he said.The cost of the  basic foods, such as  wheat, maize and soy are all surging. Only rice has shown a slight decrease in price. The steep rise in the cost of food is being driven by a combination of factors, including bad weather in food exporting areas such as Russia, Ukraine, North America and China,  rising energy costs that increase the cost of producing and transporting food, and the incentives for  farmers in many countries to produce crops for biofuels  instead of for food. "The linkage between food and fuel is much tighter than it was ten years ago," said Zoellick.Additionally,  the change in diet of the growing middle class  in developing countries means they  consume more meat and pork products which take increased grain to produce and drives up the price of feed stocks.National food investment and export policies of some wealthier countries are affecting poorer nations. For example, China is acquiring large amounts of land in Africa to grow food for the needs of the Chinese; Saudi Arabia has given up wheat production to invest overseas for food, and a drought in Russia has led it to implement an export ban on wheat.Zoellick spoke in Washington at the opening of the  meetings of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). He hopes to discuss food policies with officials of the G-20 countries to develop a "code of conduct" on export bans and to encourage these countries to do more to  increase food production and aid developing countries in managing  agricultural problems.On Saturday, the World Bank and the IMF issued "Global Monitoring Report 2011: Improving the Odds of Achieving the MDGs" which said the world was still on track  toward reaching a key goal of reducing the number of the world's people living in extreme poverty and hunger by half, to  883 million, by the target date of 2015.  Most of the world's progress is due to fast growth in India and China, while African countries are behind.In a statement, attorney Arthur Giacalone in charege of the case, Nancy Pollina et al opposing Savarino's Elmwood Village Hotel, who is co-owner with Patty Morris of Don Apparel at 1109 Elmwood in Buffalo, New York has said that the preliminary hearing in New York State Supreme Court has been delayed."The court appearance has been adjourned for two weeks to 6/22," said Giacalone.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a 72-room, seven-million-dollar hotel proposed by Savarino Construction Services Corporation and designed by architect Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group. Its construction would require the demolition of at least five buildings, currently at 1109-1121 Elmwood, which house several shops and residents. Although the properties are "under contract," it is still not known whether Savarino Construction actually owns the buildings. It is believed that Hans Mobius, a resident of Clarence, New York and former Buffalo mayoral candidate, is still the owner. The hotel is expected to be a franchise of the Wyndham Hotels group. Buffalo's Common Council, Planning Board, Mayor of Buffalo, Byron W. Brown, Savarino Construction Services Corporation, Hans J. Mobius and his son Hans S. Mobius owners of the properties at stake, Pano Georgiadis, owner of Pano's Restaurant on Elmwood, and Cendant Corporation, the parent company of Wyndham Hotels are among those named in the suit.According to Giacalone, the city of Buffalo has requested two week extension to prepare their defense. Area councelman Joseph Golombek has been contacted to further confirm the date change request, but has not yet responded.==Related Wikinews== "Others named in lawsuit against Buffalo, N.Y. hotel proposal" — Wikinews, April 26, 2006"Lawsuit sends Buffalo, N.Y. hotel proposal to New York Supreme Court" — Wikinews, April 25, 2006Buffalo, New York —The preliminary hearing for a lawsuit against the Elmwood Village Hotel proposal has been pushed back to August 10, 2006.The hotel would require the demolition of at least five properties owned by Hans Mobius, 1109-1121 Elmwood and would cause the closure of several businesses. Already, two businesses, Skunk Tail Glass and Six Nations Native American Gift Shop have relocated, outside the Elmwood Strip. Don apparel, H.O.D. Tattoo and Mondo Video still remain on Elmwood; however, Mondo Video is planning on moving to a new location. The hotel will be 72 rooms and will cost at least 7 million dollars to build. Savarino Construction Services Corporation would be in charge of building the hotel and Wyndham Hotels would operate it.Attorney Arthur Giacalone says that the court date was pushed back because "the court apparently felt it did not make sense to proceed with oral argument on 7/27 if Savarino is going to re-start the process." Giacalone also stated that the decision to adjourn until August 10 "was not my idea." On July 13, 2006 Savarino announced that they were withdrawing the proposal to "resubmit" it to "shed the lawsuits" against the proposal.Savarino was allegedly supposed to resubmit the proposal by the end of last week but so far has not done so. The final meeting of Buffalo's Common Council for the summer occurred today. The Council will not meet again until September."If they [Savarino] took no action today, re the hotel, [that is, accepting the new application, or rescinding the prior rezoning resolution], nothing official will happen for the next 6 weeks or so," added Giacalone also saying that if this is the case, "the court may not be willing to hear oral argument on 8/10 since we will still be up in the air about what’s going on." Giacalone also states that he is unsure about "what they [the Common Council] did today."Despite the call for a "do-over" of the proposals process, Giacalone still states that his client's position of the "pending lawsuit will not be 'moot' or 'academic' unless and until the Common Council rescinds its prior vote(s) that approved the rezoning" for the buildings on Elmwood and one property on Forest Avenues.Sam Savarino, CEO of Savarino Construction has been contacted, but has not replied to any e-mails. Area councilman Joseph Golombeck has also been e-mailed, but also has not replied.A preliminary report by the Danish civil aviation authority, SLV, has shed light on the events leading up to a Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) airliner experiencing a landing gear failure upon landing in Denmark, one of two similar crashes that have resulted in the grounding of more than 60 of the model in question across the world.The aircraft, a Bombardier Q400 (alternatively known as a de Havilland Canada Dash 8), crashed due to a landing gear failure after a nut worked loose, due in turn to rusting on the threads of its bolt, according to the SLV's aircraft accident investigation committee report on Scandinavian Airlines Flight 1209. The nut and bolt were vital to the locking mechanism for the starboard landing gear, and consequently the structure collapsed.The SLV does not specifically address why this occurred, but according to SLV spokesman Thorbjoern Ancker the problem is a design flaw, and not a maintenance issue as previously suspected. In his own words, 'All speculation that this was an error by SAS is now shown to be wrong... It's a constructional weakness.' He explained that Bombardier maintenance documents supplied with the aircraft did not require maintenance personnel to inspect the bolt in question, and that accordingly this had not been done.Pending completion of landing gear inspections by SAS, Norwegian, Swedish and Danish authorities will make a decision regarding whether the air carrier's Q400 fleet should remain grounded, or be permitted to resume operations.A spokesman for Bombardier refused to comment on the findings when contacted by reporters, preferring instead to wait until the publication of the final report into the accident. He did, however, make one comment regarding speculation that SAS would be compensated if the accident was proven to be the responsibility of the supplier, saying, "That will be part of the discussions between Bombardier and airlines."Scandinavian Airlines have canceled 111 flights today as their Q400s are grounded per Air Transport Canada orders, while SAS have concealed 110 flights today and tomorrow while their aircraft are grounded. Bombardier have circulated a document to all operators of the type, containing advice recommending a revised inspection program.Shares in Bombardier fell 14 cents, or 2.2%, to CA$6.21 and most recent reports have them at $6.25. The company is therefore currently valued at $11 billion. Goodrich, who manufactured the equipment, fell 9 cents, or 0.1%, to US$65.11. SAS, who own Scandinavian Airlines, fell 2.25 kronor, or 1.9%, to 115.75 kronor. A continuing fall in SAS shares prices over the last six weeks has almost negated all gains this year.Customers lined up at the RaceTrac on Beach Boulevard in Miami, and filled up with the cheap gas for hours.  Not one bothered to tell station employees.  They were alerted when reporters from a local news agency received a tip and came on site to investigate.  The mistake was promptly fixed.US President George Bush met with Saudi Prince Abdullah at Bush's ranch in Crawford, Texas USA Monday. He greeted the prince with a kiss on both cheeks. They previously met 3 years ago at the Crawford ranch where President Bush later said of the meeting, he developed a "strong personal bond" with the Saudi Crown Prince.A barrel of oil cost $25 three years ago. Today it costs $54. The meeting was to discuss oil, the war on terror and efforts to extend democracy and peace in the Middle East. "This is an important relationship," Bush said. "A high oil price will damage markets.  And he knows that.  I look forward to talking to him about that, as well, you now, we'll talk about his country's capacity. It's an important subject."The Foreign Affairs adviser to the Crown Prince, Adel al-Jubeir, said that Saudi Arabia has the capacity to produce more oil. According to him: "We believe that the price of crude oil does not reflect the full dimensions of supply and demand.  There is no shortage of crude oil in the world today.  What we see is a shortage of refining capacity as well as shortages in infrastructures and so forth, that drive the price of product up."The US president and Saudi prince talked about the Israeli-Palestinian crisis. "There is a shared vision," Bush said. "I made it clear to him that I expected Israel to withdraw, just like I've made it clear to Israel. And we expect them to be finished." The US president said Israel must look for a non-violent solution in Ramallah and Bethlehem.According to Fox News, a senior administration official briefing reporters said the US president is concerned about the instigation of terror actions against Israel. Recently, the Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Britain published a poem saying Palestinian suicide bombers were martyrs.A Canadian university and a Toronto firm selling books on tape are both running advertising campaigns that poke fun at US President George W. Bush. The Toronto firm simplyaudiobooks.ca has covered the city with billboards depicting a shrugging US president under the headline "Don't read enough?" The Toronto area company promoted by the ads say that their sales have doubled since the billboard campaign began. Meanwhile, Lakehead University, a small northern Ontario school, is attempting to attract new students with ads that feature Bush over the words "Yale Shmale" advising that "graduating from an Ivy League university doesn't necessarily mean you're smart." The website for the campaign proclaims "There are universities and then there are universities. So let's not beat around the bush."Frederick Gilbert, president and vice-chancellor of Lakehead, said the campaign is meant to gain attention in a humorous manner."It was literally a tongue-in-cheek way of getting attention," he said, adding, "I must say that older generations, well even some of our students, have looked at it as not appropriate." Lakehead's student union president, Isabelle Poniatowski, described the ads as "repugnant" though Gilbert says that 95% of the response on the campaign's website, yaleshmale.com, has been positive.The website of the British newspaper The Guardian currently also runs a banner ad featuring Bush and several recent US presidents. The ad states: "US presidents have always come to us for an overview of world affairs. Except one. ... (Go on George it's free)".On Wednesday, United States President George W. Bush signed into law a US$555 billion appropriation bill, called the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (aka H.R. 2764).The bill will keep government agencies running through September 2008. It also includes US$70 billion, which will fund the military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan well into 2008.The signing of the bill concluded a battle between Bush and the United States Congress, during which he threatened to use his Presidential veto. Even so, Bush complained about the final outcome of the bill:"I am disappointed in the way the Congress compiled this legislation, including abandoning the goal I set early this year to reduce the number and cost of earmarks by half. Instead, the Congress dropped into the bill nearly 9,800 earmarks that total more than $10 billion. These projects are not funded through a merit-based process and provide a vehicle for wasteful Government spending," Bush said in a press release from the White House.U.S. President George W. Bush and Congressional leaders from both political parties have reached agreement on US$150 billion in tax relief in an effort to help stimulate the United States economy. VOA White House Correspondent Scott Stearns has the story.The agreement includes provision to give up to US$600 in tax rebates to millions of wage earners and an additional US$300 refund for each child. It allows businesses to immediately write off 50 percent of capital equipment purchases.President Bush says it is an effective, robust and temporary set of incentives that will boost the economy and create new jobs."This package has the right set of policies and is the right size," he said. "The incentives in this package will lead to higher consumer spending and increased business investment this year."The president says he knows Americans are concerned about their economic future, with the challenges of higher energy prices and a falling housing market slowing growth.President Bush is urging the House of Representatives and Senate to pass the agreement as soon as possible."We have an opportunity to come together and take the swift, decisive action our economy urgently needs," he added.Stock markets around the world dipped sharply early this week amid widespread fears of a U.S. recession and its potential to drag down foreign markets as well.The stimulus deal was an unusual display of bipartisanship in Washington, with Democrats and Republicans in the House making concessions to get the deal done quickly.Republicans dropped a provision that would have allowed businesses to reclaim taxes previously paid. Democrats dropped their demands for increases in food stamps and unemployment benefits.House Speaker Democrat Nancy Pelosi says she is not totally pleased with the package, but knows it will help stimulate the economy."This bipartisan package should be acted upon rapidly and can help alleviate the economic pain felt by millions of Americans," she said.John Boehner is the leader of Republicans in the House of Representatives. He says it was not easy for Republicans and Democrats to agree on a plan, but he is confident it is in the best interests of the nation."This agreement is a big win for the American people," he said.  "It will stimulate our economy in the most direct and effective way possible by putting money in the hands of middle income American families and by giving businesses incentives to create and build new jobs in our country."Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson was the president's lead negotiator with Congress."I know the work isn't done yet," he noted.  "As the Speaker said, we've got more to do. And I am looking forward to working with the Senate and working with the House to get a package as soon as possible, because, again, speed is of the essence."Senate Majority Leader Democrat Harry Reid says he wants to get the plan to the president for signature by February 15. But changes in the Senate may slow passage of the package, as Reid says senators may consider restoring provisions to extend unemployment benefits.United States President Donald Trump said on Friday he can and may declare a national state of emergency, which he said would allow him to act without approval from Congress and allocate funding for the construction of a wall along the country's border with Mexico. The US government is currently partially shut down because the president and Congress could not agree on a national budget. The President insists that the budget include funding for the wall, which was one of his campaign promises, but Congress has not passed his proposed budget.Trump said on Friday "I can do it [call a national emergency] if I want. I may do it." Trump also said that he would prefer to agree a solution with the opposition. He also said, "I never threaten anybody." He also claimed that the wall was a crucial part of America's border security. The Vice President, Mike Pence, said on Friday the United States is "in the midst of a crisis on our southern border." Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of the House, said on Friday "We are committed to keeping our border safe. We can do that best when government is open. We made that clear to the president."The Senate Minority Leader, Chuck Schumer, said on Friday "We made a plea to the president once again: don't hold hundreds of thousands of federal workers hostage" and "So we told the president we needed the government open. He resisted."Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin and incoming chair of the House Intelligence Committee Represenative Adam Schiff both yesterday questioned the President's power to do as he proposed.  Schiff called it "a non-starter".  Durbin said "I can just tell you, I don't know what he's basing this on, but he's faced so many lawsuits when he ignores the law and ignores tradition and precedent and just goes forward without any concern".President Trump claims he would be okay if the impasse over the shutdown went on for "years." This lockdown started on December 22, last year. Some museums, the National Zoo, and immigration courts have shut, with some people working in still-open services without pay. The Internal Revenue Service website advises citizens to continue paying their federal taxes. Some services are still open, including medical services Medicare and Medicaid. Federal courts are relying on non-government sources, like court fees, for funding.After winning the presidential election on Sunday, President-elect Nicolas Sarkozy immediately began to lay out his plans for France. Political observers consider the 53% to 47% the victory over Ségolène Royal, a "resounding win," lending credibility to his policies.Sarkozy is expected to announce his government soon. He left Monday to go on a retreat with his family, while considering his cabinet line-up and strategy for the important parliamentary election in June.Officials from TAG Heuer have announced that the company received the iF product design award, which was given away by the jury from the International Forum Design. TAG Heuer received the award for its concept watch, called Monaco Calibre 360 (Linear Second) Concept Chronograph.The jury that gives away the iF product design awards each year consists of leading design experts from all over the world gathered in one place. The iF awards are presented in Hanover, Germany, at the International Forum Design Hannover GMBH. There are a number of fields and disciplines which have their own awards. TAG Heuer's Monaco Calibre 360 LS Concept Chronograph has won the award in the Leisure/Lifestyle category. The timepiece was chosen from over 2,200 watches from 35 countries. This prestigious award was given to the company for the second time in two years. Last year the winner in the same category was TAG Heuer's Professional Golf Watch, designed together with Tiger Woods. This year's winning timepiece from TAG Heuer has a mechanical movement, which represents the first in the history of watchmaking to reach a precision of 1/100th of a second. The watch itself is to be seen at the iF design exhibition 2007, held in Hanover, from March 15 till August.The price of oil per barrel has risen to a new all time high. During trading in Asia and in London, England the price of NYMEX Crude oil futures, per barrel, was at US$124.34 (22:07 eastern time) setting a new record high. Brent Crude oil also hit a new record high of US$122.84, but soon retreated to $121.79. Several factors, including a weaker U.S. dollar and worries on the world supply, have caused the price of oil to skyrocket in the past week.Despite worries, OPEC states that supply is currently meeting the current demands and there is currently no shortage of oil."There is clearly no shortage of oil in the market. OECD commercial oil stocks remain above the five-year average, with days of forward cover at a comfortable level of more than 53 days. US crude inventories, meanwhile, rose by almost six million barrels last week, which is a further indication that oil supplies are plentiful," stated OPEC in a statement on its website.All this week, prices at the pump have been reaching record levels across the United States.  Since yesterday, the price for a gallon of gasoline increased by as much as fifteen cents in some places.  Large cities in California, such as San Francisco and Los Angeles, have reported gas prices that top $3.00 a gallon for regular grade, twenty cents higher than the state's average of $2.80.  Chicago is reporting gas prices beyond $2.80. These price hikes are a direct reflection of the record price of crude oil at $67 per barrel and the fact that 12 U.S. refineries have reported issues that have affected output.These price increases are concerning some who worry that those with considerable financial hardships will endure more of a burden. A poll was conducted for The Associated Press and America Online News about whether or not these gas prices will cause problems with people's personal finances and the poll found that 64 percent say gas prices will cause money problems for them in the next six months, while 35 percent did not think so.According to a AAA Texas motor club spokesman, additional price increases will more than likely continue into the weekend.Princeton University has decided to join Google's project to digitise the book collections of major libraries to enable online searches of the texts, becoming the 12th major library to partner with Google. The officials from Google stated that Princeton University is to digitize about 1 million public domain books. These books are no longer under copyright. Princeton's 250 years old library has a collection of more that 6 million printed works, as well as about 5 million manuscripts and around 2 million nonprint items.Together with Princeton's library system Google is to determine specific parts of the collection that will afterwards be digitized. Google's Library Project is rather young, being introduced in late 2004. It started with a group of several major library systems. Among them there were: New York Public Library, and several academic libraries of Harvard, Oxford, Stanford and the University of Michigan.The second flow encompassed library systems from the University of California, which was later followed by the University Compultense of Madrid and Catalonia's National Library. Among others to join the second round were the universities of Wisconsin, Madison, Virginia and Texas University at Austin.The works that remain covered by the copyright law were digitized only at the libraries of Michigan and Texas. Google was sued in October 2005 by several major U.S. publishers. While the case is yet to come to trial, the publishers' goal is to block Google's plans to make a storage of copyrighted works that is free-to-use.Two branches of Romanian electricity distributor Electrica SA were privatised on Thursday, after Italian power producer Enel bought 51% of the shares in the Electrica Banat and Electrica Dobrogea branches of the previously fully-state-owned company. The transaction had a value of 112 million euro, which included the acquisition of stocks and the increase in social capital of the two branches.The privatisation ceremony was attended by Codruţ Sereş, the Romanian Minister of Economy and Commerce, as well as Claudio Scazola, the Italian Minister for Productive Activities, alongside Pierro Gnudi, the President of Enel.Electrica Banat and Electrica Dobrogea supply the Romanian regions of Banat and Dobrogea, which are situated in southwestern Romania, and southeastern Romania, respectively. The two branches account for 19% of Romania's total power supply. After the Enel takeover, Electrica SA, which is state-owned, will still own 49% of the stocks in the company.The Electrica Banat and Dobrogea privatisation is the latest in a series of recent privatisations by the Romanian government. The new Romanian government, sworn in on December 2004 and headed by Călin Popescu-Tăriceanu, is particularly keen on free-market reforms and a faster pace of privatisation.BUCHAREST, Romania —The average production of genetically-modified (GM) soy grew by 50 tonnes to 250 tonnes per square kilometre last year, said Constantin Sin from the Romanian Ministry of Agriculture. Soy is the only GM crop allowed in Romania for commercial purposes. Additionally, the area cultivated with the modified soy increased from 396 km² in 2003 to 581 km² in 2004. GM soy is mainly farmed in southeastern Romania, in the counties of Brăila, Călăraşi and Ialomiţa.In 1996, the European Union endorsed the import of transgenic soy, and, in 2004, the green light was given for the sale of new genetically-modified products which were used for animal breeding. Globally, the largest producers of genetically-modified soy are the United States of America, Argentina and Brazil.Since Saddam Hussein was toppled in the allied invasion of Iraq in 2003, Iraqi oil production figures have been bleak. However, new signs are being revealed that Iraqi oil output is at its best since the fall of Hussein. The Iraqi oil minister, Hussain al-Shahristani, stated that about 2.5 million barrels of oil are now produced per day, a figure that has seen a rise lately. During the invasion of Iraq, lead by the United States, oil output was at about 2 million barrels per day (bpd) and before the invasion oil production ranged from 3 million to, at its peak, 3.5 million bpd[1]. Mr Shahristani told CNN that he expects Iraqi oil exports to soon target that of the oil giant Saudi Arabia. Citigroup, a large investment and banking firm, stated that, "Shahristani announced that Iraq hoped to be producing 4.3 million bpd by 2010, and perhaps less convincingly, suggested that Iraq would be challenging Saudi Arabia by 2015."[2]A proposed hotel that was supposed to be built at the corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo, New York is apparently off the table. The former proposal was going to be called The Elmwood Village Hotel and would have consisted of 72 rooms and cost between $7 to $10 million American dollars to build.  Today several unknown individuals were seen removing a sign that was dedicated to the "Elmwood Village Gateway," which signifies the beginning of the Elmwood Village at the formerly proposed project's location.Nearly an hour later the men replaced the sign with a different and unexpected sign: "For Sale: 5 commercial parcels and 1 carriage house, By: Owner." Those 5 "parcels" are 1109-1121 Elmwood and 999 Forest Avenue, which is located in an illegal alley, according to the City of Buffalo, behind the 5 other properties on Elmwood. Hans Mobius owns all properties named in the sale.Sam Savarino, CEO of Savarino Companies never owned the properties and has repeatadly told Wikinews in exclusive interviews that he still had a "contract to buy the properties" and on October 2, 2006 told Wikinews in an exclusive interview that he "extended" the "agreement to purchase the property[s] and will have it under contract for what we hope is a sufficient period of time.""He [Mobius] is undoubtedly concerned because he has lost some tenants and is a bit impatient. I think he has properly portrayed the situation," said Savarino in an exclusive interview with Wikinews.Savarino also says that there may be "legal issues" to work out now, before anything else can move forward, regarding the proposal."There are some legal complexities that must be sorted out before anything can happen there," added Savarino. The welcome sign was; however, not removed entirely. The sign was placed, facing the same direction of north, on the side of the Forest Plaza Art Gallery, a new art gallery located on the corner of Forest and Elmwood.Nancy Pollina, owner of Don Apparel which was located at 1109 Elmwood, but closed on October 14, 2006 considers this a possible "victory" in regards to the lawsuit filed against the hotel to stop it from being built, alleging that several laws were broken, including not performing an Environmental Impact Study before the proposal was approved by the city, during its approval and the proposal was "rushed." Patricia Morris, who operates Don Apparel with Pollina, Angeline Genovese and Evelyn Bencinich, owners of residences on Granger Place which abut the rear of the proposed site, Nina Freudenheim, a resident of nearby Penhurst Park, and Sandra Girage, the owner of a two-family residence on Forest Avenue less than a hundred feet from the proposed hotel's sole entrance and exit driveway, were also plaintiffs in the lawsuit. They filed the suit with a lawyer representing them, Arthur J. Giacalone, on April 25, 2006 in New York State Supreme Court, but the case has never gone to a courtroom.Giacalone believes that a press release issued in July regarding the project was nothing but a statement to "save face," but that the placement of the for sale sign might be a way of convincing Savarino to speed up the sale of the properties."I thought all along that Savarino’s July press release might be no more than an effort to save face.  But we have no way of knowing.  Similarly, Mobius might have put the for-sale sign up in an attempt to pressure Savarino into closing the deal.  There’s no way to tell," said Giacalone in an exclusive interview with Wikinews.In regards to the lawsuit, Giacalone thinks it may now be in "limbo.""The lawsuit still sits in limbo," added Giacalone.Eswar Prasad, a professor at the trade policy from the Cornell University, warns the United States legislators, that their bill could poison the relationship between USA and China.This warning was given regarding the U.S. bill, which is meant to force China to raise the value of its national currency yuan. Currently yuan has a value, which is about 40% lower than it should be, as stated by the legislators, which gives the Chinese trading companies a huge advantage on the international trading ground. Professor Prasad, who was a China trade expert  and an economist at the International Monetary Fund until late last year, said that this bill would not have a long lasting effect and would not influence the problems the legislators are trying to avoid. The opinion of the China trade specialist was that the USA should try to collaborate with Chinese officials in order to fix the problem of U.S. trade deficit and the current instabilities in the Chinese economy. The strategy to force the Chinese Government to do something would only worsen the relationship between the two countries.The expert's opinion was it was more important to concentrate on the question what framework of the monetary policy could substitute the fixed exchange rate of the Chinese currency, which helped China in anchoring the inflation expectations.Mr. Prasad added that the best way to stabilize the Chinese economy would be to couple an inflation objective with a flexibility of exchange rate.The bill needs two thirds of the votes both in the U.S. House of Representatives and in the Senate, in order President George W. Bush would not have the possibility to veto the bill.The Tokyo District Public Prosecutors Office has been investigating allegations surrounding Livedoor's acquisition strategies and stock sales. Japanese newspaper Yomiuri Shimbun reports that the company may have made 4 billion yen ($35 million) in profits by following illegal takeover practices. Livedoor has been known to use acquisitions to support its rapid growth. It currently owns about 50 technology companies providing financial services and other software over the internet.Recent investigations have centered around the acquisitions of two companies Royal Shinpan, a consumer finance company and Cueznet Co. an online matchmaking firm. Livedoor announced its intent to acquire the two companies in August and September of 2004. According to allegations, an investment fund was used to purchase shares in the targeted companies before the announcements were made public. It is believed that after the stock swaps in October 2004, Livedoor received the shares of the two companies through this fund. The investment fund also received new Livedoor shares in exchange which were then allegedly sold off to a foreign investment fund. Livedoor is reported to have issued 12.6 million new shares for the two stock swaps.Since Livedoor owned most of the fund, the profits from these sales were siphoned back into Livedoor. The investment fund JMAM Salvage Ichi-go Toshi Jigyo Kumiai was deemed a voluntary organization and hence avoided registration and disclosure regarding its investors and its investments. Concealing ownership of targeted takeover companies violates securities and exchange laws. A prosector commented "Stock swaps are not illegal, but it is problematic if a company makes deals aiming to make profits by selling its shares this way."For the second weekend in a row, demonstrators protested the Elmwood Village Hotel proposal on the proposed site.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a proposed hotel by Savarino Construction Services Corporation and is designed by architect Karl Frizlen of the Frizlen Group. It is to be placed on the corner of Elmwood and Forest Avenues in Buffalo and will require the demolition of at least five properties (1109-1121 Elmwood).The proposal also required that all five properties, including 605 Forest, be rezoned to a "C-2" zone, or a "special development plan." The rezoning was passed by Buffalo's Common Council on March 21, 2006.Russell Smith, owner of the Six Nation's Gift Shop at 1121 Elmwood, also participated in the protest."I am a Native American and we opened a Native American gift shop and we are just brand new [and just] opened. Having started out a business for the first time, and it the only Native American shop in the city, and I do not see the use of any hotel, especially at this district. The Elmwood Strip is pretty well established. Some of these people have been here a long while you know and they're [Savarino Construction] disrupting their livelihood," said Smith to Wikinews.When Smith was asked if he was going to be in any of the shops in the new hotel he replied, "we don't have the option of getting into the hotel or any of the shops that are going to be there. We haven't [had] any idea that they [Savarino] were even planning to tear these buildings down to put a hotel here until we had moved in. I think thats a little unfair."Former City of Buffalo Mayor Anthony Masiello was asked to sign the petition to stop the hotel when he walked by, but he declined saying, "I respect what you are doing, but I am for the hotel."Despite the cold weather, at least 45 people showed up to walk the picket line.For the moment, no further protests have been scheduled, pending the final decision on the hotel proposal by the city's Planning Board which meets Tuesday, March 28, 2006. The meeting begins at 8:00am and will be held in room 902 on the 9th floor of City Hall in downtown Buffalo.Protesters in the Central Western New South Wales city of Bathurst gave Australian Prime Minister John Howard a cold reception as he arrived for a Liberal Party luncheon in the city.Around 200 unionists and university students gathered to protest the Howard government's new industrial relations regime called Workchoices, the lack of funding for higher education and the introduction of Voluntary Student Unionism.Protesters claimed that the Howard government had ignored rural and regional Australia. Daniel Walton, the community campaign co-ordinator for Macquarie Your Rights at Work told Wikinews that Mr Howard was only interested in Bathurst after it had been moved to a marginal seat."In the 11 years Howard has been Prime Minister not once has he visited Bathurst", he said."Now Bathurst is in the seat of Macquarie, which is seen as a marginal electorate, Mr Howard is suddenly interested in the city".The strongly blue-collar cities of Bathurst and Lithgow were relocated to the Macquarie electorate, previously considered a safe Liberal seat after  an electorate redistribution.Mr Howard was in Bathurst campaigning for the re-election of Kerry Bartlett and was a special guest at an invite-only Liberal Party fundraiser costing AUD$95 per person. The luncheon was attended by 400 members of Bathurst's business community.Unionists responded by offering a $0.95 "worker's lunch" across the street.Before the luncheon, Mr Howard held a community morning tea at the Mount Panorama motor racing circuit, promising funding of $10 million to investigate planning, engineering and environmental issues surrounding the construction of an expressway over the Blue Mountains following the Bells Line of Road route. Mr Howard said this funding was contingent upon the NSW government matching the federal government's contribution and would be available under Auslink II from 2009.Prior to the Prime Minister's arrival at the luncheon, protesters called those attending the luncheon "Chumps", booing at and calling MP Kerry Bartlett a "loser" when he walked outside. Unionists also chanted slogans such as "Workers united, we'll never be defeated" and "Johnie Howard is a twerp, he wants to take our rights at work".As Howard arrived at the luncheon, protesters held up their placards and turned their backs on Mr Howard, claiming to be doing the same as his government had done to ordinary workers.Michael Foggarty from the Public Service Association said while big business could afford luxuries such as a $95 lunch, workers were struggling."They might be able to afford $95 for lunch, but when you have workers on as low as $13 an hour that is a lot of money, ordinary workers are struggling under Workchoices", he told Wikinews.Mr Foggarty added that rising interest rates and petrol prices were having an impact on working families.Giving a speech at the luncheon, Mr Howard said those wishing to dismantle the government's industrial relations reforms were rolling back a "major economic reform". Mr Howard said both Workchoices and the removal of unfair dismissal laws had reduced unemployment and generated prosperity.The capital of Athens was filled with an estimated 17,000 protesters at gatherings called by three separate political groups. During the protests, small groups of youth broke windows of several buildings, set a government press van on fire, burned trash barrels in barricades and threw rocks and firebombs at police officers.Riot police arrested at least fourteen people and sprayed tear gas to disperse crowds.  Seven policemen and two demonstrators were reported to be injured. Another estimated 5.000 people took to the streets in Thessaloniki.The demonstrations were called to protest against government plans to cut major portions of the national budget in order to receive an estimated 120 billion euros in aid from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund.  The government formally requested the activation of the bailout plan on April 23, 2010, after the cost of borrowing funds on the open market became prohibitively high.About 9 billion euros in Greek government bonds will come due on May 19th; without the ability to borrow from the market, government officials had to turn elsewhere.  The looming deadline, in combination with the recent uncertainty of the markets over the economic stability of Greece, Portugal and Spain, has put pressure on Greek, IMF and EU negotiators to work out the final details of the aid plan quickly so that it can go into effect as soon as possible.Among the items to be agreed upon are the exact measures the Greek government is going to put in place over the next three years to cut its debt, and the precise amount of aid it will receive in exchange.  The Greek Cabinet is to meet tomorrow morning to finalize the measures before the formal announcement at noon.The cuts in spending are expected to cut both pensions and salaries to public service workers, while raising consumer taxes.  Greek unions have opposed the measures and were a major part of the protests.  A nation-wide strike in protest of the budget cuts is planned May 5.A participant in one of the protests said that "These measures are death. How people are going to live tomorrow, how they're going to survive, I do not understand."  Alexis Tsipras, of the Coalition of the Radical Left, opposed the budget cuts, saying that "The Greek people do not owe anything to anybody. Those who have brazenly robbed public money and pension funds should pay for the crisis."Greece's Prime Minister, George Papandreou, however, said that the cost-cutting measures were inevitable, and that they were essential to the survival of the country.Israelis have been gathering across the country to protest against the rising costs of housing, with "tent cities" being erected in Tel Aviv, Jerusalem, Beersheba, Haifa, and Kiryat Shemona. On Saturday night tens of thousands marched from the encampment on Tel Aviv's Rothschild Boulevard, which has been a focal point for the protestors, to the Tel Aviv Museum.Rents in Tel Aviv are said to have risen by over 60 percent in four years. Buying costs have soared too, with estate agent Eli Melloul stating that the average price for an Israeli apartment has now reached 1 million shekels ($295,000). The demonstrators are urging the government to intervene and help reduce prices. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has pledged swift action, including streamlining planning and building regulations, and constructing 6,000 housing units. However none of these units are set for Tel Aviv. Some are calling for him to resign over the issue, and several members of the Knesset also joined Saturday's march.The protests have largely been composed of young people and students, organised using social media such as Facebook. They follow a recent Facebook campaign to boycott cottage cheese (a staple food in Israel), which succeeded in driving down prices. Elderly people have also begun to join the movement to show their solidarity.Daphni Leef, credited with starting the protest movement, addressed the crowd at Tel Aviv Museum. "Under these conditions we will soon have no dreams", she said. "There is no time to dream when you're constantly looking to cover your rent. There's no time to dream when you're constantly looking to cover a mortgage."She also blamed Netanyahu personally in her speech: "You, Bibi, with your wild policy and your irresponsibility, you pushed us into a nadir. You, Mr. Netanyahu, caused us – the Facebook generation – to head to the streets and protest."A number of publishers represented by the trade union group Association of American Publishers (AAP) filed an injuction in U.S. District Court in New York on Wednesday to stop Google from moving forward with plans for its Print Library Project.The current situation between the publishing industry and Google requires that copyright holders notify the search engine if they do not want works to appear on the internet in full by November 1. Where requests by copyright holders exist, the search result will display only a snippet of the text and a link to where users can buy a hard copy. Google denies it is violating U.S. copyright law.Negotiations broke down when Google rejected a proposal by AAP to use ISBN. Parties to the injunction want to implement a system where a listing of permissible works and books is populated by the discretion of the publisher or author. By default, all other copyrighted content would be excluded.Google offers this explanation of how Google Print works:Just do a search on the Google Print homepage. When we find a book whose content contains a match for your search terms, we'll link to it in your search results. Click a book title and you'll see the page of the book that has your search terms, along with other information about the book and "Buy this Book" links to online bookstores (you can view the entirety of public domain books or, for books under copyright, just a few pages or in some cases, only the title’s bibliographic data and brief snippets). You can also search for more information within that specific book and find nearby libraries that have it.Plaintiffs involved in the case are McGraw-Hill, Pearson PLC, Penguin Group, Simon & Schuster, Inc. and John Wiley & Sons. Recovery of court costs are being sought, but no punitive damages.On Tuesday, Russian President Vladimir Putin assured Iran that Moscow would not back out of a US$1 billion contract to complete a nuclear power plant in the Iranian port of Bushehr.  Putin's remarks followed talks with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad at a summit of Caspian Sea nations in Tehran.  The United States and other Western nations oppose the construction of the reactor, and believe that it is part of an effort by Iran to develop nuclear weapons.Putin said that although revisions to the contract were necessary in order to clarify the legal and financial obligations of the two sides, Russia intends to go forward with the project.  "Russia has clearly stated that it's going to complete this work," Putin said. "We are not renouncing this obligation."Iran's nuclear program has been the subject of much recent controversy.  The United States, France, and other Western nations oppose the program, saying Iran is using it as a cover for the development of nuclear weapons.  Iran maintains that its reactor will only be used to generate nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.  Putin supported the Iranian view in his remarks, referring to Iran's "peaceful nuclear program".Although Putin promised to complete the reactor, he avoided specifying a timetable.  Russia claims that construction on the nuclear reactor has been delayed because Iran is behind in payments.  Iran claims that its payments are up to date, and that the delays are a result of Russia bowing to Western pressure.At a meeting in the Kremlin on Thursday of Group of Eight (G8) energy ministers, Russian president Vladimir Putin promised that Russia will continue to increase energy production and to make nuclear energy more accessible.   "Russian companies are already completing projects that have strategic importance for a real strengthening of global energy security," Putin said.  Putin, president of the G8 this year, has placed emphasis on energy security at a time when many nations are hit by rising energy prices and fears of supply problems.Putin spoke of the development of the Shtokman field, which contains 3 trillion cubic meters of gas; of oil and gas pipelines, such as the ones under the Baltic Sea; and of a pipeline from eastern Siberia to the Pacific.  Russia has more than doubled oil exports, from three to seven million barrels a day.  Putin addressed concerns the current pipeline capacity will not be able to keep pace with demand, saying the projects are "the first in a series that world markets will benefit from soon." Putin also said that the Duma will soon pass laws to clarify the role of foreign investment in future projects.Some have been wary of the Russian government's growing role in the country's energy market.  Gazprom, a Russian energy company that the government has the majority stake in, cut supplies to the Ukraine in January, affecting supply in several European countries.  25 percent to a third of the EU's gas supply comes from Russia, much of it by way of the Ukraine.   After the meeting on Thursday, US energy secretary Samuel Bodman said, “We are hopeful of a very substantial rebirth of the global nuclear industry.”Russian prosecutors have charged a school headmaster with using pirated copies of Microsoft software on school computers. The teacher, Mr. Alexander Ponosov, pleaded not guilty and claimed that he did not know that the purchased computers were loaded with pirated software. The Russian president criticized the move against the teacher, saying it was "ridiculous" to arrest someone for using computers and that the distributors of pirated software should be targeted rather than users.Former Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev also urged Microsoft to intercede in the case, asking Microsoft's mercy for the teacher and adding that the teacher, if convicted, may face "imprisonment in Siberian camps". Mr. Gorbachov said that many people in Russia regard this scandalous case as trumped-up, launched on the initiative of Microsoft corporation to set a precedent.Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke live on state television Monday in his annual state-of-the-nation address using high ideological rhetoric when calling on lawmakers and the public to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. His 50 minute address from the Kremlin's Marble Hall only briefly touched on the "epidemic of collapse" , a reference to upheavals in Chechnya, Kyrgyzstan and the Ukraine, which was "a real drama" stranding millions of Russians beyond the borders of the Russian Federation.Brushing off what was probably taken as criticism during last week's visit by Condoleezza Rice who commented the Kremlin ran a "managed democracy", Putin stressed that "Russia ... will decide for itself the pace, terms and conditions of moving towards democracy."  Putin was critical of the lack of progress in implementing his reform proposals. Calling for a crackdown on corruption, where treatment by tax inspectors are "terrorizing business", he addressed concerns of the business community by condemning a series of back-tax bills like the ones that dismembered Yukos and face other major Russian corporations.He was also critical of a bureaucratic attitudes that treat "state service as some type of business". He made clear the need for investment must be met by "rules of the game" that are consistent, saying "Russia is certainly interested in the inflow of private investments on a large scale, including foreign investments. It is our strategic choice and our strategic approach."Putin called for proposals to index wages to inflation over the next two years, and for the introduction of a flat 13% tax on undeclared earnings in the shadow economy, a slice that represents nearly 35% of the nation's economy, by legalizing what was previously defined as illegal income.Putin supports the development of a strong state system with determination for Russia to avoid the disarray that led to the collapse of the Soviet Union. Saying, "First and foremost it is worth acknowledging that the demise of the Soviet Union was the greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the century." He sees the need for strengthening the legal system and the political environment to assure a more just society in avoiding a replay of a Russian downfall.On politics, he pointedly abandoned the much-used ‘stability' catch phrase of the bureaucracy. Putin signaled to the bureaucratic caste who are on the eve of their upcoming parliamentary and presidential elections they should promote partisanship and civil society.By studiously avoiding too many references to business, the thrust of his address sought to reassure the small property holder class, rather than big business and other elite investors.After the success of Taiwan Photovoltaic Forum 2006, the organizer Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA) held PV Taiwan 2007 Forum and Exhibition at Taipei International Convention Center on October 11 and 12. This forum and exhibitions attracted 74 companies participating with 110 exhibition booths at TICC 1F and 2F, and is mainly focused on photovoltaic materials/modules/products, electrical system transformation products, system appliances.According to TAITRA, with the environment topic on global warming, increasing of oil prices, environment awareness, and greenhouse effect, solar energy is a very important energy source from now. The production value is currently increasing world-wide, with the help of semiconductor industry, the photovoltaic industry will play a suitable role at energy and environment industry in Taiwan.In the exhibition, lots of exhibitors showed their solutions and products on solar energy modules and photovoltaic products with lots of unique functions such as waterproof, long-time usage, and industry integration. One of the exhibitors - Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) also held a seminar and "Jinyi Award" for nominated participants and college students on photovoltaic industry.Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) showed their solutions of excellence not only at TAITRONICS Autumn and TaiwanRFID exhibitions, but also held "The 4th Jinyi Award Ceremony" and "Photovoltaic Applications on Construction Seminar" accompanied with PV Taiwan Forum and Exhibition this year.For the "Jinyi Award", ITRI set a special pavilion at their booth to show the nominated products and current solutions with solar energy. According to ITRI, "Jinyi Award" encouraged individual or group participants can applied the creations on solar energy and photovoltaics to life of the human beings. ITRI also hoped those solutions can transform with valued products. This year, ITRI cooperated with Taiwan Design Center supervised by Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA) with judgments of the 4th Jinyi Award.This competition has three groups (Product Design, Professional Design, Design Competition) with different natures, competition places, and fields of participants. Winners of "Professional Design Group" and the 1st and 2nd place of "Design Competition Group" were named at the Ceremony.After the Ceremony, ITRI held "Photovoltaic Applications on Construction Seminar" for participants with semiconductor, photovoltaic, environment, and constriction industries. "Governments and companies in Taiwan should learn some successful cases in Europe and USA. ITRI started constructions of photovoltaic and solar energy system at South Taiwan. Photovoltaic and solar energy are the valuable and important energy source from now, and its industry will be taken effect on some environment issues such as increasing of oil prices, greenhouse effect, trendy changes of environment awareness." Dr. Joeng-shein Chen (Deputy Manager of Photovoltaics Technology Center of Industrial Technology Research Institute) taught to the participants at this seminar.Australian international airline Qantas is grounding all its flights with immediate effect in the midst of a major industrial dispute.The airline announced yesterday that there "will be no further Qantas domestic departures or international departures anywhere in the world" after 5pm AEDT. They then plan to "lock out" all employees involved in the action at 8pm AEDT on Monday. Flights will remain grounded indefinitely until a decision with unions over pay and working conditions is reached.Thousands of passengers have been stranded in airports across the world by the grounding. Qantas will offer refunds to cancelling customers and "rebooking flexibility" to those wishing to defer travel. Qantas CEO Alan Joyce labelled his own decision "unbelievable".The move prompted an emergency hearing into the dispute by Fair Work Australia in Melbourne which went on until the early hours of Sunday morning, adjourned until 2pm AEDT. It comes following a series of strikes by Qantas staff including baggage handlers and pilots which Qantas say are costing them A$15 million a week. This grounding, by comparison, is estimated to lose A$20m a day.Qantas executive Lyell Stambi told the hearing that altogether recent action had cost them around A$68m, and claimed rival airlines "have access to cheaper labour". According to the Sydney Morning Herald, he went on to say that forward bookings had taken a big hit: "It makes sense. If passengers can't be sure... They're less likely to book with us."Meanwhile, the Australian and International Pilots Association have spoken to the SMH to condemn the move, with vice president Richard Woodward labelling it "premeditated, unnecessary and grossly irresponsible". He claims the airline "has locked out short-haul 737 pilots who aren't even involved in any action at all," and that all anyone in his union has done is wear red ties and make some on-board anouncements.Australian airline Qantas has returned the first of its fleet of Airbus A380s to service, after all six of the "superjumbo" aircraft were grounded three weeks ago following one aircraft's engine sustaining extensive midair damage; it landed safely in Singapore without injury. The airline stated that all of the aircraft have undergone extensive safety inspections and they are satisfied they are safe. Alan Joyce, CEO of Qantas, said: "It's great that we can reintroduce the aircraft. We are 100 percent comfortable with it. If we weren't, we wouldn't be restarting the operations today." A spokesperson confirmed that tests had been performed "in close consultation with Rolls-Royce and Airbus" on the model's Trent 900 engines. Qantas has replaced at least 14 engines, and modifications have been made to Trent 900s used by two other companies, Lufthansa and Singapore Airlines.Experts said that the incident was embarrassing for Airbus; the airline's shares have dropped by 7% since. Aviation journalist Tom Ballantyne said that the failure earlier this month was "certainly the most serious incident that the A380 has experienced since it entered operations." The A380 made its first commercial flight in 2007, and is now in service with several other airlines, including Air France. It is the largest commercial passenger airliner in the world, with an 840-passenger maximum capacity, though Qantas's can carry 450. There are reportedly plans to build a cargo version of the plane, which, aviation experts have suggested, would be the world's first "triple-decker" freight aircraft; Airbus has not confirmed that this variant will be built.Queen’s University of Belfast, Northern Ireland has agreed to cut 103 members of staff and to close its German department. The ruling body agreed with the cuts claiming that it would save money and also increase the school's chances of entering the world’s top 100 universities.   Originally announced as a staffing reduction of 150 positions, the number was lowered. The lecturers' union has commented, saying it is the "wrong decision"; they intend to “fight the job losses” despite the fact that the number is lower than expected. According to the BBC, the university wishes to ensure that most of the academic staff takes part in "high quality" research, so those who just teach students are most at risk of losing their jobs. Both the university management, and the union are to appear before the Employment and Learning Committee of the Northern Ireland Assembly at a later date. They were summoned after reports of job and subject cuts.Prisoners in the Australian state of Queensland have been put to work manufacturing rainwater tanks to help meet a shortfall in supply.The southeast corner of Queensland, which is currently undergoing one of its worst droughts on record, is experiencing a boom in the rainwater tank industry.  Households, encouraged by subsidies introduced by the Beattie government, have enthusiastically begun installing rainwater tanks as well as other water-saving devices.  These subsidies have led to a shortfall in supply however, with some households waiting months for tanks to be installed.The new initiative, announced by Premier Peter Beattie as well as Corrective Services minister Judy Spence will see prisoners at Woodford Correctional Centre, Australia's largest gaol, constructing tanks for AU$4 per day.  Spence has pledged not to use the cheap labour to undercut existing tank suppliers.  Beattie also pointed out that the programme would give prisoners constructing the tanks valuable work skills for when their sentences are completed.  If the programme is successful, it may be extended to other gaols around the state.The Beattie government has been increasingly criticised over recent months for its failure to handle the water crisis engulfing Southeast Queensland.  Opponents accuse the Government of a lack of planning foresight with regards to water supply for the booming area, which includes state capital Brisbane, as well as other cities such as Ipswich, Toowoomba and Gold Coast.Nervous savers have re-formed queues this morning outside many branches of Northern Rock, after the £2.68 billion bank took an emergency loan from the Bank of England, the UK central bank.Shares in the bank had dropped 25% by lunchtime yesterday in London – and stood nearly 60% lower from their high of February – after the Bank of England acted in its capacity as "lender of last resort" to provide Northern Rock with short-term financing to enable it to continue operations.The Bank of England hasn't acted as lender of last resort since 1973, when the collapse of Cedar Holdings – a pioneer of second mortgages to UK home-owners – threatened a crisis in the country's banking industry.Northern Rock has been hit hard since June this year by the turmoil in world credit markets. Although only 0.24% of its assets are exposed to subprime US housing debt, the bank's business model saw it grow its loan book by 43% in the first six months of this year. Rather than lending money deposited with it by savers, Northern has borrowed aggressively in the short-term capital markets."Northern Rock is not a reckless lender," said Angela Knight, head of the British Bankers Association on national radio this morning. Urging the bank's savers not to withdraw their money in panic, "the mortgage lending it does well and it does in a high quality, high calibre way," she added.But savers queuing to withdraw their money from Northern Rock today said they were "horrified" by the Bank of England needing to step in. "I am going to take out the lot, every penny," said one Northern Rock saver to Bloomberg as he queued outside the bank's West End branch in London.Queues have started to form today outside the London Apple store for the launch of the iPhone.  The phone launches tomorrow at 6.02 p.m. UTC exclusively onto the O2 network amid controversy.  The iPhone was launched five months ago in the United States and is set to launch in the United Kingdom and Germany tomorrow.Many people have braved the poor weather and have set up camp in the street in a bid to be the first of many thousands to buy the product on the first day of it's release in the UK. Apple have already sold 1.4 million of the units in the US, some of which have already been imported into the UK un-officially.  The cost of the device is set as £269 on a minimum £35 per month contract and will be sold at The Carphone Warehouse, O2 and Apple Stores across the UK.The iPhone has a touch screen display and can act as a phone, text device, web browser, music player and email client all in one.  The launch of the product onto one phone network only has caused controversy internationally and has led to many people using free and paid  methods of unlocking the phone to be able to use it on other networks even though it voids the warranty.  Apple replied to this move by releasing software patches that, when installed, will prevent functionality of the phone.Quiznos, a fast food restaurant chain that specializes in selling submarine sandwiches, has aired a controversial television commercial, with an extended version only appearing in the late-night lineups. The commercial is a promotion for the company's new sandwich, the 'Toasty Torpedo'. Bob Sassone, a writer for TVSquad.com, argues that it is homosexually themed and compares it to pornography.The commercial begins with a toaster oven talking to Scott, a Quiznos sandwich maker, in a male voice. "Scott, I want you to do something," says the toaster to Scott. As he takes a bite of a Torpedo and appears to look in the direction of his genitals, Scott says to the toaster, "[sic] not doing that again. That burned." The toaster replies, "We both enjoyed that."Later in the commercial, the toaster asks Scott to make one of the sandwiches and says the price of it is "sexy" and then "sexier." Scott grins and does so. The toaster then asks Scott to "stick it in me". The sandwich just happens to be 12 inches long, giving the appearance of a special relationship between Scott and the toaster oven.Quiznos published a press release on March 24 announcing the new line of sandwiches. They stated that their price of US$4 helps to ease the economic pinch. In a statement to Wikinews Quiznos stated that their commercials are within the company's character and they were designed to get people talking."We developed our new ads to be consistent with the Quiznos brand and to get people excited about our new Toasty Torpedoes. Some of the ads are edgy and provocative, but they're well within the confines of the Quiznos brand character," said Rebecca Steinfort, chief marketing officer for Quiznos to Wikinews."Since Quiznos has a broad range of consumers that eat at its more than 4,500 restaurants nationwide, we tailor our commercials to be relevant and appeal to our diverse customers - all of whom are watching different kinds of programming. The new ads are fun and entertaining, and the edginess and innuendo of the ads are designed to get people talking about our new Toasty Torpedoes, and that's exactly what we want: people to talk and taste our new sandwiches," added Steinfort. Bob Sassone a writer for TVSquad.com, one of the Internet's top television weblogs, compared the commercial to a pornography film."The new Quizno's commercial is probably the closest we'll get to a gay porn flick in a mainstream sub shop ad," Sassone wrote.In 2007, the company made another controversial commercial. It featured people on the street eating samples of a Quiznos 'Prime Rib Dinner' sandwich. They promoted it as having a lot of "meat" and near the end it featured two women eating a sandwich saying, "It's not lacking any meat. And that's what real women need"."Nevertheless, Quiznos remains committed to providing its customers with high-quality ingredients at everyday lower prices, all with excellent service. As such, we encourage consumers to give feedback on the commercials to our corporate marketing department through the website," said Steinfort.It has emerged that the 33 Chilean miners trapped underground after the mine they were working in collapsed could be brought to the surface in a shorter time than was initially feared. While officials publicly announced that the men would not be brought to the surface until Christmas, sources inside technical meetings have revealed that they could in fact be on the surface by early November. The news comes as families were allowed to speak by radio-telephone to their trapped loved ones on Sunday. Over the weekend, video images filmed by the miners emerged showing the miners playing dominoes at a table and singing the Chilean national anthem. The miners also used the camera to send video messages to their families on the surface, saying that they regularly broke into tears, but were feeling better having received food and water.The grainy nightvision images, filmed on a high definition camcorder that was sent down a small shaft to the mine, show the men in good spirits, chanting "long live Chile, and long live the miners." They are unshaven and stripped to the waist because of the heat underground, and are seen wearing white clinical trousers that have been designed to keep them dry. Giving a guided tour of the area they are occupying, Mario Sepúlveda, one of the miners, explains they have a "little cup to brush our teeth", and a place where they pray each day. "We have everything organized," he tells the camera. Gesturing to the table in the center of the room, he says that "we meet here every day. We plan, we have assemblies here every day so that all the decisions we make are based on the thoughts of all 33." Another unidentified miner asks to rescuers, "get us out of here soon, please." A thermometer is shown in the video, reading 29.5C (85F).As the film continues, it becomes evident that the miners have stuck a poster of a topless woman on the wall. The miners appear shy, and one man puts his hand to his face, presumably dazzled by the light mounted on the cameraman's helmet. One miner sent a message to his family. "Be calm", he says. "We're going to get out of here. And we thank you from the bottom of our hearts for your efforts." Another said that the miners are "sure that there are people here in Chile that are big people, that are powerful people, that are intelligent people, and they have the technology and they will all work together to get us out of here." Speaking to the camera, one says: "we have had the great fortune that trapped in this mine there are good, professional people. We have electricians, we have mechanics, we have machine operators and we will let you know that while you are working to rescue us on the surface, we are down here ready to help you too." It has been reported that Mario Gómez, 63, has become the group's "spiritual leader", having worked in the mines for over fifty years. He has requested that materials to build a shrine be sent down to the cavern.Upon seeing the video in a private screening, family members, who are living in a small village of tents at the entrance to the San José copper-gold mine—which they have named Camp Hope—were elated. "He's skinny, bearded and it was painful to see him with his head hanging down, but I am so happy to see him alive", said Ruth Contreras, the mother of Carlos Bravo, who is trapped in the mine. The video, of which only a small portion has been released to the public, shows the miners, many of them wearing helmets, cracking jokes and thanking the rescuers for their continued efforts. The supplies are being sent to the men through a small shaft only twelve centimeters wide, and a laboratory has been set up with the purpose of designing collapsible cots and miniature sandwiches, which can be sent down such a narrow space.CNN reported on Friday that "officials are splitting the men into two shifts so one group sleeps while the other works or has leisure time .. On average, each man has lost 22 pounds (10 kilograms) since they became trapped three weeks ago, and dehydration remains a threat. But a survey of the men indicates that at least nine miners are still too overweight to fit through the proposed rescue shaft. Initially, the miners survived by draining water from a water-cooled piece of equipment. To stay hydrated in the 90-degree mine, each miner must drink eight or nine pints of water per day."But while there are jubilant celebrations on the surface that the miners are alive, officials are now nervous that the miners could become depressed, trapped in a dark room the size of a small apartment. Chilean health minister Jaime Mañalich said that, on the video, he saw the telltale signs of depression. "They are more isolated, they don't want to be on the screen, they are not eating well", he said. "I would say depression is the correct word." He said that doctors who had watched the video had observed the men suffering from "severe dermatological problems." Dr. Rodrigo Figueroa, head of the trauma, stress and disaster unit at the Catholic University in Santiago, Chile, explained that "following the euphoria of being discovered, the normal psychological reaction would be for the men to collapse in a combination of fatigue and stress ... People who are trained for emergencies – like these miners – tend to minimize their own needs or to ignore them. When it is time to ask for help, they don't." NASA has advised emergency workers that entertaining the miners would be a good idea. They are to be sent a television system complete with taped football matches. Another dilemma facing Mañalich is whether the miners should be permitted to smoke underground. While nicotine gum has been delivered to the miners, sending down cigarettes is a plan that has not been ruled out. With the news that drilling of the main rescue tunnel was expected to begin on Monday, officials have informed the media that they hope to have the miners out of the mine by Christmas—but sources with access to technical meetings have suggested that the miners could actually be rescued by the first week of November. A news report described the rescue plan—"the main focus is a machine that bores straight down to 688m and creates a chimney-type duct that could be used to haul the miners out one by one in a rescue basket. A second drilling operation will attempt to intercept a mining tunnel at a depth of roughly 350m. The miners would then have to make their way through several miles of dark, muddy tunnels and meet the rescue drill at roughly the halfway point of their current depth of 688m." Iván Viveros Aranas, a Chilean policeman working at Camp Hope, told reporters that Chile "has shown a unity regardless of religion or social class. You see people arriving here just to volunteer, they have no relation at all to these families."But over the weekend, The New York Times reported that the "miners who have astonished the world with their discipline a half-mile underground will have to aid their own escape — clearing 3,000 to 4,000 tons of rock that will fall as the rescue hole is drilled, the engineer in charge of drilling said Sunday ... The work will require about a half-dozen men working in shifts 24 hours a day." Andrés Sougarret, a senior engineer involved in operating the drill said that "the miners are going to have to take out all that material as it falls."The families of those trapped were allowed to speak to them by radio-telephone on Sunday—a possibility that brought reassurance both the miners and those on the surface. The Intendant of the Atacama Region, Ximena Matas, said that there had been "moments of great emotion." She continued to say that the families "listened with great interest and they both felt and realized that the men are well. This has been a very important moment, which no doubt strengthens their [the miners'] morale." The phone line is thought to be quite temperamental, but it is hoped that soon, those in the mine and those in Camp Hope will be able to talk every day. "To hear his voice was a balm to my heart ... He is aware that the rescue is not going to happen today, that it will take some time. He asked us to stay calm as everything is going to be OK ... He sounded relaxed and since it was so short I didn't manage to ask anything. Twenty seconds was nothing", said said Jessica Cortés, who spoke to her husband Víctor Zamora, who was not even a miner, but a vehicle mechanic. "He went in that day because a vehicle had broken down inside the mine ... At first they told us he had been crushed [to death]." Esteban Rojas sent up a letter from inside the mine, proposing to his long-time partner Jessica Yáñez, 43. While they have officially been married for 25 years, their wedding was a civil service—but Rojas has now promised to have a church ceremony which is customary in Chile. "Please keep praying that we get out of this alive. And when I do get out, we will buy a dress and get married," the letter read. Yáñez told a newspaper that she thought he was never going to ask her. "We have talked about it before, but he never asked me ... He knows that however long it takes, I'll wait for him, because with him I've been through good and bad."CEO of RadioShack Corp., David Edmondson resigned Friday after admitting to lying in the contents of his resume.  Claiming to have two college degrees, a theology diploma called a ThG, and four years of education, Mr. Edmondson only attended two semesters at a college known now as Heartland Baptist Bible College (formerly known as Pacific Coast Baptist College). There are no records of any diplomas issued to Mr. Edmondson. These discrepancies caused Edmondson and the board to mutually agree to his resignation as president and CEO of RadioShack. Initially, RadioShack launched an internal investigation of Mr. Edmondson's statements; however, this investigation has since been halted.The company had recently suffered a drop of 62% of net income in its fourth-quarter, prompting restructuring plans and a closing of up to 10% of stores.David Edmondson will receive a severance package valued at less than one million dollars in cash from RadioShack.A rally organised by a coalition of nearly 30 environmental groups took place at the site of the Eden wood chip mill in the south east forests of New South Wales today. Organisers estimate that 600 people attended the event, many of whom had travelled hundreds of kilometers to the site from various parts of New South Wales and Victoria.The protesters sought to highlight the trade in wood chips made from old growth native forests which has continued in Australia despite promises by governments to discontinue the practice. It is thought to be an unnecessary sacrifice of a publicly owned resource and the habitat of native animals for short term profits. The industry is subsidised through provision of publicly funded infrastructure and a unreasonably low royalty levied on harvesters of the resource.All Eden wood chips are exported, mostly to pulp and paper mills in Japan and the paper made from Eden chips is generally copy paper used in the printing industry and it is consumed within Japan. Since its establishment, Eden has exported over 35 million tonnes of native forest chips.The Eden chip mill exports approximately 900,000 tonnes of chips a year, and is heading for 1 million tonnes in the next couple of years, produced from native forests each year and Australia is the only country that continues to trade forest wood chips to Japan, as all other supplier countries use plantation stock to produce chips.The rally was organised with police cooperation and was conducted without any incident.Independent U.S. presidential candidate Ralph Nader had harsh words for the Democrats who engineered yesterday's passage of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, a bailout of the U.S. financial system.  At a campaign stop in Waterbury, Connecticut on Saturday, Nader said that Democrats passed up a chance to enact re-regulation of the financial system and instead gave Wall Street everything it wanted.According to Nader, Senator Chris Dodd (D-CT), Representative Barney Frank (D-MA), and other Democrats considered but rejected measures such as a tax on transactions of derivatives (a "speculation tax") because of their financial ties to Wall Street and its lobbyists.  He said that Representative Chris Murphy (D-CT), who represents Waterbury, had "become a toady" of Nancy Pelosi.  He drew enthusiastic applause by calling Murphy "a dynamic fraud", and referred to Senator Joe Lieberman as "the Hermaphrodite of American Politics".  For Murphy and Representative Chris Shays (R-CT), Nader said, supporting the bailout despite the opposition of constituents was a "profile in betrayal".  Because there were no public hearings where taxpayers and experts could weigh in on the bailout, Nader characterized it as a return to "taxation without representation"—under "King George IV" 225 years after the 13 colonies were taxed under King George III.Asked about causes of the financial crisis, Nader pointed to the deregulation of the financial sector with the 1999 Glass-Steagall Act and further deregulation in 2000, as well as the rise of overly complex financial derivatives.  He outlined a four-part reform plan:Re-regulation of financial marketsIncreasing shareholder control of corporationsTaxpayer equity as part of any bailout, as in the 1979 bailout of Chrysler CorporationMaking speculators pay by enacting a 0.1% tax on derivatives transactions (which Nader said will amount to over $500 trillion this year)Regarding the equity warrants included in the passed bailout, Nader relayed word from an unnamed source that Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson had told Wall Street executives "don't worry, it's not enforceable".Nader told reporters that he had abandoned the Green Party because "Greens are not disciplined, and they're not mature", and also lack the fund-raising capabilities to break into mainstream political discussions.  "They bicker and bicker," he said, pushing out their best people.  However, he endorsed several local Green Party candidates, including Chris Murphy's opponent Harold Burbank.The virtual media blackout for third party campaigns by national newspapers and networks has been a source of continual frustration for the Nader campaign, as well as the campaigns of Libertarian Bob Barr and Green Cynthia McKinney and the post-campaign activities of Republican Ron Paul.  According to Nader, reporters tell him that editors of national media are "very bigoted against third party and independent candidacies".  Even journalists for taxpayer-supported media, such as National Public Radio's Terry Gross and the Public Broadcasting Service's Jim Lehrer, have shut him out during this campaign.  Debates, he lamented, are controlled by corporate interests through the Commission on Presidential Debates.Nader spoke to a supportive crowd of about 60 people and his campaign raised over $2000 at the event, their third visit to Waterbury.  The event took place in the former building of a closed-down bank.Extremely rare and expensive  Patek Philippe watches will be presented at the forthcoming Antiquorum auction sale. The Antiquorum's Collectors' Wristwatches, Pocket Watches and Clocks event is to take place on March 28. Over 300 of other timepieces will be sold at the auction.The participants of the auction sale will have a unique chance to acquire a Patek Philippe Ref. 5029 watch. The brand's limited edition creation is estimated to reach the price of about 500,000 dollars. It is one of just ten timepieces housed in  rose-gold cases that were developed in  1997 to pay tribute to the opening of the new company's factory in Geneva. The watch powered by a self-winding movement offers a complicated function of a minute-repeater.Another highlight of the auction will become an equally rare and high-priced Patek Philippe Ref. 5013 watch. The timepiece is meant to be sold at a price range of $400,000 to $500,000. The  platinum timekeeper is equipped with a self-winding movement. Besides providing a minute-repeater function, the complicated tonneau-shaped watch has a retrograde perpetual calendar, moon phase indicator and a 48-hour power reserve.Patek Philippe Ref. 2499 watch will be the third exquisite creation of the brand. It is expected to be acquired at the range of 300,000 to 400,000 dollars. The astronomic timepiece is housed in 18K yellow gold case. The watch offers the following complicated functions - a round-button chronograph, a perpetual calendar, a 30-minute register and moon phase indicator.The auction will be organized at Antiquorum's new headquarters located on Madison Avenue, New York City.In chatrooms and on bulletin boards, Macintosh users and the Macintosh-curious are buzzing about Tiger, the newest version of Apple Computer's Mac OS X, version 10.4. The open-source kernel, or base of the system, "Darwin", plus all the features of Apple's proprietary Quartz user interface features, software, and system utilities have passed through their next phase of upgrading and scrutiny, and have been shipping for more than a week now.Apple reports that Tiger, the code name for this release, includes over 200 new features and new versions of application software such as e-mail client Mail, web browser Safari, and multi-person audio/video/text messaging client iChat. Entirely new features have also been rolled out in this release:Spotlight integrates search in the core of the OS, and utilizes meta-data in its algorithm.Dashboard provides a sandbox for widgets, handy mini-applicatios like a calculator, sticky notes, and a dictionary, made available at the stroke of a key.Automator, a graphical scripting interface that enables non-programmers to automate repetitive tasks.One user of the new operating system made this comment:Industry analysts have pointed to both the advances and the failures of the new version already. Many of the bigger technology advances have gained high praise, but, they point out, Microsoft Longhorn is also expected to have many of these advantages when it is released, expected in late 2006. And inter-operability, long a strength of Macintosh to work with other operating systems and networks, has had a few bugs—such as reports of issues with Server Message Block (SMB) and Active Directory. Another issue for some is the fact that Cisco System's VPN does not work with Tiger. Cisco has promised a compatible release before the end of the month.The biggest technology breakthrough is Spotlight. Using meta-data, searches are fast and easy and very thorough, and the results of the search can be used over and over again and will automatically update and change as you use your system. Search queries on a user's data can be saved as "Smart folders" without ever moving files on the hard drive, so you can collect all your photos, receipts, and webpages about your summer vacation, for example, while still keeping things ordered on your hard drive. According to a review by PC World, this alone is worth the US$129.Still, even Macintosh support sites such as Mac News suggest waiting for the first "point" release (10.4.1) before jumping in, which is expected in late May. Apple Computer has been on a semi-regular release pattern since moving to Mac OS X, with four versions released in 5 years. This constant development program has occasionally been accused of being aimed at forcing users to constantly pay out for expensive new software, but the returns of regular releases have been quick bug fixes and leading edge technology.Reactions to the review of the economic implications of climate change include optimism about the commercial opportunities and apprehension about possible fiscal repercussions. The Stern Review of the Economics of Climate Change, commissioned by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, points to the need for urgent action to reduce carbon emissions if a world-wide economic catastrophe is to be avoided. The institution of global carbon trading, control of deforestation, increased investment in energy R & D and support to poorer countries in adapting to climate change are all key proposals in the Review. A leaked letter from David Miliband, Environment Secretary, to Chancellor Brown contains a package of tax proposals to promote the use of public transport and to encourage people to buy smaller cars and fly less. The proposals also include charges on petrol-guzzling cars, road pricing, levies on air travel and increased charges for landfill waste disposal.The findings of the Review and the promise of a Government Climate Bill, containing measures in response to the Review, received a mixed reception from employers and unions.Miles Templeman, Director-General of the Institute of Directors, said: "Without countries like the US, China or India making decisive commitments, UK competitiveness will undoubtedly suffer if we act alone. This would be bad for business, bad for the economy and ultimately bad for our climate."The Confederation of British Industries, the British Chambers of Commerce and asset managers F&C all pointed out the dangers to business of additional taxation. Brendan Barber, General Secretary of the Trades Union Congress, was optimistic about the opportunities for industry to meet demands created by investment in technology to combat climate change. The Prince of Wales' Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, formed by  14 of UK's leading companies shared this hope. Chairman of Shell UK, James Smith, expressed the hope of the group that business and Government would discuss how Britain could obtain "first mover advantage" in what he described as "massive new global markets."The markets for low-carbon energy products are expected to be worth £300 billion by 2050.Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, questions the assertions that there is scientific consensus on global warming. At best, he said, there is uncertainty. Politicians world-wide are jumping on the ‘green' bandwagon, but, if they want popular support, they'd better be sure that this is not simply the ‘new witchcraft'.Ruth Lea, Director of the Centre for Policy Studies, also questions the notion that there is a ‘scientific consensus' over global warming. She alleges that "authorities on climate science say that the climate system is far too complex for modest reductions in one of the thousands of factors involved in climate change (i.e. carbon emissions) to have a predictable effect in magnitude, or even direction." About economic models, upon which Stern relied for his projections, her experience was that forecasting just two or three years ahead was usually wrong. She described the problem of drawing conclusions from combining scientific and economic models as ‘monumentally complex'. She doubted whether international cooperation was really possible. She concluded that she thought that this Review was designed to cloak the motives of a government that wanted some moral justification for increasing taxation on fuels. An unconfirmed report on BBC 24 early Tuesday morning, October 31, stated that the White House had not yet seen a copy of the Stern Review.In response to the Stern Report Australia's Prime Minister John Howard promised a AU$60 million to fight climate change. The projects are part of the Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate. "The Asia-Pacific Partnership includes countries that represent about half of the world's emissions, energy use, GDP (gross domestic product) and population, and is an important initiative that engages, for the first time, the key greenhouse-gas emitting countries in the Asia-Pacific region," Mr Howard said in a statement.A statement by Australian Greens senators Rachel Siewert and Christine Milne criticised the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics saying "ABARE indicated that the type of research undertaken for the Stern Report is beyond them. They can put a price on what ratifying the Kyoto protocol would cost but have no idea or capacity to put a price on the cost of not acting. They are tinkering around the edges of the problem and don't seem to know whether climate change is real or whether there is any urgency."Rebekah Brooks, the chief executive of News International, has resigned after two weeks of growing pressure over allegations of phone hacking at British tabloid newspaper the News of the World.“I feel a deep sense of responsibility for the people we have hurt and I want to reiterate how sorry I am for what we now know to have taken place," Brooks, who formerly edited the NotW, said in a statement. Her resignation came amid mounting pressure from politicians for her resignation, and after Rupert Murdoch dropped his bid to take full control of BSkyB following growing public anger.David Cameron, the British prime minister, said Brooks had made the “right decision” to leave her post. His spokesperson said: "Clearly there have been mistakes made. There are a lot of questions to answer.” Ed Miliband, the leader of the Labour party also welcomed the decision. “No one in this country should exercise power without responsibility,” he said. “[But] this is not just about one individual but about the culture of an organisation.”Her resignation came as it emerged the FBI had launched an investigation into the alleged hacking of relatives of victims of the September 11 attacks on the United States by journalists at the NotW. The move amounts to the first time the scandal has spread outside of Britain, and analysts predict it might have widespread consequences for Murdoch.Murdoch, the media giant at the head of News Corporation, the parent company of News International, has so far stood by Brooks. Analysts say the pressure for her resignation came to a head on Thursday night as Alwaleed bin Talal al-Saud, the Saudi prince who owns the second largest stake in News Corporation, questioned her “integrity”. He told the BBC: "For sure she has to go, you bet she has to go."His comments followed the arrests of a number of NotW editors and reporters, and the closing of the tabloid in reaction to the phone hacking scandal that has erupted in the last two weeks following allegations that the voicemail of abducted and murdered teenager Milly Dowler was hacked into. It has also emerged that journalists at the NotW had been involved in the hacking of phones belonging to victims of the 7/7 attacks in London and relatives of British soldiers killed in combat in Afghanistan.In an interview with the Wall Street Journal, Murdoch has defended his handling of the scandal. "The company has made mistakes,” he said. “It is not only receiving appropriate scrutiny, but is also responding to unfair attacks by setting the record straight." It has also emerged today that News International is to take out large advertisements in British newspapers this weekend to apologise for what they describe as “wrongdoings” at the NotW. Brooks worked for News International for 22 years and had also edited the daily tabloid paper The Sun. She will be replaced by Tom Mockridge, the chief executive of Sky Italia. Her announcement was made to staff at News International's offices in Wapping in East London.A recall issued last week for Thomas the Tank Engine toys made in China and containing lead-based paint, is the latest scare for consumers, and follows recent scandals involving Chinese-made pet food, pharmaceuticals, toothpaste and other toys, The New York Times has reported in a series of articles.Last week, RC2, a U.S. toy company based in Oak Brook, Illinois, issued a recall for its popular wooden "Thomas the Tank Engine and Friends" train sets. The recall involved 1.5 million "Thomas Wooden Railway" vehicles and train sets sold at toy stores and various retailers across the U.S. from January 2005 through June 2007.A subsequent recall has been issued in the United Kingdom, where Thomas the Tank Engine was originated in the 1940s as a character in a children's story by the Reverend W.V. Awdry. Around 70,000 toys are involved in the U.K. recall, according to The Guardian."RC2 has determined that the surface paints on the recalled products contain lead. Lead is toxic if ingested by young children and can cause adverse health effects," the Consumer Product Safety Commission said in a press release dated June 13. "Consumers should take the recalled toys away from young children immediately and contact RC2 Corp. for a replacement toy," the commission said.Those "adverse health effects" could include brain and nerve damage, especially in young children, as well as blood and brain disorders. Severe lead poisoning causes vomiting, diarrhea, convulsions, anemia, loss of appetite, headaches and in particularly high doses, coma and death.In an article on Monday, The New York Times reported that recalls have been issued for 24 different toys in the U.S. in the past year, and every one of them was made in China. According to the Toy Industry Association, toys made in China account for around 70 percent to 80 percent of all the toys sold in the U.S., The Times said."These are items that children are supposed to be playing with," Prescott Carlson was quoted as saying by The Times. Carlson is a co-founder of a child-safety website called Imperfect Parent, which tracks recalls of toys and other baby products. "It should be at a point where companies in the United States that are importing these items are held liable," Carlson said.RC2 would not comment to The Times, and a Consumer Product Safety Commission spokesman would not say how long ago the problem with the lead paint was discovered.For a follow-up article on Tuesday, The Times visited a factory in Dongguan, in China's Guangdong province, where the "Thomas and Friends" toys are made. The paper interviewed workers and took photos on the factory floor."You're intruding," a factory manager identified only as Zhong was quoted as telling the reporters. "Tell me, why exactly are you here?"During the visit, a reporter, translator and a photographer were detained by factory officials, and released a day later after local police and government officials intervened.The factory also produces other toys for RC2, including toy John Deere trucks, NASCAR racing models and M&M's cars, The Times said. RC2 makes the toys under licenses from various companies. The "Thomas and Friends" toys are made under license from Hit Entertainment, which owns the "Thomas" brand.Asbestos victims seeking their retribution payment of A$350 million from the Asbestos Injuries Compensation Fund are approaching the Australian government following an admission from James Hardie compensation fund trustees stating they are unable to pay the victims in lump sums due to the recession.The James Hardie building materials firm which established the $1.5 billion fund in 2006, claims it is short 3.5 million for its compensation fund payouts due to the decline in the American housing market which provides 85 percent of its company sales. The settlement stipulates that in the event of a shortfall, victims will receive funds in the form of installments.Asbestos advocacy groups representing injured former employees are requesting help from the Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd for additional funds from James Hardie. "We're talking to the government and James Hardie about funding options," said Dallas Booth, CEO of Asbestos Injuries Compensation Fund."For example victims might be able to sign over their rights to the state government so that they get compensated in full until the fund can be replenished and then the state government can get their money back straight out of the fund." suggested Paul Bastian, New South Wales secretary of the Australian Manufacturing Workers Union .Barry Robson, president of the Asbestos Diseases Foundation explained that James Hardie has paid $153 million in taxes to the Australian Taxation Office, and that the Asbestos Diseases Foundation will request of the Rudd Government to defer these taxes until the economic condition improves and James Hardie's profitability returns. In this way the Australian government would allow James Hardie's taxes to go to the asbestos fund. Victims are currently paid out via a lump sum arrangement, and the Asbestos Diseases Foundation is advocating for the status quo. "Well how they're paid now is in lump sum and we'd like to continue with that. The victims groups are totally opposed to any instalment plan whatsoever," said Robson in the interview with PM.The Asbestos Diseases Foundation emphasized that a payment plan could be ineffectual, as asbestos victims and those suffering from mesothelioma may die before receiving full payments.Bastian noted to the Australian Associated Press that asbestos victims have upfront costs to deal with, including medical bills, and would be adversely affected by an installment plan option. "Victims also want to ensure that their families are looked after, that there's contingencies and everything is settled before they pass away, in many cases," said Bastian to the AAP.Bastian told The Australian he would request Prime Minister Rudd stay true to his promise that "no one would go without compensation". "I think the state Government should be our white knight," commented Bastian. Asbestosis is a disease resulting from asbestos exposure which causes lung scarring and can lead to lung cancer. Exposure to asbestos can also lead to a more serious condition known as mesothelioma. Mesothelioma is a cancer which develops in the sac surrounding the lungs and chest cavity, abdominal cavity, or the sac surrounding the heart. Patients with malignant mesothelioma generally do not have positive outcomes, and once diagnosed typically have six months to a year to live.On Friday Warner Music Group announced that it had been subpoenaed by the office of New York Attorney-General Eliot Spitzer to provide information about digital music download pricing. It has been reported that Sony BMG Music Entertainment and Vivendi Universal have also received subpoenas.The subpoenas are thought to be connected to an antitrust investigation being carried out by New York Attorney-General Eliot Spitzer. The investigation is believed to be looking at whether Warner, Sony BMG, EMG and Universal have colluded to set wholesale song download pricing. Will Tanous, speaking on behalf of Warner Music group said "As part of an industrywide investigation concerning pricing of digital music downloads, we received a subpoena from Attorney General Spitzer's office as disclosed in our public filings. We are cooperating fully with the inquiry."It is also thought that the investigation may be due to the music industry wishing to renegotiate pricing with Apple over its iTunes online store. The record companies have indicated that they wish to begin variable pricing on music downloads. Apple currently sells songs for $US0.99 each.In September, Warner CEO Edgar Bronfman told an investor conference that "not all songs are created equal ... There are some songs for which consumers would be willing to pay more and some we'd be willing to sell for less".Bicycle sales in Australia have recorded record sales of 1,273,781 units for 2006, exceeding car sales by 32 percent. It is the fifth year in a row that the bicycle industry has sold more than one million units, a figure yet to be realised by car manufacturers.The Cycling Promotion Fund (CPF) spokesman Ian Christie said Australians were increasingly using bicycles as an alternative to cars. Sales rose nine percent in 2006 while the car market stalled. Mr Christie said people were looking to cut their fuel costs and improve their fitness.Mr Christie said organisations were beginning to supply bicycles as a company vehicle. “There is an emerging trend towards people using bikes as their official company-supplied vehicle in place of the traditional company car,” he said.“Some of Australia’s biggest corporations now have bicycle fleets, and when you add in government organisations, we now know of at least 50 organisations which operate fleets of bikes."“Although the company bicycle is a long way from taking over from the company car, it’s an important trend when you consider that nearly half of all cars sold are to company fleets.”The CPF claims most commutes to work are less than 5 kilometres (3 miles) making bicycle travel a viable alternative.According to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), a record number of banks for a calendar month have failed in the United States in February. A total of 10 banks failed in February, more than any other month since October of 2000. A total of 16 banks have closed this year so far, with 24 closing in 2008. If the current trend continues, the total number of failed banks will more than double in March, as compared to the total number of failed banks in 2008.The list grew after the FDIC took over the funds from the Security Savings Bank of Henderson, Nevada and the Heritage Community Bank in Glenwood, Illinois on February 27. The FDIC issued press releases for both institutions.The four branches of the Heritage Community Bank reopened on February 28 "as branches of MB Financial Bank," stated the FDIC. The bank's assets were worth nearly US$233 million and had customer deposits worth nearly $220 million. MB is expected to purchase $230 million of the bank's assets and the FDIC will "retain the remaining assets for later disposition.""The two Security Savings Bank branches will reopen on Monday (March 2) as branches of Bank of Nevada," stated the FDIC. The bank held assets worth approximately $238.3 million with customer deposits of nearly $180 million. Bank of Nevada will purchase approximately $111 million of the bank's assets while the FDIC will retain the remaining balance, also "for later disposition.""The FDIC insures deposits at the nation's 8,305 banks and savings associations and it promotes the safety and soundness of these institutions by identifying, monitoring and addressing risks to which they are exposed," added the FDIC.Both banks, when reopened, will immediately become members of the FDIC.On October 24, 2001, convicted lobbyist Jack Abramoff and four Alexander Strategies Group associates donated $1,000 each to the Rely on Your Beliefs Fund. This political action committee in turn donated $3,000 to Republican Representative John Sununu's primary campaign in New Hampshire on the same day, through the political action committee Team Sununu. The Greenberg Traurig lobbying company, which also employed Abramoff, gave $1000 to Team Sununu on December 16, 2002 for purposes of 'debt retirement.'According to a report by the U.S. Senate Indian Affairs Committee, Jack Abramoff commonly told Native American tribal clients to divert their funds through the Alexander Strategies Group. Earlier that October, Jack Abramoff had met with the legislative director of the Saginaw Chippewa tribe in Michigan. Representative John Sununu, now a sitting senator from New Hampshire, had served on the Appropriations Committee that helped draft the Department of Interior funding bill. In the section on Native American water claims, land claims, and miscellaneous payments, over $6,000,000 in funding was given to Michigan fishing in the Great Lakes.The event occurred a day before the presentation of a Department of Interior funding bill to President George W. Bush for signing, and a week after the conference report settling differences between the House and the Senate. Abramoff wrote to fellow lobbyist Michael Scanlon on October 4, 2001 via e-mail, "I had dinner tonight with Chris Petras of Sag Chip. He was salivating at the $4-5 million program I described to him (is that enough? Probably not)."File:Jack Abramoff Jan1006.jpgJack Abramoff was sentenced to four years in federal prison earlier this month. He had admitted to conspiring to defraud four Native American tribes that either operated or were interested in operating casinos. The other three donors to the fund linked to Sununu were all members of the Alexander Strategy Group, including its founder, former Tom DeLay chief of staff Ed Buckham. Donor Jim Ellis had led the group Preston Gates & Ellis, which also employed Jack Abramoff. A fourth contributor was J. Thomas Smith, Jr., who had served as the Alexander Strategy Group's lawyer.The Alexander Strategy Group was shut down in January due to ties with Jack Abramoff and former House majority leader Tom DeLay. The Rely On Your Beliefs Fund, owned by former Rep. Roy Blunt, has already donated to charity $8,500 equivalent to the amount personally contributed by Jack Abramoff in 2006. In November 2004, Gannett News Service had reported that Abromoff directed the Tigua tribe to contribute to the Rely On Your Beliefs Fund. In January 2006, John Sununu donated to charity $3000 he had received from the Saginaw Chipewa from the Daniel Webster PAC.In a community congress in January, residents of the devastated city of New Orleans offered their support for a sweeping plan to rebuild the city, its districts and its neighborhoods. The “Unified New Orleans Plan” is a multi-faceted document that incorporates a number of different recovery planning efforts, including federal infrastructure plans and specific small-scale blueprints developed by individual neighborhoods. Residents overwhelmingly approved the comprehensive recovery and rebuilding plan, which is expected to be reviewed and ratified by the city in February. The plan offers incentives for raising houses. Concerns have been raised over whether some of the hard lessons taught by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita have been learnt. The Washington Post reports that some residents are beginning to rebuild their homes in the same vulnerable floodplains that in Fall 2005 were under 10 to 20 feet of water. Despite the threat, a surprising amount of the new development in New Orleans is being built without raised foundations. Mayor C. Ray Nagin has been a proponent of allowing people to return to their old neighborhoods, even if they are particularly vulnerable. But as rebuilding continues, planning officials recognize that encouraging people to return to susceptible floodplains could pose another big problem down the road.The Bush administration wants to dedicate 3.1 billion dollars to the repairs of flood defences.According to a study by the Rand Corporation in three years the city will have a population of only 275,000 compared to 465,000 inhabitants before Hurricane Katrina. The disaster also brings the unique opportunity for modernization. Ecological activist organizations have been writing green guidelines for New Orleans schools that the Louisiana Recovery Authority wants to incorporate into its plan.In American history, the challenge to rebuild vast swaths of a city is comparable to the great Chicago Fire of 1871 and the San Francisco earthquake of 1906. Both projects were much further along in their recovery 18 months after the tragedy than New Orleans is today.Corus steelworkers in Redcar, Cleveland, England marched yesterday for a campaign to save their jobs, after the closure of Redcar's steelworks was announced in May 2009.Approximately 5,000 people, including employees of Redcar's steelworks, other Corus steelworks, Teesport and the local chemical industry, partook in the march, and the Australian Workers' Union also expressed their support.Trade unions called on the government to help the plant. Roy Rickhuss, Community's National Officer for Steel, said that "we need help, we need support from the government if the manufacturing base in this country is going to survive". He also said that "the government has helped the bowler hats, now it's time to help the hardhats". Derek Simpson, of Unite the Union, was concerned that "the loss of the Corus plant will rip the heart out of this community". Community also warned that the job losses would increase child poverty rates in Teesside.Vera Baird QC MP, Labour Member of Parliament for Redcar and Solicitor General, expressed hope that Corus at Redcar would regain its main contract. She claimed that "the government is 100% behind, and has played a key role in encouraging these negotiations to resume".A spokesperson for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills said that "the difficulties that the company is facing are caused by an extreme downturn in demand for steel around the world". The government has offered £5 million (€5.8 million, $8.2 million) to retrain the workers.10,000 jobs could be lost in Teesside from the closure of Redcar steelworks. 1,920 people are directly employed by Corus in Redcar, with a further 2,000 contractors being employed, and other local businesses relying on Corus' business.A referendum was held in Costa Rica in order to approve or reject DR-CAFTA. 52% of the citizens voted "yes". This free trade agreement between the United States, Central American countries and Dominican Republic was negotiated between 2003 and 2004, and most of those countries ratified it in 2005; only Costa Rica did not join it until today.Costa Rican president Óscar Arias, his allies in Legislative Assembly and employers organizations support the treaty, but it is opposed by unions and the second political force in Assembly, Citizen Action Party (PAC), among other organizations.The referendum caused a scandal when it was discovered an e-mail that then-current Vicepresident Kevin Casas and Deputy Fernando Sánchez send to President, proposing dirty tactics in the campaign to promote CAFTA. Casas had to resign.The Sunshine Coast Regional Council (SCRC) has vowed to fight a Queensland, Australia state government development plan that would see almost 100,000 more homes built. Mayor Bob Abbot said that it was an example of "top-down" development at the whim of developers."We don't know whether ... that long term it's not going to destroy our lifestyle," Mr Abbot said. He also stated that the SCRC preferred a "bottom-up planing process", where the community had a say in what the region should look like in the future."We'll apply those values and work out what the population will be, rather than going the other way and just blandly state a population level on a whim, with no justification other than some application that have been brought forward by the development industry."State treasurer Andrew Fraser told Australian Associated Press that there would need to be proposals made to limit population growth."Population growth isn't governed by government policy, and to stop it would be an incredible infringement and an un-Australian infringement on the rights of Australians to have children and move freely about the nation. The challenge is to plan for that population growth that's occurring."Of the near 100,000 homes to be built, 31,000 would be built in existing urban areas. 61,000 new homes would be built on what is being referred to as "greenfield sites"."The community wants us to toughen up and stick to our guns," councillor Ted Hungerford said. "If the minister is going to come in over the top of us that's up to him."The United Kingdom's Competition Commission has decided not to allow a video-on-demand (VOD) service backed by the country's major broadcasters.Kangaroo would have provided BBC, ITV and Channel 4 (C4) television programmes for download and streaming to UK internet users from a single interface. At present, each broadcaster has its own system. The Commission said that free-to-view Kangaroo would prevent other VOD providers entering the market because the three broadcasters control the vast majority of original programming in the UK.Commission chairman Peter Freeman said "Without this venture, BBC Worldwide [the BBC's commercial arm], ITV and Channel 4 would be close competitors of each other. We thought that viewers would benefit from better VOD services if the parties... competed with each other".The Kangaroo consortium issued a statement saying that "the real losers from this decision are British consumers. This is a disproportionate remedy and a missed opportunity in the further development of British broadcasting". Michael Grade, executive chairman at ITV plc, told The Guardian "We are surprised by this decision because we believed that the Kangaroo joint venture, competing in a crowded online world against dominant global brands, was an attractive UK consumer proposition, free at the point of use".The Times says that Kangaroo had been expected to gain approval, albeit with provisos including BBC and C4 programmes being made available elsewhere.The broadcasters already have their own existing internet download or streaming services with different funding models. The BBC iPlayer is free to use and carries no advertising; C4's 4oD charges 99p to rent a programme for 48 hours; and the ITV Player is supported by advertising.A U.S. State Department report [1] was released on Friday, March 4, officially detailing the extent to which opium production has soared in Afghanistan since the U.S invasion three years ago. The report made its way to U.S. Congress via Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. Although the scope of study is large, investigating the status of illicit narcotics in almost every country during 2004, attention has focused on Afghanistan. With more than 510,000 sprawling acres of the impoverished country (three times the amount in 2003) utilized for Opium poppy cultivation (the raw material for heroin), the report warns that the country is becoming a "narcotics state" like Colombia for cocaine.In addition, the report indicated that Afghanistan's opium production soared to 5,445 tons last year, producing 17 times more of the raw drug material than second-place Myanmar. The report stated that the explosion of narcotic production in Afghanistan is "an enormous threat to world stability."To combat this issue, the Bush administration has proposed US$780 million to institute a plan that works on two levels: to promote alternative crops to farmers and to increase military interdiction for finding and destroying heroin labs and storage facilities. At the time of publishing, the U.S. government has already committed US$1.2 billion to counter-narcotics activities for 2005.According to a new report by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), total world military spending was $1.35 trillion in 2004. The institute says that this is just 6% off the all time record, set in 1987 at the end of the Cold War. However this record could soon be shattered as spending jumped 5% last year alone.In a stark example of the huge amount spent on the military by the United States, SIPRI revealed that almost half of all spending is by the US, $455bn or 47% to be exact. This figure is greater than the combined spending of the next 32 heaviest spenders. US spending on its armed forces now stands at 3.9% of its GDP, less than the 6% during the Cold War, but more than the 3% reported the previous year.The top five spenders in 2004 were as follows:United States of AmericaUnited KingdomFranceJapanChinaCarter Smith, The Executive Director of the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, told a state legislative committee on Tuesday that together wildfires and drought have caused an estimated $11 million dollars in damage to state parks during 2011. Severe damage was reported to Davis Mountains, Possum Kingdom, and Bastrop state parks.Mr. Smith stated that in August 2011 alone there was a 25% drop in visitors and noted the loss of nearly 4,000 homes across the state last year due to wildfires. An employee of Tyler State Park told Wikinews on Friday that the park's lake is currently "...about three feet low", but went on to state that staff had recently stocked the lake with freshwater trout. When asked about the park's overall status, the employee stated, "We're doing OK."In the U.S. Texas ranks lowest in state park funding per capita. Reportedly, the drought has impacted wildlife, with increases of sightings of bears, mountain lions and feral hogs in unusual locales.One out of every four United States bridges needs repairs and updating according to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO). The total estimated cost of repairs is US$140 billion, and will continue to rise if not dealt with immediately, according to the report published by AASHTO.The necessity for bridge repairs has been just one of the infrastructure needs for which federal assistance has been requested by some state officials. Governor Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania said that, "we need federal intervention, and federal intervention at a big level."Additionally, Rendell stated that, "no matter how hard a state applies its efforts and its resources to this problem, it's never going to make enough of a dent without significantly and radically increased federal help.""States are doing their best to improve them, but construction costs are skyrocketing ... forcing states to delay needed repairs," said Pete K. Rahn, head of the Missouri Department of Transportation and AASHTO president to Associated Press. "Without a national commitment to increasing bridge investment, we will see a continuing spiral towards deterioration and, ultimately, bridge closures in order to protect the traveling public."AASHTO's report, titled "Bridging the Gap: Restoring and Rebuilding the Nation's Bridges", stated that nearly every one in five bridges is 50-years-old or older. Furthermore, of the 600,000 U.S. bridges, nearly 152,000 (about one in four) need significant repair. "Almost one in four bridges, while safe to travel, is either structurally deficient, in need of repair." The report notes that the average age of American bridges is 43 years.The report was released just days prior to the one-year anniversary of the August 1, 2007 I-35W bridge collapse, which resulted in the death of 13 people.Fighter jet parts and other U.S. military gear that were to be sold to Iran and China have been traced back to the Pentagon. The gear was not sold directly to these countries, but rather it was obtained by middlemen who the sold it again.In one case, federal investigators said that a Pakistani middleman purchased arms from the Defense Department’s surplus auction. The arms purchased were Chinook helicopter engine parts, which the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency said did successfully make it to Iran.In a second case, Tomcat parts were bought from the Defense Department’s surplus division. Custom agents confiscated and returned the parts, but later found out that the Defense Department had resold the parts to another buyer suspected of being a broker for Iran.  Except for the US, which recently retired its Tomcat air fleet, Iran is the only other country flying Tomcats.In 2005 alone, the profits made from the Pentagon's public surplus sales were $57 million. The Pentagon has had previous incidents in the past.  In 2003, a Camden, New Jersey company, State Metal Industries, was convicted for selling AIM-7 Sparrow missile guidance parts, which it had bought from the Defense Department’s surplus auctions, to an entity partially owned by the Chinese government.As the newly inaugurated Barack Obama administration continues to push for a US$825 billion stimulus package to aid the struggling United States economy, some Republican legislators say they will not vote for such a plan without the inclusion of more tax cuts and less "unnecessary" spending.Arizona Senator John McCain, Obama's general election opponent and a leading voice within the Republican Party, says he would not vote for the American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan as it currently stands. Appearing on Fox News Sunday yesterday, McCain echoed his campaign platform in saying, "We need to make tax cuts permanent, and we need to make a commitment that there'll be no new taxes."McCain and other Republicans say they are unhappy with the bill introduced in the House of Representatives, which combines roughly $550 billion in domestic spending with $275 billion in tax cuts. McCain believes not enough Republican proposals have been integrated into the plan, which he fears will result in the plan becoming "just another spending project" rather than a job creator."Republicans have not been brought in, to the degree that we should be in, to these negotiations and discussions. So far, as far as I can tell, no Republican proposal has been incorporated," McCain said. "We're losing sight of what the stimulus is all about, and that is job creation."The Arizona senator is known for his bipartisan efforts in Washington, D.C., but he defined his role in the new Senate as the "loyal opposition", which does not mean "that I or my party will be a rubber stamp" for Obama, he said.In his first weekly address since being sworn in, President Obama explained the stimulus plan in further detail, calling it a plan to "immediately jumpstart job creation as well as long-term economic growth." He outlined several of the bill's priorities, including the creation or salvation of up to four million jobs, as well as sweeping investments in health care, education, energy and infrastructure.Among these investments are a new electricity grid with more than 3,000 miles of transmission lines, the weatherization of 2.5 million homes, health insurance protection for more than 8 million Americans, a renovation of over 10,000 schools, a project to repair thousands of miles of roadways, and an expansion of broadband Internet access.Obama also laid out the rationale behind the stimulus, saying that "unprecedented action" is necessary in order to prevent further economic distress. "Our economy could fall $1 trillion short of its full capacity, which translates into more than $12,000 in lost income for a family of four," Obama said. "In short, if we do not act boldly and swiftly, a bad situation could become dramatically worse."The president addressed the skepticism surrounding the stimulus package, pledging to "root out waste, inefficiency, and unnecessary spending", while holding the government accountable for its actions. "We won’t just throw money at our problems," Obama said. "We'll invest in what works."Still, Republicans such as House Minority Leader John Boehner are skeptical of the plan's effectiveness in rebuilding the economy. "I think a lot of Republicans will vote no because it's a lot of wasteful Washington spending", he commented on Meet the Press, repeating McCain's call for less federal spending and more tax cuts.Examples of "wasteful" spending cited by Republicans include millions of coupons to aid in the digital television transition, $200 million for new sod on the National Mall, and $360 million to fight sexually transmitted diseases, which includes funding for contraceptives. House Republicans have claimed it will take 10 years before the economy feels the effect of a stimulus, and that the combined spending of the stimulus and the financial bailouts of last year will leave future generations with over $2 trillion of debt.In response to the stimulus plan being pushed through Congress, Boehner and Republican Whip Eric Cantor presented Obama with an alternative stimulus plan on Friday, one that relies exclusively on income and business tax cuts. "Our plan offers fast-acting tax relief, not slow-moving and wasteful government spending," Boehner said. The counterproposal includes an income tax reduction that would save families an estimated $3,200 a year.Despite this opposition, the stimulus bill is expected to pass through Congress by mid-February, as the Republican minority does not have enough votes to stop its approval. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell expressed a general support of the plan at a White House meeting with Obama and other congressional leaders. "I do think we'll be able to meet the president's deadline of getting the package to him by mid-February," McConnell said. The bill is expected to go before Congress for a vote on Monday, February 2.Obama's top economic adviser Lawrence Summers defended the stimulus plan while on Meet the Press. He said the bill was intended to balance the long-term initiatives mentioned above with the tax cuts desired by Republicans. He also said Obama was committed to spending three quarters of the stimulus money within 18 months.RepuTex has announced this month a list of the most socially responsible companies in Australia and New Zealand. RepuTex, according to its website, is "an alternative to existing ethical investment methodologies which rely primarily on negative screening systems." The list covers 66 organisations. RepuTex services large to small organisations which want their situation assessed. The organisations are assessed across four sectors; Corporate Governance, Environmental Impact, Workplace Practices and Social Impact, producing a final result. This year, the Westpac Banking Corporation gained the only AAA rating followed by Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited and Australian Postal Corporation with AA ratings.Global CEO of RepuTex, Ms Laurel Grossman said “more companies are recognising the value of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) and the vital role it plays in managing mainstream financial risk,” adding “this year 66 companies across Australia and New Zealand were rated in the A range (-A to AAA), up from 58 companies last year."Rescuers in Brazil are seeking a plane that disappeared Friday carrying six people, two local pilots and four British investors interested in a possible new housing development.The dual-engined Cessna 310, operated by Aero Star, lost contact with Air Traffic Control (ATC) eight miles (13km) off the coast near Ilheus, where it was intending to land in nine minutes time and was making a visual approach to Ilhéus Jorge Amado Airport. The flight had originated in Salvador and made last contact at 5:43 p.m. local time (2043 GMT) with Ilheus control tower.The four passengers have been identified as Sean Woodhall, Ricky Every, Alan Kempson and Nigel Hodges. The planned development they had been considering is a luxury estate planned by Worldwide Destinations, who Sean Woodhall owns. It is based in Spain and constructs worldwide luxury property developments.Ricky Every works for Worldwide Destinations, and Alan Kempson and Nigel Hodges are both directors of UK finance company Diamond Lifestyle Holdings, who had been considering a deal with Worldwide. At least three of the four did not live in the UK.The search for the aircraft is focusing on a location 20 miles (32km) North of Ilheus, where there are eyewitness reports that a light aircraft was flying extremely low and without lights, leading authorities to believe the aircraft loss power. Investigations are probing some reports of witnessing a plane crash, and there are unconfirmed rumours that wreckage has been found.Brazil's Coast Guard, three Aero Star helicopters and Bahia state police are all participating in the search. The weather was good at the time and the flight crew hadn't reported any issues to ATC.Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) co-chief executive and chairman, Jim Balsillie, has resigned voluntarily as chairman after an internal review revealed irregularities with how the company accounted for stock options.The review was carried out over the past 7 months and indicates that, Canadian BlackBerry maker, RIM, will have to restate earnings for all of 2004, 2005, and 2006, and for the first quarter of 2007. The company will have to lower previously reported earnings by approximately US$250 million.The review committee indicated that RIM "failed to maintain adequate internal and accounting controls with respect to the issuance of options in compliance with the Company’s stock option plan, both in terms of how options were granted and documented, and the measurement date used to account for certain option grants". Although the review finds that there was no deliberate misconduct, both Balsillie and co-chief executive, Michael Lazaridis, have agreed to pay, voluntarily, up to $5 million each to compensate the company for the costs of the review and restatement.All RIM directors and C-level officers will have to pay back any monies received incorrectly as a result of the option irregularities.Balsillie will retain his positions as co-chief executive and director. In a press release, the company stated that "consistent with current best practices in corporate governance, the roles of chairman and CEO are being separated". Current RIM chief financial officer, Dennis Kavelman, will move to the position of chief operating officer.RIM is a designer, manufacturer and marketer of wireless solutions for the worldwide mobile communications market and is listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market and the Toronto Stock Exchange.All eight million users of BlackBerry have been relieved of a large system failure that left them without email for two days.Emails were lost after a large system failure blocked all of their users worldwide, Tuesday. It is reported at 8 p.m. ET on Tuesday the system failure began. It ended Wednesday morning leaving its millions of users with a backlog of emails.BlackBerry, owned by Waterloo, Ontario based Research In Motion (RIM), apologised for the outage Wednesday and said they will take further measures to ensure this will never happen again.Research In Motion said that a system upgrade caused the large system failure and when they tried to fix the problem "it did not fully perform to its expectations"."It wasn't a capacity issue, it wasn't a security issue. It was an outage overnight when there was an upgrade," said Co-CEO of RIM, Jim Balsillie. "I think it's pretty likely that the systems are in place that this kind of thing, as incredibly unlikely as it is to happen, is all the more unlikely to happen again."On Wednesday, Canadian BlackBerry maker Research In Motion Limited (RIM), reported preliminary fourth quarter and year-end financial results. Despite record profits, up from US$18 million in the same quarter last year to $188 million for the current quarter, the news was dampened by the revelation that the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had formalized its investigation into RIM's accounting practices.An internal review by RIM, initiated eight months ago, revealed irregularities with how the company accounted for stock options. On March 5 of 2007, RIM co-chief executive and chairman, Jim Balsillie, resigned his position of chairman, due to the irregularities.RIM had indicated, until recently, that the SEC probe into the company's stock option granting practices was an informal inquiry. In a press release April 11, RIM suggested that "the informal inquiry has been converted to a formal investigation."In its press release, RIM indicated it would restate financials for the second and third quarters of fiscal 2007, and the fiscal year ended March 3, 2007 only. Through its internal probe, RIM had determined that the accounting irregularities for recently filed Canadian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) statements would not result in a material adjustment. It would not, therefore, restate Canadian GAAP financial statements, filed previously. Aside from the record profits just reported, RIM indicated that it had shipped approximately 6.4 million BlackBerry devices in fiscal 2007 and that 1.02 million subscriber accounts were added in the fourth quarter. At the end of the quarter, the total BlackBerry subscriber account base had increased to 8 million.On the news of the formal SEC inquiry, RIM's stock price was down over 8%, Thursday, on the NASDAQ.File:IPad-02.jpgCanadian technology company Research in Motion (RIM) is expected to unveil a new tablet device early next week at a developers conference. The device, which unnamed sources claim is called the BlackPad, will be launched by the end of this year, according to The Wall Street Journal. If the device is released, it will compete with Apple's iPad and also with Samsung's GalaxyTab which runs on the Android operating system. RIM is best known for their line of BlackBerry smartphones.According to InformationWeek, the BlackPad will run a new operating system developed by QNX, which RIM bought earlier in 2010. Future BlackBerry smartphones might also use this new operating system. If RIM uses the QNX operating system, the company's new Blackberry 6 operating system will be retired early. The device is also expected to have a camera and a seven inch touch screen.RIM has been steadily losing market share to Apple and Google's Android. RIM is expected to capture 11.7% of the smartphone market in 2014, a plunge from the 17.5% it currently holds, according to Gartner. Some people are optimistic about RIM's probable venture into tablet devices, such as Tim Bajarin of Creative Strategies, who said that "if you're a smartphone vendor today the natural way to continue to growing  your business would be to introduce a tablet." However, Sameet Kanade, analyst with Northern Securities, has more doubts, stating that the tablet market is "a market that RIM has no exposure or experience in." Other companies have announced their intention to launch rivals to the iPad. Motorola has said that they will launch a rival to the iPad in early 2011, while Samsung and Dell have already released similar devices. Microsoft has also announced that they will develop software to rival Apple's tablet device.At University of California, Berkeley on Thursday, researchers and technical workers formed a strike against what they call "bad faith bargaining" within the UC system.  The Coalition of University Employees (CUE) labor union estimates that around 10,000 university workers are on strike.  Other strikes related to this are occurring at UCSF Medical Center, UC Santa Cruz, and four other UC campuses around the state.The Coalition of University Employees accuses top UC officials of ignoring the union's requests regarding the high turnover rate of researchers. CUE organizers say the university is misleading the union about the quantity of money readily available for employee salary increases.The UC officials deny accusations that they have bargained in bad faith, saying they have offered a contract to the researchers that's similar to an approved deal.The Australian Prime Minister John Howard is bracing himself for the probable interest rate rise on Wednesday. Experts are saying that a rise is almost certain and that as many as three could occur within the next three months. Interest rates have never risen so close to a federal election (this year's election on November 24) but the Prime Minister says that some interest rate rise is unavoidable in a good economy."Now is not the time to replace an experienced government on economic issues with an inexperienced government," Howard warned today. Labor leader Kevin Rudd recalls the Prime Minister's promise at the 2004 election to keep interest rates low - labelled the 'big interest rate con' by the opposition leader.Treasurer Peter Costello reaffirms the Coalition's policy on the workplace relations laws, saying that a reversal of the laws by a Labor government would push up inflation and interest rates.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) posted a press release on its website yesterday stating it will identify up to six banks as domestic systemically important banks (D-SIB), which would be equivalent to the too big to fail banks of other nations.RBI is to reveal the names of the banks every year in August, starting from 2015. The press release also said RBI had identified four to six banks to be under D-SIB category according to data compiled through March 2013.The primary criterion to be used for selection of the banks is size — banks with size larger than 2% of the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) as defined by Basel regulations. Other criteria to be used are interconnectedness, how easily the bank can be substituted for, and its infrastructure and complexity. RBI also said four subcategories of D-SIBs will be created, each with different Tier 1 capital requirements, which will be higher compared to other banks. These four categories will have Tier 1 capital requirements ranging from 0.20% to 0.80% of their risk-weighted assets.Ananda Bhoumik, senior director of India Ratings, a unit of Fitch Ratings, said the new regulations will not hinder the growth of the banks, as they already maintain capital above the expected regulation levels. Banks considered by analysts likely to be classified as D-SIBS include State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, Citibank, Standard Chartered Bank, ICICI Bank, and HDFC Bank.The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has hiked the repo rate by 0.25 percent to 7.25 percent, keeping the reverse repo rate unchanged at 6%. The Bank rate and the cash reserve ratio are left unchanged at 6% and 5% respectively. In its mid-year review of monetary and regulatory policy, the Reserve Bank has forecast an annual GDP growth of 8.0%, as against the 7.5-8.0% forecast earlier in its annual policy statement and first quarter review. The Reserve Bank indicated that inflation will be contained between 5.0-5.5%, during the year 2006-07.The Reserve Bank estimated real GDP growth in the first quarter of 2006-07 at 8.9%, up from 8.5% last year.Residents, business owners and developers attended a low profile, "private" neighborhood meeting about the Elmwood Village Hotel proposal and redesign in Buffalo, New York last night. At least 50 people from the Penhurst block, the Claremont block, the Granger block  and various other locations attended. A representative from Forever Elmwood was also at the meeting. Joel Golombeck, City Councilman for the Elmwood area, was also among the attendees.The Elmwood Village Hotel is a seven million dollar proposal by Savarino Construction Services Corp. The hotel would be built on the intersection of Elmwood and Forest Aves. in Buffalo. In order for the hotel to be built, the demolition of at least five currently occupied buildings will be required.Golombeck found out about the proposal just three weeks ago when Sam Savarino of Savarino Construction Services Corp. called Golombeck. Golombeck said that he was asked, by the City of Buffalo to "approve" the proposal "tomorrow", (February 28, 2006). When asked to do so Golombeck replied, "That is just not possible. I did not realize how fast tracked this plan was. My first question to Savarino was, did you talk to the neighborhood?"Golombeck also stated that he would not approve or deny the proposal until a reasonable amount of time was given to the community to make a judgment on the new design.Golombeck also stated that the City of Buffalo wanted Savarino to obtain both 605 Forest and 607 Forest for the proposal, but, according to Golombeck, Savarino "does not want to do that." In order for the two buildings to be included in the development, Savarino will have to apply for a C-2 zoning permit. It is unknown if an attempt will be made to obtain those properties or make the zoning changes.Wendy Pierce of Forever Elmwood stated that she had found out about the proposal only "two weeks ago from today." She also stated that the original design "felt too massive." Pierce also stated that she wanted to "speak more with the block clubs and residents" around the area.Ms. pierce also stated that "other options" for parking will be looked into "if possible."The new design will have less retail space and now has at lease three conference rooms. Parking has been increased to a total of fifty-five spaces, both underground and above.Rocco Termini, a Buffalo developer also attended the meeting still stating that the hotel would "destroy Elmwood's urban streetscape." Mr. Termini has proposed a second development that would not include a hotel, but increase retail shops to at least seven.The City of Buffalo Planning Board is still scheduled to meet at 8:00a.m Tuesday. The Common Council is still expected to meet at 2:00p.m. on the same day.Joel Golombeck is expected to attend both meetings.Construction workers in Seattle, Washington located in the United States are nearing completion of a new light-rail trolley, but it is not the trolleys that are making the residents of the city laugh, it is the abbreviation that city officials designated for the new transit system.The new transit system, South Lake Union Streetcar (SLUS) has had an unofficial change in its abbreviation to "S.L.U.T." by local residents. Some have even designed and sold more than 100 t-shirts saying "Ride the S.L.U.T.".City officials admit that they were aware of the notion before they named the system, but did not care enough to rename it and didn't give the acronym 'streetcar' to avoid the outcome. Officials say that streetcar sounded more modern than trolley.The project, built by Vulcan Development, is costing US$50.5 million to build.In an effort to ease complaints by the U.S. and Europe about a heavy influx of low priced Chinese goods, China will raise export tariffs on 74 categories of textile products in June.  This follows plans from the U.S. to impose quotas on Chinese textiles and clothing.Products likely to see an increase from the Chinese move include synthetic fiber shirts, trousers, knit shirts and blouses, cotton shirts, and combined cotton yarn.  Last week, similar restrictions were imposed by the U.S. on cotton trousers, knit shirts, and underwear.  Currently, a 2.5 cent charge per item is imposed; the new tariff will raise this to the equivalent of 12 cents per piece now.  While this is a fourfold increase, it is not expected to affect consumer prices.  Because of this, some doubt the tariff will have any effect on correcting the trade imbalance.This move is in response to U.S. trade quotas imposed due to concerns that increased Chinese goods would put U.S. textile manufacturers out of business.  According to Auggie Tantillo, executive director of the American Manufacturing Trade Action Coalition, a textile industry group in the U.S., the move will preserve 10,000 U.S. jobs.  The new U.S. trade quota will limit the growth of Chinese textile imports to 7.5 percent compared with shipments over the past year.Prior to January 1, a global quota system helped regulate the trade.  With the quota system gone, fears have arisen that a flood of Chinese goods could undercut U.S. competitiveness in the market.  China is able to market its goods cheaply due to an artificially weak yuan.  The U.S. Treasury criticized the China yuan policy as "highly distortionary", posing a major risk to China's economy itself and to global economic growth.  They challenged China to revalue its currency to bring it to a level they believe will allow fairer competition between global manufacturers.China has disputed the charges of the U.S. Treasury.  Chinese Commerce Minister Bo Xilai said, "I believe they are not reasonable".  Laura Jones, a representative of large retailers, also criticized the move, saying  "These restrictions on imports from China will do absolutely nothing to help the U.S. textile industry -- and the government knows it."Rhode Island will receive US$90 million in funding from the United States federal government to support unemployment benefits in the state. Rhode Island's Department of Labor and Training stated on Wednesday that it requested the line of credit because the account utilized to provide funding to unemployed individuals in the state had decreased to only $2 million; enough to last only a few days. In a statement released by the Department, the agency said: "Unemployment insurance customers will not experience any delays in receiving their weekly payments." Unemployment in Rhode Island was 12.8 percent in August 2009 – the third-highest rate in the United States. During the first eight months of 2009, Rhode Island's state unemployment insurance trust fund has provided over $300 million in unemployment benefit funding.In addition to Rhode Island, 20 other states have outstanding balances on money they borrowed from the Federal Unemployment Account of the United States Department of Labor. Rhode Island has an outstanding balance of approximately $90.68 million due to the account. The loans are interest-free until December 2010.Richard Desmond, the owner of Britain's Channel 5, will reportedly sell the channel to US media company Viacom for an estimated £450m. Viacom also owns TV channels Comedy Central, MTV, and Nickelodeon.Desmond's Northern & Shell — which also owns the Daily Express and Daily Star newspapers — bought Channel 5 from the German broadcaster RTL in 2010 for £103.5m. Desmond has made the channel profitable returning £26m of profits in the first half of 2013. The channel has cut costs, improved its ad sales operation, and acquired the rights for the reality show Big Brother until the end of 2014.BT, ITV, and Channel 4 have contemplated purchasing the network but declined. Last month, Discovery Communications withdrew a bid reportedly worth between £250m and £300m.Rio Tinto Group, the world's third-largest miner, say they will return a record annual profit of over AU$5.32 billion to shareholders, following surging commodity prices - doubling the group's profit. Earnings from operations jumped 118 percent last year.The London-based company unveiled a net profit of 58 per cent on the previous year. The result was boosted by increases in commodity prices driven by demand from China. Chinese interests account for around 15 percent of Rio Tinto's sales.Rio Tinto's CEO, Leigh Clifford said demand for iron ore remains strong. Prices for the steelmaking raw material and metalshave climbed to records amid rising demand from China. "China clearly continues to have a major impact on what they are doing," said Tim Barker at BT Financial Group. "With commodity prices as strong as they are at the moment, and not showing any signs of a change of direction, one would think there is still room for some improvement in earnings in 2006," he said.The company produced 65 million tons of iron ore in the second half, 15 percent more than a year ago. Rio and other miners last year secured a record 71.5 percent price increase.Rio Tinto say they are studying further mine expansion and will invest around $9 billion to meet the  global demand led by China. Projects include expanding WA iron ore mines, its coal mine in NSW and copper interests in the USA. Other investments would see the expansion of a titanium dioxide project in Madagascar and Canada, in the Cortez Hills gold venture in the USA, and in the Argyle Diamonds underground mine development in North West Australia.Student protests against the French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin job reform plan to give employers the right to dismiss young employees within the initial two years of their employment turned increasingly violent over the last two weeks.The controversial program called the CPE, "First Job Contract", is to encourage employers to hire people under the age of 26. The French government claims that this process is necessary to reduce the unemployment rates of young people, which is pegged as high as 23% (this rate is the quotient of the number of people under 26 deemed to seek employment over the total of those employed and deemed to seek employment, which excludes the large proportion of students in that population). However, student protestors and trade unions say that the legislation infringes on workers' rights, and opinion polls show that some two-thirds of the population want the CPE either modified or dropped altogether.The CPE allows employers to hire people age 26 and younger on a contract for up to two years which may be terminated at any time without explanation. While supporters of the law say that it will make younger people more attractive for employers, opponents say it makes it harder for young people to find long-term employment as there is no incentive for employers to offer any other form of contract.Labour unions and student organisers are calling for a national strike on Tuesday, the fifth strike in the past two weeks.The French labor laws are claimed to be among those protecting employees the most in Europe; they prevent employers from trimming their workforces without paying substantial severance packages. Prime Minister de Villepin's claims to intend to reduce youth unemployment by focusing on attracting modern industries relying on higher employee turnover and more flexible employment arrangements.The current program is similar to the CNE ordinance the Prime Minister issued last summer for small businesses in France. CPE was adopted under an exceptional "fast-track" procedure allowing the executive to pass legislation through Parliament without Parliament having to approve it, known as "49-3" following from the number of the relevant article in the French Constitution. This procedure is normally reserved for important but controversial texts considered a crucial and urgent element of the policies of the Prime Minister. Once 49-3 is declared, the law is considered adopted by Parliament unless the National Assembly votes a motion of censure, which terminates the Prime Minister and his cabinet's term. Following standard practice when 49-3 is used, a motion of censure was proposed by the opposition, then voted down by the Assembly (in which the ruling UMP party has a majority).Registering 5,081,441 views in the past week alone, an international advertisement featuring roller-skating babies has become a YouTube sensation. French and US versions of the advert for Evian mineral water have also seen 500,000 and 1.5 million visitor hits respectively."It's one of the cutest things I've ever seen," said one YouTube viewer. Reviewer Saul Relative says, "You'll find yourself watching this feel good video commercial again and again."The babies roller-skate to a remix of The Sugarhill Gang's top 40 hip hop single Rapper's Delight.Euro RSCG began the web video campaign on Friday, July 3.  The advertisement has been aired on television in France, Belgium, and Canada.  "It's working so well virally that plans for TV in the UK are still under review," said an Evian representative.Carmen Moraru, the promotion and marketing director at ANT said that many tourists came as part of holiday packages or tours, organised around the regions of Maramureş, Transylvania, Moldova, the Prahova Valley and the Danube Delta.In 2005, the number of tourist arrivals is set to rise further, mainly due to a Romanian promotion campaign launched across Europe. The country's tourist revival is mainly due to its diversity - it is home to Europe's largest delta, the Black Sea Coast with its resorts, the Carpathian Mountains with their skiing and winter activities, Transylvania with its ecotourism, agritourism and beautiful landscapes, as well as the medieval history of cities like Sibiu and Sighişoara.The Romanian Government has made plans and identified its aims for the next privatisation program which will end in 2006. By the end of next year, the government hopes to sell all of its shares in Romtelecom, Romania's largest telecommunications company, which is currently owned by Greece's OTE but which the government maintains a 47% share in. The full privatisation will occur in two phases, with some of the government's existing shares being sold on the Bucharest Stock Exchange this year, and the remainder being sold in 2006.By 2006, the government also wants to sell its share in Postelecom, another telecommunications operator, and complete the privatisation of the Radiocomunicaţii, the national radio communications company.The Government also wantes to begin analysis and consulting into the privatisation of Poşta Română, or Romanian Post, the full privatisation of which is set to be completed by 2009 at the latest.Romania has embarked on a quite comprehensive program of privatisation since 2000, having privatised a part of Romtelecom, as well as full privatisations of several energy distributors and the nation's largest banks, in addition to other smaller companies. However, these privatisations are dwarfed by that of Petrom, Romania's national oil company, which was bought by Austria's OMV in 2004 and is the largest Romanian privatisation ever.The current Liberal-Democrat governing coalition in Romania has privatisation and economic liberalism as one of its main policies, having also introduced a 16% flat tax rate for personal income and corporate profits at the start of 2005.Today, Romania introduces its new redenominated currency, the new leu (code: RON), which is valued at 10,000 old lei (code: ROL). The process, which is known as redenomination, started in March 2005 when Romania started dual-currency display and all prices had to be displayed in both the old leu and the new leu. Starting from today, the first notes and coins of the new leu will become legal tender, and the new leu will become the official currency of Romania.The redenomination (or conversion from the old to the new leu) is simple — 10,000 old lei are replaced by 1 new leu. One US dollar will buy 2.98 new lei, while one euro will buy 3.6 new lei. After the similar redenomination by Turkey the old leu had been the world's least valued currency unit, with the US dollar buying 29,891 lei and the euro buying 36,050 lei (on 30 June 2005). With the introduction of the new leu, Romania's currency will be among the most highly-valued in the region.The new leu notes and coins, introduced into circulation today, will circulate alongside the old lei until 31 December 2006, when the dual-currency period ends and all of the old lei are expected to be withdrawn. However, old lei can be exchanged at banks indefinitely.The new notes come into denominations of 1, 5, 10, 50, 100 and 500 new lei. The largest note of the old leu was 1,000,000 lei, or 100 new lei. The largest note of the new leu is worth 500 new lei, or approximately US$167 and €139. New leu notes will also have the same dimensions as euro notes of similar value. Additionally, they will use the same colours and design as their corresponding old leu equivalent (for example, the 100 lei note will look similar to the 1,000,000 old lei note). All notes will be printed on polymer materials. Romania was the first country in Europe to introduce polymer notes, in 1999.Mugur Isărescu, the governor of the National Bank of Romania (BNR) predicted yesterday that Romania would adopt the euro sometime between 2012 and 2014, possibly joining the Exchange Rate Mechanism II as early as 2010.In July 2004, Romania will revalue its currency, the leu, so that 10,000 old lei will equal 1 new leu, with 1 euro being equal to approximately 3.6 new lei. Dual pricing, in both the old leu and the new leu, has already been introduced from March 2005. The transition to the new leu is expected to stabilise the Romanian currency and prepare the country for euro adoption.After Isărescu's declaration, many people commented that they were surprised by how late the target date for euro adoption had been set, being 7-9 years away. However, Isărescu responded by stating that the new Central European members of the European Union, which joined in 2004, have not yet joined the euro, and that countries such as the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary are only expected to adopt the currency between 2008-2010, 4-6 years after accession. In Romania's case, the adoption will take place 5–7 years after accession in 2007.Bucharest, Romania – According to the Economist Intelligence Unit, Romania was the 14th most preferred country in the world for foreign companies looking to relocate their activities. This confirms Romania's growing attractiveness for foreign investment.The study examined the conditions in sixty countries, and took into account nine categories of indices: geographical proximity, political and security risks, economic stability, legislation, taxation, labour costs and skills level, and infrastructure. The scores given to the countries ranged from 1 to 10, 10 being the highest. The final composite score was calculated as a weighted average of the scores of the nine indicators. Some indicators, such as labour costs, had more weight than others.Romania's final score was 7.08 points, edged out in Europe by only Bulgaria (7.08 points), Slovakia (7.12 points) and Czechia (7.26 points). Romania's strengths lay in the workforce cost category, where it received a score of 9.49, and in the geographical proximity chapter, where is received 8.35 points. It also scored well in the categories of economic stability and political and security risks, with 7.2 points each. The country's weaknesses were mainly in the infrastrucutre chapter, where it received just 4.6 points.Romania is further expected to improve its score in the coming years, as the effects of its new 16% flat tax rate on personal income and corporate profit come into effect, and as the country joins the European Union in 2007.The worldwide leader in attractiveness for business relocation was India, with 7.76 points, due mainly to very low labour costs, high skill levels and a stable legal system. India edged out China by a considerable margin, with China being ranked second, with 7.34 points. China lags behind India mainly due to its lack of a well-developed legislative system.Surprisingly, wealthy countries such as Japan, Norway and Denmark ranked very low, mainly due to their very high cost of labour.Romania's coalition government fell apart on Thursday, after all of the Social Democrat (PSD) ministers resigned, protesting the firing of another cabinet member.PSD member Dan Nica was fired earlier in the week after he made a statement suggesting the possibility of election fraud in November's upcoming presidential ballots. The PSD party leader, Mircea Geoană, said that the entire PSD had resigned to protest against Nica's sacking."All PSD ministers, supporting Dan Nica, are announcing their resignation from government. The president succeeded in triggering a political crisis, Geoana said.The other major party, the Liberal Democrats (PD-L), will be able to rule by itself until the elections come. However, appointments for new ministers will have to be approved by the parliament.The collapse has prompted concerns that Romania will not be able to meet the International Monetary Fund's fiscal targets in exchange for US$29 billion in aid given to the country in 2009.Koon Chow, a strategist for Barclays Capital said to the Reuters news agency that "one needs to see how a minority government, if that's what we do get, can continue to adhere to the IMF programme. That's key. The worst that could happen is that the next tranche will be delayed for a few months, I don't think the next government will walk out of the programme."Starting from April 4, the Romanian Commercial Bank (Banca Comercială Română, or BCR), the country's largest bank, will launch a smart card system for all its ATM network as well as its point-of-sale terminals in more than 5,000 stores across Romania. While the system will be enabled to work with these cards from April, the smart cards themselves will only be issued to account holders in the second half of the year.Smart cards in a banking context are cards which contain information on a chip and can permit greater security and control of transactions. BCR is the first Romanian bank to use this technology.Romania's National Institute for Statistics has announced a record growth of 8.3% in gross domestic product for the year of 2004, the highest growth since the fall of communism in 1989. This growth is surprising, seeing as most analysts predicted that GDP would grow by only 5-6% in 2004. Growth was driven mainly by domestic consumption, as well as by increased foreign investment and a good agricultural yield. The growth of 8.3% was also one of the highest in Europe, exceeding by far that of Romania's neighbours Bulgaria, Hungary and Poland.Despite the introduction of a new 16% flat tax for personal income and company profit, which will boost foreign investment, economic growth is expected to ease in 2005 to around 5.5%. However, on the back of projected economic reforms, growth is expected to break the 8% barrier again in 2006.Romania, for a long time lagging behind its neighbours in terms of economic growth and per-capita GDP, has posted strong growth since 2001. However, while having one of the highest standards of living in southeastern Europe, Romania continued to lag behind Central Europe in terms of per-capita GDP, which is now about half that of Romania's neighbour Hungary and around one-third of the European Union average.While some analysts predict that the current high rate of growth is due to a long time of GDP decline in the 1990s, others say that Romania is entering a cycle of boom which will continue for many years to come. Many of the new EU member states, as well as candidate countries such as Romania, have recorded solid growth in the last few years and are aspiring to emulate Ireland, whose Celtic Tiger era of growth resulted in it transforming itself from one of the poorest countries in Western Europe to one of the wealthiest. The new 16% flat tax rate, as well as Romania's relatively low wages, are expected to boost foreign investment, which drove Ireland's economic boom and is also expected to play a major part in Romania's economic transformation.The HVB Group mentioned in its recent report about the transition economies of Central and Eastern Europe that, by 2010, Romania will be a highly attractive destination for foreign investors and will continue growing economically at a solid rate. Romania's 2007 entry into the European Union is expected to further improve its reputation in the business world. However, although having a liberal fiscal policy, Romania must work in cutting red tape and discouraging corruption, which remain obstacles to further growth.The National Forecast Committee of Romania today released its economic predictions for the country in the period 2005-2008. The report predicted that the Romanian economy should increase steadily over the next three years, with a rise in gross domestic product (GDP) of about 6.2% per annum until 2008. By the end of 2008, this should lead to Romania's gross domestic product being nearly 30% larger than it was at the end of 2004. For 2005, the prediction is that the economy will grow by 6%, after last year's impressive growth of 8.3%. The reason for the slowing of growth is due to government reforms from 2005-2008, as well as counter-inflationary policy, which are expected to stabilise consumption and therefore slow growth. Despite this, even a growth rate of 6% is one of the highest in the region, and well above the European Union average.Concerning the structure of GDP between 2005 and 2008, the largest increases are expected to be recorded in the services and industry sectors. While total agricultural output is also expected to rise, it will contribute a smaller share of GDP in comparison to 2004, when a good harvest enhanced total GDP growth by nearly 3%.The other important macro-economic indicator that the report said Romania must focus on is inflation, which is expected to lower to 7% this year, after a rate of 9.2% in 2004. The National Bank of Romania and the Romanian government have pledged to lower inflation until the country's EU accession in 2007. While unemployment dropped to 6.2% in 2004, one of the lowest rates in Europe, it is expected to rise in 2005 to around 7%, due to structural reforms of the economy, as well as a drop of state subsidies to key industrial sectors. However, by 2008, the forecasted unemployment rate is 6.1%.Whereas GDP growth, inflation and unemployment are all expected to improve favourably until 2008, the weaker point in the economy is the current account deficit, which should continue to increase until 2008, according to the National Forecast Committee. In 2006, the current account deficit is expected to be 6.2% of GDP, while in 2008 it will be around 5%. While these rates are an improvement of the 2004 figure of nearly 7%, they still remain fairly high. On the other hand, direct foreign investment is expected to rise significantly until 2008, covering a portion of the current account deficit. Foreign invesment in 2005, should reach 4.1 billion euros this year, and will probably increase significantly from 2007 onwards, as Romania becomes a member of the European Union.The Romanian Minster for Economy and Commerce, Codruţ Sereş, announced on Friday that his ministry intends to sell 10% of its shares in the state-owned natural gas distributor, Romgaz, this year. The Ministry is still deciding whether to transfer the stock to financial investors or whether to list it on the Bucharest Stock Exchange.Romgaz is one of the largest state-owned companies in Romania falling under the ownership of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce. In 2005, the company is expected to have an estimated turnover of 648 million euro.Romgaz is the latest Romanian energy company where plans have been announced for privatisation. Last year, the privatisation of natural gas distributors Distrigaz Sud and Distrigaz Nord was proposed, and is expected to be fully completed by the end of this month. Last year, Romanian oil giant Petrom was privatised, in the country's largest ever privatisation, and this year the Electrica Group of electricity distributors was sold off to various financial investors.The Romanian government has drafted legislation pertaining to tax evasion that makes it a criminal offence on the same level as crimes against individuals. Developed with the aid of Romania's business community, the new law is expected to reduce corruption and tax evasion. According to the new law, the maximum jail term for tax evasion will be boosted up to 20 years. This sentence, however, will only be passed in circumstances of large-scale fraud. For evasion of up to the equivalent of 10,000 euro, the punishment will be either a fine or up to 2 years in prison. For tax fraud of up to 500,000 euro, the term will be extended to 2-8 years in prison. It is only for those whose tax evasion exceeds 1 million euro that the jail term will range between 10 and 20 years.In the same package of legislation, the government approved several changes to banckruptcy law, which makes it easier for businesses to file for bankruptcy. The new laws are expected to make Romania's business environment cleaner, resulting in more foreign investment, less corruption and more revenue for the government.At the start of the year, the Romanian government introduced a new flat tax system for Romania, in which the tax rate is 19% for both personal income and corporate profit. This has led Romania to have one of the most liberal tax policies in Europe. The lower rate of tax has already reduced fiscal evasion to a significant extent because more people and businesses are encouraged to pay the tax. However, in order to further reduce the grey economy in Romania, advisers said at the start of the year that the government must also back this up with tougher legislation against tax evasion. Previously, Romania's tax evasion laws were fairly lax, leading to quite a significant extent of tax fraud. Now, with the new, highly-publicised tax evasion laws, it is expected that the risk of getting prosecuted for not paying an already-low tax rate will force many businesses out of the black market into the legal economy.A Romanian  been found and declared safe, according to the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Romanian, which has as of yet only been identified by his last name, Dinca, had been kidnapped by soldiers dressed as civilians.Dinca was the president of Mega Star Congo Company, a Romanian enterprise operating in the DRC. After his kidnapping, one of his employees said that his boss had been kidnapped by military subordinates of a Congolese general who had been watching and following Dinca for the previous two weeks. Other employees confirmed this, saying that Dinca had been watched by groups of soldiers in his home at Gombe. The Romanian Foreign Ministry said that the kidnapping has occurred due to a "private commercial dispute."Le Phare, a Congolese newspaper, reported that, "This kidnapping, which undermines the actions of the head of state and members of the government members, raises a big question mark, both for the authorities and for the army commanders. If the insecurity is due to the soldiers, it is worrying that such a climate is maintained by superior officers and generals."The Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that they would continue to try and protect Romanian businessmen who invest in the DRC and prevent similar incidents in the future.The leu, Romania's national currency, continues to appreciate against the euro and the US dollar after it reached high levels a few days ago. Yesterday, one euro could be bought for just 35,844 lei, down from 36,133 lei two days ago. These rates are also significantly stronger from the period in mid-2004 when the euro was worth more than 40,000 lei. Last week, the leu reached such a high rate against the euro that the National Bank of Romania had to intervene and restore the exchange rate back to around 37,000 lei per euro. The leu's growth also had an impact on global exchange rates, weakening the US dollar worldwide by 1%.The National Bank, however, is hesitant to intervene in the marketplace once again due to the positive effects of the leu's appreciation on importers, who can now get products for lower prices, and for consumers, who now have higher purchasing power for imported goods. Romanians are also pleased that their currency, which has faced long periods of fairly sharp depreciation in the 1990s due to high inflation, is finally picking up again and strengthening against other currencies.The leu's appreciation, however, isn't all positive, because it is putting a great deal of pressure on exporters. Other countries are finding Romanian exports more expensive, and therefore less competitive, due to the leu's appreciation, and this could widen the already large account deficit in the country.Analysts predict, however, that the leu's surge cannot be stopped and it will continue strengthening against the euro, reaching a rate of 34,000 lei for one euro in the next week.The current leu will be replaced in July 2005 with the New Leu (RON), with 10,000 old lei = 1 New Leu. The revaluation is expected to prepare Romania for adoption of the euro in 2012. Starting from next month, all Romanian prices must be shown in both the old currency and the new currency. The National Bank of Romania has said that it expects the exchange rate between the New Leu and the euro to hover at around 3.5 RON = 1 euro when the RON is introduced.The Romanian Ministry of Economy and Commerce, in partnership with the Ministry of Public Finance, have approved a package giving 115 million euro state assistance to the mining industry. This will involve the exemption of 11 state-owned mining companies from financial obligations, of contributing to the state budget, worth 115 million euro. The largest tax exemptions were awarded to the Oltenia National Lignite Company, with 47.4 million euro and to the National Coal Company in Petroşani (38.3 million euro). The exemption took effect on April 26.State aid to several industries, especially mining and steelworking, is expected to decline in the coming years, as the European Union has told Romania that it needs to stop subsidising loss-making industries in order to be able to fully integrate into the European Union common market. Additionally, Romania's new Justice and Truth (Liberal-Democrat) governing coalition is keen on further liberalising Romania's free-market economy, by greater privatisation, fiscal liberalisation and a reduction in state aid.Romanian mobile telephony giant Connex, recently bought by Vodafone, announced the company is planning to introduce 3G services and video telephony. Romanian cities effected by the change are: Bucharest, Cluj-Napoca, Timişoara, Braşov, Constanţa, Ploieşti, Craiova and Iaşi. The only 3G-enabled model currently sold by Connex is the Nokia 6630.Ken Campbell, chief marketing officer of Connex, said he expects the 3G introduction to be successful, given the Romanian interest in video telephony services. Connex's 3G technology will also provide a permanent connection to the Internet, access to multimedia content, live video streaming and video conferencing. The network also provides mobile broadband speeds of up to 384 kbps.Connex is currently the second-largest mobile telephony company in Romania, with nearly five million customers. It is one of Romanian's best recognised companies.Romania's only nuclear plant, at Cernavodă announced yesterday that the amount of electrical energy produced at the plant in 2004 was the highest ever, at a record 5,142,300 megawatt-hours (MWh). This exceeded the previous 2002 record by 36,000 MWh.Cernavodă Unit 1, brought into operation in 1992, supplies around 10-12% of Romania's energy consumption. According to Nuclearelectrica, the operator of the plant, Cernavodă's performance has been better than the average of the world's 417 reactors. Nuclearelectrica considers the security of the plant, as well as of its employees and the environment, to be of utmost importance.Currently, two more nuclear units are in construction at the Cernavodă plant. Unit 2 is 80% complete and will commence operation in 2006, while Unit 3 is approximately 40% complete. In the future, the nuclear plant is expected to produce a significant amount of the electrical energy of southeastern Europe.Cernavodă is Europe's only CANDU reactor. CANDU reactors, which are designed in Canada, are one of the most advantageous forms of nuclear reactors due to their fuel efficiency and low amount of down-time.The Romanian Prime Minister, Călin Popescu-Tăriceanu discussed on Thursday the involvement of Siemens in regard to the privatisation of Romanian locomotive company Electroputere. Electroputere, which is based in the southern Romanian city of Craiova, remains one of the largest state-owned companies in Romania after the fairly rapid privatisation process of 2003 and 2004. There have been attempts to privatise the locomotive manufacturer for a long time, yet all of them failed. However, Gabriel Zbircea, the president of the Authority for the Recovery of State Assets (AVAS) declared in March of this year that they would resume the privatisation process by dividing the company into four divisions, each to be sold separately. Siemens is expected to be a major potential buyer of Electroputere, especially regarding the magnitude of deals in transport infrastructure that the Romanian government has conducted up until now with the German corporation.Romania's National Authority for Tourism (ANT) announced that they would promote tourism in Romania through a new branding strategy, in collaboration with the United States Agency for International Development. The director of ANT, Marius Critonescu, said that the branding exercise will be "a significant component of the Romania's development as a new tourist destination of international level." He also added that the development of an integrated brand for Romanian tourism will promote a more positive image for the country, thereby increasing the number of tourists and investors. In recent times, there has been quite a lot of investment in "national branding", especially in the field of tourism, as most marketing experts believe that branding for a product or a country is theoretically the same thing, and that the same strategies and approach should be used for both.Concerning the Romanian tourism rebranding, international tourism and marketing expert James MacGregor stated that, "We have to touch the hearts and souls of the contemporary tourists who no longer travel for a simple beach or ski track. They want to live a self-knowledge experience that is truly uplifting and will leave unforgettable memories. The brand must show them not what they will see or do as tourists but what they will feel when visiting Romania."Thousands of Romanian public sector workers gathered outside  government headquarters in Bucharest on Wednesday to rally against the planned downsizing of the public sector. They protested planned pay cuts and growing job insecurity, as well as the so-called single wage bill, which will in effect freeze pay in the sector for an indefinite period.Threatening further protests, union leaders called on voters to boycott the November 22nd presidential elections. The government, meanwhile, faces a no-confidence vote next week.Bogdan Hossu, leader of Cartel Alfa Union, recalled that President Traian Băsescu had told reporters he would not seek a second term if the number of unemployed reaches one million people.As many as 15,000 people from all over Romania joined Wednesday's demonstration. It followed a one-day strike Monday, when up to 800,000 teachers, doctors, nurses, policemen, clerks and other public sector employees took to the streets in what has been described as Romania's largest protest in the last 80 years.The catalyst was adoption of reform measures aimed at cutting the swollen budget deficit and meeting commitments spelled out in an IMF-led financial rescue package worth nearly 20 billion euros."We need these measures to be taken now. If not, it could lead to a prolonged recession," the AFP quoted Nicolae Chidesciuc, senior economist at ING Romania, as saying Wednesday.But the government's recent move to reform the public pay scale — ending intricate bonus programmes and effectively reducing the wages of most employees in the public sector — caused an uproar.Chanting "thieves! thieves!", the participants in Wednesday's rally demanded that the government to resign. "You promised us, then you forgot us," they shouted."The authorities forced us to the streets again; we did not want this to happen today, on the World Day for Decent Work, as we are now celebrating indecent work," said Aurel Cornea, vice-president of the Teachers' Union, one of the four trade unions that organised the rally.The list of demands they submitted Wednesday called for the minimum wage to be increased from its current level of around 145 euros to 176 euros per month in 2010 and to 310 euros per month in 2014, and for an improvement of the salary scales under the unitary pay law for the public sector. They also urged authorities to scrap provisions introducing a mandatory unpaid leave of ten days a year.According to Romanian media reports, the unions are also pressing the government to increase economic investment, support economic agencies, create jobs, protect workers and ensure decent pensions.Romania has been hit badly by the global economic turmoil. According to IMF estimates for 2009, the country's budget deficit is expected to top 7.3% of GDP and the economy will shrink by 8.5% this year.Prime Minister Emil Boc, whose government faces a no-confidence vote in parliament on Tuesday, has urged the unionists to halt their protests until after next month's presidential elections.After introducing a low flat tax rate of 16% on January 1, 2005, which applies to both personal income and corporate profits, the government has had to fund the tax cuts through alternative means, including increases in other types of taxation, to avoid running a high budget deficit. For example, from April 1, the government will increase excises as well as a range of other taxes. Despite the increase, Romania continues to have one of the lowest fiscal burdens in Europe due to the new 16% flat tax rate.Total Romanian Visa card transactions rose by 60% in 2004 in comparison to 2003.They reached a value of US$2.8 billion. This was due to a 30% increase in the number of cards issued, as well as greater spending by Romanians. The results are based on both ATM transactions and purchases in various stores.According to Visa, purchases with Visa cards almost doubled to $164.4 million. The number of people in Romania who pay with Visa cards rose by 130%, reaching 3.3 million customers. The most popular cards were Visa Gold, with nearly 800,000 cards issued in 2004, and Visa Electron, with more than 600,000 cards issued.Visa cards are an increasingly popular way of consumer spending in Romania and, by the end of 2004, they were accepted at 15,727 locations across the country, an increase of 17.7% in comparison to 2003.Romania's electricity production and distribution company, plans to introduce a new system which will allow its consumers to pay their power bills via the Short Message Service, or SMS. Currently, electricity bills can be paid directly at banks using cash or credit cards, or via automatic teller machines (ATMs). Additionally, since 2004, customers have been able to pay their bills at Agip gas stations.In Romania, which reached more than 10 million mobile phone subscribers at the end of 2004, SMS remains a very popular and affordable method of quick communication. Recently, there has been a push to launch SMS/mobile telephony as a method of payment or business, hence establishing an m-commerce network. The move by Electrica for bill-payment via SMS is one of the first such initiatives.The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) has lost around 70% of its share price in a matter of hours, after news reports indicated a GBP 28 billion loss for 2008, and the UK government pledged to increase its stake in the company to 70%.The RBS shares in London opened today at 34.50, and apart from a small increase to 34.90, the shares have been below that rate throughout the day. The shares fell to just over 10, although they have since recovered very slightly to 11.60 as of 16:05 UTC.These low share prices are only a fraction of the 52 week high of 427.50p, and the all time high of 607p. The all time high was reached approximately two years ago, in February 2007.In addition to the falls in London, RBS shares in New York also fell dramatically on their most recent trading day. The shares fell by 10.33%.The bank's chief executive, Stephen Hester, spoke to The Times regarding the poor performance of his company.  "The world remains an uncertain place. We can all be sure there will be future significant credit losses but we can’t be sure of what amount and what timing…all banks are facing uncertainties," he said.The Royal Canadian Mint (RCM) introduced two new products Thursday, one of which is claimed to be the world's largest gold coin. The Gold Maple Leaf coin, made of 99.999% pure gold, weighs 100 kg and has a face value of CA$1 million. The other offering is a smaller one ounce (28 g) version.The 100 kg coin is approximately 50 cm in diameter and about 3 cm thick. At 99.999% purity, the gold coins are amongst the purest in the bullion market.Commenting on its impractical size, RCM President and CEO Ian E. Bennett indicated that the 100 kg coin was designed to draw attention to the mint. "The Royal Canadian Mint operates in a very competitive environment, which is especially true of the international gold bullion market," said Bennett. "Our 100-kg and one ounce 99.999% pure gold bullion coins are an achievement which separates the RCM from a large field of competitors."Until RCM's announcement on Thursday, the Austrian Mint held the record for the world's largest gold coin when, in 2004, it unveiled a €100,000 denomination coin weighing 31 kg.In the RCM news release, Canada's government minister responsible for the Royal Canadian Mint, Lawrence Cannon, highlighted RCM's history of producing minted products. "The Royal Canadian Mint has long been recognized as one of the most innovative in the world, with a tradition of technical perfection and superior craftsmanship," said Cannon. "These new...coins now take Canada's reputation in the gold bullion industry to an unprecedented level."The reverse, or tail side of the new Canadian coin features a maple leaf design, while the obverse, or head side bears the effigy of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. Although the 100 kg coin has a face value of $1 million, it would cost approximately CA$2.6 million (or US$2.4 million) to purchase, based on the market value of gold. A limited quantity of the 100 kg coins will be available as a special order through the RCM.The Royal Society of Arts (RSA) gave what it called a "cautious welcome" to the Stern Review on the economics of climate change.The leader of the RSA’s CarbonLimited Project, Matt Prescott, agreed that this needed global co-operation, but urged the British government to expand the notion of carbon trading downwards to the level of the individual when drafting the Climate Change Bill.The RSA has produced the first mock-up of personal carbon trading online. There, members of the public can obtain an estimate of their  own carbon ‘footprint’ by entering their gas and electricity consumptions, car and air mileages, on the RSA’s Carbon DAQ web site.The RSA suggest that a personal target of 5 tonnes of carbon emission per annum should be achievable.The RSA has a three-year project to investigate the feasibility of personal carbon trading. It has initiated research, conducted open public debates and is co-ordinating various trials.Personal carbon trading entails allocating to each individual an equal share of the overall sustainable level of carbon emissions. There would be an open market that would enable those who had not used up their share to sell their surplus to those who need, or can afford, an entitlement to emit more than their ration.In Ireland, RTÉ's new "Rip Off Republic" TV series has attracted a record audience of 667,000 for its second show, making it one of Ireland's top TV programs. The second show broadcast on Monday 15th August captured 50.5% of all TV viewers in Ireland.The series which contains four shows broadcast from Dublin City University's "Helix" centre, aims to expose over pricing and the exploitation of consumers in Ireland. Hosted by financial advisor Eddie Hobbs, the show has attracted huge media commentry, particularly as it has attracted the attention of the governments main party, Fianna Fail. The main argument against the show has been that it generalises issues and makes exaggerated claims - for example it claimed that restaurants make a 300%+ profit on a typical bottle of wine, leading the viewer to believe that all businesses are making such a profit. This claim has since come under attack by restaurant owners nationwide. Other arguments against the show have stated that while inflation is less than 3%, wage growth is over 6% meaning people are still better off.The third show will be broadcast on 29th August at 9.30pm on RTÉ One. It will focus on the transport sector in Ireland.A U.S. District Court in Tarrant County, Texas, issued a summary judgment Thursday against Circuit City's InterTAN Inc., requiring all 950 RadioShack stores in Canada to stop using the RadioShack brand in store signs, packaging, products and advertising after June 30.RadioShack's Canadian operations were spun off in 1986 to a new corporation, InterTAN Canada, which was purchased in 2004 by RadioShack's major U.S. competitor, Circuit City.  Shortly thereafter, RadioShack sued InterTAN, alleging it had violated the terms of their licensing agreement and seeking the right to terminate the contract early. In a statement released following the judge's ruling, RadioShack's general counsel, Mark Hill, claimed: "The most important thing to us was to protect our brand position in Canada." Circuit City chairman and chief executive officer, W. Alan McCollough responded today in a press release seeking an appeal: "We respectfully believe the court has erred in the partial ruling entered yesterday and we will use every means of relief possible to exercise our rights under the agreements, including all appeal rights.  The Company believes the positions taken by InterTAN are correct and believe InterTAN will ultimately prevail in the legal proceedings."The plant will be built on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea, and construction will commence as soon as the deal is approved by both countries; the building process is expected to take around seven years. The reactor will also be owned by Russia, which will hold "no less than a controlling stake," according to Sergey Kiriyenko, who is the head of Rosatom, a Russian nuclear energy corporation.The reactor to be built is the second proposed power plant in the same location; a separate proposal for a four-reactor complex built by a Russian-led consortium was rejected by a Turkish court last year.  Russia has attempted to build a nuclear power plant in Turkey, and the contract signed Wednesday "really looks rather impressive," according to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev.The contract for the reactor was one of 20 signed by the two countries today, expected to result in around US$25 billion of Russian investment in Turkey. Other major contracts signed include projects to transport Russian oil and natural gas through Turkey to ports on the Mediterranean Sea. One such project is a major pipeline between the Turkish ports of Samsun on the Black Sea and Ceyhan on the Mediterranean Sea, built in conjunction with an oil refinery in Ceyhan.In a press conference, Russian President Medvedev said that the agreements signal "a new page in our cooperation...Our talks today showed that Turkey and Russia are strategic partners not only in words but in deeds." Turkish President Abdullah Gul said that the two countries "share a determination to increase the trade volume from a current US$38 billion to US$100 billion in five years."Russia has requested Iceland give them more details of the island nation's plan to rescue the banking sector and thus the entire national economy before granting them a loan.Two weeks ago, Iceland's banking sector collapsed and was largely nationalised. Icelandic banks are in significantly more debt than the country can afford, and the nation may seek assistance from the International Monetary Fund. A decision on whether to involve the IMF is due within a week.As for Russia, a senior Russian government source is reported by Reuters as having said "At the current moment, we do not yet have enough reasons to give them credit. We did not refuse. We are continuing the talks." Forbes quoted him as having also said "'We asked them to collect more information and present a rescue plan for the banking system."Meanwhile, there is some optimism in Iceland over the economy. It is hoped by authorities that the lower exchange rate for the króna means that more tourists will be attracted. Bars and restaurants are also doing well. The manager of one bar explained: "Actually, when people get depressed they drink more."Russian expedition Arktika 2007 made the first descent to the ocean bottom below the North Pole, and planted a titanium flag of Russia on the seabed.Submarines have in the past traveled below the Arctic ice cap, but this is the first time man has reached the seabed below the North Pole. The Mir-1 and a second Mir-2 submarine face the challenge of diving 13,980 feet (4,261 metres) deep, and then having to resurface at the exact location where they've submerged, because they are not strong enough to penetrate the ice themselves. The nuclear ice-breaker vessel Rossiya is keeping the ice open for the research ship and the submarines.The expedition ship Akademik Fyodorov is carrying over 100 scientists to the North Pole. "Apart from the purely scientific goal of a comprehensive study of the climate and seabed at the North Pole, this expedition may help Russia to enlarge its territory by more than one million square kilometers," the Russia's Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute said. The mini-submarine Mir-1 has successfully reached the Arctic seabed. "Our mission is to remind the whole world that Russia is a great polar and research power," said expedition leader and deputy speaker of the Russian parliament Artur Chilingarov, who has been named presidential envoy to the Arctic by Russian President Vladimir Putin.Russia has ended exports of natural gas to neighbouring Ukraine following a failure to reach a compromise over prices. Gazprom, Russia's natural gas behemoth, began cutting off supplies at 7:00 a.m. UTC Sunday, January 1. Gazprom claims to have taken this action because Ukraine refuses to pay the market rate for natural gas which is approximately four times higher than the price previously agreed upon by the two. Ukraine has stated that they are not averse to higher prices but believe they ought to be introduced sequentially. Additionally, Russia does not want to honor its contract to supply gas at $50 per 1000 cubic meters until 2008. By comparison, gas produced by OPEC costs $11.4 per 1000 cubic feet (December 28, 2005)[1], equivalent to $402.6 per 1000 cubic meters, an 8-fold rebate.Gazprom spokesman Sergei Kupriyanov said enough gas was still being piped via Ukraine to maintain deliveries to other countries, and if they were not getting all their gas, it meant Ukraine was tapping into it.  Eighty percent of Russian gas exports to Western Europe pass through Ukraine. "We have information from the ground that shows Ukraine has started illegally siphoning off Russian gas destined for European consumers," Kupriyanov said. Ukraine is of the position that since Russia will not live up to the agreement to sell at $50 per 1000 cubic meters until 2008, Ukraine as a transiting country, has the right to offset the illegal cost increase with seizure of Russian assets - namely the gas going through the pipelines in Ukraine.Sergei Kupriyanov, press secretary to Gazprom's chief executive, said "Negotiations reach a deadlock when it comes to discussing actual figures ... They have called on us to use price parameters that probably existed in the late 1990s in 2006, which is impossible ... The price of gas and other energy resources has risen considerably over the past few years."The dispute is also tied to the political situation between the two countries. Although a private business, the largest individual shareholder in Gazprom is the Russian government which owns slightly less than 40%. The dispute was further politicized by the personal intervention of Vladimir Putin who offered Ukraine the chance to delay paying market prices for a further three months. Critics of the current Russian government have argued that Gazprom's action has been an attempt to punish Ukraine for forging closer links with the West following the Orange Revolution. Putin's advocates, however, have argued that the status quo is akin to a budgetary transfer between the two governments and costs Russia about US$4.5 billion per year. Special European commission has already counted gas independently,and confirmed its loss. But Ukraine disagrees,saing,that it is unjust.German Kanzler Angela Merkel hopes,that the conflict will end soon. And a recent poll conducted by VTSIOM suggests that 80% of Russian citizens support the move by Gazprom. Ukraine has threatened to retaliate by raising the rent that Russia's navy pays to use the Ukrainian port of Sevastopol as headquarters for its Black Sea fleet, and refusing to repair Russian rockets, which can be repaired only there.The Russian government has raised the minimum price for vodka in an effort to combat alcoholism. The new minimum price for a half liter of vodka is now 89 roubles (US$2.94, €2.05), nearly double what it was before the price raise. The time between New Year's day and the Orthodox Christmas (January 7) is often marked with a spike in drinking.Russian President Dmitry Medvedev has made attempts to stem alcohol consumption in the nation, saying he was shocked that the average Russian drank 18 liters (38 US pints) of pure alcohol each year. The government said that the new tax would attempt "to reduce the level of alcohol dependency of the population."Attempts made in the past have been unsuccessful, such as in 1985 when then president Mikhail Gorbachev ordered cuts to the production of wines and spirits. The cuts caused a surge in illegal moonshine production and lowered the popularity of Gorbachev.Critics of the price raise say that it will only benefit black market producers and will not cut the nearly 35,000 deaths per year caused by acute alcohol poisoning.According to Russia's Federal Atomic Energy Agency (RosAtom) further progress on Iran's Bushehr nuclear power plant, which Russia has been working to complete, will be delayed because Iran fell behind in the payment schedule. The decision threatens to put Iran’s atomic project in jeopardy, just as it faces the threat of more UN sanctions over its controversial nuclear program."The fact is that there is no money, and it is impossible to construct without money," RosAtom spokesman Sergei Novikov told Interfax News Agency. Iran suspended payments on January 17 and "therefore, our Iranian partners should not be surprised by an extension of the deadline for the launch of the first unit at Bushehr," he said. Under an agreement reached last September, Russia was to deliver nuclear fuel to Bushehr in March and the power station would open in September and begin generating power in November.When the payment delay was first reported in February Mohammad Saeedi, the deputy head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, denied that Tehran had been late in making payments. "Iran has had no delay whatsoever in making payments for the Bushehr nuclear power plant," Mr. Saeedi was quoted as saying by Islamic Republic News Agency. Mr. Novikov said the Iranians blamed the delay on the need to switch payments from dollars to euros.The announcement from RosAtom came after talks between Russian and Iranian officials last week in Moscow failed to reach agreement on the dispute over funding.Preliminary data from the Russian Federal Statistics Service says that the country's economy contracted by 7.9% in 2009 compared with the year before.It was the largest decrease in fifteen years, since 1994, but still smaller than the 8.5% contraction predicted by the government. The drop was largely attributed to the fall in oil prices last year.The World Bank predicts that the country's economy will grow by 3.2% this year, due to better demand and higher oil prices.The VTB Capital's Russian Purchasing Managers' index increased to 50.8, from a level of 48.8 the month previous. In a statement today, VTB said that "output rose for the sixth straight month and at a faster rate, as new orders increased for the first time since last October."The senior emerging market economist at Capital Economics, Neil Shearing, commented in a note to clients that "[the data] confirm[s] that last year's economic decline was the biggest since 1994, surpassing even the 5.1% fall seen during the 1998 financial crisis [...] The upshot is that healthy-looking growth of around (or even above) four percent in 2010 will only mask ongoing difficulties in the Russian economy," he added, predicting that growth would drop to 1.5% by 2011.As of Monday, over 200 New York City area bars and restaurants had committed to boycotting Russian vodka in response to anti-homosexuality related laws passed by the country's government. The boycott follows another event that took place on Monday where bottles of vodka were poured onto the streets of the city, as part of a protest by the President of United Restaurant and Tavern Owners Association, Paul Hurley.New York One quotes Hurley as saying the reason for the boycott as , "We're not stupid, we're reading papers, we're reading what's going on over there, they've got to stop what's happened."  The press conference announcing the New York City boycott took place at Desmonds Steakhouse located on the 38th Street and 7th Avenue. LGBT activists and models attended the event. Johnny Donovan, manager of J Donovan Productions, is quoted by the New York Daily Times as saying, "Shame on Russia! [...] When I go out to a night club this weekend, I'm not drinking any Russian vodka!"Activists in other cities are also boycotting Russian vodka. A protest at the San Francisco City Hall took place on Tuesday, where vodka was dumped into the sewers. On social media, the hashtag #dumpstoli is being used to draw attention to the boycott and protests.These boycotts are not without criticism. Dodds of Time Magazine points out, "At first glance, Stoli seems a logical target for those hoping to promote greater awareness of the plight of gays in Russia. Not only is it widely associated with the country, vodka is also one of Russia’s most profitable consumer exports to the U.S. [...] But while Stoli’s ingredients — wheat, rye and raw alcohol — are Russian, the vodka itself is distilled in Latvia and distributed in the U.S. by William Grant & Sons USA, an American subsidiary of a Scottish corporation." The international popularity of the brand have resulted in the company being continually threatened with nationalization by the Russian government.Last month, gay and lesbian couples were barred by law from adopting Russian children. The country also banned "homosexual propaganda." The legislation means gays and lesbians, if found guilty of breaking these laws, could be jailed. According to Russia Today, most Russians support the legislation "against promoting homosexuality to minors." Russia Today goes on to say these laws are, "intend[ed] to keep minors from being influenced by non-traditional sexual relationship propaganda and it will be enforced with fines, but not criminal punishment."A Pew Research Center study published in June suggests that attitudes towards homosexuality in Russia found the population to be the least accepting of homosexuals of nine other European countries also surveyed. Countries with less acceptance than Russia included in the survey include Lebanon, Turkey, Egypt, Jordan, Tunisia, Malaysia, Indonesia, Pakistan, Kenya, Uganda, Ghana, Senegal and Nigeria.  Negative Russian attitudes towards homosexuality are also supported by research conducted by Russian Levada Center.The homosexuality issue as it pertains to Russian law comes against the backdrop of the 2014 Winter Olympics and Paralympics scheduled to be hosted in the Russian city of Sochi early next year. Last week, Russian Minister of Sport Vitaly Mutko reaffirmed the country will enforce these laws during the Games and foreign athletes, journalists and spectators will be subject to them.The Russian government has continued to hold all stock markets closed until Friday, including the MICEX and RTS exchanges. Facing its worst financial crisis since 1989, the government is fighting to stem off a crash and restore consumer confidence.President Dmitry Medvedev went on national television to appease the public. "There is no more important task for Russian authorities than stability of our financial system under the current circumstances. This is our top priority," Medvedev said. "The market should be given all the necessary support."Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin announced that 500 billion rubles (US$ 19.7 billion) would be infused into the stock markets when they opened on Friday, with half of that amount coming from the federal budget. In addition, the Central Bank responded by offering to loan an additional 60 billion rubles (US $2.63 billion) on top of the 1.13 trillion rubles (US$ 44.6 billion) that it offered yesterday to Sberbank, VTB Group and Gazprombank. The Central Bank is encouraging the nations top banks to provide the money to smaller lenders. Central Bank chairman Sergei Ignatiev also announced on Wednesday that mandatory reserve requirements for banks would be slashed, freeing up an additional 300 billion ruble. "We hope that banks will spend these funds not on long-term crediting or other kinds of crediting of clients," he said, "but on the maintenance of the necessary volume of their liquidity and on making settlements."In the aftermath of Russia's invasion of neighboring Georgia, the markets saw investors pull out nearly US$ 36 billion in wealth since early August. Further compounding economic woes are the recent slump in oil and gas prices, which have bolstered Russia's economy for several years. To help with this, starting on October 1 regulators will lower the export duty on oil, saving Russian oil companies around US$ 5.5 billion.A plane built by Russia's Sukhoi has crashed in Indonesia with around 50 people on board during a demonstration flight to potential customers. The Superjet 100 struck a cliff as it descended over mountains near Jakarta.The aircraft departed Halim Perdanakusuma Airport at around 2pm local time yesterday and was due to return 50 minutes later. A search and rescue mission was dispatched to West Java, where the aircraft crashed in the Salak mountain range. Bad weather and nightfall initially hampered rescue efforts but a helicopter found the crash site after dawn.Everything reportedly was normal that day on a preflight check and earlier demonstration flight. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev today ordered an investigation into the accident, while Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono today said "I expect that there will be a full and careful investigation".Those on board include journalists, Russian diplomats, and representatives of prospective customer airlines. The flight crew had requested permission for a descent from 10,000ft to 6,000ft shortly before contact was lost. It struck a 7,000ft mountain and the reason for the descent is not immediately apparent. The jet was touring Asia on a sales promotion with stops including Pakistan, Vietnam, Laos, Kazakhstan, and Burma.With a maiden flight in 2008, several Superjet 100s are in service and Sukhoi boasts orders for about 200 more. The first newly-designed post-Soviet Russian airliner, a commercial offering by military planemaker Sukhoi, it seats around 100 and retails for US$31.7 million. This is cheaper than products from Canada; and Sukhoi has sought the services of Western firms including Thales of France and Finmeccanica of Italy, potentially mitigating safety fears about Soviet-era technology.Sukhoi's top test pilot, Alexander Yablontsev, and co-pilot Alexander Kochetkov reportedly were due to be at the controls of the crashed plane. The exact number on board is reported as being from 44 to 50. Sukhoi Civil Aircraft boss Vladimir Prisyazhnyuk said the flight carried eight, including technical staff, from Russia; two from Italy; and one each from France and the United States. The wreckage is in small pieces and, following unconfirmed reports saying bodies were seen, a search team reported no survivors found but several corpses.So far, Aeroflot of Russia and Armavia of Armenia are the only airlines to have brought the jet into service. Mexico has recently given approval to the plane, allowing Western operator Interjet to join the Russian airlines before year's end. Sukhoi hopes to scale up production, presently below planned levels, and already has firm deals in place in Asia including with Kartika Airlines of Indonesia.A Russian programming researcher Efim Bushmanov uploaded the Skype source on Blogspot, Torrent, and Github last Tuesday. Bushmanov said that his release engineering work is "not finished," and stated that the purpose of its release is "community involvement."Bushmanov said that his motivation was a story in the Wall Street Journal which described possible eavesdropping on Skype by governmental agencies. The upload to public would allow people to participate with further work on the reverse engineering which is not yet finished.Skype responded by a promise to support security of the Skype users and to investigate and prevent the attacks this can cause: "This unauthorized use of our application for malicious activities like spamming/phishing infringes on Skype's intellectual property. We are taking all necessary steps to prevent/defeat nefarious attempts to subvert Skype's experience. Skype takes its users' safety and security seriously and we work tirelessly to ensure each individual has the best possible experience."Some public said that Microsoft is to blame for the lack of stability of Skype since its acquisition plans were announced in the beginning of May. However, Microsoft has no operational control over Skype servers yet. The acquisition is planned to be finished by the end of 2011. Microsoft's response included a note that despite that they have some Windows code shared with Russian government, they would fear to share Skype code, and make strong attempts to keep it unavailable to third parties.Information Week magazine commented that the release can be legal if no part of the work involves copying the original code from Skype servers.Paul Ducklin, head of technology for security company Sophos, noted the presence of IDA Pro (Interactive Disassembler) files in the downloads published by Bushmanov, indicating that his reverse engineering had not been conducted in a "clean room" fashion. The project included shared files which were enough for the tech company Hex-Rays to verify that the version of IDA Pro used was pirated.Trading on Russia's major stock markets has been suspended for a second consecutive day due to the ongoing turmoil in the financial markets around the world. The suspension took place due to an order of the Russian government's Federal Service for the Financial Markets, which demanded the suspension. "It took too long for the money to get into the system," said Uralsib analyst Chris Weafer commenting on this decision. "They were afraid of panic selling so they stopped the market."Before the suspension, the RTS exchange fell by 6.39 percent in just two hours,  while the MICEX index started the day with an increase, before falling again. This day was the worst day in Russia's market since the country's 1998 financial crisis Several financial markets have continued to lose value. The primary British index, the FTSE 100, dropped in value by 2.36%, which is 118.40 points, to below the 5000 mark at 4907.20. The Dow Jones, was down 2.62% at 16:08 UTC, a slight increase from earlier today. The Dow Jones currently has a value of 10769.00 points. The NASDAQ index has fallen by -3.16% to 2138.14, while the Dax was 1.75% lower than the start of the day at 16:08 UTC.The Russian Government has also announced the injection of 44 billion dollars into the Russian economy. The cash injection will take place through VTB, Sberbank and Gazprom Bank, which are all state run banks.Thirty-eight members of the senior management of Irish airline Ryanair, including chief executive Michael O'Leary, have seen their pay frozen in light of the increasing price of fuel, driven by rising oil prices.O'Leary, who owns 4.2% of the airline and earned €992,000 (£780,000) last year including €565,000 basic pay, said "I think it's inappropriate for managers to be awarding themselves pay increases if profits are falling," and that pay would only be unfrozen if oil significantly decreased in price and "we can see some prospect of profits being increased."Ryanair has currently hedged oil prices at US$68 per barrel, but this is set to expire, leaving the no-frills airline paying full market prices. "Our hedging finishes next week and we go from about $70 to about $100. Next year's fuel bill is going up by €400m. We only have around 10% hedged in the high $70s for next year and I wouldn't be hedging now. We'll take our chances in the markets," explained O'Leary.UBS analyst Tim Marshall estimates Ryanair's fuel bill is set to increase €732m this financial year to €1.01bn. UBS predicts a profit of €485m for this year, but O'Leary says profits could be down to €235m between now and March 2009, dependent on "oil prices and average fares". In light of the news, shares in Ryanair fell 2¾ cents to €2.96½ each.Ryanair is trying hard to reduce costs, O'Leary saying they were "renegotiating airport contracts, handling contracts, maintenance contracts. We [Ryanair] want to reduce costs in every area of our operation." He said prices for passengers are set to go up, as "bag charges will keep going up until we can persuade half of our passengers to travel without checked-in luggage so we can get our handling charges down". At present, around 40% do this.He said that to fill an extra 30% of seats the airline will keep fares relatively low. "We won't have to cut the fares like hell but they are not going to go up... More will fly with Ryanair than British Airways, Air France and all the other high-priced airlines."Irish low cost airline, Ryanair, announced today that it is exercising its options with Boeing to purchase five new 737 aircraft. This brings Ryanair's total number of outstanding orders with the US manufacturer to 230.The new planes, which come from the 737-800 range, will be fitted with blended winglets to boost fuel efficiency by as much as 3%. Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary, justified his choice of Boeing by saying, "The Boeing 737-800 has the best technical reliability and ensures that Ryanair is the number one on-time major airline in Europe"..."In addition, it has the lowest unit operating cost. The addition of these five aircraft will continue to enable us to develop more new routes across Europe and bring low fares to many more European consumers."Ryanair is the world's most profitable airline, having reported record profits of €269m earlier this year, and is pursuing an aggressive expansion plan which will see it's total number of passengers jump to 70m over the next few years. At present Ryanair has 91 aircraft and 230 on order.Irish low fares airline Ryanair has announced it is to commence service of two new routes from Shannon Airport in County Clare, Ireland. It will now fly to Bristol, England daily and to Nantes, France three times a week. The airline will also increase the frequency of its Shannon-Frankfurt route.Shannon airport has seen its traffic figures soar in the past year since Ryanair established a new base there. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary has said he expects the new routes to bring an additional 200,000 passengers to the airport.Despite the positive announcement of the new routes on Thursday, Ryanair's share price plunged by 10% on the same day due to the London bombings that morning. However the share price recovered substantially on Friday.Ryanair is the world's most profitable airline, having reported record profits of €269m earlier this year, and is pursuing an aggressive expansion plan which will see it's total number of passengers jump to 70m over the next few years. At present Ryanair has 91 aircraft and 230 Boeing 737's on order.Irish low fares airline, Ryanair, has reported that passenger numbers for May 2005 are up 34%. This represented the largest increase in traffic for over a year, and comes after a string of good news for the airline during the week; most notably reporting record profits.Ryanair carried 2.9 million passengers in May compared to 2.17 million in the same period last year. This was partly helped by an increase in the number of routes over the year. Ryanair has been aggressively adding routes from its new European base in Shannon and throughout southern Spain over the past year. The airline now operates 12 routes from Shannon and over 50 from Spain.Load factor also increased, from 81% to 82%, as did the percentage of tickets sold on the internet. Internet sales now account for 98% of total ticket sales, up from 97% in May 2004.The airline, which operates over 200 routes, revealed after tax profits of €268.9m (US $332m) earlier this week and record revenue of €1.34bn ($1.66bn).Ryanair, the Irish low fares airline, which last week celebrated twenty years in business, has reported a 19% increase in profits. The airline, which operates over 200 routes, revealed in its annual results that after tax profits had increased to €268.9m (US $332 million), comfortably beating the median analyst forecast of €248m ($306 million).Group revenue rose by 24% to a record €1.34bn ($1.66 billion), on the back of a 19% rise in passenger numbers to 27.6m ($34.1 million). By 10:30am UTC, Ryanair shares had risen by 4.48% to €6.53 ($8.06) ( on the Irish Stock Exchange (ISE), having hit €6.66 ($8.22) earlier in the morning - briefly valuing Ryanair above the €5bn ($6 billion) mark.Despite the increase in profits, the firm told investors that the increased cost of fuel posed a serious threat for the future, however Ryanair has hedged 75% of next winters fuel needs at €38 ($47) a barrel. CEO Michael O'Leary, told the media in relation to fuel costs, "Our outlook for the coming 12 months is more positive than it was this time last year"..."Clearly fuel costs remain high, and the market is volatile." He also reiterated that Ryanair would not impose fuel surcharges on customers.Ryanair's 2004 record profit is larger than that of Easyjet ($74m), British Airways ($240m), and even its role model Southwest Airlines ($313m). The fact that it made €248m on turnover of just €1.34bn makes it by some margin the world's most profitable major airline. One of the key methods of keeping costs to a minimum at Ryanair is by using less staff to carry more passengers, in comparison to its main competitors:Ryanair employs 2,300 staff and carries 27m people a year;11,700 passengers per staff membereasyJet employs 3,600 staff and carries 24m people a year;6,666 passengers per staff memberAer Lingus employs 3,900 staff and carries 7m people a year;1,795 passengers per staff memberAir France-KLM employs 64,000 staff and carries 65m people a year;1,015 passengers per staff memberBritish Airways employs 51,939 staff and carries 35m people a year;674 passengers per staff memberRyanair has a stated aim of raising its passenger numbers to above 70m within five years time, making it Europe's largest airline. The Dublin-based airline currently is awaiting delivery of 200 new planes from Boeing which it hopes to use to achieve this ambitious aim and to replace its older aircraft.Irish budget airline Ryanair have dismissed pilot John Goss, who has worked with the airline for 25 years, over remarks he made in a documentary about safety at the airline. Ryanair issued a statement confirming legal proceedings have been begun against Goss.The airline is already suing the UK's Channel 4 over Monday night's broadcast of Secrets of the Cockpit, part of the Dispatches series, in which Goss appeared. The programme discussed the airline's safety with a focus on fuel policy, investigating allegations Ryanair uses a bare minimum of fuel and intimidates pilots who raise concerns.Goss, who had been due to retire in October, is a key figure of Ryanair Pilots Group (RPG), which conducted a survey of more than 1,000 flight crew. According to the RPG survey almost 90% of respondents said the safety culture was nontransparent. Two-thirds said they felt uncomfortable raising safety issues. Ryanair had told pilots anybody signing a "so-called safety petition" might be dismissed. Pilots interviewed for the programme said they felt pressured to save fuel, the cost of which has hit Ryanair's profits. Following an incident in Spain in which three Ryanair flights declared fuel emergencies after being diverted to Valencia the Spanish Air Authority described Ryanair flights usually landing with a bare minimum of fuel, in a report the airline dismissed as "manifestly inaccurate and factually untrue".One anonymous pilot interviewed by Channel 4 accused the airline of "threats and bullying". Over 90% of those surveyed wanted a regulatory inquiry, with RPG saying the survey results were passed to the airline and the Irish Aviation Authority. RPG is not recognised by the airline which calls the group "[lacking] any independence, objectivity or reliability" and a union front.The other pilots interviewed by Channel 4 chose to remain anonymous, with only Goss identifying himself. The airline says RPG only conducted their survey to unionise Ryanair pilots and issued a statement describing the documentary as "based on nothing more than anonymous hearsay claims made by individuals whose identity was concealed, and/or by representatives of pilot unions of Ryanair's competitor airlines masquerading as a non-Ryanair Pilot Group".Ryanair claim Goss wrote to the airline saying he had no concerns about safety, stating "We will not allow a Ryanair employee to defame our safety on national television just three weeks after he confirmed in writing to Ryanair that he had no concerns with safety and no reason to make any confidential safety report". The airline further say they "look forward to correcting Mr Goss's defamatory claims in court".Channel 4 have previously stated an intent to defend the legal action against them.Irish budget airline Ryanair have added newspaper publishers Associated Newspapers and Mirror Group to their legal targets in a High Court defamation action filed yesterday in Dublin that also targets Channel 4.The move confirms the carrier's expression of intent to sue Channel 4 after the UK broadcaster screened Secrets of the Cockpit, a documentary about safety at the airline, on Monday night. Part of the Dispatches series, the show reported on an incident in Spain last year where three Ryanair jets declared fuel emergencies after being diverted to Valencia. Fuel policy was a strong focus for the documentary.Pilots interviewed for the programme said they felt pressured to save fuel, the cost of which has hit Ryanair's profits. The Spanish Air Authority described Ryanair flights usually landing with a bare minimum of fuel, in a report the airline dismissed as "manifestly inaccurate and factually untrue".Ryanair have also sacked veteran pilot John Goss for appearing on the show, the only pilot interviewed who did not seek anonymity. Ryanair have stated intent to sue Goss and claim he confirmed in the weeks before the show that he had no issues with his employer's safety. Goss is a member of Ryanair Pilots Group (RPG), which the airline call a union front.Channel 4 previously promised when threatened with legal action to see Ryanair in court. "We stand by our journalism, and will robustly defend proceedings if they are initiated," a spokesperson said. The Belfast Telegraph was also sued but the action has been dropped after the Northern Irish publication issued an apology. The paper had published a story titled "Are budget airlines like Ryanair putting passengers at risk?".Associated Newspapers are behind The Daily Mail and its online and Sunday variants. Mirror Group publish The Daily Mirror, its Sunday sister, and The People.Secrets of the Cockpit also examined an RPG poll of 1,000 Ryanair flight crew, dismissed by the airline as part of unionisation efforts. According to the RPG survey almost 90% of respondents said the safety culture was nontransparent. Two-thirds said they felt uncomfortable raising safety issues, with a pilot interviewed by Channel 4 accusing Ryanair of "threats and bullying". Ryanair had told pilots anybody signing a "so-called safety petition" might be dismissed. Over 90% of those surveyed wanted a regulatory inquiry, with RPG saying the survey results were passed to the airline and the Irish Aviation Authority (IAA). The IAA has already called the programme a "misguided attack" on Ryanair, saying "Ryanair Plc fully complies with all European and international regulations in all areas of its operations".The IAA itself was accused of failing to respond to concerns from Ryanair pilots and one interviewee said his "personal belief is that the majority of Ryanair pilots do not have confidence in the safety agencies and that is a pretty critical issue". The authority responded "The IAA has responded to personal letters and reports from Ryanair pilots, this included several meetings and face-to-face interviews with pilots and their legal and professional representatives."Ryanair makes heavy use of zero-hour contracts, which do not guarantee work and which the Irish Airline Pilots' Association describe as offering some of aviation's worst employment conditions. RPG chairman Evert van Zwol, also a recent Dutch Airline Pilots Association president, said zero-hour contracts tended to make pilots choose to fly when unwell and keep quiet if they had safety concerns. In 2005 a Polish Ryanair pilot became lost near Rome a few days after attending his son's funeral, while his Dutch co-pilot was seeing his first experience of navigating severe weather.In the 2005 incident air traffic control intervened to keep the flight safe from midair collisions. The Polish pilot told Italian investigators he feared losing his job if he took extra time off work. The investigation concluded in 2009 he had been unfit to fly. Ryanair denied he would have been fired for taking time off to recover.Secrets of the Cockpit also reported that in twelve separate serious incidents data from cockpit voice recorders had been wiped before investigators could access it, which the carrier says is a common occcurrence in aviation and attributed to pilot error. In Sweden a report into a Ryanair emergency landing concluded this week an airline employee wiped the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder to prevent the investigation accessing them. The aircraft had returned to an airport near Stockholm shortly after takeoff suffering electrical malfunctions. Ryanair reject the Swedish Accident Investigation Authority's take on the missing data, telling newspaper Södermanlands Nyheter recordings were reset by a technician trying to repair the aircraft after consultation with Ryanair's technical department, who did not think the recordings needed saving.Ryanair, which has never suffered a fatal accident, says the documentary is "false and defamatory", and the IAA says it is "based upon false and misleading information". "We have been instructed to vigorously prosecute these libel proceedings," said a statement from Ryanair's lawyers, who promised "other litigation is pending".Irish budget airline Ryanair have stated intent to sue the UK's Channel 4 over a documentary broadcast Monday night which discussed safety at the airline. Secrets of the Cockpit focused strongly on fuel policy and featured interviews with pilots.Part of the Dispatches series, the show reported on an incident in Spain last year where three Ryanair jets declared fuel emergencies after being diverted to Valencia. Pilots interviewed for the programme said they felt pressured to save fuel, the cost of which has hit Ryanair's profits. The Spanish Air Authority described Ryanair flights usually landing with a bare minimum of fuel, in a report the airline dismissed as "manifestly inaccurate and factually untrue".Ryanair say their planes carry more fuel than European Union legislation requires and point out the Irish Aviation Authority (IAA) monitor their safety record, including fuel policy. Ryanair has never had a fatal accident and the IAA called Secrets of the Cockpit a "misguided attack" which was "based upon false and misleading information".The IAA itself was accused of failing to respond to concerns from Ryanair pilots and one interviewee said his "personal belief is that the majority of Ryanair pilots do not have confidence in the safety agencies and that is a pretty critical issue". An IAA statement yesterday morning read "The IAA has responded to personal letters and reports from Ryanair pilots, this included several meetings and face-to-face interviews with pilots and their legal and professional representatives." The statement added "Ryanair Plc fully complies with all European and international regulations in all areas of its operations".Channel 4 promised to see Ryanair in court, saying "We stand by our journalism, and will robustly defend proceedings if they are initiated." Ryanair called the documentary "false and defamatory". Other claims in the documentary included that twelve cockpit voice recorders had been wiped after serious incidents, which Ryanair blamed on pilot error and said is a common occcurence in aviation, and that a survey by Ryanair Pilots Group (RPG) found widespread safety concerns at the airline.RPG is not recognised by the airline which calls the group "[lacking] any independence, objectivity or reliability". The airline says they conducted their survey, which polled 1,000 flight crew, as part of a long campaign to unionise Ryanair pilots. The airline makes heavy use of zero-hour contracts, which do not guarantee work and which the Irish Airline Pilots’ Association describe as offering some of aviation's worst employment conditions.According to the RPG survey almost 90% of respondents said the safety culture was nontransparent. Two-thirds said they felt uncomfortable raising safety issues. Ryanair had told pilots anybody signing a "so-called safety petition" might be dismissed. One anonymous pilot interviewed by Channel 4 accused the airline of "threats and bullying". Over 90% of those surveyed wanted a regulatory inquiry, with RPG saying the survey results were passed to the airline and the IAA.RPG chairman Evert van Zwol, also a recent Dutch Airline Pilots Association president, said zero-hour contracts tended to make pilots choose to fly when unwell and keep quiet if they had safety concerns. In 2005 a Polish Ryanair pilot became lost near Rome a few days after attending his son's funeral, while his Dutch co-pilot was seeing his first experience of navigating severe weather.In the 2005 incident air traffic control intervened to keep the flight safe from midair collisions. The Polish pilot told Italian investigators he feared losing his job if he took extra time off work. The investigation concluded in 2009 he had been unfit to fly. Ryanair denied he would have been fired for taking time off to recover.After months of rumor and speculation, the Colombian brewery Grupo Bavaria, which was founded in 1889 and is the second largest in South America, has been acquired by SABMiller in the biggest merger in Colombian history. In a buyout in which the multinational with headquarters in London will obtain 71.8% of Grupo Bavaria's stock, previously owned by the Santo Domingo family (owner of Caracol Televisión and, until recently, of Avianca). The Santo Domingo family is in turn to receive 225 million shares of SABMiller, which is equivalent to 15.1% of the company. SABMiller is to pay nearly $7.8 billion to complete the transaction. The news was announced Tuesday at dawn (Colombian local time). Thus SABMiller, the second largest brewery in the world — surpassed only by Belgian InBev, enters South America through Bavaria's operations in Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, and Panama, where it controls between 79% and 99% of the beer market. Of the $7.8 billion paid by SABMiller, $3.5 billion worth is stock for the Santo Domingo family, $1.5 billion is cash to buy out the minority stockholders, and the rest, $1.8 billion, will cover the present debts of the Colombian brewing giant. During recent months, Ricardo Obregón, president of Grupo Empresarial Bavaria, denied the persistent rumors of a possible sale. In addition to SABMiller, Heineken and InBev had been interested in the Colombian company. Obregón will have to inform the head of the Colombian stock market of the acquisition. Monday, when the international media reported the transaction, Grupo Bavaria's stock rose 5.36% in the Colombian stock market and reached a price of 49,100 COP ($21.23). The dollar fell 13 COP and finished the day Monday at 2,315.55 COP. Nevertheless, Tuesday morning, the stock fell 14.26% to  42,100 COP ($18.19), after the price of the stock had been constant for half an hour. In contrast, SABMiller's stock rose nearly 9 points on the London stock market.Sainsbury's, the UK supermarket chain, announced on Wednesday that it had made its first ever loss. For the six months to 9 October, it reported a pre-tax loss of £39m ($72m), compared with a profit of £323m the previous year.Excluding £168m of exceptional items, such as the clearance of surplus merchandise, Sainsbury's made a pre-tax profit of £131m for the first half of its financial year. The company had made a profits warning earlier in the year. The company's shares actually rose slightly on the news. This is due to the absence of any surprises - shareholders were expecting results in line with these.Sainsbury's chief executive Justin King admitted the firm had been failing to properly stock its shelves after struggling with faulty distribution systems. This problem however is only one of a series of problems that has plagued Sainsbury's in recent years. Once the UK's largest supermarket chain, Sainsbury's has been overtaken by both Tesco and Asda in recent years.The death of Michael Jackson on Thursday has caused retail demand for his songs and for memorabilia to increase.A review this week by Wikinews of US Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) complaints about student loans in the United States shows Sallie Mae leads all lending institutions in complaints.  Of the 4,851 complaints dating back to March 2012 when the CFPB first began collecting student loan data, 2,262 or 46.6% of all complaints were about the lender.  US Federal Reserve data from 2010/2011 shows Sallie Mae is the nation's largest student loan lender, responsible for 25% of the marketThe other major lenders in this space include Wells Fargo, JP Morgan Chase, PNC, and Discover.  In complaints, AES/PHEAA came in second with 546, or 11.3% of all complaints. Wells Fargo, Citibank and JPMorgan Chase each had between 5% and 7.5% of all complaints, totaling 918 complaints between them. 78 other lending institutions round out the list of organizations with complaints filed against them for student loans.Few of the complaints originate from people with problems with federal student loans. Less than 1%, 35 total, are for these types of loans, with Sallie Mae accounting for the bulk of complaints with 17 total. 14 other lending institutions have 3 or fewer complaints.  For non-federal student loans, Sallie Mae is still the leader for complaints, with 2245 or 46.6% of all non-federal student loan complaints.The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau sorts complaints into three issues: Problems when you are unable to pay, Repaying your loan, and Getting a loan.  None of the federal loans had complaints about getting a loan.  For non-federal loans, 65.5% of the 4,816 complaints related to loan repayment. Sallie Mae led in total complaints in this category with 1467.  They were followed by AES/PHEAA with 356, Wells Fargo with 231, Citibank with 201, Discover with 158, JPMorgan Chase with 154, ACS Education Services with 143, and KeyBank NA with 116. CFPB says loan repayment issues include a basket of claim types including "fees, billing, deferment, forbearance, fraud, and credit reporting." Problems when you are unable pay accounts for 30.8% of the complaints.  Sallie Mae had 698 complaints.  They were followed by AES/PHEAA with 181, JPMorgan Chase with 106, Wells Fargo with 104, Citibank with 70, and KeyBank NA with 58. Many of the complaints are, according to the CFPB, because borrowers have difficulty getting deferrments on loan repayment as a result of being unable to find employment.The total complaints against Sallie Mae for September of this year is 2 fewer than the same time last year.  The company's performance this year compared to last year has been mixed.  March and June numbers were down over 150 complaints from the same month a year before.  April, May, July and August all saw increases of 17–43. Of the top six lenders by volume of complaints, only AES/PHEAA and Citibank saw drops every month between March and September from the total volume in the previous year. Wells Fargo had a gain of 1 in August and 6 in May from the previous year. JPMorgan Chase had a difference of 0 from the same month last year for April, 3 more this year for May, and 4 more for August.  Discover saw an increase every month from the same period last year except for September.  When the total complaints differences from year to year for March to September are counted, this year has 571 fewer complaints against the top six lenders.Most, 1470, of the complaints against Sallie Mae were closed with explanations. 10.2% were closed with monetary relief. 7.7% were closed with non-monetary relief. 2.1% were closed with relief and 12.1% were closed without relief. AES/PHEAA's complaint closure picture was much different.  40.1% of AES/PHEAA's 546 complaints were closed with non-monetary relief, 35.3% were closed with explanations and 21.2% were closed without relief.  Of the eight lending institutions with 100 or more complaints filed against them, Discover was the institution most likely to result in a closure with monetary relief with 12.9% of all their closures ending this way. Citibank was the institution with the highest percentage of closures ending with no relief at 26.0%.Complaints over student loan lenders were geographically distributed, coming from 3,447 different zip codes.  The largest cluster of complaints is for 20001, a Washington D.C. zip code with 10 complaints originating from there. 07950, the zip code for Morris Plains, New Jersey, and 37013, the zip code for Antioch, Tennessee, each had 8 complaints originating from them. Zip codes for Patchogue, New York;  Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Washington D.C.;  and Arlington, Virginia each had 7 complaints originating from them. By volume of complaints by state, New York led with 497, with California second with 467, Pennsylvania third with 303, Florida fourth with 288 and Ohio fifth with 219 complaints. US Territories largely occupied the bottom spots. The Northern Marianas Islands, with a population of around 50,000, had 1 complaint. The U.S. Armed Forces – Pacific had 3. North Dakota and U.S. Armed Forces – Europe had 5 complaints each.  South Dakota had 7. Wyoming had 8. Puerto Rico and Alaska had 9 each. Rounding out the bottom five states by volume of complaints, Mississippi had 11.With the possibility of a United States government federal shutdown looming on October 1, student loans may be impacted because of potential for an automatic increase in interest rates.Sam's Club, operated by Wal-Mart Stores, has announced that it will be cutting about 11,000 jobs, most of which are product-demo part-time jobs. The announcement was made by Sam's Club's President and Chief Executive Brian Cornell.The president commented that the move was intended to increase sales and customer loyalty, and not to lower costs. "Operationally, we see this as a net neutral," he said. Cornell said he believes a large part of of the fired workers would be hired by Shopper Events LLC of Rogers, Arkansas, a marketing firm.In addition to the cuts, Sam's Club said it would be outsourcing its in-store product demonstration and sampling to a third-party firm, the marketing company Shopper Events.Oklahoma officials resumed testing soil, water, and runoff from 20 eastern Oklahoma poultry farms for Attorney General Drew Edmondson's lawsuit against 14 poultry companies in Arkansas.  The lawsuit alleges their operations have polluted Lake Tenkiller and Illinois River watershed.The original order authorized soil samplers to enter the property "one time".  Edmondson then asked for a clarification for "one time".  Federal Magistrate Sam Joyner said, in a supplemental order, "With regard to soil samples, Plaintiff (Oklahoma) is permitted to enter and leave the property, as necessary, beginning with the first date of entry and proceeding on subsequent contiguous days until the necessary soil samples are obtained."Bev Saunders, spokesman for Poultry Partners, said farmer's resistance to testing was unlikely.  Poultry Partners represents a group of about 400 farmers.  She went on to say "We don't agree with this, but we do abide by the law."Samsung announced it will market DVD players capable of playing back both Sony's Blu-Ray and Toshiba's HD DVD next-generation optical storage formats, if the two camps refuse to compromise on a single format. Assuming development is successful, consumers could expect to see such a device on store shelves next year.Blu-Ray and HD DVD are projected to be the successor formats for current DVDs. Samsung, while leaning towards the Blu-Ray camp, hopes it can cover both bases by distributing a player with dual-compatibility. While this means spending more in development to unify the two technologies and develop a cost-effective production method, dual compatibility may pay off for the company if the formats challenge each other as VHS and Betamax did twenty-five years ago. Despite the support for Blu-Ray, Samsung has also been supportive of a unified standard to avoid such costly competition.HD DVD offers single layer capacity of 15GB, more than triple the size of standard single layer DVDs, and benefits from similarities with current DVDs, such as cheap production and compatibility with current DVD players. Blu-Ray can hold 23GB on its smallest single layer version, and is reported to have superior durability and interactivity over current DVD-based technology and HD-DVD. HD-DVD is currently promoted by Toshiba, NEC, Sanyo and Microsoft; while Blu-Ray's base of support is the Blu-Ray Disc Association, which is led by Blu-Ray developers Sony and Philips. It is notable that Sony and Philips, who developed the Blu-Ray format, also competed against the Toshiba-designed SuperDisc DVD standard, which is the standard that is followed today.The first Blu-Ray and HD DVD products are expected to start appearing in mainstream markets within the next year.South Korean electronics giant Samsung has begun mass production of a new 4 gigabit flash memory. This is twice the size of almost all the biggest solid state memory devices currently available.The firm is using a new 70-nanometer process which enables it to produce the smallest cell on the market, enabling a far higher density than competitors. The device can write data at 16-megabytes per second, twice as fast as a 90nm 2Gb device.Possible applications of the new memory will most likely be as a component in MP3 players, top end mobile phones, USB memory sticks, digital cameras, and other portable devices.The new form of EEPROM memory writes and reads data faster than previous versions — up to 16 megabytes per second. The storage of real-time high-definition video is feasible on the chips, according to Samsung. The company also believes their Flash-based disk drives could replace hard drives in laptops since they will work faster, quieter and cooler than drives currently in use.A major purchase transaction is being prepared in the diamonds' industry: Samuels Jewelers started a discussion with a sightholder from Diamond Trading Company (DTC). The latter is to acquire the majority part of retailer's shares.There is still not much information about this particular sightholder, except for the fact that it is based in India. The present majority shareholder of Samuels Jewelers is DDJ Capital Management. The representatives of the company do not give any information concerning the potential buyer.Randy McCullough, the President and CEO of Samuels Jewelers, stated that it would be a great opportunity for the retailer to start a partnership with a DTC sightholder, thus Samuels would be able to re-capitalize its balance sheet, to acquire newer inventory and guarantee itself stable growth in the future.As for Samuels Jewelers, which is officially called "Samuels, Schubach and Samuels Diamonds", possesses a network of 97 jewelry stores in 18 US states since October 1 this year. The incomes of the retailer at the end of the previous year are estimated to be around $100,000,000.The current shareholder of Samuels Jewelers, DDJ Capital Management, is a company, which specializes itself in private equity and debt financings. This managing firm began its activity in 1996 and since then has grown to operate capitals of 79 institutional clients (estimated in approximately 3 billion dollars).Vornado Realty Trust of Paramus NJ has completed a deal to take a majority interest in the 1.8 million sq ft building at 555 California St in San Francisco, (aka The Bank of America Center) and the 2 million sq. foot building located at 1290 Avenue of The Americas in New York City. In an announced deal worth $1.8 billion, the new investors get a 70 percent interest in both towers, alleviating the current owners, Hudson Waterfront Associates of any possible liability in a lawsuit brought against them by Donald Trump. Built in 1969, 555 California is SF's largest office tower, and 2nd tallest building at 779 ft. just a few feet shy of the 48 story Transamerica Pyramid at 853 ft which was completed in 1972.The SF structure, whose current deal estimates it's value @ $575 per sq ft, had just sold last year for $1.05 Billion all by itself ($583 a sq ft), when property magnate Walter Shorenstein sold it to Henry Cheng and Vincent Lo's Hong Kong based Hudson Waterfront Associates, a record for a city property. Before 2005, 555 California had been Bank of America's World HQ, but that status ended when North Carolina based NationsBank ate up A.P Giannini's west coast banking legacy and kept the B of A name, but made the main HQ in Charlotte NC. For lookee loos the 52nd floor of 555 California features the popular Carnelian Room, a hang for well to do bankers, brokers, lawyers and tourists checking out wide sweeping views from what was once the tallest structure west of the Mississippi, now only the 5th Tallest Bldg on the west coast, but still impressive. For those afraid of heights and the tab for "fine dining", the ground floor also features a Starbucks.According to a recent report by the United States Census Bureau, the pecking order of the most populous U.S. cities has changed. The report, issued June 30, shows in 2004 San Jose, with an estimated population of 904,522 is the nation's 10th-largest city, overtaking Detroit with its smaller population of 900,198.The U.S. Census traditionally releases population figures for the year previous to the date the figures are made public.Brazil has announced, and the World Trade Organization (WTO) has approved, new trade sanctions on US goods, in response to illegal subsidies paid by the US government to American cotton growers.A list was published by Brazil of the items on which import tariffs would be placed, which includes more than 100 different American products, worth nearly $600 million. Cotton products would face the highest penalty, with the tariff increasing from 6% to 100%. Other American products will be included in the sanctions as well, although the tariff increase will not be as significant.According to a Brazilian official, a wide range of products was chosen, in order to "maximize pressure." The tariffs will go into effect in 30 days, unless the two countries can reach an agreement before then.The subsidies cited by Brazil as justification for the tariffs pay out around $3 billion to American cotton growers annually. Brazil has argued for eight years that these subsidies were the reason that the US was the second-largest producer of cotton in the world, and in 2008, the WTO ruled that they were illegal. The National Cotton Council in America, however, argued that that the system of subsidies has changed since the WTO's first ruling on the matter in 2005.A senior executive at the council said that the subsidies were justified, and that they were an "important financial safety net for producers."During a one-day visit to Warsaw on Tuesday French President Nicolas Sarkozy announced that his country would lift job restrictions on the citizens of some of the European Union's former communist states. He also promised a deal aimed at bringing Ukraine closer to the bloc but seemed to play down its chances of membership. France was part of a majority of EU states that imposed employment restrictions on citizens of Poland and other countries that joined the European Union in 2004. The limits now in place for workers from the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia will be lifted on July 1. However, jobs in France will remain restricted for workers from Romania and Bulgaria, which joined the EU in 2007."I am going to announce this during my speech in Parliament," Sarkozy said when asked about media reports on the matter. "Poland is one of the six great countries of Europe. The EU is based on the free movement of people. Poland is also our strategic partner."Of "old EU" member states, only Austria, Belgium, Denmark and Germany now maintain the ban. Norway and Liechtenstein – non-EU countries that are part of the European Economic Area – also restrict access to their job markets for citizens of the countries that joined the union in 2004. Switzerland, which has bilateral agreements with the EU on free movement of people, also restricts employment for those countries. Under EU law, these restrictions must be lifted by 2011.Sarkozy also told a joint news conference with Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk on Wednesday that Ukraine would be offered closer cooperation with the European Union during a French presidency of the bloc, which starts on July 1, but said Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko told him that Ukraine did not want to join the EU outright."I've met with the president of Ukraine and his objective is not membership, rather closer cooperation on various levels. I will have opportunities to make such proposals," he said.Saudi Arabia signed on Friday a trade agreement with the United States, which was considered to be one the last major hurdles to the World Trade Organisation membership of the kingdom. Now, Saudis have to complete negotiations at the Geneva-based WTO on the formal accession document.The deal opens Saudi markets to US farm and manufactured goods, as well as most services, including IT, financial, energy and tourism sectors. It also forced Saudis not to boycott US companies which are doing business with Israel.The kingdom also promised to have normal trade relations with all 148 WTO members, which include Israel.The other problem remains a Saudi-EU row over gas prices. The EU officials accused Saudi Arabia of selling the natural gas to their home petrochemicals at rates below international market prices, which could cause losses to the European producers.It has been announced that Saudi Arabia is planning to open an official embassy in Finland, to signify continuing improvement in relations between the two countries.Teemu Tanner, director general of Africa and the Middle East at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs of Finland, said to reporters concerning Finnish President Tarja Halonen’s first visit to Saudi Arabia on Sunday, “One indication of this visit is that you (Saudi Arabia) are planning to open an embassy here in Helsinki," adding that “We regard this as extremely important for relations,” and that it is only a matter of time before the facility is made available.Another act set to strengthen diplomatic relations is the planned visit of a trade delegation headed by Saudi Minister of Trade and Commerce Hashim Yamani, which will arrive in Finland next month.“Our relationship is no longer in relation to trade,” said Tanner. “More broadly, we will discuss regional and global issues. It is extremely important for us to know Saudi Arabia’s views on Iraq, Iran, but also issues such as Somalia... One objective of the visit is to convey notes on international questions, as we enter a very interesting phase in the Middle East peace process,” adding that the presidential visit is a relational "landmark" that will "crystallize" Finland’s image to Saudi Arabia.Despite the comment that the international cooperation is no longer entirely a trade issue, he did point out Saudi Arabia's important role in the Finnish economy as one of the five largest importers of Finnish products. Finland's main exports to Saudi Arabia are mobile phones, paper, wood and machinery, while Saudi Arabia exports large quantities of raw materials for use in manufacturing plastics. The total volume if this trade is estimated to be worth over €840 million.Other topics on the table for the two nations to discuss during Halonen's visit include energy, the role of science, environmental issues and combating terrorism, as well as other global issues. Tanner has also suggested tourism may be a future area of attention, with a possibility of package holidays for Finnish tourists being organized to Saudi Arabia.Finland and Saudi Arabia have been officially involved in diplomatic relations since 1969. Finland has maintained an embassy in Saudi Arabia since 1974.The government of Saudi Arabia removed an eleven-year ban on livestock imports from Somalia after fears of Rift Valley Fever were allayed, senior Somali officials said on Thursday.The decision was well received across Somalia, as hundreds of thousands of farmers heavily rely on animal exports to the oil-rich Middle East. Under the new arrangement, Saudi officials will closely examine animals before they are shipped off to Saudi soil."This is a tremendous decision for Somalis across the Horn of Africa," said Idiris Ibrahim Abdi, the livestock minister of Somaliland, the self-declared republic in northern Somalia, which has developed one of the most sophisticated animal processing plants in its port town of Berbera.According to news accounts, the Saudi agricultural ministry said the decision is based on years of cross-examination and monitoring of animal farms in Somalia.Animal trade is one of the few surviving economic engines of Somalia's  largely destroyed economy. Business leaders and animal farmers have largely welcomed the Saudi decision."This decision will allow me to triple my animal sales to shipping companies," said Mohamed Hassan Kahde, an animal farmer in the central town of Beledweyne.An official with the Puntland Meat Processing Authority told the Voice of America news agency that they expect to export more than half a million heads of goats and cows to Saudi Arabia in time for the Hajj, the annual Muslim pilgrimage, which will be performed by early December.Oil ministers from Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates announced that both countries would support raising crude oil output quotas by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The Saudi minister, Ali al-Naimi, said that rising prices were lowering world demand, and his nation 'absolutely' backs the increase, while Mohammed bin Dhaen al-Hamli from the UAE claimed that the markets could calm on the decision.Earlier, the OPEC cut their oil demand estimates for 2005, saying that it will rise by only 1.7%, compared to previous prediction of 1.9%.The organisation is to meet to discuss the possible increase on September 19. If the decision take place, the official limits will be the highest since 1987.Saudi Arabia is the OPEC's biggest crude oil producer, with production of about 9.5 million barrels a day and spare capacity of approximately 940,000 barrels. Formal daily output of whole organisation is  28 millions barrels outside Iraq, and estimated unused stocks of 1.39 million barrels.On the London-based International Petroleum Exchange price of the Brent crude barrel fell $1.45 to $62.21 on Friday.On Thursday, eleven princes were arrested in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia; authorities announced in a statement on Saturday. The princes were reportedly arrested for participating in a protest against austerity measures in the kingdom.Authorities ascribed these arrests to a wider crackdown on corruption but did not name any of those arrested.  Those arrested are being detained at al-Ha'ir Prison. "No one is above the law in Saudi Arabia. Everyone is equal and is treated the same as others," said Saturday's official statement. News of the protest and arrests first broke on Friday on a website known as Sabq. The Saudi royal family may number in the thousands, and the government recently announced an end to paying for their water and energy bills.  The protest, which is being described as a sit-in at the Qasr al-Hokm  royal palace, was in opposition to the cuts in royal benefits, but also related to the murder conviction and execution of a cousin of theirs in 2016, calling for compensation for his death. Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman has been overseeing anti-corruption, austerity and social reforms programs since late last year, which included giving women the right to drive automobiles.  Besides cutting the aforementioned benefits for members of the royal family, the austerity program has also included doubling domestic gasoline prices and levying new taxes on most goods and services.  Offsetting some of these measures, King Salman stepped in, saying students, government employees and military personnel would receive cost-of-living allowances, according to the Saudi Press Agency.On January 26, 2006, a massive boycott of dairy produce from Arla Foods started in Saudi Arabia over what is perceived as a Danish  attack on Muslim values. The Saudi ambassador to Denmark has been recalled for consultations.The Danish/Swedish dairy company Arla is facing a massive loss after a spreading boycott of its produce in Saudi Arabia. Four Saudi retail chains have already removed Arla products from the shelves. One retail chain has placed yellow warning tape (common fare for accidents and crime scenes) over Arla products. There have been cases reported of Arla delivery trucks being attacked by stones thrown from bystanders.  Marianne Castenskiold, a senior consultant for Dansk Industri, expressed a fear that the boycott will spread to other countries in the region and have detrimental effects on other Danish products. Denmark is one of the leading exporters of agriculture in northern Europe, whose economy is heavily dependent on foreign trade and investment.The boycott has been announced at Friday prayer services in Saudi mosques since January 20, 2006, obviously helping to foment popular support of the nation's response to Denmark's alleged ignorance of Muslim values. On at least one occasion, a delivery truck has been greeted by thrown stones.Jerry Zuchlinski, a natural resources professor at Sault College, is taking the side of the administration during the 2006 Ontario, Canada college teachers' strike.The Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario professor disagrees with OPSEU's suggestions that staff is overworked and underpaid, while joining his colleagues on the picket lines. He told newspaper Soo Today, "I don't feel that the faculty concern with being overworked is valid. I do the same job that they do."While the rest of the faculty carried signs stating, "Faculty care about quality education," Professor Zuchlinski's read, "FACULTY LAZY GREEDY + STUPID."The position is especially bold, as 92.2% of Sault's faculty support the strike, the fourth highest percentage overall. St Clair voted overwhelmingly in favour, with 96.6%, while Loyalist was least supportive of the action, with 64.0%.The Ontario Public Service Employees Union denied the final deal offered by the College Compensation and Appointments Council on Monday night. Faculty have been without contracts since 31 August 2005.Zuchlinski said the faculty were offered a deal that would pay many as much as $95,000 per year, which, according to Sault College Campus News represents a 12.6% increase over four years.The strike comes just a month before the end of the school year, which means courses may be extended into the spring and summer, making it difficult for students to find jobs to pay tuition.The second landing gear failure on a Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) de Havilland Canada Dash 8 (also known as a Bombardier Q400 following Bombardier's purchase of de Havilland Canada from Boeing) within the space of a week has prompted the grounding of many of the twin-engined turboprops.On September 9, Scandinavian Airlines Flight 1209 suffered a right landing gear failure during landing at Aalborg Airport, Denmark. A fire broke out during the crash, and five people sustained injuries. This was followed today by the similar crash of Scandinavian Airlines Flight 2748 at Palanga Airport, Lithuania. No-one was injured.The accidents have resulted in Bombardier recommending the grounding of all Q400s, which have undertaken more than 60,000 flights, as a "precautionary measure". This affects leading carriers around the world, including SAS, Alaska Air 's Horizon Air subsidiary, Flybe, Japan Airlines, Austrian Airlines Group and Augsburg Airways, and covers around 60 aircraft.SAS and Horizon Air have grounded 27 and 15 aircraft respectively, while Flybe have grounded six. Another airline, Porter Airlines, which operates the type exclusively against any others, have pointed out that their aircraft have not undertaken enough flights to be affected by the measures.The landing gear are manufactured in the United States by Goodrich Corporation. One industry analyst,  Cameron Doerksen, said that he felt that although the incidents and groundings obviously constitute bad publicity, he feels it would not influence the decision of a carrier considering whether to purchase Q400s. Bombardier declined 17 cents, or 2.7 percent, to C$6.23 on the Toronto Stock Exchange and SAS fell 6 kronor, or 4.8 percent, to 118 kronor in stock exchanging in Stockholm. Goodrich stock rose 19 cents to $64.96 on the New York Stock Exchange.The groundings have caused hundreds of flights to be cancelled, leaving thousands of passengers stranded every day. The cost to SAS alone is estimated at 10-15 million Swedish kronor per day.Sweden-based airline Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) said it will reduce payrolls by 8,600 jobs as part of its "Core SAS" restructuring plan.The airline will cut 3,000 staff directly and eliminate 5,600 by divesting business ventures, reducing the workforce by 40% to 14,000. The restructuring comes after SAS posted losses of 6.32 billion Swedish krona in 2008. The company is also to sell airBaltic and Spanair and its stakes in Air Greenland, BMI, Estonian Air, Skyways Express, Spirit Airlines and Trust. Spanair is to be sold for €1. The company intends to switch to concentrating on its core Nordic market.SAS is to seek 6 billion krona from shareholders, while the government of Denmark is to invest 600 million Danish kroner in the company. Currently, Denmark owns 14.3% of SAS, Sweden has 21.4% and Norway 14.3%. The rest is publicly traded.The airline was founded in 1946 when the state airlines of Denmark, Sweden and Norway merged their longhaul services.Wikinews has obtained a list of middle management teaching staff allegedly made redundant, or laid off due to restructuring, by Sunshine Coast Grammar School (SCGS), in Queensland, Australia. Sources say that those staff have been told that they can apply for new positions that have opened up.The list, published on the SCGS alumni Facebook page, contains the names of twenty-two staff members, eight of which taught this article's primary contributor. Seventeen positions are reportedly being opened up by the private Christian school, eight of which seem to significantly overlap the old ones.The changes are, apparently, designed to get teachers back into the classroom. "We are not cutting subject choices and extracurricular activities, but retaining a student-driven curriculum that integrates with the new Australian Curriculum, in keeping with our commitment to teaching and learning opportunities," said headmaster Nigel Fairbairn.Fairbairn could not guarantee that any of the staff would be given a position in 2011.  “That will depend on how many people on that list apply for new positions of responsibility and are successful,” he said."The Head of the School cannot guarantee the 21 staff a job at the School in the future, with many of the positions being advertised to external applicants," said Terry Burke, secretary for the Independent Education Union of Australia Queensland branch (Queensland Independent Education Union, QIEU)."There has been little or no consultation with affected staff, who should not have to reapply for their jobs," he said. "Most of the proposed restructuring is highly questionable and places at risk the high quality education at the School."Some former students responded angrily to the news.Four of the affected teachers "were the backbone of the school when [controversy surrounded founding headmaster John Burgess] happened," a former prefect (student leader) said. "They got it through that crisis and this is the thanks they get.""People are angry and shocked," they continued. "I am aware of at least 10 families who have said they will pull their children out of the school – it's that bad."The student body has not ruled out protesting the schools plans. "It's getting to that stage," the former prefect said. "People are trying to look at it in an intelligent way but there is so much anger out there."Wikinews understands that Fairbairn attracted criticism when he was a head teacher in Christchurch, New Zealand, where a former student claimed that Fairbairn "replaced the open and welcoming culture ... with the tyrannical and oppressive one."A scientist for the National Wildlife Federation, Doug Inkley, has criticised what he described as America's "addiction to oil". Inkley stated it is ultimately responsible for the Deepwater Horizon disaster earlier this year. Inkley commented on the incident, six months after the explosion which killed eleven rig workers and resulted in over 170 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico causing damage to marine wildlife habitats as well as the Gulf's fishing and tourism industries.Inkley is a senior scientist working for the National Wildlife Federation. He stated, "Looking back at what we knew six months after the Exxon Valdez disaster in Alaska illustrates the danger of too quickly drawing conclusions about the full impacts of the Gulf oil disaster." "Six months after the Exxon Valdez disaster," he continued, "the herring stocks in Prince William Sound seemed like they’d pull through. It wasn’t until the fourth year after the disaster that herring stocks collapsed due to a delayed population effect of the oil, devastating the people and wildlife that depended on them. Today, more than two decades later, this once-vital fish still hasn’t recovered."His remarks echo those issued by another environmental organisation in July. Greenpeace demanded that BP, who the United States Congress has blamed for the disaster, take a "new direction" and end an "obsession with high risk, environmentally reckless sources of oil." A spokesperson for Greenpeace said, "[t]he moment has come for BP to move beyond oil. Under Tony Hayward the company went backwards, squeezing the last drops of oil from places like the Gulf of Mexico, the tar sands of Canada and even the fragile Arctic wilderness [...] The age of oil is coming to an end and companies like BP will be left behind unless they begin to adapt now." Statistics show that the United States is by far the largest consumer of oil, using 20,680,000 barrels every day. Its closest rival, China, consumes only 7,578,000 barrels per day.Inkley said incidents in the past showed there can be far-reaching effects. "The Exxon Valdez disaster was not simply one ecosystem earthquake – the aftershocks have continued to this day," he said, citing the 1989 disaster which occurred when an oil tanker ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska."What tremors are still to come in the Gulf? The aftershocks of the Gulf oil disaster will continue to cast a long shadow of uncertainty on the Gulf ecosystem and the livelihoods of those who depend upon it for years to come," pointed out Inkley. Adding, "[a]s I look back on my days in Louisiana's wetlands wading through thick black oil in prime pelican habitat, I continue to wonder: How long must we wait for lawmakers to act to prevent future disasters? How many more lives, livelihoods and animals must be claimed by our addiction to oil?"SciScoop, the online collaborative science news source, has changed ownership after two and a half years of operation under its previous webmaster, Ricky James. An earlier report by Wikinews that the site would be shut down was in error.James cited lack of time as the reason to pass on ownership of the site, which specializes in breaking news in science and technology. The site has a growing membership and gets more than 30,000 hits a day.SciScoop headlines are also carried on Slashdot and by the Google newsfeed. The site has a burgeoning archive containing hundreds of searchable news stories, providing visitors with an invaluable record of science news over the past few years. SciScoop also allows members to customise the layout of pages at their whim and add functions to their personal page, such as RSS newsfeeds.The new owner and maintainer of the site is science writer David Bradley, who also operates the sciencebase science news site. Bradley is currently formulating a mission statement for the SciScoop site but has already said in a statement that, "The site is not going to disappear, nor is it going to change so radically that you won't recognise it."The United States Transportation Security Administration (TSA) announced Friday that it will relax proscriptions against certain carry-on items. Beginning December 22, travelers flying in the United States will be allowed to carry scissors less than four inches in length and screwdrivers less than seven inches in length.The TSA hopes that by relaxing restrictions on scissors and screwdrivers, screeners will be able to more closely guard against items such as box cutters and bomb making materials. There have been no restrictions on items such as scissor and screwdrivers in checked luggage -- in fact, box cutters, ice axes/picks, knives, meat cleavers, razor-type blades, sabers, and swords can all be transported in checked baggage.As part of a broader security realignment, TSA screeners will begin performing more random searches of carry-on bags, pat downs, and hand-wand searches of travelers."By incorporating unpredictability into our procedures and eliminating low-threat items, we can better focus our efforts on stopping individuals that wish to do us harm," TSA chief Kip Hawley said.Flight attendants and pilots largely oppose the changes in permitted items -- they maintain that the changes undermine flight security.Scottish based game-developer Realtime Worlds entered administration today following low sales of their online shooter game, All-Points Bulletin (APB).Between 60 and 170 jobs will be lost, and a total closure of their US office has been announced. APB will stay online to gamers who have already purchased the game. The company's administrators are Begbies TraynorA former employee heavily criticised the company's business plans, saying "[t]he problem was that management looked at the revenue they wanted to generate and priced accordingly, failing to realise (or care) that there are literally a dozen top quality, subscription free team based shooters. Many of which, now, have progression and persistence of some sort – for free... The sheer time spent and money it took to make APB is really a product of fairly directionless creative leadership."The game's early announcement, over-reliance on one product and "letting the details emerge along the way, rather than being planned out beyond even a rudimentary form," were also blamed. The company now seeks to restructure, with an aim to provide support for the new game and to work on their next release, Project: My World. This social networking game is still intended to be released, although The Courier reports that every member of the development team is now jobless.The Scottish Parliament has narrowly rejected the Scottish government's proposed £33 billion budget.The devolved parliament was tied 64-64 on the motion to approve the budget after two Green Party MSPs switched away from backing the minority Scottish National Party (SNP) administration. The Presiding Officer (speaker) of the parliament, Alex Fergusson, used his casting vote to reject the budget. Finance Secretary John Swinney of the SNP announced that he would immediately reintroduce it. The budget had the backing of the Scottish Conservatives.Green MSPs had sought a £100 million, 10-year home insulation scheme, whilst the Scottish government had offered a smaller pilot scheme. This offer was increased as the vote approached but failed to convince the Greens to back the budget.If a new budget is not in place by the start of the financial year in April, the current budget will rollover. However, Scottish ministers say this will cause a £1.8 billion cut in spending. Scotland's GDP fell by 0.8% in the last quarter.Media group, Scottish Radio Holdings (SRH), has reached an agreement to purchase Donegal's popular Highland Radio for around €7 million (USD $8.6 million). The Broadcasting Commission of Ireland has approved the deal in principle; but both the Competition Authority and the Minister for Enterprise, Trade and Employment still are entitled to block the deal.Highland Radio, which broadcasts in north Donegal, Ireland, first hit the airwaves in 1990. It is based in Letterkenny. SRH is a major player in the Irish media market; already owning both Today FM and FM104. Apart from operating radio stations, SRH is also a major player in the weekly newspaper market in the UK and Ireland, owning 45 titles.Search and rescue operations for a light aircraft that disappeared seven days ago in Brazil have ceased having failed to locate the plane. In addition to two local pilots the Cessna 310 was carrying four businessmen who were citizens of the United Kingdom.Rescue teams utilising two air force helicopters and a fixed-wing aircraft, as well as several naval vessels, scoured an area of 3,475 square miles off the North-East of the country for the missing plane, which was chartered from Aero Star. Although the plane and its occupants remain missing, some floating personal possessions from those on board and several pieces of wreckage have been recovered.The pilot and co-pilot have been identified as Clovis de Figueiredo e Silva and Leandro Oliveira Veloso respectively, and the passengers as Alan Kempson, Sean Woodhall, Ricky Every and Nigel Hodges. The businessmen were flying in connection to a propsed luxury housing development at the Bahia town of Ilheus, whose airport the plane had been a few kilometres away from and intending to land.The four Britons, three of whom reside abroad, had initially attempted to hire a helicopter for the journey but were denied this due to weather conditions that were deemed to poor for rotorcraft operation. Their relatives have hired a boat with sonar equipment and intend to search deeper waters for the lost plane.The Seattle Post-Intelligencer (P-I), the 146-year-old Seattle newspaper, will make its final print edition on today, before becoming an online-only news agency.However, the online version is to be for local news only. The editorial staff would consist of twenty people, less than one-seventh of the 150 staff that were employed before the closure.With this closure, the Seattle Times is now Seattle's only major daily newspaper."We don't feel like we have to cover everything ourselves. We'll partner for some content; we won't duplicate what the wire is reporting unless we have something unique to offer; we'll continue to showcase the great content from our 150 or so reader bloggers and we'll link to content partners and competitors to create the best mix of news on our front page," said Michelle Nicolosi, who is to be the executive producer of the online paper.The Hearst Corporation, the owner of the P-I, was not able to find a buyer for the newspaper when it was put up for sale back in January.The newspaper industry in the country has been suffering as revenue from advertising plunges. Other newspapers in the United States have also shut down recently: Denver's Rocky Mountain News shut down earlier this year, whilst the Tucson Citizen of Arizona will print its final edition on Saturday.Darwin's Ltd. opened a second location of their sandwich shop at 1613 Cambridge Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in late May. It is situated across from Cambridge Rindge and Latin School. Previously limited to one location at 148 Mount Auburn Street, the second store seats approximately 30 people and sells sandwiches, coffee drinks, locally made pastries, as well as some produce and snack foods. The establishment also provides free wireless access through the WanderingWifi service. The shop plays music during the day; during this reporter's visit to the shop, selections played ranged from David Bowie to The Strokes. The store is air-conditioned.Key differences between the original store and the new one include the unification of the cafe and the sandwich line now behind one counter, handicap accessible restrooms, no beer or wine sold at location, and a lack of a loyal customer base. Although the recent months have been slow, business is expected to pick up with the return of Cambridge area students this autumn. While the original location of Darwin's was recently cited for lacking sneeze guards before the kitchen counter, according to the Cambridge Chronicle, the new Darwin's has acrylic sheets along the front of their sandwich counter. The original Darwin's has installed the sneeze guard at the kitchen counter the day following citation.German supermarket chain Selgros Cash and Carry has announed that it intends to open two new stores in Transylvania, Romania's western region, this year. The two new stores will be in the cities of Cluj-Napoca and Arad, both major Transylvanian centres. The cost of building each store will come to an average of around 15 million euro, with the Cluj-Napoca store scheduled to open first.This week, Selgros opened its eighth cash-and-carry store in Romania, in the western Transylvanian city of Oradea. The chain already operates stores three stores in Bucharest, as well as one store each in Braşov, Târgu Mureş, Constanţa and Timişoara.After Bucharest, Transylvania is Romania's most prosperous region and has therefore been the focus of foreign investment as well as a centre for the operations of foreign companies.Before the 12th Semicon Taiwan at Taipei World Trade Center (TWTC) starts, SEMI Taiwan held a press conference and announced semiconductor industry statistics about global market forecast and 300mm fab capacity.At the conference, Stanley Myers remarked that Taiwan will have a great improvement and growth on investments of semiconductor materials and technologies. Currently, due to the requirements and performances of consumer products, the new technology will take effect on upgraded materials and costs of investments. Fabs of 300mm capacity grew up steadily from 2004, and Taiwan will be the 1st after Korea with its investment.Also, George Yang (General Manager of Advanced Technology Materials, Inc. Asia) said that the life cycle of consumer products such as mp3s, digital cameras, ..., etc. were different from their performance and trend of technology, if some of them were out-dated, materials and developing technologies should be upgraded and be fitted because of humanization and changing on consumer products.Semicon Taiwan 2007, organized by SEMI and TAITRA, started from September 12 to 14 at Taipei World Trade Center Exhibition Hall 1 and 3. Organizers invited VIPs from semiconductor industry from Taiwan and other countries to join Opening Ceremony in the morning, and held "SEMI Theater" and executive forums related with 5 topics (300mm Prime, SiP Packaging & Testing, Solar Energy Industry, Secondary Market, Seismic Risk Management).In the Opening Ceremony, Stanley Myers (President & CEO of SEMI Global Headquarters) continued the topic from press conference yesterday and praised the semiconductor industry in Taiwan, and he believed that Taiwan will still have a great improvement and achievement.Terry Tsao (President of SEMI Southeast Asia) also remarked that SEMI Taiwan played as a assistant role in the semiconductor industry in Taiwan, with the holding of Semicon Taiwan, every exhibitors can exchange their own technologies from each other, and SEMI Taiwan also cooperated with Governments in Taiwan to help the development of the semiconductor industry in Taiwan.Chao-yi Chen (Director General of Industrial Development Bureau of MOEA of R.O.C. Taiwan) mentioned that this show is still in progress such as exhibitors and professional visitors and buyers. And he believed that this show will establish brand new records in buyers and exhibitors' trading opportunities.According to SEMI Taiwan, this year of Semicon Taiwan has more than 750 exhibitors that used more than 1,450 booths to exhibit, with a 16.5% growing rate more than last year. SEMI Taiwan predicted that more than 40,000 professional visitors will come to visit this show.Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Chairman of the Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke fielded questions from the Senate Banking Committee today. Paulson and Bernanke were joined by Christopher Cox, chairman of the SEC, and James Lockhart, director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. The four urged the Committee to pass legislation allowing the Treasury to spend up to US$700 billion to bailout investment banks by purchasing their "illiquid debt".They made the pitch to the committee to bail out Wall Street by passing legislation giving the Treasury unprecedented authority and little oversight. The $700 billion will bail out investment banks with illiquid mortgage assets, securities these firms cannot sell because of the state of the housing sector. The proposal will create a reverse auction, in which the illiquid debt will be bought by the Treasury at a price much higher than the fire sale prices the securities are currently valued out.The debate centered around whether the government should be involved, is $700 billion too much, will it work, the issue of oversight, and the urgency of the situation.Paulson and Bernanke claimed that such a bailout is precondition to a healthy recovery to the economy; credit is contingent on a healthy economy, the purchase of the bad debt will increase the lending to business and consumers to help the recovery of the economy.Igor Ivanov, Secretary of the Russian Security Council, said that the Eurasian Economic Community (EuroAsEC) could take the place of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).Speaking at a press conference, Ivanov said that the CIS has already played a great role in the development of all the countries and that its current role is rather overestimated.At the moment, the EuroAsEC consists of six members and three observers. In his speech Ivanov also expressed his concern with what he termed US and NATO interference into the affairs of Russia's neighbor countries.Speaking on behalf of the entire Security Council, one of whose members is the Russian President Vladimir Putin, he said that Russia will have to be politically and economically active to defend its interests.Hank Krakowski, the head of air traffic organization at the Federal Aviation Administration, has resigned after Ray LaHood, the United States transport secretary, said he was "totally outraged" as it emerged five air traffic controllers have been suspended this year for falling asleep while on duty. In one incident, two passenger jets landed without any guidance from the control tower at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C. after the lone controller fell asleep."I am totally outraged by these incidents," LaHood said. "This is absolutely unacceptable. The American public trusts us to run a safe system," he added, vowing to do anything necessary to resolve the issue. His comments came as the FAA announced new plans to tackle fatigue in controllers, saying they were taking immediate steps to employ additional staff at 27 airports across the U.S. The FAA said it would "not tolerate" controllers falling asleep on duty. "This type of unprofessional behavior does not meet our high safety standards," a spokesperson said.Krakowski's resignation will likely be seen as an indication that the crisis in control towers across the U.S. is growing. Randy Babbitt, the administrator of the FAA, confirmed Krakowski had submitted his resignation, which had accepted. "Over the last few weeks we have seen examples of unprofessional conduct on the part of a few individuals that have rightly caused the traveling public to question our ability to ensure their safety," he said. "This conduct must stop immediately.  I am committed to maintaining the highest level of public confidence and that begins with strong leadership." Babbitt said the FAA was conducting a "top to bottom review" air traffic control procedures.A fifth controller was suspended this week after falling asleep while on duty at Reno-Tahoe International Airport in Nevada in the early hours of this morning, forcing an air ambulance carrying a patient to land without directions from the tower. The FAA said the flight crew made contact with a controller at a different facility and made a safe landing. "The controller, who was out of communication for approximately 16 minutes, has been suspended while the FAA investigates," a spokesperson said.The incident is the latest in a string of controllers falling asleep on duty. Last month two passenger jets landed safely in Washington D.C. without clearance to do so because they were unable to make contact with any controllers in the tower at the airport. It emerged the only controller in the tower had fallen asleep after working four nights in a row. In February, a controller at McGhee Tyson Airport in Tennessee allegedly deliberately went to sleep while on duty. The controllers involved in both incidents have been suspended by the FAA. Additionally, the FAA is investigating two other incidents, one of which took place when a controller fell asleep at Boeing Field in April. It is understood the same controller was already being investigated after falling asleep twice in one night in January. Two controllers were also suspended late last month when they both appeared to fall asleep. The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, a labor union representing controllers in the U.S., said safety was their members' "number one priority" and they were "fully committed to providing the safest and most professional services possible." The addition of new staff at control towers, they said, was "a strong first step that will go a long way to ensuring these isolated cases of fatigue never happen again." Paul Rinaldi, the president of the NATCA, said: "We take our responsibilities very seriously and believe staffing levels and fatigue are at the root of the problem. We will continue to work with the FAA and through our professional standards workgroup to provide the highest level of professionalism and safety."UK Prime Minister Theresa May and opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn both spoke at the annual Confederation of British Industry conference today, talking about  Britain after its planned 'Brexit' from the European Union, and future plans for business.May formally announced plans to cut corporation tax from 20%, without giving details, in order to discourage businesses from leaving the UK post-Brexit. Corbyn said in his speech he believes investment by the government on things such as infrastructure improvements is shared ground between Labour and businesses but "businesses will need to contribute" meaning "some increase in corporation tax" under his administration.Theresa May also toned down plans to put ordinary workers on corporate boards, a campaign promise from running to become leader of the ruling Conservative Party. She said she is working to create a "model that works for everyone" after consulting firms and the general public, with possible plans including panels or advisory committees. The General Secretary of the Trades Union Congress responded by saying "Theresa May made a clear promise to have workers represented on company boards [...] This is not the way to show that you want to govern for ordinary working people." Jeremy Corbyn also criticised this announcement saying "we need to see genuine employee representation at board level, which the prime minister promised, but I see is already backing away from."Theresa May also announced she wishes to spend £2Bn annually in research and development, as well as plans to start a small business research initiative to look into helping innovators get ahead. Jeremy Corbyn however said he plans to spend 3% of the UK's GDP on R&D, significantly more than specified by May.Jeremy Corbyn's plans for the UK's economy focussed on investment. Speaking at the conference he said "First and foremost, a Labour government will prioritise investing in our economy." As well as the investment in research, Corbyn also promised funds for areas including house building and infrastructure. This would be controlled by the proposed "National Investment Bank". Corbyn said "Our National Investment Bank will deliver long term strategic investment in our under-powered infrastructure and provide the patient finance that our businesses need across the country."May told the conference she would not give "a running commentary on every twist and turn" of the Brexit negotiations. This comes after allegation in the press that she she has no plan to keep under wraps, a claim that has been backed up by an alleged leaked internal government memo that talks about a "lack of overall negotiation strategy" within government.The Serbian Pilots Association has defended the actions of the Serbian pilot aboard the Air India Express jet that crashed earlier this year, killing 158 of the 166 on board. Investigators have suggested he had failed to follow procedure and reacted slowly to trouble.The Court of Inquiry found that captain Zlatko Glusica was sleeping through much of the three-hour Dubai–Mangalore flight and "disorientated" as the Boeing 737-800 came in to land; it overshot the clifftop runway on May 22 and ran over the edge. In the immediate aftermath of the crash, one survivor said: "Immediately on touching the ground, the aircraft jerked and in a few moments hit something. Then it split in the middle and caught fire. I just jumped from the gap."The pilots' group has said Gluscia was fatigued owing to "pressures" flying in India and said he should not be "victimised". The airport the aircraft had been attempting to land at is considered a challenging one, as it is on a flat plateau bordered by a valley. A former official from India's aviation ministry said that "Mangalore is a difficult field because it is on a plateau. From all accounts the visibility was all right. One can’t make any conclusions."Pilots questioned the role of First Officer H S Ahluwalia, who three times requested a go around during approach. "He should have taken over the controls, provided he was experienced and had the confidence to do so," one pilot said; another asked "[w]hat was the First Officer doing all the while? The non-handling pilot should take over the control if he or she thinks there’s going to be a crash, instead of sitting like a robot."A statement by the association said "[t]he individualisation of guilt ... is intended to shift the responsibility from those who have driven the crew and the passengers to death." They feel the investigation "created an ugly picture about the Serbian pilots... without taking into account the circumstances" leading to the accident.At least seventeen people were admitted to an Oxford hospital after a coach, operated by the Oxford Tube service, overturned while exiting the M40 motorway near Thame, Saturday evening. There were no other vehicles involved according to Thames Valley Police.The incident took place at around 2300 GMT Saturday night at junction seven of the M40 near Milton Common, when a coach, belonging to the Oxford Tube service, overturned on a slip road. A police spokesperson stated "The exit slip at junction seven was closed, as well as the A329 in both directions either side of the M40. The coach is in the process of being recovered from the motorway." The motorway itself remained open.Sergeant Steve Blackburn of Thames Valley Police stated that "The vast majority [of passengers] were walking wounded or not injured at all and were released either at the scene or shortly after receiving some treatment."John Nixon from Oxfordshire Fire and Rescue noted that the coach was lying on its side on an embankment, stating that his crews' priority had been to stabilise the coach. He added, "There were people laid on the side of the embankment, on the road, covered in space-type blankets to keep them warm" Although there were no fatalities, five of the injured required surgery, which was undertaken at Oxford's John Radcliffe hospital. Of the other admissions, a number were discharged by Sunday morning.A spokesperson for the Oxford Tube was quoted by the BBC as stating that, "Safety is our absolute priority and our immediate thoughts are with those who have been injured in the accident." They added, "We will be carrying out our own internal investigation and assisting the police in any way that we can with their inquiries into the accident."Police have already begun an investigation into the cause of the accident and have requested witnesses come forward.Sunday, a fire rushed through seven businesses at the Whitestone Shopping Center in Whitestone, Queens, New York, near the Cross Island Parkway in New York City.The fire started at around 1:00 AM EST (UTC-5) on November 2, 2008 in a diner known as Lollipops. According to local sources, Lollipops was a popular restaurant in the area. The fire spread through the stores, up an awning and continued all the way to a corner of the shopping center. In the end, seven businesses were destroyed, including two banks, two restaurants and a GNC Nutrition Center. It took dozens of firefighters to put out the large blaze.According to WCBS-TV, with his diner Lollipops destroyed, the owner was too upset to comment.Nearby Chinese restaurant, King's Chef, was also damaged. "I cannot open because of whatever rules – tomorrow's Monday, Tuesday is a holiday," the owner, Patrick Chan, told WCBS-TV. "If I cannot get them to come tomorrow, I am going to lose big time."Nearby residents reacted to the situation. Several residents have reported that it is a major loss to the community as they considered Lollipops to be a landmark. Several residents have reported knowing members of either the victim stores or others in the strip mall. State Senator Frank Padavan commented on the loss of the shopping center."This is a calamity for many of these small businesses to be out of business, particularly in this economy," he said.The next day, investigators were boarding up the windows of the damaged stores. No one was hurt because all the stores were closed at the time of the blaze.A hacker, or group of hackers, operating under the alias of The Dark Overlord uploaded ten episodes of Netflix's web TV series Orange is the New Black on Friday and Saturday on The Pirate Bay after they said the online streaming service failed to meet their demands. Netflix had planned to release the season on June 9.According to The New York Times, the unreleased content from the upcoming fifth season of Orange is the New Black was likely stolen from a postproduction company Larson Studios, based in Los Angeles. Netflix in a statement said, "A production vendor used by several major TV studios had its security compromised and the appropriate law enforcement authorities are involved." In a tweet on Saturday, the hacker said, "Who is next on the list? FOX, IFC, NAT GEO, and ABC. Oh, what fun we're all going to have. We're not playing any games anymore."  The hacker tweeted about uploading the first episode on The Pirate Bay on Saturday saying, "Let's try to be a bit more direct, Netflix". The hacker allegedly demanded an amount of money which they publicly described as "modest", from Netflix for not releasing the episodes prematurely. The New York Times reported that the final three episodes were not pirated since the security breach occurred before the postproduction studio was handed those episodes. In January, the hacker erased the data from the servers of a Muncie-based charity called Little Red Door Cancer Services of East Central Indiana demanding 50 bitcoins to restore their data, which was estimated to be about US$43,000. The Federal Bureau of Investigation is reportedly investigating this cyber crime. Netflix has more than 100 million subscribers, CEO Reed Hastings announced recently. Variety noted that Netfilx's shares experienced a 0.57% loss on the day the first episode was uploaded by the hacker.Penske Automotive Group, Inc., an Ohio-based investment group and Telesto Ventures have indicated separately that they are interested in purchasing the Saturn auto brand from General Motors (GM).  According to The Wall Street Journal, Nissan-Renault is interested in  purchasing Saturn. Bloomberg, however, indicated that Nissan-Renault may be a partner of Penske's potential bid. If Penske acquired the brand, they would distribute Saturn vehicles and outsource the assembly.GM revealed that the Saturn brand along with Saab and Hummer were up for sale when unveiling their restructuring plans to Congress for governmental loans. While the Pontiac brand was originally to be a niche brand, GM had changed their plans recently and decided to eliminate the brand.Telesto Ventures is an investment group that includes private equity firm Black Oak Partners LLC of Oklahoma City and several Saturn dealerships. Initially, Telesto will purchase Saturn branded cars from GM then act as a general retailer for foreign brands. Telesto is in talks with several foreign manufacturers.The Ohio group includes many former senior auto company managers plus private financial backers, chemists and engineers who live in Michigan, Ohio, Indiana and Florida. This group plans to initially purchase cars from GM then purchase existing but closed plants due to automaker restructuring. Additionally, one of the partners indicated a willingness to accept some "legacy" cost in relation to the United Auto Workers. The Ohio group is also pursuing possible loans or other support from national and state governments.GM is reviewing several offers for Saturn. GM has contracted with S.J. Girsky & Co. to advise them on the sale.A 1.5m tidal surge is expected tonight in the United Kingdom and could lead to flooding on the Kent coast, according to the UK Met Office.  The surge is expected to cause "severe" flooding and the Thames Barrier was closed at 2000 UTC.  The Environment Agency have said that there is "extreme danger to life and property" and have evacuated 200 people on the coast.  1,300 properties are thought to be in the affected area.The Environment agency representative said that they would have extra staff available to inform the public of the risks but are also asking people to check that others are aware of the potential risks, especially to the elderly.The surge has been caused by the high wind speeds of over 80 miles per hour, and could be over hurricane force, high tides and low pressure over the North Sea. There are currently 42 flood warnings of various degrees, eight of which are rated severe.North Sea oil platforms are being evacuated in advance of the storm. BP is expecting to shut down the production on its North Sea oil platforms on Thursday. At the same time, Conoco Inc. has announced, that they will evacuate around 500 staff oil from platforms at the Ekofisk oil field. The METAR reports from Ekofisk Oil Platform are indicating continuously intensifying winds. At 11:50 UTC on Thursday, wind gusts of 57 knots were reportedSex industry producers think over a new service: on-demand live sex video that can be watched from a hotel room. Will this service be popular? Will large hotel chains go along? These and some other issues were talked about during panel discussion at annual Las Vegas, Nevada trade show for sex entertainment industry producers, marketers and payment processors Internext.There were two opinions on this issue. Gregory Clayman, the owner of the live-action company Video Secrets expressed confidence that in the nearest future sex industry would be selling images of couples making love live over the hotel's entertainment systems. At the same time Anne Taulane, managing editor of Lodging magazine, said she doubted whether major hotel chains would be enthusiastic about this idea as she was convinced that on-demand sex video was more available to the mainstream than viewing live sex performers over hotel's entertainment system. The panelists praised Mastercard and Visa programs which helped to reduce chargebacks or refusals to pay for ordered sex video and debated whether requiring a credit card would prevent minors from viewing sexually explicit materials in the Internet. As the result they came to the conclusion that the government must intervene to cope with these problems.Stock in the Blackstone Group, a major private equity founded by Peter G. Peterson and Stephen Schwarzman, has fallen below its initial public offering price of US$31.00. Blackstone L.P. (NYSE symbol: BX) initially soared 13 percent after being offered on the New York Stock Exchange last week. However, lately the stock has dropped to below $30. The stock was issued to brokerages for $31 a share. Some fear that the so-called "Private Equity Boom" may be at its peak. Others attribute the falling price to recent discussions in Washington of changing laws that  critics call "loopholes," which allow such firms to pay capital gains tax instead of income tax.Stock markets around the world, particularly those in the United Kingdom, have increased dramatically today. This is due to the ongoing events in the financial world, including the United States government's announcement that it would buy billions of dollars of bad loans from US banks. The primary UK index, the FTSE 100, rose in value by 8.04%, which is 392.50 points, to above the 5000 mark at 5272.50. The Dow Jones, was up 3.10% at 14:58 UTC, an increase of 330.89. The Dow Jones currently has a value of 11350.58 points. The NASDAQ index has risen by 2.53% to 2248.63, while the Dax was 5.06% higher than the start of the day as of 14:58 UTC. The US Treasury described the government's bail-out plan in a press release released earlier today. It said that "The U.S. Treasury Department today announced the establishment of a temporary guaranty program for the U.S. money market mutual fund industry. For the next year, the U.S. Treasury will insure the holdings of any publicly offered eligible money market mutual fund – both retail and institutional – that pays a fee to participate in the program."Henry Paulson, the US Treasury Secretary, explained the government's reasoning behind its plan. He said that the government was buying bad loans "to restore confidence in our markets and our financial institutions, so they can fuel continued growth and prosperity, we must address the underlying problem."President George W. Bush, speaking at a press conference alongside Paulson, said "this is a pivotal moment for America's economy."The government plan is permitted under the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, which gives the Treasury the permission "to deal in gold, foreign exchange, and other instruments of credit and securities."Sharp declines in technology bellwethers Intel and Yahoo dragged down the tech laden Nasdaq Composite Index Wednesday. The index finished at 2279.64, a drop of 23.05 points or 1 percent. The Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 Index ended the day with losses of 0.38 percent and 0.39 percent to end at 10,854.86 and 1277.93 respectively.The world's largest chipmaker fell nearly $3 or 11 percent to $22.60. Internet software giant Yahoo was down nearly $5 to close at $35.18 a loss of nearly 12 percent. Analysts blamed disappointing sales forecasts for the first quarter for today's selloff. A number of research firms including Citigroup and UBS handed downgrades to Intel stock today. This followed the company's failure to meet analysts’ and its own expectations for revenue and earnings during its fourth quarter earnings release yesterday.  Thomas Thornhill lowered his stock rating to "neutral" and commented on Intel's competitive situation with arch-rival Advanced Micro Devices. “AMD is likely to remain a serious competitor to Intel and Intel’s longer-term risk profile is now higher than we previously believed”An ambitious project to bring a unique tram-train service to Sheffield and Rotherham, in the United Kingdom, is back on track, following the announcement of a £150,000 Government grant on Thursday. The plans, which were originally to see tram-train operation on a trial basis over the Penistone line during 2010, have been on the cards since 2008, but were shelved during 2009 to allow alternative proposals to be drawn up. The current plans will now see the vehicles operating along a currently-freight-only line between Rotherham and Meadowhall, before linking up with the existing South Yorkshire Supertram network there and continuing onto the streets of Sheffield.The plans to use tram-trains — which are already in widespread use throughout continental Europe, but not at all within the UK — have come about as an alternative to an original proposal to extend the Supertram network to Rotherham, which would be a much larger expense for the same or even fewer benefits.Whilst the journey between Sheffield and Rotherham is already covered by mainline trains, project officials believe that the new service – running via Meadowhall South and Rotherham Central and terminating at Parkgate, with a twenty-minute headway throughout – will attract extra custom to the intermediate points between the two conurbations, as well as making travel easier for people who find it hard to walk to and from Sheffield's railway station; the tram-trains will serve the heart of the city-centre.Now that the funding for further feasibility work has been approved, Network Rail, Northern Rail and the South Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive (SYPTE) can continue to look at the business and project case for the trial, which will look at a range of issues, including economic and environmental benefits of the tram-trains, and ensuring that the vehicles will be safe to run on both the Supertram network and heavy rail tracks.Transport Minister Norman Baker announced the sum, and stressed the Government’s commitment to the scheme: “There is no doubt about finance being available to deliver the scheme. The Government is committed to a trial of tram-trains in the UK and the route between Sheffield and Rotherham is the best place to develop it. This is a unique scheme."Tram-trains offer passengers travelling from rural and suburban areas into city centres a viable, environmentally sound alternative to short and medium car commuting that can cut congestion and reduce overcrowding at railway stations.“These sorts of rail fleets are already in use on the continent, but this is a first for the UK. The funding we are providing for this exciting project represents a real chance for us to test whether they can be adapted successfully for South Yorkshire and the rest of the UK."David Brown, director of SYPTE, added: “We have done an awful lot of work on the plans so far and further efforts will look at ensuring the vehicles are compatible with both types of network, which are the same gauge.”If further investigations are successful, the system could be up and running by 2014.Oil giant Shell has sold all its retail and distribution operations in Ireland to a distribution and logistics firm called Topaz. The businesses, which are believed to have an annual turnover of over €1bn, include 35 local distribution depots, 6 oil importation facilities, 55 retail service stations and the supply of fuel to 105 independent service stations throughout Ireland.Shell is retaining its interest in the Corrib Gas field in County Mayo which it is currently developing. Shell has been known for some time to be anxious to exit the increasingly competitive Irish market. Since the arrivial of Tesco to the petrol retail market last year, a price war has raged in parts of the country. Althought Tesco only operates a limited number of stations in the republic, it has expressed a desire to expand throughout the country.Ion Equity are the consortium behind the takeover which according to the Irish Independent is valued at over €100m. The business will be headed by former Emo Oil managing director Danny Murray.Bucharest, Romania —The international airport of Sibiu, Romania, will be modernised through 2007, when the city will become Europe's Capital of Culture. Representatives from the Sibiu County Council, Sibiu City Hall and the Sibiu prefecture asked the Romanian government to allocate funds for the modernisation of the airport. The city wants to update the airport infrastructure because the city will receive a tourism and visitor boom when it becomes the European Capital of Culture in 2007. Martin Bottesch, the president of Sibiu County Council, claims that five times more passengers will use the airport in 2007 than in 2004, when it received 45,000 passengers. The Sibiu International Airport currently has flights from Sibiu to Bucharest, the Romanian capital, as well as to Munich and Stuttgart in Germany and Bergamo, Treviso, Verona, Bologna and Rome in Italy. Despite the air connections, train remains the most popular way of reaching the city, though it is believed that the modernisation of the airport will change this.Sibiu, which is located in central Romania, in the province of Transylvania, is one of Romania's best-maintained and most-visited medieval cities. It is also one of Romania's most important cultural centres, home to the Brukenthal Museum, which is one of the most renowned in central Europe. The city of 170,000 is also home to Romania's largest German population. While today it only makes up 1.6% of the city's population, Sibiu maintains an important German heritage in terms of culture.As many states across the US continue to struggle financially, many individuals, including some economists report multiple positive indicators for Texas. The chief economist with Comerica Bank told media sources this week that most of the improvements are attributed to strong creations of jobs in both the energy and manufacturing and services sectors. More specifically, that report called the state's recent job growth, "robust".The state's unemployment rate in March was more than 1% lower than the nationwide rate, according to recent data. When asked her opinion about the state's present economic trajectory, Chantal Woodhull, a middle school teacher in Tyler, Texas told Wikinews, "It's getting better." Other sources indicate slight improvements in the real estate sector.According to a recent report, retail job growth in Houston outstretched all other states, increasing its number of workers by over 4%. Across the US, retail jobs are improving at a slow pace in many large metropolitan areas.British all-business class airline Silverjet has ceased operations and entered administration. The airline operated out of Luton Airport running services to New York and Dubai.Passengers booked with Silverjet have been told to claim refunds from their credit card issuer or travel agent. The UK Civil Aviation Authority estimates that 7,000 UK travellers could be affected by the collapse.The airline, which had hoped to secure an emergency US$5 million loan from Viceroy Holdings, was formed at the start of last year. It has now been put up for sale by administrator Begbies Traynor. It is thought that Middle Eastern company Viceroy may put in an offer, as might a group of former Silverjet managers who recently left the company. Included in the administration deal are Silverjet's subsidiaries Silverjet Aviation Limited, Skylease Limited and Sky People Limited, all of which are wholly owned by Silverjet.Silverjet shares are suspended from trading at the London Stock Exchange and it is feared that shareholders may receive nothing from their investments.Silverjet is the latest all-business class airline to collapse recently. US rivals Maxjet and Eos Airlines have both been forced out of business by high fuel costs, driven by the rapidly increasing price of crude oil. Silverjet's last flight left Dubai for Luton on Friday.A bid made by Singapore Airlines for a 24% stake in China Eastern Airlines was turned down by minority shareholders.Talks about a sale started in March 2007 when Singapore Airlines and China Eastern started negotiations about a possible deal. According to Forbes the deal would have helped China Eastern's earnings and accelerate the consolidation and would have improved the market position of China's third-largest airline. Talks went on throughout the year and both companies suspended trading of their shares on May 21, 2007, according to a AFP press release.The vote took place at a shareholder meeting in Shanghai, People's Republic of China. According to Financial Times Online, the blocking of the SA bid by minority shareholders is bad news for China Eastern Airlines managers, who were and still are in full support of Singapore Airlines, which the Singaporean government owns a 55% stake in via Temasek Holdings.Financial Times Online says this is most likely due to the fact that Air China not having made any formal bids yet, instead creating many media rumors about a possible purchase. The bid by Air China, that is likely to be larger than that of Singapore Airlines, may be supported by Cathay Pacific, who are in a cross-shareholding relationship with China National Aviation Corp., the parent company of Air China.Singapore Airlines says that it will be compensated by Airbus for the additional delay in delivery of its new superjumbo A380's.The double-deck commercial aircrafts' delivery, originally due later this year, will be delayed until October 2007. The main fault has been found to be problems in the aircraft's 500km of wiring. In a statement on the Airbus website, the company said that "the root cause of the problem is the fact that the 3D Digital mock-up, which facilitates the design of the electrical harnesses installation, was implemented late and that the people working on it were in their learning curve". Airbus is currently two years behind schedule. In a statement, SIA said that, "The delays are disappointing; all the more so because the flight test and certification programme is proceeding well, and the delays are down to production issues."Analysts are predicting that the compensations could well run into a few hundred million US dollars. SIA has stated that the compensation details will be kept confidentialSingapore Airlines is the first airline to fly the A380 and will be receiving the first four aircraft.That Singapore and Brunei are today marking 40 years of currency interchangeability with a special banknote might come as a shock to some.And it's not the part about the special banknote, it's that the two small southeast Asian countries have had interchangeable currencies for 40 years.Singaporean Senior Minister Goh Chok Tong admits that not a lot of Singaporeans know about it, and that currency from Brunei is routinely refused by Singaporean retailers.File:Brunei 2006 circulating coins.jpg"They are not used to seeing Bruneian currency," Goh said at a press conference yesterday in Bandar Seri Begawan, the capital of Brunei. He added that he sees the need to educate Singaporean retailers "again and again" on the matter.Maybe, said Goh, if more money from the tiny, oil-rich sultanate on Borneo was spent in the island republic of Singapore, there would be change."If Bruneians spend a lot of money in Singapore, and you have millions of Brunei dollars floating around, there'll be no problem. So the retailers see the currency, they are not familiar with it," Goh said."So from time to time, we have to tell the retailers that there is an interchangeable agreement with Brunei and the currency must be accepted," Goh continued.The 40th anniversary banknote will be an important tool in educating Singaporeans about current interchangeability, Goh said. "It is a way to tell Singaporeans and also Bruneians that we have these interchangeable currencies... If the currency is not accepted just tell the retailer and explain to them that there is no problem, that they are acceptable to banks," Goh said.However, while the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the Brunei Currency and Monetary Board will issue the notes into general circulation, it will be a limited issue."I think it will become a collectors' item," Goh said. "Because it's the first time we are doing this in 40 years, I think collectors would not circulate them. But it is meant for circulation and can be used like any currency note," he said.The front of commemorative note has scenes from both Brunei and Singapore, while the reverse bears Singapore's coat of arms and the face of Hassanal Bolkiah, Sultan of Brunei. Goh said he thought the design is "very attractive."The two countries have maintained currency interchangeability since 1967, when the Singapore dollar and the Brunei dollar replaced the Malaya and British Borneo dollar as legal tender in those countries.Goh was in Brunei to attend yesterday's royal banquet, put on by the Sultan of Brunei, on the occasion of the sultan's daughter's wedding.Princess Majeedah Nuurul Bulqiah, 31, 11th daughter of the sultan, and Khairul Khalil, 32, exchanged their vows last Thursday, and were presented to the public on Sunday in a lavish, two-week ceremony steeped in Brunei royal and Muslim tradition.Sirius CEO Mel Karmazin appeared before a newly formed Antitrust Task Force, a sub-committee of the House Judiciary Committee, on Wednesday last week in Washington, D.C. to defend the proposed U.S. merger between XM and Sirius satellite radio services. The hearing, carried live on C-SPAN, was attended by representatives from various competing broadcast companies. The representatives challenged the merger deal, and some speakers were openly hostile to Karmazin and to satellite radio in general, while other speakers were more civil.Several times during the debate, the discussion centered on the failed merger deal between the two satellite television networks DirecTV and Echostar. The comparison between this proposed radio merger and the failed television merger was settled to some extent with an understanding that nearly all television viewers now use either cable or satellite to view available programming. Televised programming content is now delivered mainly in the form of a subscription, rather than airwave transmissions.Unlike television programming, most radio listeners use over the air receivers to listen to free programming content supported advertisers."We come to this hearing with an open mind, but we recognize that the companies have the obligation to convince the Congress, the regulators, and most importantly, the American People that this combination will improve the competitive playing field and benefit consumers," said John Conyers, the sub-committee chairman. To determine the legality of this merger, Congress first needs to decide whether a combined XM and Sirius would be a monopoly, as the only satellite radio provider in the United States, or whether the new company will actually be in competition with other forms of radio-like entertainment, according to Conyers. The hearing focused on alternatives such as Internet radio, terrestrial radio, portable audio devices, and emerging services, such as cell phone services and WiMax.Six Apart, the owners of the blogging software Movable Type and TypePad, have acquired the RSS reader Rojo, for an undisclosed amount, rumoured to be less than US$5,000,000.Six Apart does not plan to continue development of Rojo, and "intends to sell a majority interest in Rojo's newsreader services in the coming months", making them a minority stockholder. Rojo founder and CEO Chris Alden and CTO Aaron Emigh will join Six Apart's executive team.Rojo was founded in June 2003, and launched in October 2004. Rojo had a promising start and its userbase is still growing gradually. But the feed reader market is dominated by Ask.com's Bloglines and NewsGator.The Joint Assessment Mission between the World Bank and the United Nations released on March 9, 2005, a plan for the development of Sudan over the six years remaining between January's peace agreement and the vote in 2011, in which southern Sudan will decide whether to break away from the north. The plan, titled "Framework for Sustained Peace, Development and Poverty Eradication in Sudan," describes two phases, the first through 2007, the second through mid-2008. The first phase will focus on emergencies and the repatriation of refugees, while the second will consist of "major infrastructural programs", according to the Sudan Tribune.While the majority of the $7.8 billion needed for the development described in the plan will come from sources within the country, the plan asks for $2.66 billion from other countries. According to Reuters, the UN's Joint National Transition Team will hold a conference to ask for money in Norway in April.The Sizzler Restaurant franchise in Australia has closed the salad bars in all of its 29 restaurants across the country, after rat poison was discovered in food at two of the chain's outlets in Brisbane. Self-serve salad bars at the restaurants have been closed in response to a sabotage scare. Sizzler Australia Managing Director Bo Ryan said customer safety was always the restaurant chain’s first priority. A media release on the Sizzler website states: "As a precautionary measure and because customer health and safety is our number one priority, we have temporarily closed salad bars in all Sizzler Restaurants. We sincerely apologise for this major inconvenience." Police said green pellets were found in pasta sauce at a Sizzler restaurant in Brisbane's inner-west on January 20. A regular customer at the Toowong restaurant told Sizzler staff she had found something odd in her bolognese pasta sauce. Similar pellets were found in a vegetable soup at Sizzler's Myer Centre outlet in the city about 5pm on Saturday. Bo Ryan said the decision to close all of its Australian salad bars was made after laboratory tests confirmed that the substance in the pasta sauce was indeed rat poison. He said trainees who tasted the poisoned soup had been been taken to hospital by ambulance as a precaution, but had suffered no ill effects. Queensland Police Inspector Bob Hytch said no one had been reported ill as a result of eating the poisoned food and there had been no extortion threats. Sarah Kenny, a university student, said she and two friends had eaten spaghetti bolognese that "tasted really weird"."The inconvenience to customers and the economic impact on the company and its 1600 employees will be severe, but as a family restaurant our first priority is the welfare of our diners," said Bo Ryan. "Steak and seafood and a limited range of salads would continue to be available." He hopes that customers will understand the action was taken in their best interests, and that "they can be patient while temporary product security procedures are developed and implemented in all restaurants." The 29 Australian Sizzler Restaurants, along with 107 Kentucky Fried Chicken outlets are operated by the Collins Foods Group, a wholly owned subsidiary of Worldwide Restaurant Concepts Inc. Mr Ryan said Sizzler was assessing measures which could be taken to prevent a recurrence of the sabotage. "As soon as new measures are introduced, over and above existing strict protocols, we will reassess the situation," he said.Skype, an Internet phone service, has apologised after millions of people around the globe found the program had gone down. The outage, which occurred on Wednesday, reportedly affected the United States, Europe and Japan, and lasted several hours. The company wrote on Twitter on Thursday morning that, more than twelve hours after the outage, some users were still experiencing problems.The chief executive of Skype, Tony Bates, said his company took the technical issues "really seriously," and apologised to users. "Right now it looks like clients are coming on and offline and sometimes they are crashing in the middle of calls. We are deep in the middle of investigating the cause of the problem and have teams working hard to remedy the situation," he said.In a blog post, Skype stated that, "we’re sincerely sorry for this disruption - like you, all of us at Skype rely on Skype every day. We understand just how important Skype is to your friendships, family, and work, and so are particularly aware of the impact of rare problems like this." Industry expert Om Malik said the outage would be of concern for Skype. "Skype is one of the key applications of the modern web," he said. "It is already a hit with consumers, and over the past few years it has become part of the economic fabric for start-ups and small businesses around the world. I am not sure we can comprehend the productivity cost of this outage. The outage comes at a time when Skype is starting to ask larger corporations for their business." Malik added: "If I am a big business, I would be extremely cautious about adopting Skype for business, especially in light of this current outage."Bates said he did not know what had caused the outage, but, speaking to the BBC, he said "all avenues" would be investigated. Reports suggest the program did not work on any system, including computers and mobile devices. "Some of you may have problems signing in to Skype – we’re investigating, and we’re sorry for the disruption to your conversations," the company wrote on Twitter when the outage began. 20 million people use the service every day.Monday, Luxembourg-based Skype Limited announced a new monthly service plan called "Unlimited". It's expected that the service will bring on different opportunities for mobile users and change style on communications.As of Skype Limited, this "Unlimited" monthly service with no long-term contract is designed for different kind users from 34 countries. There are three main services, "Unlimited Country" for local landline call by user's choice, "Unlimited World" to communicate with 34 countries globally, and exclusivity services for different continents in Europe, Asia, and North America.In a launch press conference in Taiwan yesterday, Robert Lo, Vice President of PChome Online, commented this new service to media in Taiwan and said: "After the WiMAX technology was progressively accepted in public world-wide, the population of Skype will be more improved."The instant messaging (IM) and VoIP communications company Skype has suffered from an unexpected outrage across Europe since 10:00 AM UTC today. Users were not able to log in and Skype did not announce a cause of the problem.Skype initially left a message on its website and Twitter which reads, "A small number of you may have problems signing in to Skype. We’re investigating the cause, and hope to have more details to share soon."It was suggested by many users that Microsoft might be related to the Skype behaviour, however the purchase of Skype by Microsoft is not yet completed — Microsoft do not currently have any operational control over the Skype servers.Skype investigated a similar issue two weeks ago, its solution for which included an automatic update. This update deleted a file called "shared.xml" on users' computers. While it seemed to resolve the issue, the reason for this was not clear. Online newspaper The Register reports that today's issue is not dissimilar from that experienced previously.Further investigation by Skype showed that the event was caused by "configuration problems", but Skype has not published further details. The situation was claimed to be "stabilizing" by Skype later in the evening.Slovakia is on track to meet its target of adopting the euro currency in 2009, claims Joaquín Almunia, the European Union's Monetary Affairs Commissioner.The main monetary figures and the fiscal situation "are going in a good direction," Almunia said. "If things continue as they are today, I'm sure the Slovak authorities will meet the target of being a member of the eurozone in 2009."File:1euro 2007.jpgSlovakia joined the European Union last year along with other Central European, Baltic, and Mediterranean states. The growth rate of its GDP has been one of the highest in the European Union, recording 5.5% growth in 2004. Almunia said that authorities should use this growth to curb the country's relatively high budget deficit, a necessary prerequisite for joining the euro zone.Before a country adopts the euro currency, it must dwell in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism II for two years, where its exchange rate relative to the euro, as well as its budget deficit and inflation, are closely monitored. For Slovakia to adopt the euro in 2009, it must join ERM II in 2007. Three new members, Slovenia, Estonia, and Lithuania, have already joined ERM II and are on track to adopt the euro in 2006–2007.File:Bruselj euro slovenia.jpgOn January 1 2007, Slovenia officially joined the Eurozone and adopted the euro as its new official currency. At the same time, Slovenian euro coins, which were available as a "starter kit" from December 15, became legal tender everywhere in the Eurozone.A period of dual circulation, when both the former currency, the tolar and the euro will be accepted, will only last until January 14. All banks are going to exchange tolars into euros at the official rate of 239.64 SIT per 1 EUR at no commission until March 1, 2007. After that date it will be possible to exchange tolar banknotes (unlimited) and coins (until 2016) only at the Bank of Slovenia.Most ATMs already dispense euro banknotes with the rest to follow in the following days. Commercial banks automatically converted all tolar accounts into euros and online banking systems will be accessible to their users again on January 3. Even though January 1 and 2 are non-working days in Slovenia, many banks will be opened from 10:00 to 14:00 on both days, available only for one service: exchanging tolars to euros and larger euro banknotes into smaller units.The New South Wales (NSW) government says small investors will have the first opportunity to buy shares in one of Australia's most unique public assets - the Snowy Hydro Scheme, the sale of which begins officially on Monday, May 22. NSW Finance Minister John Della Bosca denied the sale was incongruent with Labor's stance on privatisation, or that it was a pre-election strategy.The New South Wales, Victorian and federal government jointly owns the hydroelectric scheme and have decided to sell their shares by floating the company on the Australian Stock Exchange.NSW taxpayers hold 58 per cent of the shares in the scheme and the State government stands to make between $1.5 billion and $2 billion from the sale. Selling the Snowy Hydro scheme could raise up to $3 billion for the Victorian, NSW and federal governments. Mr Della Bosca told the ABC: "We've looked at all sorts of arrangements to raise more capital." He said the sale would secure the future of Snowy Hydro. "Snowy is at a point where it's not responsible for it to go further into debt and the best thing for it, to be able to do, is raise capital on the stock exchange." The Minister denied the privatisation was a "grab for cash".Liberal Senator Bill Heffernan is demanding a constitutional referendum to hand control of all rivers to the Commonwealth. He claims the Snowy Hydro sale would damage regional Australia and is being forced by state governments, to prop up their budgets. "I've expressed my extreme distress and disappointment both to the federal and state governments in no uncertain manner," he said. "I think it's a national disgrace and I think we will live to regret it in the future. Senator Heffernan says he has had trouble trying to raise the issue with his colleague, the Finance Minister Nick Minchin. "There's been no discussions," he said. NSW irrigators have withdrawn support for the sale after the NSW, Victorian and federal governments agreed to a 10 per cent limit on the number of shares an individual can buy. Greens MP Slyvia Hale says she believes the Government will attempt to limit the release of documents relating to the sale when Parliament resumes next week. "As with everything connected with the sale things have been kept very quiet and the Government will continue, I believe, to try and ensure that critical information is withheld from the public," she said.She says the sale should be suspended while an inquiry takes place.On Monday, San Jose, California, US-based software company Adobe Systems announced their plans to acquire California-based e-commerce handling web service Magento Commerce for 1.68 billion US dollars (USD). After Adobe made the announcement via their official website, Adobe's stocks rose by around one percent, ending Monday extended trading at USD 238.10 per share.Magento provides services for the creation of digital ads and handling of online transactions. Magento's services are used by Nestlé, Coca-Cola, Warner Music, and Canon. The acquisition, which is expected to take place in the third fiscal quarter of this year, is to be an all-cash deal. Adobe is to acquire Magento from Permira equity firm. In 2015, Permira bought Magento from eBay, an eCommerce website. Adobe, in their official statement, said, "Magento Commerce Cloud will enable commerce to be seamlessly integrated into the Adobe Experience Cloud".Adobe also announced a buyback of shares worth USD eight billion by 2021. Magento's CEO Mark Lavelle said, "Adobe and Magento share a vision for the future of digital experiences that brings together Adobe's strength in content and data with Magento's open commerce innovation [...] We're excited to join Adobe and believe this will be a great opportunity for our customers, partners and developer community".After the announcement, stocks of Magento's competitors Shopify, Inc dropped by about 4.8%. They finished extended trading at USD 137.60 after the announcement.Audible Magic, a company in Los Gatos, California, is developing a new software that can filter music and video uploaded on the  Internet without permission of copyright holders. The company's chief executive, Vance Ikezoye, demonstrated how the system works. He downloaded a poor-quality video from  YouTube and fed it to the filtering software, which identified the video as a fighting scene of “Kill Bill: Vol. 2,” the rights to which are owned by Miramax.The entertainment industry is already demanding the adoption of the new system by the Internet companies. One of the major social networks owned by News Corporation, MySpace, has agreed to adopt the filter. However, not all websites want to adopt the system as soon as it is launched. The main holdout is YouTube, owned by Google.The site's officials earlier said they would adopt a filtering software by the end of last year, but so far YouTube has not begun using any type of filtering system. The company's officials said that they would only use the filter if  copyright owners will broaden their license with Google. The executives of NBC and Viacom have already stated their complaints regarding Google's delay on placing filters.The new system uses a large database that includes digital representations of various copyrighted audio and video files. This technology of spotting copyrighted material, called “digital fingerprinting,” checks for matches and decides whether to post the material on the site or not. However, Audible Magic's software is not considered finalized since it can still be "fooled"--e.g., by cropping the image. Analysts say that the filtering software is to improve the relations that are currently quite tense between the standard media companies and Internet companies.The solar-powered airplane Solar Impulse touched down at the Brussels National Airport late Friday night, after completing a 13-hour flight from its home base in Payerne, Switzerland. It was the first international flight by a fully solar-powered aircraft.The experimental aircraft was piloted by André Borschberg, co-founder and chief engineer for the Solar Impulse project, which hopes to circumnavigate the globe using only the sun's energy in 2013. "Our goal is to create a revolution in the minds of people...to promote solar energies -- not necessarily a revolution in aviation," Bertrand Piccard, the group's other co-founder, said in an interview after the flight.The aircraft collects energy from the sun using 12,000 extremely thin solar cells affixed to the wings and tail section. An on-board battery can store enough electricity to fly all night, allowing the Solar Impulse to stay aloft indefinitely. This allowed the aircraft to maintain a holding pattern over the Brussels airport as other flights landed and conditions were right for the Solar Impulse to land. Because the aircraft weighs only about 3,500 pounds and has a wingspan of 200 feet, it is extremely sensitive to wind and needs calm conditions to land safely.The number of abducted Filipino seafarers in Somali waters rose to 134 with the seizure of the MV Delight on November 18. The seven Filipino seafarers are members of a 25 multi-national crew aboard the Hong Kong registered Iranian ship, whose crew also includes seven Indians, two Pakistanis and two Ghanaians. None of the crew members are reported to be harmed.The 134 Filipinos currently held come from a total of eight hijacked ships, including 19 from the high profile capture of the Sirius Star; with the single largest contingent being the 26 man crew of the MV Centauri taken on the 17th of September. The total would be higher but for 76 Filipino crew have been released by the Somali pirates since the April of this year.The large number of abducted Filipinos reflects the large Filipino seafaring community, some 230,000 of all ranks in 2004, who command wages only a third of that of Western seamen.Sony Computer Entertainment, a world-class gaming company, yesterday announced not only upcoming models from the PS2 and PSP lines, but also a special project named "Taiwan Digital Content Talent R&D Project," strongly supported by the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA). The September launch of this project is expected to bring profits and opportunities to Taiwan's digital content industry, especially in gaming.According to the SCE Taiwan Limited, this project will be mainly supervised by MOEA. SCE will cooperate with academic units in Taiwan. Students and the public interested on the R&D of digital content are welcomed to join trainings from this project. Some famous Japanese gaming developers will give lectures and choose some excellent games at this project to market to the world including Japan.SCE Taiwan, as well as the lecturers, will also provide some debug machines, on which trainees can experiment during the lectures. It is expected that some selected games will be preliminary announced at PlayStation Home and PlayStation Store in Japan.Sony Ericsson announced on Wednesday that it will produce low-cost mobile handsets featuring color screens and music capability in India. The company has reached agreements with Singapore and Taiwan based companies, Flextronics and Foxconn to manufacture the phones.Sony Ericsson said that besides competitive prices, Sony Ericsson mobile phones will provide customized features, including local content and a customized keypad for the Indian market, in a press statement.The company achieved success and became the fourth biggest cell phone producer in the world with premium phones that included such features like Cybershot digital cameras and Walkman music players. The analysts say that if the company looks forward to become number three producer of mobile phones it needs to focus on low cost phones. Providing mobile phones for customers with lower income is a strategy that analysts consider to be quite useful for Sony Ericsson.Speaking at a press conference in Chennai, the president of Sony Ericsson, Miles Flint, said that manufacturing in India will result in improved cost efficiencies and enable the company to provide attractive cell phones at competitive prices.    A Japanese-Swedish joint venture, Sony Ericsson surpassed the third largest mobile phone maker Samsung in terms of revenue in the fourth quarter, through sales of its upmarket line of phones.Technology giant Sony is reportedly looking into cutting prices on Playstation 3 gaming consoles. Even though Sony loses about (U.S.) $200 for each unit sold, the company believes that selling units for less will increase sales of games and peripherals, which is apparently where the company makes the most profit. By reducing prices on Playstation 3 units, Sony's gaming division is looking to break even by 2008. The report is not indicative that Sony will reduce the price of the console, only that it is looking into doing so.One of the world’s largest media conglomerates Sony has announced that its net profits have plummeted by 95% in the months of October and December quarter. Sony also stated that its revenue fell too by 25%, from $31.64 billion to $23.78 billion.Sony’s most popular products: TV, digital cameras, mobile phones, and computers were hit by the crisis with a loss of $175.9 million as sales drop. This is a big difference to Sony’s last year profit of $2.2 billion. The Chief Financial Officer Nobuyuki Oneda said, "From the second half of September last year, there has been a sudden deterioration in the economy, and with the effects of foreign exchange it has had severe consequences on our business." Analyst David Gibson stated that its TV’s sales really dragged them down this quarter.After several laptop producers recalled a total of about 7 million products containing Sony batteries, the Sony Corporation said it will "initiate a global replacement program... in order to address concern related to recent over-heating incidents."Sony previously admitted the recalls announced by Apple and Dell would cost up to 30 billion yen, which is a quarter of Sony's profits in 2005. Several news sources expect this to reflect badly on the company, as it adds to problems with the PlayStation 3 and Blu-Ray DVD. Since Dell announced recalls in August, Sony's stock has lost almost 9% of its value.Keeping up with competitors like Apple and Dell, Toshiba and Lenovo have started recalling laptops with the lithium ion batteries. Dell expanded its program to include about 4.2 million portables. Following Sony's statement, Fujitsu too declared it would replace the batteries involved. A spokesperson for Toshiba added that the company doesn't expect there to be any problems with personal computers, but it will replace their Sony batteries anyway, over customer concerns. However, the company doesn't expect to pick up the tab for it.A Lenovo laptop with the problem battery caught fire in Los Angeles Airport earlier this month. Consequently, Virgin Atlantic added them to a blacklist of prohibited laptops on their flights. According to Sony, microscopic metal particles are to blame for overheating and potentially catching fire "under certain rare conditions".The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission advised ThinkPad users who want to continue using their portable to switch it off, remove the battery and continue with the AC adapter and power cord.Sony has announced that they are  recalling 3.5 million PlayStation 2 power adaptors world wide. A small component in the power adaptors is vulnerable to overheating. Sony advises customers using a unit covered by the recall to unplug it and wait until a replacement AC adaptor is provided.This recall affects only the AC adaptors that were  manufactured between August 2004 and December 2004 for the black slimline PlayStation 2, with the product identification code HP – ATH048H03. Users with an affected unit should visit the AC Adaptor Replacement Programme website.In North America, two people have suffered minor burns, one person suffered a minor shock and four people have reported property damage from the power adaptor overheating. The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, reported Sony has received 38 reports of  adaptors overheating. Only four cases of overheating have been reported elsewhere.Sony is not the only games console manufacturer to suffer from AC adaptor related issues. In February, Microsoft recalled 14 million power adaptors for the  Xbox due to a similar overheating problem.In a major restructuring plan, Sony announced that approximately 7% of their workforce will be laid off between now and March 2008. Nearly 4,000 of the job losses will be in Japan itself.The plan to try and revitalise the company is the brainchild of Sir Howard Stringer, the company's first ever non-Japanese CEO.  Apart from the job losses, eleven of the company's 65 manufacturing plants will be closed or put up for sale.  Restructuring follows considerable stock price falls over the last five years with the share value reduced to less than 40% of the 2000 value.As well as announcing restructing plans, Sony announced an expected loss of 10 billion yen (US$ 90 million) during the current financial year.Sony launched its eagerly anticipated PlayStation Portable (PSP) in the North American market today. The PlayStation costs $250 and plays MP3 files, movies and of course games.Launched previously in Japan last year with much fanfare, the PSP quickly achieved sales of more than 800,000 units. The device is Sony's first major attempt at challenging Nintendo's long held grip on the market for handheld games. Nintendo currently holds a 90 percent of the market share for handhelds in North America. With the recent introduction of Nintendo DS, the fight for control of this market is expected to become even more intense.The source of a recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Surrey, UK has been discovered by investigators at the Pirbright laboratory where investigations began in August. The Health and Safety Executive informed the BBC that they had pinpointed the source to possible biosecurity lapses in a pipe near the laboratory. It is thought that the pipe, which runs between the site and a government-run laboratory, may have been damaged by tree roots.Recent flooding in the area may have brought the virus to the surface, but it is not yet known how the virus arrived on nearby farmland. The Health and Safety Executive, however, confirmed that vehicles from the Pirbright laboratory had used a road adjoining to the farmland where the outbreak was found. Neither Merial, the pharmaceutical company who own the Pirbright laboratory, or the government have claimed ownership of the pipe, but Merial have refused to comment before a full report has been published.The Globe and Mail (Toronto, ON), citing sources close to both sides in the dispute, reported Wednesday that the National Hockey League and the NHLPA have agreed to a salary cap structure, arguably the most contentious issue in the continuing lockout that led to the cancellation of the 2004-05 NHL season on 16 February, 2005.The Globe and Mail is reporting that the deal, providing the "cost certainty" that the NHL has been seeking, will consist of a floating, team-by-team salary cap and floor based on a percentage of each team's revenue projections. What is being reported as a six-year deal has a salary cap range of $34-36 million and a salary floor of $22-24 million, both hard caps. The new deal will also reportedly include the across-the-board 24% decrease in salary offered by the NHLPA in February. A dollar-for-dollar Luxury tax will also take effect at the halfway point between the lowest salary floor and the highest salary cap (slated to be $29 million for the first year of the deal). Details about what will be done with this money have not been completely worked out, but it is thought that this money will be distributed to teams below the halfway point in such a way as to make sure they remain above the salary hard minimum.While this is one of the most contentious issues in the labor dispute, there are several other issues that may delay the signing of a new Collective Bargaining Agreement. These include deciding how high-payroll teams will drop to the new maximum, working on new systems for salary arbitration, free agency, Olympic participation, and drug testing, and to design a complete revenue-sharing system.The South African government has set a six-month deadline for some white farmers to agree on sale prices for their farms. The government will be requiring them to sell the farms as part of its land redistribution programme. Agriculture and Land Affairs Minister Lulu Xingwana said that if no agreement in reached in 6 months, the government could expropriate farmlands. Stating that negotiations have been too slow, in some cases taking many years, Xingwana said that some farm owners were seeking "unrealistic prices". Land owners claim they are not offered market value for their property. The government has identified about 350 farms for which, if no deal is reached, the government will force a mandatory sale at current market prices identified by the government. Officials said that expropriation is only a measure of last-resort and that farmers can appeal the decision in court. The land reform programme aims to hand back land or give financial compensation to black South Africans who were forcibly removed from their ancestral homes and lands under apartheid rule. The programme was a key promise made by the African National Congress (ANC) as it came to power in 1994 and remains an emotive and politically charged issue.Currently, about 4% of South Africa's farm land is owned by blacks, who number 42 million out of the nation's 47 million population. President Thabo Mbeki's government has set a target of transferring 30% of land to blacks by 2014. About 89% of the nearly 80,000 claims have been settled so far, and the government has spent some R2.5bn ($368m) purchasing farms from white owners. The National Land Claims Commission is entrusted with carrying out the transfers.The reform programme had so far followed a "willing-buyer willing-seller" principle. The process had to contend with land owners challenging the validity of some claims, negotiating sale prices with current owners, and settling competing claims over the same piece of land—sometimes by tracing family trees of claimants when other documents supporting the claim did not exist. Xingwana called on established farmers to form partnerships with new landowners and to transfer skills to new farmers, to ensure productive use of transferred lands. One criticism of the programme is that some of the transferred farms have fallen in production due to the inexperience and lack of capital among the new owners. The government has rejected comparisons of the programme with that initiated in Zimbabwe under President Robert Mugabe.According to data from South Korea's national bank, the country's economy grew by 0.2% in the last quarter of 2009.The rise is now 6%, year-on-year, but the quarterly growth was slower than the 3.2% in the third quarter, according to the Bank of Korea. That increase was the best quarterly gain seen in over seven years.Analysts were predicting a slightly higher performance, 0.3%, for the last quarter, and 6.2% year-on-year, a Dow Jones Newswires survey of economists reported."The data was weaker than market expectation, but a central bank official defended it as a temporary correction after the rapid rebound in Q3," analysts at Calyon, an investment banking entity, remarked in a note to clients. "Nonetheless, the weak data lowered the chance that the [Bank of Korea] will raise interest rate in its February meeting."Meanwhile in the gross domestic product (GDP) report, the Bank of Korea said manufacturing was lower by 1.3% during the fourth quarter, and construction by 1.4%. The bank said the losses were "attributable to a decrease in building construction." Exports fell by 1.8%.Police raided the SsangYong Motor Company's plant in South Korea today, in order to evict workers who have been occupying the plant since May in protest of proposed layoffs. Most of the workers were those who were previously fired for opposing layoffs.100–400 police officers raided the auto plant south of Seoul at around 10:00 a.m. (local time).  Police intended to evict some 600 striking workers who, according to a union representing the workers, "will fight to the death should police forcefully break up the occupation."  Workers at the plant are resisting police by attacking them with slingshots, metal pipes and molotov cocktails.During the raid, two unnamed workers fell from the four story building while trying to stop the police from landing onto the roof from cargo containers dropped by helicopter. Both sustained injuries, with one in critical condition from the amount of blood he lost.SsangYong Motor Company has been in court-approved bankruptcy since February and is planning on laying off a third of its workforce to stay in business. However, workers say the company should provide a better proposal regarding the layoffs as well as a more reasonable compensation package for workers being laid off. The situation has caused the company to lose more than US$184 million in output.A current South Korea presidential candidate for this year's December elections, Ahn Cheol-soo, has promised to allow freedom of choice of encryption technology for online financial transactions if he is elected. Ahn revealed the promise in a campaign book released this Monday. This follows over a decade of active legislation requiring banking websites to use a South Korean ActiveX technology to operate digital certificates.South Korea developed the ActiveX certificates technology in the late 1990s with an expectation of worldwide adoption, which did not happen. ActiveX has been supported only by Microsoft's Internet Explorer web browser. Ahn indicated disadvantages of the technology, writing that "South Korea's unique certificate system, driven by the government, has led to the isolation of South Korea's IT [information technology]. Excessive use of Active X is making web browsing less convenient."Some commenters noted that the technology requires users to install multiple plugins for Microsoft Internet Explorer, which cause a decrease in overall computer performance. At ZDNet Korean portal, the proposed policy change received comments about possible advances in making banking possible on mobile platforms.South Korean scientists have confirmed that they have completed the first ever commercial cloning of a dog to take place.Bernann McKinney, who ordered the cloning for US$50,000, has said that she is pleased with the result of the cloning. "They are perfectly the same as their daddy. I am in heaven here. I am a happy person," she said in a press conference delivered earlier today. The regular charge will be up to US$150,000, but was discounted for the first customer.McKinney continued the press conference by saying that "Booger [the dog] had a kindness in his heart and I believe that kindness is something that can be, I don't want to use the word reproduced, but the best way Dr Lee explained it is we can give him his body, you are going to give him the love and environment to recreate the original Booger's personality."McKinney ordered five copies of her dog Booger, which she describes as her 'partner' and 'friend'.RNL Bio, which performed the cloning said that "we commemorate the world's first commercial cloning of a pet dog, Booger," on their website. They also stated that anyone interested in getting their pet cloned should contact them.While hybrid vehicles have found considerable popularity in the United States since their introduction, one difficulty associated with the rollout of a fully electric car has been the comparably high price and poor performance, compared to an internal combustion engine-driven car of similar size. Tesla Motors claims that their Model S, a sedan which runs solely on electricity, will be more affordable.Tesla first entered the automobile market in 2006, with a prototype of an electric vehicle designed on the roadster style. While the car, whose exterior design was based on the Lotus Elise, accelerated well and had considerable range, its cost of US$109,000 was prohibitive for many and to date only 300 have been sold, with a thousand more ordered.Tesla says, however, that the Model S could sell for around $56,400, with the actual price some $7,500 lower after a Federal Government tax credit on electric vehicles. Tesla claims the Model S has a range of up to 450 kilometers (280 miles) without recharging and can reach a top speed of 200 km/h (125 mph). It is powered by a 454 kg (1001 lb) battery pack.Initial plans were to build the car in New Mexico, but instead the Model S will be built near the company's headquarters in San Jose, California.Southwest Airlines Flight 812 carrying 118 passengers between Phoenix, Arizona and Sacramento, California was forced to divert to the Yuma Marine Corps Air Station in Arizona, after a hole appeared in the top of the aircraft; the plane landed safely at Yuma.The plane was forced to make an emergency descent down to 11,000 feet and reportedly descended 16,000 feet in one minute. One passenger identified as Cindy said, "[t]hey had just taken drink orders when I heard a huge sound and oxygen masks came down and we started making a rapid decent. They said we’d be making an emergency landing. There was a hole in the fuselage about three feet long. You could see the insulation and the wiring. You could see a tear the length of one of the ceiling panels."In a statement issued by Southwest Airlines they informed that, "Southwest Airlines Flight 812, the scheduled 3:25 pm departure from Phoenix to Sacramento today, diverted to Yuma, Ariz due to loss of pressurization in the cabin. Upon safely landing in Yuma, the flight crew discovered a hole in the top of the aircraft. There are no reported Customer injuries. One of the Flight Attendants, however, received a minor injury upon descent."Southwest Airlines have provided a replacement aircraft to take the 118 passengers to Sacramento. The National Transportation Safety Board confirmed it is investigating "an in-flight fuselage rupture."The US carrier Southwest Airlines, the world's largest low-cost carrier, announced grounding 128 planes on Tuesday because the planes had not be adequately inspected.Company spokesperson Brandy King explained backup hydraulic systems of 128 of the company's Boeing 737-700s should have been inspected sooner. The systems overdue for inspection back up the main rudder control systems.King said the the incident is inadvertent and emphasised the airline's commitment to safety. The airline decided to ground the planes involved in the missed inspections and notified the authorities.As of last year, Southwest Airlines' fleet had around 665 Boeing 737s. The uninspected planes incident involves about twenty percent of its fleet, and caused the airline to cancel about 80 flights on Tuesday, with possibly another 19 cancellations yesterday.Following the airline's actions, the Federal Aviation Administration ruled grounding of the planes is not mandatory provided inspections are completed within five days.Low-cost US airline Southwest Airlines announced Monday that it would buy its low-cost rival AirTran Airways for US$1.4 billion. The merger announcement comes just days after United Airlines sealed a merger deal with Continental Airlines."The acquisition of AirTran represents a unique opportunity to grow Southwest Airlines' presence in key markets we don't yet serve and takes a significant step towards positioning us for future growth," Gary Kelly, CEO of Southwest, said after the merger was announced.The Southwest-AirTran deal, which awaits antitrust regulatory approval, will gain Southwest a larger US network. By merging with AirTran, Southwest will also be a strong competitor in Eastern United States cities such as New York City, New York, Charlotte, North Carolina, Atlanta, Georgia and Washington, D.C., cities that Southwest had previously not touched much. Southwest also will be going international for the first time, inheriting AirTran's Mexican and Caribbean routes. The newly merged company would keep Southwest's name and livery.Southwest will be offering AirTran stockholders US$7.69 per share. That's 69% more than AirTran's Friday, September 24 closing price. However, AirTran stock shot up 62% to $7.36 on Monday, while Southwest's stock rose more modestly to US$14.01. Delta Air Lines stock declined by 2% on Monday, as Southwest will gain an AirTran hub at Atlanta, which is also Delta's primary hub.The new airline would carry over 100 million passengers, creating the world's fourth largest airline. Last year, Southwest carried 101,338,000 passengers, while AirTran carried 23,998,000 fliers. Southwest will be 25% larger after the merger is completed.Space Exploration Technologies Corp., a commercial spaceflight company better known as SpaceX, has received Federal Aviation Administration certification for its Dragon spacecraft. This certification, the first of its kind granted by the FAA, serves as a commercial license to re-enter a spacecraft from earth orbit.According to NASA administrator Charlie Bolden, "With this license in hand, SpaceX can proceed with its launch of the Dragon capsule. The flight of Dragon will be an important step toward commercial cargo delivery to the International Space Station." NASA is contracting SpaceX to provide commercial transport of future crews and cargo to the International Space Station (ISS).The maiden launch of the Dragon spacecraft is currently scheduled for December 7. The launch vehicle will be the Falcon 9 rocket, which made its maiden flight in June. During this first flight, the Dragon capsule is to launch, orbit the earth, and splash down in the Pacific Ocean."Milestones are an important part of space exploration and SpaceX achieved a very important one today," according to NASA official Doug Cooke, "I congratulate SpaceX on this landmark achievement and wish them the best with their launch of the Dragon capsule."Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (SpaceX), a commercial spaceflight company, has successfully launched its Dragon spacecraft on its maiden voyage to orbit atop a Falcon 9 rocket from Cape Canaveral, Florida on Wednesday. The launch was followed by a successful landing of the unmanned capsule in the Pacific Ocean hours later.During its maiden flight, the Dragon capsule completed about two orbits around the Earth and executed successful de-orbiting operations, followed by successful reentry, parachute deployment, and splashdown in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Mexico. The Dragon spacecraft is the first commercial space transport certified to reach orbit and return to Earth. The successful flight of the Dragon spacecraft makes SpaceX the first private firm to launch its own craft to orbit and return it to Earth.The Dragon spacecraft is part of a contract between the California-based commercial spaceflight company and the United States' space agency, NASA, to provide transport for crews and supplies to and from the International Space Station.Spain has launched a €11 billion stimulus plan intended to boost the weakening economy and create 300,000 jobs. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, the Prime Minister of Spain, says that the money will be spent mostly in infrastructure and public works.A portion of the package will aim to assist Spain's auto industry, which accounts for a fifth of Spanish exports and has been hit hard by the economic crisis, having seen sales plummet 54.6% since the beginning of the year.The plan represents 1.1% of Spain's gross domestic product, and is a part of the €200 billion stimulus announced by the European Union.Spain's economy is in a sharp downturn due to a crash in the construction sector. Spanish GDP shrank 0.2% in the third quarter, the first such decline in fifteen years. Spain's unemployment rate reached 11.3% in September, a record for the European Union.Germany launched a similar package worth €50 billion, and France is expected to launch economic measures worth €20 billion next week as well.According to official statistics, Spain's jobless rate reached 17.4%, with slightly more than four million people unemployed. The figures have doubled over the past twelve months, the National Statistics Institute reports.The numbers are an increase over the previous jobless rate of 13.9%, which was revised in the fourth quarter of last year. Spain now has the highest level of unemployment in the European Union.Recently, the Bank of Spain estimated that the unemployment rate in the country could go up to 19.4% by 2010."It is a terrible figure," said the secretary of state, Octavio Granado to local television, saying that 2009 was forecast to be the worst part of the recession. "So we are in the epicentre of the crisis. We are in the eye of the perfect storm," he said.In an effort to revive the faltering economy, Spanish Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero has launched a 70 billion euro stimulus package aimed at creating tens of thousands of new jobs, primarily in the public works sector. Critics, however, say that further reforms are needed, such as lowering the costs of firing and hiring tenured staff.Alliance & Leicester (A&L), a major UK bank, has agreed to a deal regarding its sale to Banco Santander, a banking company based in Spain. The deal, which is worth £1.2 billion, means that shareholders will receive one share in Santander for every three shares they hold in A&L.Santander said in a statement that "Santander and A&L announce that they have reached agreement on the terms of a recommended acquisition by Santander of A&L, which is to be effected by means of a scheme of arrangement under sections 895 to 899 of the Companies Act [2006]." Sections 895 to 899 of the Companies Act 2006 focus on, among other things, the meeting of creditors and members and the duty of directors and trustees to provide information. Section 897 requires the company to "explain the effect of the compromise or arrangement" to the shareholders when an acquisition takes place. In the statement released under the Companies Act, it is stated the board of A&L considers the deal set by Santander to be 'fair and reasonable.'Shares in Alliance & Leicester increased by 50% when information about the deal was first made public earlier today.Unions have expressed concerns over the takeover by the company which also owns UK based Abbey. "Staff at A&L deserve to have answers about their future and we urge the company to be upfront about their intentions," said Andy Kerr, spokesperson for the Communication Workers Union.Spanish budget air carrier LTE International Airways has suspended all of their flights due to financial trouble. Around 800 passengers have been stranded by the move and are being accommodated in hotels while alternative transport is arranged.The airline was founded in 1987 and has been known as both LTU and Volar Airlines in the past. The company's fleet of seven Airbus A320 aircraft were used for scheduled and chartered passenger services, and available for lease to other businesses."LTE is doing everything to minimize the impact of this suspension of services on its clients and providers. After 20 years operating with maximum dedication to our clients it just was not possible to avoid this situation given world events lately," read a statement on LTE's website. The airline flew from Spain to destinations such as Italy, Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom.The news comes just one day after Spanish airline FlySur, Andalusia's first airline, filed for bankruptcy after just forty-five days. The airline's one plane had at times flown with just one passenger.Yuriy Kolobov, the former finance minister of Ukraine has been arrested in Spain on charges of fraud and embezzlement. Kolobov was wanted, along with former President Viktor Yanukovych, accused of fraud which cost Ukraine billions of dollars in assets. The Spanish civil guard arrested him on Wednesday, at a flat in Altea, in the Province of Alicante.A brief statement from the Ukrainian interior ministry said: "We confirm the information that [Mr Kolobov] has been detained." No comment was made by Spain's interior ministry. A judge at Spain's High Court will question Kolobov, before dealing with the extradition process. Kolobov, 41, is the first member of Yanukovich's administration to be arrested on charges relating to fraud. The current Ukrainian government continue efforts to recover lost assets. The Interim Prime Minister, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, told parliament that Yanukovich has left Ukraine with $75 billion of debt.Interpol issued warrants for Yanukovich, Kolobov, and former Prime Minister Mykola Azarov. It is doubtful Yanukovich, who is now in Russia, could be extradited back to Ukraine. Kolobov previously held the position of deputy head of Ukraine's central bank, before being selected as Finance minister in 2012.Official statistics indicate that the economy of Spain, the fourth-largest member of the eurozone, contracted by one percent in the quarter to June. The GDP was 4.1% lower by comparison to this time last year.However, the rate of the decline was less severe in this quarter than previously, and the government said the figures indicated "relatively better performance."The numbers are a contrast with the economies of France and Germany, who both saw their GDPs increase by 0.3% in the same time period.Dominic Bryant of BNP Paribas commented that "this was a bit disappointing and worse than we expected, since a number of indicators had improved in Spain over the last few months."We do expect Spain to do worse than other European countries for a few years. Germany and France don't have the same imbalances as Spain, which means we expect it to stay weaker for longer," he added.Spain's government says, it expects the economy will shrink by 3.6% by the end of the year, but will start growing again in the second half of 2010.In an interview with  Público, a Spanish newspaper, the prime minister of Spain, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, has stated that " if there is a global recession, it seems logical to expect that Spain will enter the recession in 2009 ."In the interview Zapatero also described the worldwide economic situation as "difficult." He recognized that " the developed countries are or are going to experience negative growth, and developing countries are also going to see falling growth; resulting in a worldwide loss of jobs."Regarding the global financial situation, Zapatero continued by saying that "the financial system is a part of the economy, a crucial part. We have a year-long financial crisis, which has had its most acute moment in the past two months, and I think now the financial markets are beginning to recover."Asked about whether it would be desirable to another plan to help those overwhelmed by the size of their mortgage, Zapatero reiterated the falls in the Euro Interbank Offered Rate . Zapatero then claimed that the average Spanish citizen would see their mortgage decrease by €28 a month (€330 per year) as result of the recent drops in interest rate, lead by seven central banks, including the European Central Bank which covers Spain, dropped their interest rate by 0.5%.The prime minister then said that he was pleased with the role of Spain in the recent summits discussing the financial crisis, before adding that he believes the European Union will lead the way in solving the current issues in the markets.A United Nations report has shown that sports footwear companies are making progress towards ending the use of sweatshops and are implementing more worker-friendly codes of practice than clothing companies and retailers.The study, published by the International Labour Organisation, suggests that consumer pressure is behind the changes. As a result of consumer's concerns, footwear companies have been diverting financial and human resources towards developing and implementing better codes of conduct for suppliers. Large teams have been established within companies to work toward the goal of better conditions for factory workers.The study, based upon interviews with hundreds of managers, activists, government officials, factory workers and worker representatives and visits to companies all over the world, goes on to suggest that workers should be given more powers to oversee conditions in their places of work.Clothing companies have been failing to make such good progress due the large number of constantly-changing suppliers they use, with the ILO study describing progress as "spotty." A major retailer may have a supply base of over 5,000 different companies, making it more difficult to establish stronger, more effective links with supply companies. They have also assigned less manpower to the task of compliance with codes of practice.In some areas of the retail industry, there has been almost no compliance with codes of practice.On October 30th Sprint Nextel severed their network connection with Cogent Communications, according to a statement from Cogent. As a result, it is impossible for most Sprint and Cogent customers to communicate directly between each other across the Internet. The actual reasons for the dispute are unknown, though Cogent has had similar disputes in the past with Level3, Telia, Limelight, France Telecom, and AOL.The two ISPs are currently in litigation over peering, the free exchange of traffic between the ISPs for little or no cost. In shutting down the peering, according to Cogent, Sprint is in violation of a contractual obligation to exchange Internet traffic. However, according to Sprint, Cogent has failed to meet its criteria for the peering agreement, and should be required to pay for the traffic, which Cogent refused to do.The de-peering has resulted in some customers of both companies experiencing dropped connections. However, most consumer ISPs and college networks are "multihomed", and thus could connect through separate lines to both companies.Wireless provider Sprint announced today, that they would be working with RealNetworks to launch a streaming music service, for Sprint wireless customers, called Rhapsody Radio.The service will allow users to listen to podcasts and six streaming radio stations (rap, hip-hop hits, alternative, country, '70s, and music news) from their mobile phone. Users will be able to listen to live broadcasts of those stations over their cellular connection. For a monthly subscription fee of $6.95, users will also have unlimited access to commercial-free radio broadcasts. Selected streaming podcasts from KCRW, Santa Monica 89.9 FM, and National Public Radio’s Southern California station will also be available. A special Beats N Breaks stream is also available. Beats N Breaks provides background music from hip-hop songs for users to rap with.Rhapsody Radio service requires a Sanyo MM-7400, Sanyo MM-5600, Sanyo MM-8300, Samsung IP-A790, Samsung MM-A800, Samsung MM-A880 or an LG MM-535 mobile phone. Customers are able to order directly from their phones, with the charge appearing on their next bill. Many analysts predicted the introduction of music services by other wireless providers after Apple recently introduced the Motorola ROKR. The Motorola ROKR comes with a version of the iTunes software which allows users to listen to up to 100 songs on their phone. Service for this phone in the USA is provided by Cingular Wireless.U.S.-based credit rating agency Standard & Poor's (S&P) announced Monday its decision to downgrade its outlook for the U.S. long-term debt from "stable" to "negative", saying it is not confident the U.S. Congress and Obama administration will be able to reach an agreement to meaningfully cut the country's fast-growing budget deficit within a two-year framework. Although the U.S. continues to have a top AAA credit rating at the moment, S&P says that there is at least a 33 percent possibility it will lower the country's long-term bond rating within the next two years. The U.S. now has $1.4 trillion budget deficit and a $14.27 trillion debt burden. Currently, payments and interest on the debt consume more than 60 percent of the U.S. gross domestic product with the amount only expected to grow. The Treasury Department predicts the country will reach its $14.29 trillion legal debt limit as early as May 16. Congress must vote to raise the debt limit within the next few weeks, or risk defaulting on debt payments. The Obama administration has said that failure to raise the debt limit will have a disastrous effect on the economy.Last year, President Obama appointed a debt commission which produced a plan for cutting the country's budget by $3.8 trillion, over ten years, through spending reductions and tax increases. Currently, a bipartisan group of Republicans and Democrats are trying to reach a compromise over this plan. But, negotiations are currently deadlocked. Congress has failed to produce a budget for fiscal year 2011, the first time it has failed to produce a budget in 36 years, leaving  the various appropriation committees no budgetary guidelines to follow.  S&P said, "Because the U.S. has, relative to its AAA peers, what we consider to be very large budget deficits and rising government indebtedness, and the path to addressing these is not clear to us, we have revised our outlook on the long-term rating to negative from stable."A decrease in the nation's credit rating would make it more difficult for it to borrow money, and the money it is able to borrow would come at a higher interest rate, further increasing the national debt. The U.S. currently borrows 41 cents of every dollar it spends, according to a report released by the U.S. House of Representatives on January 19.Last week, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said the U.S. deficit was causing financial instability around the world. The U.S. stock market closed down 1.5 percent, with trading volume 2.3 percent lower on Monday in light of the announcement.A new historic physics record has been set by scientists for exceedingly small writing, opening a new door to computing's future. Stanford University physicists have claimed to have written the letters "SU" at sub-atomic size.Graduate students Christopher Moon, Laila Mattos, Brian Foster and Gabriel Zeltzer, under the direction of assistant professor of physics Hari Manoharan, have produced the world's smallest lettering, which is approximately 1.5 nanometres tall, using a molecular projector, called Scanning Tunneling Microscope (STM) to push individual carbon monoxide molecules on a copper or silver sheet surface, based on interference of electron energy states. A nanometre (Greek: νάνος, nanos, dwarf; μετρώ, metrό, count) is a unit of length in the metric system, equal to one billionth of a metre (i.e., 10-9 m or one millionth of a millimetre), and also equals ten Ångström, an internationally recognized non-SI unit of length. It is often associated with the field of nanotechnology."We miniaturised their size so drastically that we ended up with the smallest writing in history," said Manoharan. "S" and "U," the two letters in honor of their employer have been reduced so tiny in nanoimprint that if used to print out 32 volumes of an Encyclopedia, 2,000 times, the contents would easily fit on a pinhead.In the world of downsizing, nanoscribes Manoharan and Moon have proven that information, if reduced in size smaller than an atom, can be stored in more compact form than previously thought. In computing jargon, small sizing results to greater speed and better computer data storage. "Writing really small has a long history. We wondered: What are the limits? How far can you go? Because materials are made of atoms, it was always believed that if you continue scaling down, you'd end up at that fundamental limit. You'd hit a wall," said Manoharan.In writing the letters, the Stanford team utilized an electron's unique feature of "pinball table for electrons" — its ability to bounce between different quantum states. In the vibration-proof basement lab of Stanford's Varian Physics Building, the physicists used a Scanning tunneling microscope in encoding the "S" and "U" within the patterns formed by the electron's activity, called wave function, arranging carbon monoxide molecules in a very specific pattern on a copper or silver sheet surface. "Imagine [the copper as] a very shallow pool of water into which we put some rocks [the carbon monoxide molecules]. The water waves scatter and interfere off the rocks, making well defined standing wave patterns," Manoharan noted. If the "rocks" are placed just right, then the shapes of the waves will form any letters in the alphabet, the researchers said. They used the quantum properties of electrons, rather than photons, as their source of illumination. According to the study, the atoms were ordered in a circular fashion, with a hole in the middle. A flow of electrons was thereafter fired at the copper support, which resulted into a ripple effect in between the existing atoms. These were pushed aside, and a holographic projection of the letters "SU" became visible in the space between them. "What we did is show that the atom is not the limit — that you can go below that," Manoharan said.  "It's difficult to properly express the size of their stacked S and U, but the equivalent would be 0.3 nanometres. This is sufficiently small that you could copy out the Encyclopaedia Britannica on the head of a pin not just once, but thousands of times over," Manoharan and his nanohologram collaborator Christopher Moon explained.The team has also shown the salient features of the holographic principle, a property of quantum gravity theories which resolves the black hole information paradox within string theory. They stacked "S" and the "U" - two layers, or pages, of information — within the hologram. The team stressed their discovery was concentrating electrons in space, in essence, a wire, hoping such a structure could be used to wire together a super-fast quantum computer in the future. In essence, "these electron patterns can act as holograms, that pack information into subatomic spaces, which could one day lead to unlimited information storage," the study states.The "Conclusion" of the Stanford article goes as follows:The team is not the first to design or print small letters, as attempts have been made since as early as 1960. In December 1959, Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman, who delivered his now-legendary lecture entitled "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom," promised new opportunities for those who "thought small." Feynman was an American physicist known for the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, the theory of quantum electrodynamics and the physics of the superfluidity of supercooled liquid helium, as well as work in particle physics (he proposed the parton model).Feynman offered two challenges at the annual meeting of the American Physical Society, held that year in Caltech, offering a $1000 prize to the first person to solve each of them. Both challenges involved nanotechnology, and the first prize was won by William McLellan, who solved the first. The first problem required someone to build a working electric motor that would fit inside a cube 1/64 inches on each side. McLellan achieved this feat by November 1960 with his 250-microgram 2000-rpm motor consisting of 13 separate parts.In 1985, the prize for the second challenge was claimed by Stanford Tom Newman, who, working with electrical engineering professor Fabian Pease, used electron lithography. He wrote or engraved the first page of Charles Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities, at the required scale, on the head of a pin, with a beam of electrons. The main problem he had before he could claim the prize was finding the text after he had written it; the head of the pin was a huge empty space compared with the text inscribed on it. Such small print could only be read with an electron microscope. In 1989, however, Stanford lost its record, when Donald Eigler and Erhard Schweizer, scientists at IBM's Almaden Research Center in San Jose were the first to position or manipulate 35 individual atoms of xenon one at a time to form the letters I, B and M using a STM. The atoms were pushed on the surface of the nickel to create letters 5nm tall.In 1991, Japanese researchers managed to chisel 1.5 nm-tall characters onto a molybdenum disulphide crystal, using the same STM method. Hitachi, at that time, set the record for the smallest microscopic calligraphy ever designed. The Stanford effort failed to surpass the feat, but it, however, introduced a novel technique. Having equaled Hitachi's record, the Stanford team went a step further. They used a holographic variation on the IBM technique, for instead of fixing the letters onto a support, the new method created them holographically. In the scientific breakthrough, the Stanford team has now claimed they have written the smallest letters ever - assembled from subatomic-sized bits as small as 0.3 nanometers, or roughly one third of a billionth of a meter. The new super-mini letters created are 40 times smaller than the original effort and more than four times smaller than the IBM initials, states the paper Quantum holographic encoding in a two-dimensional electron gas, published online in the journal Nature Nanotechnology. The new sub-atomic size letters are around a third of the size of the atomic ones created by Eigler and Schweizer at IBM.A subatomic particle is an elementary or composite particle smaller than an atom. Particle physics and nuclear physics are concerned with the study of these particles, their interactions, and non-atomic matter. Subatomic particles include the atomic constituents electrons, protons, and neutrons. Protons and neutrons are composite particles, consisting of quarks."Everyone can look around and see the growing amount of information we deal with on a daily basis. All that knowledge is out there. For society to move forward, we need a better way to process it, and store it more densely," Manoharan said. "Although these projections are stable — they'll last as long as none of the carbon dioxide molecules move — this technique is unlikely to revolutionize storage, as it's currently a bit too challenging to determine and create the appropriate pattern of molecules to create a desired hologram," the authors cautioned. Nevertheless, they suggest that "the practical limits of both the technique and the data density it enables merit further research." In 2000, it was Hari Manoharan, Christopher Lutz and Donald Eigler who first experimentally observed quantum mirage at the IBM Almaden Research Center in San Jose, California. In physics, a quantum mirage is a peculiar result in quantum chaos. Their study in a paper published in Nature, states they demonstrated that the Kondo resonance signature of a magnetic adatom located at one focus of an elliptically shaped quantum corral could be projected to, and made large at the other focus of the corral.Starbucks Coffee is set to close 300 stores and lay off around 6,700 employees. The announcement came after a 69% drop in quarterly profits. The company made a profit of $64.3 million in the 13 trading weeks ending in December, down from $208.1 million last year. Starbucks chairman Howard Schultz sent a letter to employees explaining the difficulties the company is having in the current economic climate. He placed some of the blame of the loss in sales on other companies such as McDonalds and Dunkin’ Donuts, which have been improving the quality of their coffee."These decisions have been made to ensure the company is leaner and prepared to endure a worsening economic climate," said Schultz in the letter.Two-thirds of the store closures are to take place in the United States. Schultz's salary would also be reduced to $10,000 a year according to the Wall Street Journal. The closures are on top of the already 600 stores the company announced they would be closing.Starbucks has approximately 16,000 stores internationally with around 11,000 in the U.S. There are about 172,000 employees in all areas of the company.Negotiations between the State Bank of India and its employees over pension benefits have resulted in a settlement, ending a seven-day strike.The bank, which is based in Mumbai and majority-owned by the nation's central bank, is India's largest commercial bank, with over 9000 branch offices. The settlement calls for workers whose final monthly salary was up to 21,040 rupees (US$471) to receive half that amount as pension; workers with salaries larger than that would receive 40%.  The bank's previous pension maximum was 4,250 rupees (US$95)The bank's 200,000 employees will return to work Monday.The U.S. state of Florida entered an agreement on June 24, 2008 to purchase the U.S. Sugar Corporation, the largest manufacturer of cane sugar in the U.S., in an effort to restore the Everglades. Terms of the agreement stated that the purchase would be completed within 75 days, but that U.S. Sugar would be able to operate for another six years. After that, the state of Florida will retain ownership of U.S. Sugar's manufacturing facilities in Clewiston, Florida, and 187,000 acres of fields that have grown sugarcane since the 1960s will be allowed to return to their natural state.U.S. Sugar and the state of Florida have been in legal disputes since the Everglades Forever Act was passed in 1994. The act was an attempt to clean up water tainted with phosphorus, a component of fertilizer, which runs off the sugarcane fields and into the Everglades.Phosphorus alters Everglades ecosystems, allowing invasive and exotic cattails to replace sawgrass when levels rise above 50 parts per billion (ppb). Tests in the 1980s in the Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge directly south of sugarcane fields indicated that the water had 500 ppb of phosphorus.The National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) has called for industrial action on New Year's Eve over staffing levels on the London Underground. Union members voted more than five to one in favour of the strike.The vote for industrial action is because of "back-door attempts to displace hundreds of safety-critical station staff under spurious cover," said Bob Crow, RMT General Secretary,  to the BBC. "The RMT will not accept any dilution of safety standards either for our members, or Tube users and we hope that the travelling public will join us in calling on London Underground to step back from the brink and start talking to us seriously."Following the vote, the RMT called for a 24-hour strike beginning at noon on New Year's Eve, and if necessary a second 24-hour action to begin 6:30 p.m. Sunday, 8 January. Transport for London announced a meeting with the RMT at ACAS(The Advisory, Conciliation, and Arbitration Service) after the results of the vote were announced.The London Underground responded to the move, pointing to the agreement made last year with the RMT which agreed to shorter working weeks so long as there is no additional cost to Tube fare payers. "There are no staff cuts across the Tube network," the spokesperson said."There can be no justification for the RMT now reneging on its agreement and trying to ruin New Year's Eve for thousands of Londoners," London Mayor Ken Livingstone said.The popularity of Websites that rely on user-generated content has increased dramatically in the United Kingdom, according to new statistics. MySpace and Piczo show the strongest growth in usage year-to-year, respectively up 467% to 5.2 million visitors and 393% to 4 million. Bebo is up 328% to 3.9 million, while Wikipedia saw a 181% increase.These sites draw more frequent visits that other non-user-generated sites in the UK Top 50, with 4.2 usage-days per month (compared to the 3.5 average). They tend to engage visitors for longer (80 minutes per visitor, compared to the 33-minute average over all), and visitors tend to view more pages per visit (217 pages per visitor, compared to 52-page average over all).Because users of these sites visit more frequently, stay longer, and view more content, the argument goes that this creates more opportunities for marketers to communicate messages. However, in reality, as the number of pages served becomes very large, it becomes more difficult to find sufficient advertising inventory to send with those pages.No-one yet seems to be making big margins from social networking sites. The cost of operating these sites, it turns out, is sensitive to scale. Moreover, users generate a lot of noise in promoting themselves, but there's little evidence that many of them are listening to each other — which severely restricts the site owners' ability to generate advertising services, and secure advertising revenues.India's steelmaker Tata Steel, of the Tata Group, buys Anglo-Dutch steel giant Corus Group for £6.7 billion ($12 billion), making it the world's fifth largest steel manufacturer. 70-year-old Tata group Chairman Ratan Tata, from one of India's best-known business families, won the race against Benjamin Steinbruch, 52, a famous Brazilian executive who is the chief and main owner of Companhia Siderurgica Nacional (CSN). Tata paid investors 608 pence a share, whereas the Brazilians final offer in an auction by the U.K.'s Takeover Panel was 603 pence.The deal triples Tata Steel's capacity to almost 28 million tons a year. Tata: "This is the first step in showing that Indian industry can step outside its shores into an international market place as a global player." Corus, which was created from the merger of British Steel and Hoogovens, currently employs 47,300 people worldwide. Last year the company was the ninth-largest steel maker worldwide. The takeover may start a round of consolidation in the fragmented steel sector.Luxembourg's largest steel company Arcelor is ready to study Mittal Steel's improved takeover offer, the former said on Sunday, opening the door to possible talks with Indian steel magnate Laxminivas Mittal. Arcelor Chairman Joseph Kinsch told reporters after a meeting of Arcelor's board that the company's directors would be ready to examine the details of Mittal's latest offer once it has been approved by the CSSF (Luxembourg's financial regulatory body). Until Sunday, Arcelor, the world's second-largest steel company, had firmly rejected world-leader Mittal's bid to take the former company over and form a global steel giant. The softening of Arcelor's stance comes after Mittal Steel raised its hostile cash-and-equity bid by a third on Friday and dropped a key demand for family control over the combined entity. Media reports had suggested that Arcelor was trying to find another company to rescue it from being taken over by Mittal Steel. Possible candidates included Russian tycoon Vladimir Lisin and Russia's Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel Works (MMK). Mittal's move on Friday came after the value of its initial offer fell more than 10 percent behind the market worth of Arcelor, as the latter announced a buyback of its own shares at above-market prices to ward off Mittal Steel.Laxminivas Mittal, who has hinted that the bitter takeover battle might have a hint of racism involved in it, told the French newspaper La Tribune that he was sure that the attractive nature of his revised offer would enable him to obtain over 50% of the Arcelor shares. He added that he was of the opinion that the involvement of a Russian third party would not be in the best interests of Arcelor's shareholders.Corus, the fifth largest steelmaker in the world, is set to cut 2000 jobs in both the United Kingdom and The Netherlands. 123 jobs are reported to be going in the Netherlands with the remainder from the United Kingdom. Corus have blamed the move on the "further deterioration" of the demand for steel in both the United States and Europe.Corus Chief Executive Kirby Adams stated, "Any recovery in Europe appears to be some time off". He added that Corus have to achieve "long-term sustainable competitiveness in a global and over-supplied steel market". In January of this year Corus cut approximately 3,500 staff worldwide; 2,500 of them in Britain.Peter Hogg, a commercial director at Corus, reported that the company was surprised at the extent of the global recession. He added that it is clear a full recovery is years away.Some plants have been hit harder than others. Scunthorpe will lose 500 members of staff, with 379 going at Stocksbridge and 377 at Rotherham. Corus will also reduce operations at Hartlepool, Skinningrove and their Teesside Beam Mill, in Cleveland, where an additional 2,000 already face redundancy. A total of 11 plants in the United Kingdom are affected. Elliot Morley, Labour Member of Parliament for Scunthorpe, told the BBC that he was disappointed with the job cuts and said he had previously told Corus that they should be a last resort. He added that this was a "sad day" for Scunthorpe. The Community union general secretary Michael Leahy said that it was "devastating news" and spoke of his concerns for the integrity of the British steel industry.Corus has the second largest steelmaking operation in Europe. The company was bought in 1999 by Tata Steel, part of India's Tata Group. The company has around 50,000 employees worldwide.Stella English has been announced as the winner of the sixth series of British television programme The Apprentice. English was announced as the winner by host of the show, businessman Lord Alan Sugar, after the final task in which the two remaining contestants, English and Chris Bates, had to create and market a new alcoholic drink. English commented on winning the programme, saying: "There were times that I felt very tired and it was much harder than I ever thought it would be. But in terms of quitting, there was absolutely no way." She also said after winning the show that she hopes it will bring a "better quality of life" for her two children.Lord Sugar also released a statement about his decision to hire English. "It's a very, very important job where you need a very, very good organiser and someone who's very, very switched on," he said. "She's got the brain to do it." He added there was a chance of employment for second place candidate Bates. English will be employed at one of Lord Sugar's companies; Viglen, a company that deals with IT services.This series began to broadcast in October instead of it's regular spring slot due to concerns over Lord Sugar keeping his role on the show. Sugar was selected as a government advisor at the same time of the May general election.The Stern Review of the Economics of Climate Change put the cost of keeping emissions at 550 parts per million at one percent of global GDPA leaked draft report, by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), due to be published next year, estimates this cost could be between one and five percent of global GDP.The Stern Review put the costs of not acting to resist climate change could be between 5 and 20 percent GDP.It is reported that UK Ministers are to travel to India and America to promote the Stern Review. Their task will not be eased by the leaked IPCC report which is now said to be available freely on the internet.Following the Stern Review, Chancellor Gordon Brown urged the member states of the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme to tighten their targets even further.After the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) completes its acquisition of Chicago-based electronic trading company, Archipelago Holdings within the next 12 months, the impact will also be felt in San Francisco, California as the future of the 123-year-old Pacific Exchange (PCX) becomes murky.This stems from a deal struck in January of this year, before the NYSE merger, when Archipelago struck a deal worth $83 million to take over operations of the San Francisco stock exchange and its 260 employees. All PCX operations are scheduled to be under Archipelago control by the end of September. Archipelago had planned to maintain the San Francisco operations.As details were released Thursday of the April NYSE-Archipelago merger to the Securities and Exchange Commission, all Archipelago functions are to be folded into NYSE operations, including the PCX stock and options trading business. The report did not state whether or not the San Francisco employees would be kept after the merger is complete.Started in 1882 at the San Francisco Stock Market, the Pacific Exchange, along with other regional stock exchanges, has suffered as customers shifted to electronic trading, which bypassed the need for stock exchange services in many instances.Stock markets around the world continued to fall dramatically today. This is following the ongoing events in the financial world, including the US Government's $700 billion bail out of the financial sector.As of 18:00 UTC, the primary UK index, the FTSE 100, was one of the few indexes to increase in value. It went up by 0.16% (16.03 points), but stayed below 5000 mark at 4605.22. Some shares in this index, however, fared very poorly, with shares in HBOS falling by an incredible 41.54% to end the day on 94 points. The Dow Jones index continued to fall today, and, as of 18:00 UTC, it had fallen 260.77 points, or 2.62% to 9694.73, continuing its run below 10,000. Bank of America fared worse, with a fall of 17.38%.The Nasdaq index also fell dramatically today, down 2.95% (54.97 points) to 1807.99 points. YRC Worldwide, Inc. was the biggest faller in this index, with its loss of 27.30% that took the company's share price down to 5.13.Dana Perino, a spokesperson for the White House, commented today on the recent falls in the stock market that are described above. "One of the things that the President can do is to remind them what this rescue package would do. One of the most important things that it would do is to make sure that everybody knows that their bank deposit is safe, insured by the FDIC, and the legislation allowed for a temporary increase from $100,000 to $250,000. This reassures people that their bank accounts are safe, and that's an important message," she stated, trying to reassure citizens."But remember, with this rescue package, we asked the American people to do a really big thing and commit a lot of money in order to help prevent the credit freeze from affecting everybody lower on down the food chain. And to that extent, yes, the President thinks that it's important that they hear from the President of the United States about how he understands that nobody wanted to do this legislation, however, it was the right thing to do. And now that we've done it, the most important thing is that Treasury move in the most expeditious way possible, to be efficient and to be effective, to make sure that the plan will do what it's supposed to do and un-freeze these credit markets."Stock markets around the world, particularly those in the United States, have fallen dramatically today. This is due to the ongoing events in the financial world, including the bailout of large insurance firm AIG by the US Federal Reserve.The primary UK index, the FTSE 100, dropped in value by 2.36%, which is 118.40 points, to below the 5000 mark at 4907.20. The Dow Jones was down 2.62% at 16:08 UTC, a slight increase from earlier today. The Dow Jones currently has a value of 10769.00 points. The Nasdaq index has fallen by 3.16% to 2138.14, while the Dax was 1.75% lower than the start of the day as of 16:08 UTC.The Japanese index the Nikkei was one of the few to rise in value over the day. It ended up 1.2%, although this follows a large fall in the value of the index when it hit an all time low yesterday.Darren Winder, a market analyst from Cazenove, said that  "I don't think anyone has got any or much confidence in market direction for more than a few days."A lot of today's activities in the market were related to the takeover of the American International Group (AIG) on Tuesday in an US$ 85 billion loan, in exchange for a 79.9% stake in the company. The fact that AIG has thousands of divisions engaged in business across the globe sets them apart from the recent problems with other banks. AIG was built up over the last several years via the buyouts and mergers of many companies around the world, offering AIG's stockholders a diverse base of income which allowed it to steadily increase profits. In addition, the markets have also had difficulties during the past week after the refusal of the Federal Reserve to bail out Lehman Brothers, forcing the company to file for bankruptcy on Monday after Bank of America (BoA) and Barclays PLC pulled out of negotiations over the weekend.Stock indexes worldwide rose on Friday, after US bank chief Ben Bernanke said that the US economy was starting to recover from the recession.Addressing a conference in Wyoming, the bank chief said that "the prospects for a return to growth in the near term appear good."He added, however, that "the economic recovery is likely to be relatively slow at first, with unemployment declining only gradually from high levels."The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 155.91 points, or 1.67%, to end the day at 9505.96. The Nasdaq reached 2020.90 points after gaining 1.59%. The Standard & Poor's 500 Index, meanwhile, struck a ten-month high, reaching a level of 1,026.13 at the closing bell, up 1.9%.The British FTSE index rose about two percent, closing at 4,851. The French Cac index gained 3.1% and the German Dax 2.8%."Bernanke was a little bit more bullish than most people were expecting. He's saying that the global economy is starting to emerge from the recession and that the fears of a financial collapse have receded substantially," said Jacob Oubina, the currency strategist of Forex.com."I think the market is just taking those headlines as extreme positives for the outlook."Jean-Claude Trichet, the European Central Bank president, warned that talk of a complete recovery might be premature. "I am a little bit uneasy when I see that, because we have some green shoots here and there, we are already saying, 'well, after all, we are close to back to normal,' " he said.The Wee W store, located in the Outer Hebrides of Scotland, yesterday announced its intention to cease operating "in the next few weeks", subject to any potential acquisition of the company. The store, which is one of the largest retail buildings in Stornoway, is located in a central part of the town. In a statement, the company cited the death of store co-founder Ann MacCallum as primary reason for the decision.Ann MacCallum was found dead at age 51 on a Lewis shingle beach in May. A statement from Wee W described MacCallum as "a constant inspiration with new ideas and displays, [...] always ...exploring ways of bringing new products to Stornoway". Shortly prior to her death, MacCallum had established a 'Wee Fudge Shop' inside Wee W, which the company deemed successful. The statement explained how her death had "left an unfillable void" in the company, saying that "the family and existing shareholders do not have the heart or desire to try and fill Ann’s shoes."Wee W, whose building is currently leased from Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, was opened on Cromwell Street in Stornoway during 2009. The store reportedly acted as a replacement for the Woolworths building which closed there when the group entered administration in 2009. Numerous former employees of the store were employed by Wee W, whose title is a play on words of the large-size 'Big W' stores Woolworths Group had. Ann MacCallum was herself once manager of the former Woolworths building in Stornoway.The statement did not comment on the fate of its employees or give details of how many redundancies the closure of the store would leave, although the group did say, "We would like to offer our heartfelt thanks to everyone who supported Wee W and who will be impacted by this announcement."The UK's Communication Workers' Union have effectively rejected a belated revised pay offer by telecoms giant British Telecom. Their statement, released early this evening, indicates a formal ballot on strike action is inevitable – unless the company revises their two percent offer for 2010.The deadline set by the Communication Workers' Union (CWU) passed at noon last Friday, apparently unheeded by BT. The union's announcement of their intent to ballot members apparently resulted in the offer — one with no new money on the table for this year.Last week, when their ultimatum was ignored, CWU deputy secretary general (DSG) Andy Kerr expressed deep disappointment, citing the substantial profits made by the company in the last financial year: "[w]e're obviously very disappointed that BT has not improved its pay offer of 2% despite their healthy profits this year."The turnaround from losses of £244 million to a billion-pound-plus profit has, the union claims, galvanised their membership into seriously considering industrial action. Reports of senior directors receiving million-pound bonuses, and former Labour minister Patricia Hewitt landing over over £50,000 extra per-year, are characterised as "directors' 'snouts in the trough'". Hewitt was suspended from her parliamentary party in March over cash-for-access accusations, and works two to three days each month on BT's remuneration committee.The UK's Press Association described the now-rejected offer as being worth 2% this year, and an additional 3% in 2011 with staff bonuses of up to £250. The package supposedly contains pledges on no compulsory redundancies and the return of call centre and non-frontline work from outsource companies in India.Wikinews called both the Communication Workers' Union, and British Telecom, seeking clarification on a number of points. Richard Knowles, a BT press officer in London, forwarded their terse sub-400-word statement, refusing to be drawn on reports that the offer includes the repatriation of call centre and back-office jobs. When challenged on this work being carried out in a jurisdiction with less-stringent data protection, and computer misuse legislation, our reporter was referred back to the company's statement.Sian Jones of the CWU's Press Office, commenting prior to the union's evening statement, remarked that repatriation of call centre work was an issue that the union had prior, unrelated, discussions with BT about; she gave no indication to Wikinews this was, or was not, part of BT's revised offer.The press release, shortly after 1630 BST, expressed clear intent to carry on with the process of balloting members on strike action. In the statement, CWU DGS Andy Kerr states, "[w]e're very disappointed that BT's revised offer remains materially unchanged for this year in terms of pay."Continuing, he emphasised, "[...] we've made clear, 2 per cent is unacceptable for our members as it does not reflect the reward they expect given the contribution they have made to cost savings of £1.75 billion and profits of over £1bn. In addition, inflation is at 5.3 per cent and staff are comparing this offer with the large salary rises and bonuses for senior executives which expose the blatant double standards being adopted by the company when it comes to remuneration."The CWU statement also expresses concern over BT's disclosure of details within the offer; "BT's decision to leak their offer to the media today has also raised trust issues for us with the company."Any sustained action by CWU members in BT's employ could have a major impact on the country's communication infrastructure. Millions of UK households and businesses are reliant on BT for internet access – in addition to telephony services.Following the release of their statement, the CWU's Sian Jones confirmed that the union had not, as-yet, given BT the formal seven-days notice of balloting members on strike action.Any ballot would run for a two-week period; following such, the union would, again, be required to give seven days notice to BT; this time of their intent to take workers out on strike. She emphasised, "nobody wants to be on strike", stressing that the union last took such action in 1987, and would prefer round-table discussions and an improved offer.The structure of BT's privatisation, and breakup to permit level playing-field telephony and broadband competition, would see other Internet service providers who rely on the ageing, once GPO-owned, copper POTS infrastructure unable to resolve customer faults. According to the CWU, BT has been querying managerial staff on their skillsets – as a form of preparation for any industrial action. A union spokesperson described this as "laughable".When called for comment on the union's rejection of their revised offer, the BT press office declined to comment at this time.Workers at the UK's Lindsey Oil Refinery have voted to return to work.The week-long strike at the refinery began over the issuing by French owners Total S.A. of a contract to an Italian company, who brought in Italian and Portuguese workers. The unofficial strike had led to similar unofficial sympathy strikes across the country.The deal to end the strike will see around 100 jobs being offered to British workers. Additionally, the Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, who had repeatedly criticized the strikers, has agreed to review laws governing foreign workers. Unions have warned that, while this action was now over, the country could see further action at other sites with larger numbers of foreign workers. Phil Whitehurst of the GMB union said "It was an excellent decision. We have now got the chance to go back to work but the fight does not stop here". Derek Simpson of the Unite union pointed to Staythorpe Power Station in Nottinghamshire as a potential source of problems. The site has Spanish contractors, although Unite said that they had no evidence the foreign workers there were undercutting UK staff.Gordon Brown's agreement to look into laws on the free transfer of labour within the European Union came during the weekly Prime Minister's Questions in the House of Commons. A review has been set up to look into the issue and he told the House, "When they have reached their conclusions we will look at what they have to say". The Times points out that this may conflict with Business Secretary Lord Mandelson's statement on Sunday, where he said that "[i]t is not European law that has caused this problem for us". German politicians have called for a European-wide review, something opposed by the British and Polish governments and the European Commission.Students at Benet Academy in Lisle, Illinois, United States raised record amounts of money this year during their Christmas Drive fundraiser. The annual two-week event is aimed at promoting the Christmas spirit in helping the poor and needy.  Coordination of the fundraiser is a joint effort by the faculty and three students organizations—Student Government, National Honor Society (NHS), and Outreach.  Donations from previous years have allowed Outreach to provide food and Christmas gifts to dozens of families during the holiday season.  NHS in the past has provided blankets, winter gear, and toys to local families as well. A semi-formal dance held on Dec. 5 kicked off the Christmas Drive this year. Two weeks of in-school fundraising efforts ensued, including several no-uniform days and Benet's traditional Penny Wars. In that four-day activity, the four grade levels competed against each other to see who can collect the most pennies. Nickels, dimes, and quarters were allowed but had negative value in the class total. The seniors won this contest, allowing them to have a no-uniform day on Dec. 11. Other activities such as bake sales and a beard-growing contest raised money as well.During an all-school assembly on Friday, the last day of the drive, Student Government President Kyle Marinko announced that preliminary calculations put the amount of donations at US$53,392.82, a record for the school. Last year's drive collected approximately US$42,000. A final total has not been officially announced, since Student Government officials continue to count additional donations that have been received.Several factors including climate change and pollution may put at risk of drying up some of the largest rivers on the globe, a report by the environmental group WWF says. Following a study of ten rivers currently at risk of drying up, the group warns that without any action the process of drying up might lead to freshwater emergency.The report analyzes ten rivers, including the Yangtze, the Ganges and the Salween in Asia; the Danube in Europe and Rio Grande in North America.The study raises concerns overs dams and dikes, which the report says destroy 80 percent of river basin's wetlands and floodplains.Another problem is the extraction of water for agriculture. The environment group states that active extraction of water, such as in the Indus river, takes its toll on our planet's rivers. Over-extraction might lead to its scarcity and have a serious negative impact on freshwater fish populations, which represents an important food source.The report says governments should ensure better protection of rivers and provide more sustainable water use, in such a way that people's livelihoods are protected.According to Dr David Tickner, head of WWF UK's Freshwater programme, the freshwater crisis is a serious problems that could worsen as climate changes. He said that preserving rivers and providing security of water flows should be seen as part of national security, health and economic success.Just two weeks after China sent global markets into a tumble, growing worries about sub-prime mortgage lenders in the United States are sending jitters through stock exchanges around the globe. The three major US stock market indices each fell two percent from Monday's closing price, marking the second-biggest loss of 2007. London's FTSE 100, Paris' CAC 40 and Frankfurt's DAX 30 indices each closed down more than 1 percent.As the Mortgage Bankers Association reported that late payments on mortgages and home foreclosures in the US homes rose in the fourth quarter to their highest level in years, investors are concerned that not only US banks but also multi-national banks around the globe could have exposure.More than two dozen sub-prime lenders have closed or sold operations as defaults on those mortgages have risen. "The delinquencies and defaults have started to soar," said Nicolas Retsinas, director of Housing Studies at Harvard University. "A lot of these lenders started to make loans and lost track of some of the fundamentals." New Century Financial Corporation, the second largest sub-prime lender in the US, has recently revealed that its creditors were no longer providing funds and, further, it has become subject of an SEC investigation. The New York Stock Exchange has said it will delist New Century. Accredited Home Loan Lending, another major sub-prime mortgage specialist, said it was seeking fresh capital and waivers on its lending covenants.Sub-prime lenders provide mortgages to people who do not qualify for loans from mainstream lenders, typically due to their credit histories. The lenders then bundle these mortgages as collateral for loans that they obtain from other financing firms, such as GMAC. Such firms can then repackage these loans and sell them as mortgage-backed securities. These securities may end up in the hands of major multi-national banks such as Citibank, HSBC, and Commerzbank. Each level of lending assumes a level of financial risk, but trouble can arise when the risk tolerances are exceeded. If too many homeowners default on their mortgages, the sub-prime lender can end up defaulting. If too many of these lenders default, as it is feared may be happening now, the defaults can cascade upward. While no one is predicting major bank failures at this point, it is feared that their profits could be hurt.Fifty years after starting his first sandwich shop as a teenager, Subway CEO and co-founder Fred DeLuca died on Monday. He was 67 and suffering from cancer.Subway yesterday announced his death, but not the location. He had developed leukaemia, which the company announced in 2013. The business was founded with friend Peter Buck who lent DeLuca $1,000 to open Pete's Super Submarines in Bridgeport, Connecticut. The company remains based in the state.By 1968 the business was renamed Subway and the two young entrepreneurs began looking at franchising as a method of expansion. It worked: With over 44,000 locations Subway is the world's largest fast food franchise. The company has locations in 110 countries.Subway brands itself as a healthy alternative on the fast food market. It has faced various controversies: ingredients, contracts with franchisees, and longtime advertiser Jared Fogle have all come under scrutiny. Fogle left the company this year after admitting underage sex and child pornography offences."I knew nothing about making sandwiches, nor the food industry," DeLuca would later write of his 1965 startup. Growing up he lived in state-owned housing in The Bronx, New York City. Forbes estimated his 2015 wealth at around $3.5 billion.The Central Bank of Sudan has started circulation of the new Sudanese pound that is to replace the current Sudanese dinar. This measure is part of the peace agreement signed between the Government of Sudan and the SPLA, that ended a 20-year old civil war.The dinar was viewed in the south as part of an attempted "Arabisation" of Sudan by the previous government and was not in circulation in areas controlled by the southern rebel movement. Several alternative currencies, including old Sudanese pounds were used instead.According to Sabir Mohamed Al Hassan, the governor of the Central Bank of Sudan, the dinar will remain in circulation, along with the pound, for an interim period of six months before it is discontinued on July 1, 2007. The conversion rate set by the Central bank is 1 Sudanese pound equals 100 Sudanese dinars, and 1 piaster is equivalent to 1 dinar. A U.S. dollar trades for about 200 dinars.The Central Bank said that the new currency design will reflect Sudan's peace vision, unity in diversity, civilization, natural resources and economic progress. Several themes were avoided in the new design including human portraits, references to wars and conflict, and religious and ethnic symbols.The change is expected to cost over US $150 million. Hassan said that the expected international assistance in meeting the cost was not forthcoming and that Sudan's oil revenue was used instead, Reuters reports. Shipments of the new currency have been sent to the south, where it is to be introduced first.The country of Sudan has initiated an official boycott of Danish products, after the controversial Muhammad cartoons have been reprinted by a series of newspapers in Denmark and other European countries. Yesterday, President Omar al-Bashir expressed his concerns at a government-backed rally in the nation's capital, requesting that all Muslims in the world take a stand against Denmark by boycotting “businesses, institutions and individuals,” adding that “no Danes shall ever again be able to set foot in Sudan,” however, no Danish emergency workers in the country have yet been asked to leave.The crisis, which appeared to have been averted two years ago after a near-omnipresent boycott of Danish goods in the Middle East and other Muslim countries, has re-surfaced after three men were apprehended earlier this month, charged with plotting to murder the cartoonist of what is considered the most offensive caricature, portraying the prophet Muhammad with a turban in the shape of a bomb on his head. Two of the men, both Tunisian citizens, have since been expelled from the country.Santa Clara, CALIFORNIA — Computer vendor Sun Microsystems released on Tuesday the first offerings of its OpenSolaris operating system code for free, under a license which allows anyone to use or work on the code and distribute the changes they make..The full operating system is expected to be released for download sometime in the second quarter of 2005. Following along with the system source code are 1,670 patents Sun will make available for use by open-source developers. Sun hopes to leverage greater innovation in software from the open source community, in return for allowing the code to be used without charge."This is not an EOL (end of life) release. It's a supercharged, turbocharged rocket launching," Sun CEO Scott McNealy said. "No one else has done what we have just done."The move follows a recent move by IBM to grant use of 500 patents freely to open source software developers. Open source developers had been becoming concerned that bureaucracy and legal issues associated with software patents could be damaging to their livelihoods and to innovation. The moves by Sun and IBM seem intended to placate this growing fear.Dynamic Trace, or DTrace is the first OpenSolaris component to be released. DTrace is a performance-analysis tool that tells developers how to optimize their applications for maximum performance. The code is to be released under Sun's own licensing scheme, the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL) Version 1.0. This license has been approved by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).Sun's license is based on the Mozilla Public License. The Free Software Foundation has stated on its website that Sun's license, while free, is not compatible with the GNU Public License (GPL) used for the popular open source Linux operating system. This does not mean that Linux software and OpenSolaris software cannot be used together, but limits the extent of integration which may be achieved.Sun had previously allowed free use of the operating system Solaris by some users, for example students. This move greatly extends the range of free uses permitted, and allows users to read and modify the source code without charge or non-disclosure agreement.California based Sun Microsystems yesterday announced that it was shedding 6,000 jobs, in a move that Jonathan Schwartz, CEO of Sun, said was designed to "align Sun's business with global economic realities."The move will shrink Sun's workforce by 15-18%, according to a press release published by the company.Sun have also stated that US$ 700 to $800 million dollars per year should be saved by the move, which will cost $500 to $600 million to implement over the next twelve months.Rick Hanna, an equity analyst for Morningstar Inc, commented on the move. "They still have strong cash on the balance sheet, and they're still generating free cash flow, so they're not dead yet, but the patient is definitely on the respirator," he said.. "I can't imagine for a second the board would be satisfied with Sun's current performance. . . . What's happening with Sun at this point is figuring out how to maximize what's left."Sun also announced yesterday that it will "accelerate our delivery of key open source platform innovations."On March 21, 2006, Sun Microsystems released the source code for its newest processor, the UltraSPARC T1. The UltraSPARC T1 is available with four, six or eight cores, each able to work on four threads at a time. The concept is similar to that of the Intel Pentium EE which uses two cores with two threads.A multicore processor is like having many CPUs on the one chip. Multiple threads allow each core to work on a number of tasks concurrently on a single core. This is particularly useful in a server environment where the UltraSPAC T1 was designed to be used.Sun call the open source version of their processor the OpenSPARC T1 and have made the source code (in Verilog format) and specifications available on the OpenSPARC T1 website under the General Public License, the same license under which most distributions of Linux are released.Industry observers say that the move is triggered by the SPARC architecture's shrinking market share to the likes of IBM's POWER architecture and x86 based chips from Intel and AMD.Open Source Hardware has been gaining momentum since 2002, when Kofi Annan issued a challenge to technology companies. Despite Sun's OpenSPARC T1 not being the first open source processor in the world, it is the first time that the design for a proprietary design processor has been released to the open source community.Two of Canada's largest energy companies are merging, with Suncor Energy making a CA$19.2-billion bid to take over Petro-Canada.Suncor shareholders purchased $19.2 billion in stock and now own about 60% of Petro-Canada. Petro-Canada shareholders own the remaining 40%.Suncor is reported to be the third largest Canadian energy producer, and Petro-Canada is Canada's sixth largest. The current market value of Petro-Canada is $14.4 billion."This is a made-in-Canada response to the challenges presented by global market uncertainty. More importantly, it's a made-in-Canada strategy to unleash the potential of these two companies and their people in the future," said Ron Brenneman, chief executive officer of Petro-Canada. "We need to face head-on the issue of global competition in a time of economic uncertainty. In these difficult times, we believe that joining forces provides the strength we need to be a leader in value creation in an extremely competitive industry, added Brenneman." Petro-Canada shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSE) rose from $29.65 to $36.77, a 24% rise, while Suncor shares rose from $30.90 to $32.12, up 5%, at mid-morning."The merger will be good for shareholders of both companies with reduced capital requirements, operating efficiencies and complementary integration opportunities between upstream and downstream assets. The increased scale provides more stability in volatile markets, plus the financial and organizational capability to successfully take on large-scale projects in the future," said Mr. Rick George, current Suncor chief executive and the next CEO for the merged companies.The Sunshine Coast Regional Council has formally ratified the rejection of the 24 hour McDonald's in Minyama. The decision comes after council rejected the proposal earlier this week at a general committee meeting.McDonald's forwarded an 11th hour compromise to deputy mayor Tim Dwyer in order to overturn the decision. The compromised had included reducing the opening hours to 6am to 10pm Sunday to Thursday and until 12am Friday and Saturday. Local member of federal parliament Peter Slipper has said that any new development be given serious and honest consideration to the various potential impacts on the community."It is important that any new development, including fast food outlets, give serious and honest consideration to the various potential impacts of the project on the community. This is important as society strives to balance the need for development with the need to support the lifestyle choices and wishes of residents," said Mr Slipper in an e-mail to Wikinews.Local residents who had opposed the development had support from local councilor Chris Thompson. "We already have a 24-hour McDonald’s at Mooloolaba, only one kilometre away, and there are already [anti-social] issues at that site," he said.Councillors ratified the rejection unanimously. McDonald's will now fight the decision in court.Sunshine Coast Regional Council has received legal advice that it will not be able to challenge a McDonald's Australia appeals process. Council rejected development plans for a 24-hour store at Minyama in December, and the restaurant giant plans to appeal the decision."Council has received legal advice back that McDonald's will win because of planning laws allow[sic] code assessment - the ugly American McDonald will win and run roughshod over residents and Sunshine Coast Council," said protest group spokesperson John Meyer-Gleaves.Meyer-Gleaves said the group, named Say No To McDonald's, has three priorities if it is forced to negotiate: the alley between the motel currently on the site and the shop next door is to be closed off, the McDonald's is to operate 24 hours per day on weekends only and a backfence or wall is to be built at a similar height to other premises fronting Nicklin Way. McDonald's has agreed to these terms, according to Meyer-Gleaves."I'm pretty sure I'm the only councillor who already has a 24-hour McDonald's in my division," says Councillor Chris Thompson, who represents division four in the Sunshine Coast Council. "We have enough issues with that one, and this is overkill."The 24-hour McDonald's in Councillor Thompson's division, Mooloolaba, is part of a larger complex and does not back onto residential premises."It is important that any new development, including fast food outlets, give serious and honest consideration to the various potential impacts of the project on the community. This is important as society strives to balance the need for development with the need to support the lifestyle choices and wishes of residents," said Peter Slipper, a federal Member of Parliament in the area, in an e-mail to Wikinews."The situation highlights the need for leadership at a state level that is prepared with work with [sic] the Regional Councils to ensure laws and regulations are consistent within community standards. Labor and LNP have a long history of creating policy to please large business instead of looking at what best serves the community," said Brenton Clutterbuck, Greens Candidate for the electorate of Maroochydore for the Queensland state election.This week, the United States Supreme Court is scheduled to address two cases before them on the issue of same-sex marriage. The federal Defense of Marriage Act case is scheduled to be heard on Wednesday.  The other case involves California's Proposition 8. A ruling is unlikely to be made until June.The federal case involves the denial of privileges afforded to heterosexual married couples on the federal level, and the legality of states to opt out of recognizing legal marriages performed in other states in the union and to deny state benefits for those couples.John Eastman, law professor at Chapman University and chairman of National Organization for Marriage, a group that opposes same-sex marriage, believes the eventual ruling will be a close one, with Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy likely to be the key swing vote. Eastman is quoted by U.S. News and World Report as saying of Kennedy, "All eyes are on Justice Kennedy and he's obviously written the two major gay rights decisions in the past decade and a half and that means that people rightly think that he's kind of open to taking this step, but he has studiously avoided taking that step in prior cases." Other court watchers agree with this sentiment.In the lead up to the hearings, a number of high profile politicians have expressed their support for same-sex marriage including Democratic Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, Democratic Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri,  former Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Republican Senator Rob Portman of Ohio. Earlier this month, 40 United States senators signed a legal brief arguing against the constitutionality of the federal Defense of Marriage Act that was submitted to the Supreme Court.High visibility companies have also indicated support for legalized same-sex marriage in the United States, including Starbucks where CEO Howard Schultz gave company support at a share-holder meeting last week. After share-holder Tom Strobhar implied at the meeting that Starbuck's historical position of supporting same-sex marriage, which included open support of the same-sex marriage legalization efforts in the state of Washington last year, hurt the company's bottom line, Schultz responded by saying, "If you feel, respectfully, that you can get a higher return than the 38% you got last year, it’s a free country. You can sell your shares of Starbucks and buy shares in another company."  The company's position is predicated on respecting diversity, even if it potentially impacts Starbucks earnings.Goldman Sachs has also supported the push for same-sex marriage arguing that the lack of equality hurts businesses. Goldman Sachs, Marriott International and Thomson Reuters have all signed a legal brief condemning the federal Defense of Marriage Act.A Washington Post-ABC News poll published last week showed support for same-sex marriage in the United States was at an all time high at 58%, an increase of 21% since 2003. A recent Gallup poll showed similar results, with  54% of Americans supporting federal benefits for gay and lesbian couples, an increase of 27% since 1996 when the federal Defense of Marriage Act became law. Last week, a poll published by Reuters/Ipso found 63% of Americans supported same-sex marriage or civil unions. Despite this, social conservatives argue that this support may be over-stated by as much as 7% when voters are asked to voice their opinion on the issue at the ballot box. They cite a 2010 study by New York University political science professor Patrick J. Egan. Social conservatives also argue that people lie to pollsters to avoid appearing intolerant. 2000 Republican presidential candidate Gary Bauer said on Fox News Sunday, "I’m not worried about [same-sex marriage], because the polls are skewed. Just this past November, four states, very liberal states, voted on this issue and my side lost all four of those votes. But my side had 45, 46 percent of the vote in all four of those liberal states." Brian S. Brown, president of the National Organization for Marriage, also argues that misleading polling questions over-count support for same-sex marriage in the United States.Despite the potential for skewed polling, the four most recent ballot initiatives regarding same-sex marriage in the United States on a state level resulted in citizens voting to support same-sex marriage in Minnesota, Maryland, Washington and Maine.  It also comes at a time when the most recent election cycle in the United States saw opponents of same-sex marriage outspent 3 to 1.The Surf Championship Competition, "Ceremonial Quiksilver Pichilemu 2010", took place on Wednesday in the Chilean city nicknamed "Capital of the Surf", Pichilemu. Waves nine meters high or larger were predicted in Punta de Lobos, six kilometers from the urban centre of Pichilemu.Some of the most important surfers were in the championship, the South African Grant "Twiggy" Baker, Hawaiians Jamie Sterling and Mark Healey, as well as the Chilean Ramón Navarro, who won the Master Drop award last December, the 10-meters "hellish wave" in Hawaii. The weather conditions in Pichilemu have been fine recently and the tides are optimum."This Championship will be one of the best in the big waves circuit. We will see huge waves, like the ones that made Diego Medina [another Chilean competitor] to win Billabong XXL [...] Many of the surfers there have never seen waves like the ones of this 2010 Championship [...] I'm prepared and anxious," said Ramón Navarro to La Nación, some minutes before the competition started.The competitors accorded to donate US$15,000 (almost 16 million pesos) to help people affected in the Pichilemu area after the February 27 earthquake. The final prize is of US$30,000.The competitors are the following, by class: first class: Carlos Burle (Brazil), "Twiggy" Baker (South Africa), Jamie Sterling (United States), Cristián Merello (Chile), Ismael Herreros (Chile) and Alejandro Martínez (Chile); second class: Mark Healey (United States), Danilo Couto (Brazil), Marcos Monteiro (Brazil), Fernando Zegers (Chile), Pato Texeira (Brazil) and Reinaldo Ibarra (Chile); third class: Peter Mel (United States), Kohl Christensen (United States), Ramón Navarro (Chile), Cristóbal González (Chile), Fabián Farías (Chile) and Santiago Di Pace (Argentina); fourth class: Diego Medina (Chile), Greg Long (United States), Gabriel Villarán (Peru), León Vicuña (Chile), Anthony Tashnick (United States) and Ben Wilkerson (United States).The final charts were:From the 24 surfers, just six contested the final of the championship. The Peruvian Gabriel Villarán obtained the second place, meanwhile the most-known Ramón Navarro, just managed to reach semifinals.The final phase of the competition lasted after 45 minutes. Merelló managed to pass one of the giant waves perfectly. Diego Medina, also Chilean, received the Big Drop and Surf Spirit awards, recognition given by the other competitors.More than a thousand people went to Punta de Lobos to attend the championship, one of them the Mayor of Pichilemu, Roberto Córdova, with some O'Higgins Sernatur (National Tourism Service) officials.However, the tour hasn't ended, and the beaches of California, Peru, South Africa and Hawaii are left.Surfwax, Inc., a metasearch engine and knowledge-tool provider announced its release of Wikiwax, a new portal for searching Wikipedia article titles.  This is the latest addition to its offerings of narrowly focused search portals, such as its News Accumulator and ShopEasier shopping portal.Wikiwax claims to index over 600,000 Wikipedia terms, and its list of titles was last updated sometime in March, 2005.  Once you enter terms into the search field, a menu of matching titles is shown; selecting one of the titles takes you directly to its Wikipedia entry.Wikiwax uses a Surfwax feature called LookAhead to suggest auto-completions of search terms as a user types them.  It matches both articles whose titles start with the search terms, and articles containing those terms in that order. For example, a search for "Wales, Jimmy" would find the article "Jimmy Wales". A search for "The Earth" would also match "The Earth Stood Still, The Day". Surfwax offered visitors this manner of LookAhead auto-complete searching for over a year.Other Surfwax projects include Nextaris, an all-in-one "information exchange" portal offering searching/uploading/sharing/publishing/social-networking, and search packages targeted to specific industries, such as the Surfwax Scholar portal offered to educational institutions.An annual survey by Transparency International (TI) of Berlin, Germany has shown Denmark and Finland to be the world's least corrupt countries, while the most corrupt are Myanmar and Somalia.The annual Corruption Perceptions Index listed 180 different countries. The findings were presented by TI chairman Hansjoerg Elshorst, who pointed out that the survey represented the "general perception of corruption and the fight against corruption". He also commented on the fact that five of the ten highest-ranking nations were Nordic - Denmark, Finland, Sweden, Iceland, and Norway all ranked highly. He said the main reason they did so well was that they all had highly transparent administrative systems. In addition to two Nordic countries, New Zealand was also ranked joint first. All three received ratings of 9.4 out of ten. Myanmar and Somalia both received 1.4 ratings.Meanwhile, Croatia, Macedonia, and the Czech Republic all were commended for marked improvements in their anti-corruption efforts. Some other selected results are Singapore at joint fourth with Sweden, the United Kingdom in 12th place, Germany in 16th place, France at 19th, the United States at 20, China at 72nd and Russia at 143rd. The difference between Finland and Russia, which is rated at 2.4, is so abrupt that it is thought that the Finland-Russia border is the most sudden change of corruption levels in the world, worse than the infamous US-Mexico border.Elshorst went on to demand higher levels of international efforts to combat corruption and for Germany's ratification of the UN Convention against Corruption.A new survey into the world's greenest and most livable countries has concluded that out of 141 countries reviewed, Finland is the greenest.Some of the top 20, in order, were Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Austria, Switzerland, Ireland, Australia, Uruguay, Denmark, Canada, Japan, Israel, Italy, Slovenia, France, Netherlands, Portugal, New Zealand and Greece. The poorest results went to African countries, which dominated the bottom of the table, with Ethiopia coming in last place."Finland wins high marks for air and water quality, a low incidence of infant disease and how well it protects citizens from water pollution and natural disasters," commented the study. Other factors taken into account when ranking the countries included quality of education and income level.Some other results were the United Kingdom at 25th, the United States at 23rd and China at 84.The study also looked at individual cities. Of the 72 examined, Stockholm came out on top, followed in order by Oslo, Munich and Paris. A total of four German cities were ranked in the top ten — Munich, Frankfurt, Stuttgart and Dusseldorf — and French cities Lyon and Nantes joined Paris in the top ten as well. New York came in at 15th and London at 27th. At the bottom end were mainly Asian cities, with Beijing's air pollution problems earning it the lowest spot in the table. Guangzhou and Shanghai were also near the bottom.The small African nation of Swaziland will receive a financial bailout from neighbouring South Africa. The South African government agreed to a loan of 2.4 billion rand ($350 million) after several organisations including the International Monetary Fund (IMF) rejected King Mswati III's request for a bailout. King Mswati III released a statement about the bailout saying, "We are thankful and also appreciate the assistance we have received from South Africa. This shows that they are good neighbours." He added "But it must be stressed that this is not a gift but a loan, which naturally should be repaid. This is why every Swazi must play his or her role by working hard wherever he is to ensure that the country gets back to its feet the soonest."The King has been criticized for living with 13 wives in luxury while the majority of his country lives in poverty.Despite the South African government's agreement, the bailout has been met with some concern. The opposition in South Africa said that the government should reject the loan as Swaziland is an "undemocratic state". However, the government has said that the bailout would bring stability to the state and surrounding region.The loan is expected to help Swaziland, which is going through a financial crisis.  The nation has reportedly been unable to pay some of its civil servants and could not afford antiretroviral drugs to treat HIV. Swaziland has the highest rate of HIV infection in the world. Earlier this year, the country saw a wave of protests and demonstrations related to the economic situation.In the past year, Mona Sahlin, the Swedish Minister for Sustainable Development, announced plans to break the nation's dependency on oil by 2020, without building new nuclear plants.  She stated that, “There shall always be better alternatives to oil, which means no house should need oil for heating, and no driver should need to turn solely to petrol.”As part of the program, Sweden has recently organized the roles of various agencies in the expansion of its wind power program. The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences is concerned the oil supply is peaking and that future high oil prices could cause global economic recession.  Sweden currently gets the majority of its electricity from nuclear and hydroelectric power, and 26% of all its energy comes from renewables (6% is the EU average).  Sweden's long term aims for energy independence are partially rooted in the 1970s oil shocks.In related news, Exxon Mobil Senior Vice President Stuart McGill claimed on Tuesday that energy independence for the United States "is simply not feasible in any time period relevant to our discussion today."  He stated "No combination of conservation measures, alternative energy sources and technological advances could realistically and economically provide a way to completely replace those imports in the short or medium term."  McGill proposed "energy interdependence" as the solution best suited to importing nations.In the past few years, and the past year especially, more European Union companies have relocated to Romania for to its lower labour cost and skilled workforce. Foreign investors have also been attracted by a new tax policy which started in January 2005, putting in place a flat 16% tax rate for personal income and corporate profit. Foreign investment is expected to increase in the future, as Romania signed in April 25 its Accession Treaty with the European Union and is set to become a member of this organisation on January 1, 2007.The US House of Representatives passed a significant overhaul of financial regulations that strengthens the government's hold on banks and also creates a new federal agency to oversee consumer lending on Wednesday."Never again, never again should Wall Street greed bring such suffering to our country," said House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-MD after the bill was passed by the House.The House vote, which was mainly split over party lines, had 237 representatives in favor and 192 opposed. Only three Republicans voted for the bill, though this was an increase from December, when no Republicans voted for the previous version of the bill. This new bill combines the old December bill with a newer one passed by the more conservative Senate last month.But even though the Senate passed their bill already, support for the one passed Wednesday looks a little uncertain. Since earlier this year the Democrats lost their 60 vote filibuster majority, they had to secure the votes of a few more moderate Republican senators to beat back procedural hurdles. Democrats struggled to win the full support of these senators even after backing down on a US$19 billion tax on big banks and hedge funds, which had been opposed by Republicans. This group of senators includes Scott Brown, Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins. All three voted for the Senate bill last month.The $19 billion tax was inserted in the 2000 page plus bill late last week, which came as a surprise to many large banks. Brown initially objected to the tax, and threatened to vote against the entire bill if the tax was not removed. Instead, the new way of financing the bill's cost will be using $11 billion in cash that came from ending the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), a bill passed in 2008 that bailed out struggling banks, and also by increasing rates that banks pay to insure bank deposits to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. However, the increase in rates won't affect banks with assets of less then $10 billion. On Wednesday, Collins wrote a statement saying that she now planned to vote for the bill. However, Brown remained on the fence and said he would use recess during the week of July 4th to examine the details of the bill. He credited Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd for "thinking outside the box" in coming with a new way to fund the bill.Other Republicans were much more opposed to the bill, and attacked it for failing to place tighter restrictions on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage giants that helped trigger the economic and housing meltdowns. House Republican leader John Boehner compared the new bill to using a nuclear weapon on an ant. In response, President Barack Obama said in a speech in Racine, Wisconsin that "[i]f the Republican leader is that out of touch with the struggles facing the American people, he should come here to Racine and ask people if they think the financial crisis was an ant."Swiss cement firm Holcim Ltd. today reported that net profits jumped by 67% in the first quarter. The company which has operations in over 70 countries revealed that first quarter profits were 169m Swiss francs (€110m; US$141m) up from 101m Swiss Francs last year.Despite what appears to be a large rise in profits, sales actually fell to 2.7bn Swiss francs — a drop of 1.1 percent. The jump in net profits was largely due to a change in accountancy methods. Operating profits rose just 10% to 411m Swiss francs. This small rise in operating profits was largely due to a major price increase in mature markets such as the US, enabled by strong demand in the marketplace.Holcim was founded in 1912 in Holderbank, Canton Aargau, Switzerland.  Today it employs 46,000 people worldwide and produces over 145m tons of cement annually. It has has recently acquired British- based Aggregate Industries PLC, and gained a controlling interest in India's No. 2 cement player, Associated Cement Companies Ltd.Holcim Ltd. is the world's second-largest cement maker, beaten in size only by Lafarge, a French giant which employs over 77,000 people and sold almost US$20bn worth of building materials last year.An American client of Switzerland-based bank, UBS, has won an appeal in Swiss court on Friday against providing the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) of the United States with relevant information about his offshore accounts.The Swiss court ruled that the man's failure to complete an IRS tax form, no matter how much money it pertained to, was not in itself fraudulent behavior.  The case calls into question an agreement made between Switzerland and the United States last year in which Swiss tax authorities would supply the IRS with information on nearly 4,500 suspected tax evaders and their respective accounts.A further twenty-five similar cases are still pending; the verdicts of which may be influenced by this precedent-setting case.The Swiss government will meet next Wednesday to discuss  how to better implement last year's Swiss-US banking accord. As it pertains to the case at hand, if they so choose, Swiss tax officials can file a further appeal petitioning the court's decision.UBS and the US Department of Justice both have yet to comment on the matter.According to the US government, UBS is "hiding" over US$15 billion in assets on behalf of American account holders.Eleven years of drilling and blasting using a total 16 tons of explosives were completed Thursday when Swiss engineers detonated the last few yards of granite completing the 21 mile (35 km) Lötschberg tunnel in the Alps.  The Lötschberg is now the longest overland tunnel in the world, and the third longest tunnel overall."With the breakthrough we have carved out the mountain for all to see. We are moving on," said Swiss Transport Minister Moritz Leuenberger at a ceremony marking the occasion, attended by about 1,000 people who witnessed the event in the midpoint of the tunnel, about 5,900 feet below the 12,170 foot Balmhorn mountain.The two halves of the tunnel met with almost perfect exactness.  The centers of the bores coming from opposite directions were only about 5 inches apart, and the heights were aligned within less than 1 inch.The new tunnel connects the Swiss district of Raron with the city of Frutigen, near the capital Bern.  Construction on the railway within the new tunnel is expected to be completed by 2007, and should shorten travel time between Germany and the Italian city of Milan by about an hour.  The cost of building the tunnel, at US$13 billion (€10 billion) has already overrun budget by US$3 billion, and 11 people died during its construction.The only two tunnels that are longer than Lötschberg are:The Seikan Tunnel, Japan's tunnel between the islands of Honshu and Hokkaido which passes part of the way underneath the seabed, and is the longest railway tunnel in the world at about 33 miles (54 km).The Channel Tunnel, once nicknamed the "Chunnel", which is the second longest at 31 miles (50 km), extending from Kent, England under the English Channel to northern France.The Lötschberg tunnel is the longest tunnel that travels entirely over land, surpassing the previous record-holder, Japan's Hakkoda tunnel, which was completed only two months ago on February 27 at a length of 16 miles (26 km).At least one future tunnel, Gotthard Base Tunnel, is planned to be the world's new longest tunnel at a length of 35 miles (57 km); it is also currently under construction in Switzerland, parallel to the Lötschberg with a planned completion date of 2012.Swiss people make large numbers of train trips compared to other Europeans, with an average of 40 trips per person annually compared to 21 in Germany, 14 in France, and 8 in Italy.  A major goal of the ongoing rail tunnel construction is to decrease travel times between popular destinations, with the state-owned Swiss Federal Railways (SBB) predicting a 20% increase in rail traffic by 2020.  Also under consideration are improvement of the rapidly growing crowding of traffic (particularly heavy trucks carrying cargo) in the narrow Swiss highways, auto accidents, and pollution.  Since 1980, Swiss highway traffic has increased tenfold, largely due to its geographical position along Europe's north-south axis.24 of 26 Swiss Cantons rejected the proposal for a single health insurance system, in which premiums would be based on income and wealth. The vote on Sunday was the latest in a series of attempts to cut rising costs and ease the financial burden on citizens.Around 71% of voters rejected the reform. Turnout was at about 46%, slightly above the Swiss average.As expected, voters in the main German-speaking part of the country turned down the planned reform, which was supported by the centre-left but opposed by the centre-right as well as the business community, parliament and the government.Opposition in the French and Italian speaking regions was less pronounced. The cantons Jura and Neuchâtel in the French speaking regions voted in favor of the proposed reforms.Health insurance premiums are higher in southern and western Swiss cantons than in German-speaking areas.The Swiss Interior Minister Pascal Couchepin said an important part of the Swiss Population appeared to be opposed to "a revolution" in health insurance but he said that he wanted current reforms currently under discussion in the Swiss Parliament to go ahead. He called on all sides, especially health insurers and the cantonal authorities, to make efforts to reduce spending on health insurance and aim for a greater cost efficiency. Currently Switzerland has 87 private insurers providing mandatory basic health care coverage for Swiss residents under a 1996 law. But costs have sky-rocketed. Over 100,000 people are not covered by health insurance due to non payment.Opponents to the initiative argued that a single insurance system would lead to complacency and create a two-tier system, in which the wealthy would be the only ones available to afford to have additional private insurance coverage.Supporters of the initiative said a single health insurer would increase the system's efficiency and allow for annual savings of at least 300 million Swiss Francs (about $245 million) in administrative costs. Currently, the funding system is unbalanced, since many clients on low incomes use state subsidies to pay their premiums, according to the Green Party and the Social Democrats.The initiative to unite all the insurance companies and introduce premiums based on wealth and income was the most recent in a series of attempts over the past ten years to reduce the public spending on health care. A proposal, similar to this recent proposal, to modify the funding system of the health insurance companies was rejected by 73% of voters in 2003.Switzerland has the most expensive health system in Europe. Switzerland's expenditure on health care was 11.6% in 2005, in front of Germany and France but behind the United States.It has been revealed that nine councils in Sydney, Australia have paid AUD$25,000 in investigator's fees over the past three years in order to gather evidence against illegal brothels.The Sunday Telegraph has reported Ku-ring-gai council paying $7,000 worth of investigators fees in the last month. Mayor Nick Ebbeck said the investigations actually include having sex with prostitutes in order to satisfy courts."We, like many other councils, have made a decision to pro-actively rid our community of these illegal brothels," said Mr Ebbeck. "We have to employ private investigators to actually go through with the act and come up with reports that will suffice in a court process. "On numerous occasions over numerous days and times they had to fulfill the act."Evidence gathered by investigators has been used to close down two brothels this month. The council is set to look at five more premises at a cost of around $3,500 per case. For the fee, the council is provided with a statement and a detailed account of the encounter. On occasion a video recording is provided.Under New South Wales law, local councils have to bear the onus of proof when dealing with illegal brothels in the state's land and environment court.Willoughby Council has also admitted engaging in the practice. According to The Sunday Telegraph, investigators were paid $1,500 for two visits to prostitutes earlier in the month. Willoughby's Director of Environmental Services said the council solicitor managed brothel investigations. Speaking of the programme's success, Mr Woodhams said over the last "couple of weeks" they were successful in closing a premises on Willoughby Road. He said the difficulty was making a case before the court."The difficulty is gaining evidence to make a case to the Land and Environment Court," he said."In each year, it could be potentially tens of thousands of dollars in private investigators and legal costs that councils have to bear."Other councils said to have engaged in the practice are North Sydney and Sutherland Shire.There are a fair number of legally licensed brothels operating in Sydney which adhere to strict guidelines, however there are a number of unlicensed premises which also operate. The New South Wales opposition has introduced legislation twice in recent years to move the onus of proof from councils and onto brothel operators. Peta Seaton, Liberal MP for the Southern Highlands attacked the Labor government for voting against the legislation."I have put all the evidence that people will be looking at today on the record in Parliament in respect of these and other councils, but in the face of private detective's reports and all the information that's in the media, Labor still voted this down on two occasions," she said.The legislation was voted down in 2002 and 2003 by the Carr-led government.Premier of New South Wales since August 2005, Morris Iemma said he would encourage councils to seek changes from the government but stopped short of announcing his own proposition. "The enforcement of this area of the law is with councils," Mr Iemma said."If the Local Government Association or the councils have got a proposition they wish to put to the government that would ease their burden on cracking down on the illegal activity then I'm happy to consider that," Mr Iemma said.Mobile phone operating software maker Symbian is licensing the Microsoft ActiveSync technology in a move that surprised analysts. The license would allow Symbian to develop a plug-in for mobile phones to let users check email that is served by Microsoft Exchange Server mail system.Symbian was formed in 1998 by Ericsson, Nokia, Motorola and Psion in a collaborative desire to counter Microsoft's emerging market power in operating systems for handheld devices. While Microsoft now provides the Windows Mobile software for mobile phones, it has not attained significant market penetration. At the same time, in part through the increased popularity of Research in Motion's BlackBerry mobile email device, users have come to expect their mobile phones to synchronize email with various mail servers — including Exchange Server.Symbian appears to be sensitive to the appearance of collaborating with the very competitor that spurred their creation. Symbian's press release emphasized that the licensing of the technology introduces just one of the many methods the Symbian software communicates with email servers. The spokesperson for the company, Peter Bancroft, was also on the defensive: "Microsoft isn't a monolithic company" he said, referring to the fact that Exchange Server and Windows Mobile are created by two different divisions of Microsoft.Shares of Research in Motion dropped on the news.Gidget, the chihuahua featured in the Taco Bell adverts in the United States has died from a stroke. The dog died at the age of 15 on Tuesday night. Sue Chipperton, the owner and trainer of Gidget commented saying, "She made so many people happy." She passed at Chipperton's home in Santa Clarita, California. The dog was featured in the 1990s adverts that ran from 1997 to 2000. Gidget was portrayed as a male dog and is remembered for the dubbed saying "Yo quiero Taco Bell" which is Spanish for "I want Taco Bell." The advert was meant to be shown only once but was turned into a campaign. Gidget was also featured in Legally Blonde 2 and adverts for the board game Trivial Pursuit.Taco Bell restaurants decided Wednesday to remove green onions from all 5,800 of its continental U.S. stores after a November 29 outbreak of E.coli food poisonings caused the voluntary closing of 9 mid-Atlantic states stores and led health officials to investigate the chain's regional supplier. As many as 66 people reportedly became ill in New York City, Long Island, New York, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey.The E.coli outbreak also caused Taco Bell Canada to recall green onions from all 182 locations across Canada. Officials with the Canadian branch said Wednesday evening that they would take precaution by removing green onions from all stores in Canada after hearing of the outbreak in the U.S.Jon Prinsell, president of Yum! Canada, which operates Taco Bell Canada commented:The U.S. Food and Drug Administration are currently collecting samples of all non-meat items including cilantro, cheddar cheese, blended cheese, green onions, yellow onions, tomatoes, and lettuce.A man from Pennsylvania became sick after eating at Taco Bell and sued the owner of Taco Bell headquarters in Irvine, California. Another one includes a 11-year-old boy who ate at Taco Bell, was hospitalized in New York, and also sued the owner.Most of the E. coli related sicknesses occurred in the northeast USA. No related sickness have occurred in Canada.Health officials investigating the source of the tainted green onions, also known as scallions, have traced the vegetable's food distribution chain to the Texas-based McLane Co., which in turn got them from Irwindale-based Ready Pac.The scallions were grown by Boskovich Farms Inc. of Oxnard, California said Steve Dickstein, the marketing vice president for Ready Pac. At what point in the food distribution chain the scallions became tainted remains under investigation.File:Air France Flight 447 Empennage removal 2.jpgA search team from Brazil has recovered a part of the tail section of Air France Flight 447, which crashed in the Atlantic on June 1. The Brazilian armed forces have released pictures of divers near the tail fin, painted with the Air France colours of blue, red, and white.Meanwhile, France said that it has dispatched a nuclear submarine to search for the airplane's flight data recorders, which could provide information as to how and why the jet crashed.Sixteen bodies have been recovered from the waters of the ocean last weekend.Brazilian president  Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva said that "everything was being done [...] so that we can find, if possible, all the bodies, because we know how much it means for a family to receive their lost loved one."2007 the 33rd Taipei International Electronics Autumn Show (TAITRONICS Autumn), organized by Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA) and Taiwan Electrical and Electronic Manufactorers' Association (TEEMA), started on October 9 -13 at Exhibition Hall 1 and 3 of Taipei World Trade Center (TWTC), and inconjunction with Taiwan International RFID Applications Show (RFID Taiwan) at TWTC Hall 3 and Taiwan International Photovoltaic Fourm & Exhibition (PV Taiwan) at Taipei International Convention Center (TICC). With the 3-in-1 combination, TAITRA and TEEMA hoped this show will integrate upper and lower companies of electronic manufacturers and companies in Taiwan.This 3-in-1 show is mainly focused on electronics parts and components, RFID solutions, photovoltaic products, and medias on electrical industry. About 1000 exhibitors exhibited with 2100 booths at TWTC Hall 1 & 3 and TICC. In the theme pavilion section, iF Design Award in Hanover Fairs set "iF Design Pavilion" with lots of awarded 3C products in Taiwan first time, also, Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) showed their solutions on home entertainment such as 3D LCD wide screen display and game projector.Not only ITRI and iF Design, TAITRA and TEEMA also set "Taiwan Innovalue and Branding Taiwan", "Product Certificates and Testing", "Cross-Strait Electrical Products", "Security Products", and "Broadband Communications" pavilions at this exhibition.With those pavilions, TEEMA also held lots of seminars and forums on Bluetooth technology, electrical industry, testings and certifications, and International Electrotechnical Commission Quality (IECQ) system. Furthermore, CARTS Asia 2007 is the most welcomed seminar by buyers and exhibitors.According to TAITRA, this 3-in-1 exhibition opened daily from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. at October 9 to 13, PV Taiwan forum and exhibition will be held only two days on October 11 and 12. For the quality and security issue, minors under 18 ages are not permitted to enter the showground.At the 4th day of 2007 The 1st Taiwan International RFID Applications Show (TaiwanRFID 2007), in conjunction with TAITRONICS 2007, the organizer TAITRA held an international seminar with RFID solutions at the entrance of the seminar. This seminar is mainly focused on some topics (RFID applications and solutions world-wide) continued from the exhibition at TWTC Hall 3.According to a survey by Institute for Information Industry (III), the top 3 productive value of RFID industry in Taiwan are sensor tags (39%), readers (31% approximately), and services (21%). This market trend can be observed at this exhibition with the industry nature of participated exhibitors such as chips producer, antennas, tags, and readers. Some of prominent manufacturers like IBM, Cheng Loong Co., Ltd., and ChungHua Telecom were participated at this exhibition.Not only the performance of RFID applications, some of companies simulated the process of RFID smart tags in the factory to buyers. NXP semiconductor and National Instruments (NI) also provided RFID solutions to ensure the quality of RFID tags such as RFID test system by NI.This RFID exhibition and TAITRONICS will open to 3 p.m. tomorrow.Leader of the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Sayyed Ali Khamenei, received the president of Tajikistan, Imomali Rakhman, in Tehran today.  Their meeting focused on expanding bilateral ties between the two nations and trilateral talks among the three Persian-speaking nations.  Moreover, both heads of state expressed the desire to expand ties with the Islamic world. Khamenei stated that the past of Iran and Tajikistan are intertwined religiously and culturally.  This is because Tajikistan was part of Iran before the late 1700s.   Nevertheless, Khamenei said the true religion of Islam is the key to Islamic unity among all of the Islamic Countries. Rakhman agreed with Khamenei and said, The Tajik president also said that should Iran, Afghanistan, and Tajikistan become linked through railway, then the flow of many resources to Central Asia and China will be made possible due to Iran's access to the Persian Gulf and beyond.Later, President Rakhman met with Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel, the speaker of the Islamic Consultative Assembly of Iran, and expressed support for the nuclear program of Iran,Take-Two, the company behind the Grand Theft Auto video game franchise, has reported a 74% rise in quarterly profits. The company also revealed that sales of its bestselling product; Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas had surpassed 12 million copies.The company stated that profits were $55.2m up from $31.8m in the same quarter last year.  Per share earnings were $1.19, comfortably ahead of analyst expectations of $1.09 a share. Sales also rose substantially, from $375.5m to $502.5m. Despite the news shares in Take-Two drifted $0.45 lower to $37.42 due to the company forecasting a loss of 20 cents a share for the coming quarter.The Transport and General Worker's Union and Gate Gourmet, the company that laid off 500 workers after workers staged unofficial strike action, will attend further talks held at a conciliation service by the Advisory Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS) on Saturday.The director of Gate Gourmet, Richard Wells, denied that he was being "heavy-handed" over the dismissals. He insisted that the people affected were spoken to, and given written warnings before they were sacked.As a result of British Airways (BA) staff at Heathrow joining Gate Gourmet's staff in the strike action, BA are running 50% of their short-haul flights, and 40% of their long haul flights today from 0600 BST/UTC+1. They are expecting to add more flights to the schedule as the day progresses, so passengers are advised to check the British Airways website.Analysts said that the disruption may lose BA next to £40m because of the refunds that the company are paying out, loss of flight revenue, and the costs of accommodating passengers in nearby hotels.Only passengers with confirmed reservations have been allowed to board flights at Heathrow. Barriers have been placed around Terminal 4 to stop people without reservations from joining flights. There are limited catering services on-board the flights.British Airways advises passengers to telephone +44 (0)800 727 800 or check their website before travelling to the airport. They also said that they would refund customers that had to stay in a hotel on Friday night up to £100.It is noted by passengers, though, that the advice line can be engaged for long periods, so users of the telephone line need to be patient.Qantas, Finnair, GB Airways, Sri Lankan Airlines, and British Mediterranean are also affected, as they were serviced by BA's ground staff. Their telephone numbers are listed below.The Tamil Nadu Government on Sunday said it would forego sales tax on the incremental component of the recent diesel price and yet maintain bus fares of State Transport Undertakings (STUs) at existing levels. Announcing this, Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi said following the decision, the incremental retail price, inclusive of the sales tax component, would come down from Rs. 2.23 a litre to Rs. 1.78. As a result, the price of diesel, that increased from Rs.33.72 a litre to Rs.35.95 on Tuesday, would come down to Rs. 35.50. But, by foregoing the sales tax of 45 paise a litre, the State Government would lose Rs.180 crore annually. The decision not to increase the fares would result in Rs.100-crore additional burden on the STUs, Mr. Karunanidhi said in a statement.His announcement came after a similar initiative by Maharashtra and a day after Union Petroleum Minister Murli Deora met him in Chennai. A couple of days ago, the Chief Minister had said that any reduction in the sales tax could result in the bus fares going up.  In the statement, Mr. Karunanidhi said the rising crude oil prices globally necessitated an increase in fuel prices. It had become routine for the ruling party to explain the circumstances leading to the increase and the Opposition to protest. The upward revision in petrol and diesel prices was being talked about by the Centre for some months now, but was put on hold. The Centre, he said, had little option but to increase the price despite some of the coalition partners opposing the move and even the President of the Indian National Congress (Congress Party) Sonia Gandhi not favouring it. While a reduction in levies on petroleum products by the Centre and the State Government was a temporary solution, the long-term solution was to reduce consumption of petroleum products and promote research on their alternatives.  In a statement, AIADMK General Secretary Jayalalithaa said the State Government could reduce the price burden by reducing the sales tax on petrol and diesel. Noting that it was not her suggestion but what Mr. Karunanidhi had given when she was Chief Minister, she said the Centre had recently said that such a move could reduce the impact of petrol and diesel price increase.Pirates have hijacked two tankers carrying a total of 374,255 metric tons of crude oil off the coast of Oman in the Indian Ocean. After these attacks, pirates now control 29 ships and 660 hostages; pirates recently released Keummi 305, a South Korean ship.Early Tuesday, an Italian ship, MV Savina Caylin, was boarded 670 miles east of Socotra Island. The oil tanker had 104,255 metric tons on board; it was traveling from Sudan to Malaysia. Shots were fired at the vessel, beginning the attacks at 0625 GMT; the pirates used rocket-propelled grenades and small arms. At the time, the tanker was 500 miles from India and 800 miles from Somalia. An Italian navy spokesperson stated that no one was injured in the attack—17 crew members were on board when at least 5 pirates boarded.A similar attack occurred Wednesday on a Greek tanker, containing 270,000 metric tons of oil, off the coast of Oman. Greek company Enesel SA, which manages the ship, reported that 25 crew members were on board. The vessel was headed from Kuwait to United States' Gulf of Mexico. Irene SL has not been in contact with its owners since the attack.In the Opening Day of 2008 AutoTronics Taipei (April 9), the Industrial Technology Research Institute of Taiwan (ITRI) invited Jamie C. Hsu (Consultant of Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Republic of the China and Former Management Executive Director of General Motors Global Technology) for a speech in the "Pavilion of Taiwan Automotive Research Consortium (TARC)" to forecast the future of automobile industry in Taiwan, which echoed the "Taiwan Automotive International Forum & Exhibition", held at TWTC Nangang in conjunction with 2008 Taipei AMPA.Before the main show, Department of Industrial Technology of Ministry of Economic Affairs supervised the establishment of TARC by ITRI, Chung-Shan Institute of Science and Technology, Metal Industries Research & Development Center, and the other academical and industrial units to improve the level of research and development including applications on security, artificial intelligence, and energy-saving.Romania's national airline, TAROM, has announced that, from May 15 this year, all of its flights from Bucharest, the Romanian capital, to Arad, a city in the country's west, will be cancelled, due to lack of financial viability and an increase in competition. The reason for the cancellation is mainly due to the planned inauguration on May 16 of a Bucharest-Arad flight operated by the private airline Carpatair, Romania's second-largest airline. Carpatair has grown very quicly in the past two years, adding several new destinations, both in Romania and abroad. Also, it has taken away many of TAROM's customers on international routes because it provides direct connections from Transylvanian cities such as Arad and Timişoara to German and Italian cities, saving customers the task of changing flights at Bucharest. Also, although Carpatair started out as a Transylvanian airline, it now also flies to destinations in Romania's east, and is expected to open up new routes via Bucharest, in a further attempt to compete with TAROM and win more market share.In 2004, TAROM was Romania's largest airline, carrying approximately 940,000 passengers. Carpatair came in at second, carrying approximately 271,000 passengers.Over 3000 protesters, dressed in black, marched the streets of Launceston, Australia on Saturday to show their opposition to the construction of a pulp mill by Gunns Limited. This follows the release of a survey, which showed that 40 percent of Tasmanians oppose the project. The mill has previously been opposed by the Launceston Environment Centre [LEC] and the Tasmanian branch of the Australian Medical Association [AMA], due to concerns about negative environmental and social impacts of liquid waste and air pollution. The LEC claims that there will be eight deaths per year from increased air pollution, and the AMA has already expressed concerns about Launcestons' current air quality, "Launceston has one of the worst air qualities within Australia," according to a written statement the AMA made in 2006. The statement also attacks the quality of modelling conducted by Gunns during the assessment of the mill. It says that PM2.5 scale particulates are "closely associated with the adverse health effects of particle air pollution", but were not measured in the assessment process. The pulp mill was green-lighted by environment minister Tony Burke in March, although no reassessments of air quality have been undertaken by Gunns. The company has stated that more work needs to be done to convince Tasmanians that air quality will not be reduced by the project.In her first election promise, Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard specifically offered parents tax breaks of up to A$800 to cover the school uniforms of their children.Gillard aims to pledge $220 million over four years to expand the current tax breaks to cover refunds each worth $390 for primary school uniforms and $779 for high school uniforms, as well as refunds for other school equipment like texts books and computers. "We all know that uniforms can be an expensive part of sending kids to school, but this change, along with the existing refund for textbooks and computers, will help families with that cost," stated Gillard.This comes amongst heavy speculation that a federal election is to be called in the coming days. Education Minister Simon Crean stated that the new proposal is an “important recognition of the cost of school uniforms and it builds on something that we have established in Government but intend extending if we're [re-]elected ...”As it stands, 1.7 million Australian children are assisted by the current tax breaks; this proposal could extend coverage to an additional million children. The tax breaks will not be available until after the lodging of the 2012–13 tax returns.Dozens of tax investigators raided Google's offices in French capital Paris yesterday as part of a probe into the company's alleged tax evasion.The raid was conducted by investigators from the state financial prosecutor's office assisted by 25 information technology (IT) experts, according to officials. "The investigation aims to verify whether Google Ireland Ltd has a permanent base in France" the prosecutor's office said, "and if, by not declaring parts of its activities carried out in France, it failed its fiscal obligations[...]".Google, a subsidiary of Alphabet Inc., reports most of its sales in Ireland. Google claims most sales contracts are closed in its Dublin offices. If investigation finds sales are being concluded in other countries, Google may need to pay additional taxes in these countries.In 2014 Google reported a total yearly revenue in France of €225.4 million with a profit of just €12.2 million, paying only €5 million in corporate tax according to the Financial Times. A Google spokesperson said the company is co-operating with French authorities and fully complies with French law.According to Reuters, a source from the French finance ministry said French tax authorities are also separately pursuing Google for €1.6 billion in back taxes.Hudson specialises in commercial real estate, consumer and credit card loans to individuals and businesses. The bank also had $8.85 billion US in assets at the end of it's first quarter, on March 31. The company's shares had been dropping in the course of the past year because of allegations of money-laundering violations and after an earnings warning, making it a good steal for TD. The acquisition will greatly increased TD's influence in America.This continues the recent trend for Canadian banks expanding into the U.S. where regulation on bank mergers is less strict than in their home country."This transaction delivers on our shared vision for growth and marks a significant milestone in TD Banknorth's expansion strategy," TD Bank CEO and president Ed Clark said in a statement.A deal between Sunshine Coast Grammar School headmaster Nigel Fairbairn and the Independent Education Union of Australia has ended a week of uncertainty for 22 of the Queensland, Australia school's staff.Last week Wikinews obtained a list of 22 middle management teaching staff allegedly made redundant, or laid off due to restructuring.  The restructuring is, apparently, designed to get teachers back into the classroom. During the week, staff, students, alumni and parents had accused the headmaster of being dishonest and not "tak[ing] a single question" on the issue.“At 10am there were 21 teachers with big question marks over their employment but by 1pm they had the assurance they would be able to apply for new positions before external applicants,” union secretary Terry Burke said. “Mr Fairbairn said it was clearly the school’s preference to continue the employment of existing staff. It is our view the existing staff are more than capable of taking on the new positions.”Sunshine Coast Grammar is a private Christian school approximately 95 km (60 miles) north of the state capital, Brisbane.Seagate Technology has said it intends to buy rival company Maxtor for $1.9 billion.  Both companies produce hard drives.  The deal, priced at 60% of Maxtor's closing share price, is intended to acquire Maxtor's customers, not its technology.Seagate, which also makes drives for Microsoft's Xbox 360, will have over 40% of the hard drive market share.  The Scotts Valley, California, based Seagate had 30% of the hard drive market.Provided the deal makes it past regulatory committees, Maxtor shareholders will receive .37 of a share of Seagate common stock for every 1 share of the Milpitas based company.On Friday, US-based technology giant Microsoft confirmed acquisition of software code hosting and version controlling website GitHub. The announcement was made by Microsoft via their official blog, which also mentioned Nat Friedman was to become new Chief Executive Officer of GitHub.Microsoft had announced plans to acquire GitHub for a price of 7.5 billion US dollars (USD) on June 4. On October 19, the European Union's regulators approved the acquisition. According to the June announcement, Microsoft was to pay the amount in stock.After Microsoft made the announcement, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella tweeted, saying, "I'm thrilled to welcome GitHub to Microsoft. Together, we will continue to advance GitHub as a platform loved by developers and trusted by organizations."In a GitHub blog titled "Pull request successfully merged. Starting build...", Nat Friedman said making the platform "accessible to more developers around the world" as well as "[r]eliability, security, and performance" were in "top of mind for" them. He also stated, "GitHub will operate independently as a community, platform, and business" and "will retain its product philosophy",  keeping "its developer-first values". He also wrote today was to be his first day as GitHub's CEO.Friedman was previously the CEO of Xamarin, a software company that allows developers to create native iOS, Android and Windows phone applications written in the C# programming language. Microsoft acquired Xamarin in 2016.According to Friedman's blog, GitHub is used by more than 31 million developers worldwide. Technology giants including companies like Airbnb, Apple, Google, Facebook and Microsoft itself have been using GitHub for their open-source projects. However, on May 31, days before Microsoft announced plans for GitHub acquisition, desktop environment software GNOME completed moving from GitHub to GitLab, another software code sharing, hosting and version control providing website, a competitor of GitHub.The Telecommunications Commission of the Solomon Islands (TCSI) have issued a fine to a Papua New Guinea (PNG) mobile phone provider, for failing to meet the deadlines set out in the terms of its license.  bemobile, the second mobile network service provider in the Solomon Islands, was supposed to have covered 50% of the Solomons by September 2010 and 75% by February 1st 2011.  Both targets passed with their requirements unfulfilled.The National Statistics Office and the TCSI investigated claims by bemobile that it had covered 64% of the Islands, but found the claims were incorrect.  As a result, the TCSI have now issued a fine of K2.6 million (US$1 million,£0.61 million,€0.72 million) to the company for breaking its operating license.This is the second time bemobile failed to meet its contractual obligations, and the Telecommunications Commissioner, Nicholas Williams, made it clear that they had fallen short of the target, despite being given time to sort the issue out.Williams said, "TCSI has found that bemobile has failed to meet its third coverage threshold of 75% of the population that commenced on 1 February 2011, as well as during the 14-day rectification period that was provided for under the licence."  Commissioner Williams also stated he could have raised the fine to US$2.5M, but he hoped that bemobile would use the extra money to meet its September deadline.In a statement to the Commission, bemobile admitted it had not built any new transmitter masts since the latter part of 2010.New Zealand's monopoly ISP, Xtra, owned by Telecom New Zealand, is going to credit 60,000 customers after completing an internal review of itself last week and finding that there was an error with its traffic management policy on their Go Large plan.The 60,000 customers, less than 10% of Telecom's subscribers, who subscribed to Go Large, which boasts full speeds and no data cap, since December 8, 2006 till late February, 2007 will receive up to NZ$160 in credit. Telecom has temporarily stopped either new or existing customers from signing up to the new plan, and will also ask existing customers in the next couple of weeks if they wish to change plans, stay on the same plan with a changed traffic management policy, or cancel their service.The credit, automatically applied to the affected customers monthly bill, will cost Telecom itself around $7.5-$8.5 million.Kevin Bowler, general manager of Telecom's consumer marketing, said that the traffic management policy process was found to be not what they had originally intended it to do. The fault applied to all forms of Internet use, instead of certain applications, like large music, or movie downloading. "Clearly it is not an ideal situation and therefore we are crediting Go Large customers for plan charges incurred during this period.""In this instance with the Go Large plan our internal technical review showed we had made an error and we believe that we are doing the right thing by crediting customers," Mr Bowler said.New Zealand's Commerce Commission has been investigating complaints by customers who say that they are not receiving what Xtra promised since the same time when Xtra initiated its traffic management policy, December. Deborah Battell, fair trading director, said that the Commerce Commission is pleased Telecom is crediting customers for its error. "However, the Commission is concerned that Telecom's actions may not address the full extent of the problems. The Commission will continue its investigation into whether the promotion breached the Fair Trading Act. In particular, the Commission is considering whether Telecom's initial representation that Go Large gave customers unlimited access was misleading, as the company's reasonable use policy in effect placed limits on use."The reasonable use policy meant subscribers could not download BitTorrents, or use other peer-to-peer services without giving priority Internet access to other subscribers.Ernie Newman, chief executive of the Telecommunications User Association of New Zealand (TUANZ), said that it is good that Telecom is to repay its subscribers for their own error, but says that it will diminish their trust in Telecom, and other phone companies. "We applaud their openness. But sadly it is another episode in a chain of events where customers have signed up for broadband services that were advertised as offering attractive speeds or data limits, but in reality have delivered a whole lot less.""Something in Telecom needs to change. There have been too many disappointments, too much over-promising and under-delivering. This simply adds to the concern of many people that when it comes to the impact of broadband on customers lives and businesses, Telecom has not yet got the message," Mr Newman said.Telecom New Zealand has announced that it is going to sell its Yellow Page Group business and is expecting at least NZ$2 billion. The Yellow Page Group includes the Yellow Pages, White Pages (which includes both offline and online services), New Zealand Retirement Guide and New Zealand Tourism Online.However Chief Financial Officer, Mark Bogoievski, will not comment on how much the reserve price is.The company says that the money they get from selling the directories will be used to repay almost $3.5 billion worth of debt.Theresa Gattung, Chief Executive of Telecom, said: "There has already been considerable interest shown in the future of Yellow Pages Group based on recent media speculation. We expect that the sale should be completed by the end of this financial year."The Yellow Page Group generates $250 million worth of revenue per annum and employs 600 people.Ms Gattung said: "In the long term the business will be dominated by the global players. It's really prudent off us to take this opportunity to see what value we can get looking at the sale of this business at this stage."Analysts are warning Telecom that it would miss out on the digital media possibilities. "It looks to me that it is a bit of a panic reaction in order to generate some quick cash," said, telecommunications expert, Paul Budde, "I think it's a short-term sort of strategy to generate some cash, but it will undermine its long term strategy to move from the old Telecom's world into the new digital media world."Ms Gattung said that the privacy of the individuals will be kept, "obviously we're only going to sell to a very reputable party."Telecom is also hinting at cutting hundreds of jobs to invest in new technology to beat off competition.A letter from more than 300 business leaders was published on Sunday in The Telegraph in support of the United Kingdom (UK) voting to leave the European Union (EU) in the EU referendum next month.The signators, writing in a personal capacity, are connected with businesses of small to medium size.  This is in contrast to multiple, high-profile, supporters of Britain Stronger in Europe, the official campaign to stay in Europe. This support has included financial donations from companies such as JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup. Those supporting a vote to leave the EU have previously claimed the campaign to remain is only supported by big business.The Telegraph suggested the letter would be interpreted as a response to last week's warnings from the International Monetary Fund and Bank of England that voting to leave the EU would have negative consequences for Britain's economy. These institutions warned that the UK leaving the EU would increase uncertainty as new trade agreements were negotiated, and cause a fall in the value of the pound sterling. One of the signatories, Lord Farmer, has also stated the EU will still want to trade with the UK, and has "no reason to put up barriers."The letter's publishing coincides with that of research from Vote Leave stating UK exports to the EU have performed worse over the last fifteen years than any other EU country. Vote Leave argue this shows "the 'single market' has failed British exporters".Bucharest, Romania —Communications corporation Telekom Austria has stated that it intends to expand in southeastern Europe and is specifically targeting the Romanian mobile phone giant Mobifon, which operates under the brand name Connex. Mobifon's Connex GSM network is the second-largest in Romania, with more than 4.9 million subscribers. Mobifon is also one of the largest and best-known Romanian companies, as well as one of the largest ISPs in the region.Several sources have stated that Vodafone, which has an important share in Mobifon, could sell its shares to Telekom Austria to take-over the Romanian operator for approximately 3 billion euro.This is not the first attempt by Telekom Austria in its drive towards expansion in the region. At the end of 2004, it signed an agreement to buy Mobiltel from the Bulgarian government for 1.6 billion euro. Telekom Austria also intends to expand into Serbia and Bosnia in 2005, followed by Macedonia and Montenegro.Mobifon, the Romanian operator, is currently a branch of Telesystems International Wireless (TIW), a Canadian communications company which also owns the Oskar brand in Czechia. The main shareholders in TIW are Netherlandic operator Mobifon Holdings BV, with 63.45% share, as well as Vodafone Europe BV (20.15% participation) and Deraso Holding BV (14.4% participation).With 4.9 million customers, Mobifon has significant market share of Romania's 10.2 million mobile phone subscribers. It also plans to be the first operator to establish a 3G network across the country.New Zealand's state-owned broadcaster, TVNZ (Television New Zealand) announced yesterday its proposed redundancy cuts that will see jobs go from various sectors, the most going from their news and current affairs sector.At least 140 people will be told that they will be set to lose their job in the next six months, at least 50 of those are from the news sector.Seven general reporting journalists will be leaving, which only leaves six left from the Auckland newsroom. Two sports reporting journalists will also be leaving from the Auckland newsroom, leaving six. Accredited parliament reporters also look to face redundancy cuts, as well as reporters from the Christchurch newsroom. As well as people losing their jobs, the Queenstown, Wanganui and Rotorua newsrooms will be closed, as well as the news reference library, and the current affairs show, Sunday looks set to close its Wellington office. Head of journalism at the University of Canterbury, Jim Tully says that the closing of the Queenstown newsroom is a big mistake. Current affairs show, Close Up will also lose two journalists and a Christchurch producer, but will gain a producer in Auckland. Fair Go, consumer affairs show, will lose three senior producers. Breakfast will lose a weather and sports presenter, and a producer.The final decision of the exact numbers will be disclosed in the next few weeks, following consultation with the Engineering, Printing and Manufacturing Union, which represents, altogether, 5,000 employees.Some of the job losses include experienced journalists, and Bill Ralston, former head of news and current affairs for TVNZ, said that they will be replaced by cheaper, inexperienced journalists. "If you do that your audience will reduce even further . . . this move makes no commercial sense whatsoever," he said.The Engineering, Printing and Manufacturing Union has described the job losses as an attack on democracy, and have launched a campaign titled, 'Our Media' to bring these issues to light. The National Secretary, Andrew Little has said that an essential function of communities is good quality regional news reporting, which will be reduced because of the job cuts.Steve Maharey, broadcasting minister, has refused to comment regarding TVNZ.Mr Ralston has said that this move will destroy TVNZ's 30-year reputation being "...a good quality public broadcaster who gives you a news and current affairs service that you can believe and trust."He also questioned why they were cutting the news sector heavily when there are other sectors that are unnecessary, such as human resources. "Last time I looked at TVNZ it had 25 people in its human resources division – TV3 has none." One TVNZ staff member has said that the job cuts were run by the human resources decision, and that they are very "anti-journalist".TVNZ plan to launch a new continuous news channel next year on New Zealand's new digital platform, FreeView.The New Zealand Herald is currently also looking at reducing staff numbers by outsourcing their sub-editors/copy editors.TeliaSonera Sweden has announced today that it is increasing the speed of data traffic through its GSM mobile network due to the introduction of EDGE technology. This will require an investment of approximately €110 million, over a four-year period. The new technology will enable transmission speeds of up to 210/105 kpbs.The company also intends to increase the coverage of its GSM network from 70% to 90% of Sweden's land area. While Sweden has a high mobile penetration rate and a high rate of coverage in terms of population, land area coverage was previously only 70% due to the country's relatively low population density as well as its northern highland areas.TeliaSonera is the largest communications company in Northern Europe, formed as a result of a merger between Sweden's Telia and Finland's Sonera. It is owned 45.3% by the Swedish state.Mayor Scott Jewell of the city of Dyer, Tennessee did not issue a "stop work order" to Dyer Grain Company late Tuesday afternoon as had been expected. The order would have temporarily halted construction of new grain storage tanks.Dyer Grain's efforts at expansion have been blocked several times over the past few years both by zoning restrictions on the height of structures and by citizens groups who filed suit against the grain company and the city's board of zoning appeals. The lawsuit was dismissed two months ago. The Dyer City Council then amended the zoning ordinance to include "grain storage tanks and bins" in a section of the ordinance listing exclusions, such as free standing spires and towers, to the regular 40 foot height restriction on buildings.Several citizens spoke at the November 28 city council meeting to address alleged deficiencies in the building permit issued to Dyer Grain. The citizens claimed that according to the site plan filed with the application for the permit, the location of the tanks will violate another provision in the zoning ordinance restricting the height of all structures to the distance from surrounding property lines plus ten feet. The citizens were also concerned over a "grain conveyor" that will cross a city street. Mayor Jewell indicated that he would contact the Gibson County building inspector (who is contracted by the city to act as the municipal inspector) to research the citizens' concerns.Jewell contacted Ricky Bailey, Gibson County Building inspector, on Wednesday. Bailey reportedly could find no deficiencies with the permit and, based on this advice, Jewell chose not to issue the stop work order himself. The City Council could still meet and vote to issue the order. The council meets the second Monday of each month."The main problem is that the grain company is in an industrial zone -- which is located smack in the middle of a low-density residential zone." Nathan Reed, an elected Alderman of Dyer said, "The property values in the area have increased (with inflation) but not at the same rate as other properties."Normal buildings, such as offices and warehouses, can't exceed 40' plus 10' to the eave.  The requested change in the ordinance changes the status of the towers from a building to the same status of an antenna or tower.Mr Reed added, "The height to the eave is 76', the height to the top of the tank is 105', the height to the top of the elevator (atop the tank) is 133'.  The 133' is the only measurement that matters now because the change to the zoning ordinance means this is no longer a "building", but rather the same as an antenna or tower.""The grain company specifically requested that change to the ordinace -- which was opposed by several citizens...They can build it as high as they like so long as it conforms to the overal height restriction for towers, spires, etc."Mr Reed commented on additional concerns, "The citizens are concerned about the health effects of (additional) grain dust, noise, and grain explosions."The new construction is expected to generate annual property tax revenues of $10,000 to $16,000.Despite heavy snowing, tens of thousands of workers and supporters marched today in Ljubljana, Slovenia in the largest demonstration since the country's independence in 1991 to protest against the government programme of economic reforms, including privatisation of public services, tax cuts for businessmen and the abolition of the lower value added tax rate for items like food and books.The protests, jointly organized by several trade union federations and attended by representatives of almost all Slovenian trade unions, began with an hour-long march from Ljubljana's Tivoli park to the Congress Square (Kongresni trg). Workers and trade unionists were joined by supporters from Croatia, Italy and Austria, as well as students, anarchist groups, and general population. Several politicians from the opposition Liberal democracy and Social democrats were seen in the crowd. Noisy protesters armed with whistles, rattles and even some flares, marched through the snow waving trade union flags and carrying banners denouncing government policies. There were even a couple of old socialist flags with red stars. Riot police were seen on side streets and guarding accessess to government buildings, but they did not intervene.The protest continued at the Congress Square with speeches of the representatives of trade unions and student organizations who denounced the government policy as leading into greater inequality and decreased standard of living for ordinary people. The loudest boos of the audience were drawn by the remarks about blaming the unemployed for being unemployed, introduction of university fees, and government's waiving of taxes and health and pension fund contributions for church officials. The speeches were followed by a musical program, but the crowd soon started dispersing to escape the weather. Trade unions organized transport for 40,000 people to attend, but many buses were stuck in traffic jams on snowy roads and arrived too late for the protest. The police estimated the number of protesters to 25,000.The Liquor Control Board of Ontario, Canada, reached a tentative agreement with its union one day before some 5,400 unionized employees were to walk off the job at roughly 600 LCBO outlets across the province. The Ontario Public Service Employees Union said it received a commitment that the provincially run liquor stores would not be sold, which was the main issue. Last week, workers voted 84 per cent against the latest contract offer from the LCBO, which called for raises of 11 per cent over four years to full-time staff.Taiwan Electromagnetic Radiation Hazard Protection and Control Association (TEPCA), an environmental organization set to promote environmental hazard warnings on electromagnetic radiation, protested over the potential health impact of electromagnetic radiation as Ying-jeou Ma, President of the Republic of China, visited this show on the 2nd Day of 2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei (June 3)."Base stations of WiMAX are unnecessary in Taiwan! The governmental people didn't care about the living and health of the public!" strongly stated Jiau-hua Chen, Chairman of TEPCA during the protest.The on-site rate of electromagnetic radiation was firmly higher than the international standards as some experts examined at the showground, according to the Taiwan Hakka Television. In addition, the TEPCA strongly appealed the governments and organizers to announce the place of base stations for health and safety issue.As a result of the protest, not only the information security, but also environmentalists disputed the future of WiMAX.A petrol pump at a Tesco supermarket became extremely popular with local customers due to an underpricing error.The supermarket filling pump in the village of Milton near Cambridge, England, starting dispensing fuel for £0.5 (US$0.64) per litre (equivalent to US$2.64 per gallon (US) ) for six whole days. Because of the fault, this meant that customers would be paying £20 for 50 litres of fuel instead of the usual price, £54.Six days after the fault was first noticed by customers, a mechanic fixed the pump on Thursday. It wasn't until the Tesco staff heard about it on the radio, did they become aware of problem. A spokesperson for Tesco said: "This was a technical fault at the pump and an engineer has now rectified the problem. Although we always aim to keep prices down at the pumps, unfortunately, we could not maintain this price indefinitely."According to a report released by the Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation (TESEV) for United Nation's Development Plan, the per capita GNP in Eastern Turkey, an area predominantly inhabited by Kurdish people, is as low as seven percent of that of the European Union on average. The report analyzed a region of 21 cities in Eastern Turkey*. One of the cities included in the report, Şırnak, was reported to be as poor as Botswana, Southern Africa. Other points highlighted in the report included:60% of the population in the region was under the poverty line. If this situation persists, people may start to migrate to Northern Iraq.If 1% of the national income is spent on Eastern Turkey's infrastructure and social investment for 7 years, the region will be enabled to finance itself. If the economic and social conditions in the region are fixed, the fragile relationship between the Turkish government and the Kurdish people of the region may improve.Access to health services is a primary human right. Without access to health services, one cannot expect that people of this region can live in confidence. Health institutions should employ nurses who speak Kurdish so the patients can communicate with the health services staff.The use of the private sector is not reliable as a solution. The government should act to remedy the lack of infrastructure in the region.Experts state that the lengthy drought conditions seen all over Texas this summer will effect the state's economy and ecosystems for years.  Climatologist John Nielson-Gammon told reporters that July was the hottest month ever on record in the state and that the 12-month period ending July 31st represented the worst drought year in Texas in at least 116 years. He was also quoted as saying that Texas has entered a "vicious cycle" where drought and heat aggravate each other. According to the U.S. Drought Monitor, 94 percent of Texas is suffering either extreme or exceptional drought. Travis Miller, professor of soil and crop sciences at Texas A&M University, has estimated that this year farmers and ranchers in the state will lose $8 billion, "the largest agriculture loss we have ever experienced." Miller also suggested that the worse outcomes may not even be here yet.  "Climatic models show there is another La Nina system, which is blamed for this drought, coming our way this fall," Miller said. "That is not a good thing."Tom McAlley, a rancher in Tatum, stated, "It's a big problem. People don't understand—this drought effects domestic and wild animals, the economy, everything." Texas ranchers complain of feeding their cattle this summer, which is extremely rare as cattle normally consume natural grasses and vegetation during summer months. Tim Jenkins, a rancher near Athens, stated during an interview, "I have three ponds on my [ranch] — they're all dry now. They should be teeming with frogs, insects. Small animals would normally go there to drink. I've got hundreds of dead fish in those ponds. I've paid huge sums of money just to feed my cattle this summer. If my parents were alive, they wouldn't believe what we're going through right now. I may see the effects of this for the remainder of my life."A small desk calendar, which started as a voluntary school project, has risen to unexpected heights of fame.His Excellency Dr. Suvit Yodmani, Thai Minister for Tourism and Sports paid tribute to the young creators of the "Chiang Mai Charity Calendar" by travelling up from Bangkok to preside at the official launch of this initiative, which is designed to increase visitor arrivals to the Northern Thai city, and raise funds through calendar sales for childrens' charities in the region. The event was held on October 5th 2007 at the recently opened Sofitel Riverside Hotel Chiang Mai, and attended by over 100 senior travel trade, airline media, consular and city hall representatives. In an evening which included a presentation of how the calendar was conceived and created plus solo violin and classical guitar performances by students, Dr Suvit gave a talk about the future of the tourism industry in Chiang Mai, highlighting the importance of environmental issues, and close co-operation between the government and private sectors. He cited the Charity Calendar as an example of what could be achieved even by schoolchildren in terms of tourism promotion, and gave it his wholehearted support.The evening concluded with the Minister presenting certificates of appreciation to the artists who painted the colourful images of the city which were chosen to be included in the non-profit calendar and representing why "Chiang Mai is a Wonderful Place to Live"Offered as an unusual gift, the desk calendar is likely to carry its promotional message — in text and childrens' paintings — into homes and offices in countries around the world.Thailand's anti-corruption body, the Assets Examination Committee (AEC) has instructed the country's tax authorities to issue a tax bill to the company set up by ousted Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.  The amount is US$616 million, or 20.89 billion baht.The company Ample Rich is registered in the British Virgin Islands, however the AEC stated the company could not evade corporate tax due to their operations taking place within the Kingdom of Thailand.With two of Thaksin's children on the board of directors of the company, and earlier rulings on tax liability, the Bangkok Post reports that the total tax liability for the Shinawatra family has now risen to 27.44 billion baht.The main reason given by the AEC for the tax bill is the underpriced selling of Shin  corporation shares to the Thaksin children at 1 baht per share only days prior to the sale of the company to Temasek holdings.  The actual sale of Shin Corp. sparked street protests in Bangkok as the then-Prime Minister was accused of profiting from selling a national asset after changing the law to allow the sale to be tax-free.In a move that has been greeted with dismay by some groups, Thailand's Constitutional Court has rejected a petition submitted by 28 of the country's senators.  The petition levelled allegations against the Prime Minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, of having maintained influence over Shin Corporation and been involved in the decision to sell the family's remaining stake in the company to Temasek Holdings, the investment arm of the Singapore Government.The court's decision to reject the petition seeking impeachment was reached following an 8-6 vote.  The submitting senators were said not to have provided evidence documenting Thaksin's interest in Shin Corp. or how he was involved in the sale.  This is despite a former judge from the Constitutional Court endorsing an opinion shared by some senators and academics that the court was bound by law and precedent to review the allegations.The president of the Federation for Democracy, Weng Tojitrakarn expressed disappointment at the court's decision not to review the petition, stating that "It's the duty of the court to seek evidences".  He pledged that his group would press for the resignation of the eight judges who supported the Prime Minister.According to Weng an interview with the Prime Minister's son, Panthongtae Shinawatra, reveals Thaksin's involvement in the sale. Panthongtae is said to have claimed the sale was a matter for "puyai", which Weng interprets as meaning Thaksin.This is not the first time that Thailand's beleaguered PM has faced judgement from the court, nor may it be the last.  In 2001 the court acquitted Thaksin by an even closer 8-7 vote.  The charge in that case was concealment of assets.  A new petition being organised by students of Thammasat University calling for impeachment has reportedly reached 20,000 of the 50,000 required signatures.Further controversy over the PM's family's involvement in Shin Corp. was revealed in a Thai News Agency report.  According to the Secretary-General of the country's Securities and Exchange Commission the PM's son and daughter may face fines for failure to report their shareholding in Shin.  Other issues relating to Shin Corp. are also under investigation by the SEC with collection of evidence and documentation expected to be complete within a week.Ousted and living in exile, with assets frozen in Thailand, former Thai prime minister Thaksin Shinawatra was ordered today by the Royal Thai Police to appear on charges related to the sale of some of his family's stock holdings.The order adds to mounting, increasingly complex legal troubles for Thaksin, the telecommunications billionaire who led Thailand until he was unseated in a coup last year.Thaksin and his wife, Potjaman Shinawatra, who are both outside of Thailand, were both ordered to present themselves to the Department of Special Investigation (DSI) by June 29 at the latest. A relative of Potjaman's, Busaba Damapong, was also ordered to appear."If they intentionally fail to appear, we must issue an arrest warrant," DSI chief Sunai Manomai-udom was quoted as saying by Agence France Presse.Noppadol Pattama, Thaksin's lawyer and spokesman in Thailand, could not say when his client would return."We will have to seek legal consultations among the lawyers. His security is only one factor. We will have to see what our options are and consult with him as well," Noppadol was quoted as saying by Associated Press.Last week, interim Prime Minister Surayud Chulanont and the junta's leader, General Sonthi Boonyaratglin, both said Thaksin could return to Thailand of his own free will, in order to appeal the seizure of his assets. But later, Sonthi said Thaksin might face harm if he returned too soon.The latest charges relate to the transfer of shares in 2000 in a real-estate company called SC Asset to a British Virgin Islands-owned company called Win Mark. Police say the Shinwatras' controlling ownership of SC Asset was illegally concealed through nominees. Potjaman's relative, Busaba Damapong, served as executive director of SC Asset.Through nominee companies and disclosed shares, Sunai said, the Shinawatra family owned 79.87 percent of SC Asset. "Not only did they have control of a majority stake but also control over board decisions," Sunai told Associated Press.They broke the law in failing to report their ownership in SC Asset and failing to report the transfer of the shares, Sunai said. They could face five years in prison and fined at least 500,000 baht (about US$15,000), Sunai added. Thaksin is also supected of violating the prohibition on Cabinet members holding shares in publicly traded companies, and could face up to ten years in prison and a 1 million baht fine for that.An appeal has been filed by the former wife of fugitive Thai ex-Prime Minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, against her conviction and three year sentence for tax evasion. Potjaman Shinawatra, step-brother Bannapot Damapong, and her secretary Karnchanapa Honghern were previously found guilty of conspiring to evade taxes in a share transfer deal.Thailand's Criminal Court ruled in July that the transfer of 4.5 million shares in Shin Computer and Communications (Now Shin Corp) was illegally declared as a family gift, and that the three conspired in the transfer arrangement to evade 546 million Baht (US$15 million) in taxes. Potjaman and her brother Bannapot were sentenced to three years each; her secretary Karnchanapa was sentenced to two years.The 130 page writ of appeal was filed today, citing ten points where the prosecution is contested. The court had ruled that the disputed transaction did not actually take place in the stock market and there had been collusion to avoid paying the due tax.Potjaman remains in self-imposed exile, having left Thailand while on bail following the prosecution. Her ex-husband Thaksin Shinawatra is believed to be in Dubai; the couple divorced in Hong Kong last week.The 24th Shin Kong Life Tower Run Up, the oldest building run up competition in Taiwan, organized by Shin Kong Life Insurance Co., Ltd., will be held on July 28, 2007 and promote "Bananas of Taiwan" as its main theme.At noon of July 11, the main organizer held a pre-match conference and invited well-known Taiwanese delicatessen connoisseur Hong Chen to demonstrate two creative cooking by using bananas and other fruit.Chen mentioned that lots common people in Taiwan lost the best origins due to pursuing new or fashion things, as they don't know the values of nutritions of bananas in Taiwan. As a living people in Taiwan, we can apply bananas from the other way like cosmetic or a perfume."Earlier, Shin Kong Financial Holdings Co., Ltd. also held a series of environment movie seminar to encourage people the importance of saving energy and using it appropriately. As now, international oil price raised, 'greenhouse effect' continued, everyone should concern about our environment for a better next generation." Shin Kong Financial president Frank Cheng said, after this press conference.The government of The Bahamas have announced that they have stopped accepting any new applications for oil exploration off their shores. The decision was made by the Ministry of The Environment.The Ministry released a statement saying "The Ministry seeks, by this decision, to maintain and safeguard an unpolluted marine environment for The Bahamas, notwithstanding the potential financial benefits of oil explorations." They also said that they were reviewing all current licenses. The decision has come after the Gulf of Mexico oil disaster.Environment Permanent Secretary Ronald Thompson said that while the ministry had yet to draft the necessary safety protocols, government would frame its future policies around existing ones from other countries.The announcement has come as a disappointment to several oil exploration companies including BPC. BPC already hold five licenses for exploration around The Bahamas but were hoping to seek for another one. Chairman of BPC, Alan Burns released a statement saying "Whilst we note this short term situation, there are exploration activities including drilling, proceeding in adjacent Cuban waters and significant previous drilling within the company's current license areas that we believe we do not face the same geological risks as those encountered in the US Gulf of Mexico. We enjoy a good relationship with Bahamian authorities and are confident that this situation will be resolved quickly."The Italian government recently set up an exclusion zone around their shores to stop oil exploration.The British Prime Minister Tony Blair has announced that the minimum wage is to go up from GBP 4.85 (EUR 7.03) per hour to GBP 5.05 (EUR 7.32) per hour in October and GBP 5.35 (EUR 7.76) per hour in October 2006. The minimum wage for 18-21 year-olds, the development minimum wage will also go up from GBP 4.10 (EUR 5.94) per hour to GBP 4.25 (EUR 6.16) per hour. The rises was a recommendation by the Low Pay Commission, a government organisation responsible in the minimum wage said that the minimum wage has increased the amount of jobs in the market. The minimum wage started in the UK in 1998 as one of the election proposal of the Labour government and it started at GBP 3.60 (EUR 5.22) per hour. The Trade Union Congress said they welcome the rise, however they want the minimum wage to go up to GBP 6.00 (EUR 8.70) per hour. The Confederation of British Industry (CBI) called for a "pause year" on the minimum wage to assess the above inflation risesPolitical speculators are says the announcement is to coincide with a possible general election in May this year.The inventor of The Club steering lock James E. Winner, Jr. has died in a head-on car accident in Clarion County, Pennsylvania aged 81 today. Two others died in the accident.Authorities say the accident occurred when Winner drove his SUV into oncoming traffic. The others who died were in Winner's car. They were Bobby Jarrett, 82, and Raymond Fair, 76.Winner created The Club steering lock in the early 80s after his car was stolen. He came up with the idea while fighting in the Korean War; he secured his vehicle with metal chains to stop anybody taking it. He said, "If they can’t steer, they can’t steal." He sold the first Club in Pennsylvania and later founded Winner International and sold over ten million units. Winner also owned hotels, a steel company, and other companies.A spokesman for Winner International said in a statement, "[this is] a very difficult time for all of us and the family would request that you honor their privacy."The Co-operative Group (Co-op) and Bristol-based Somerfield today agreed on a deal worth £1.565 billion which results in Somerfield being acquired by Co-op. Co-op has said that the acquisition took place on a "cash-free debt-free basis."Peter Marks, chief executive of The Co-operative Group, claimed that "this is good news for consumers and for competition in the grocery market, where we will create a stronger fifth player in food and a convenience store chain with unrivalled geographic reach." He then said that "for The Co-operative Group this is a transformational deal – cementing our position as the UK’s premier community retailer and helping us significantly as we lead a renaissance of The Co-operative brand. "Paul Mason, chair of privately-held Somerfield, also commented on the takeover. "The Co-operative Group and Somerfield have a similar focus in terms of customers, store types, product ranges and business vision. Our shared vision of providing a high-quality and affordable convenience offer to local communities means that together we will be twice as strong, and therefore twice as able to deliver the local grocery shops British customers demand," he said.With 4.4% share of the market, the Co-op is the fifth largest grocery chain in the UK. Somerfield is the seventh largest with a 3.7% share. The owners of Somerfield made their wish to sell the company clear in January of this year. Co-op first expressed an interest in the purchase in April.BBC News Online reported that the Competition Commission may force Co-op to sell some stores due to its increased presence.Warner Bros. Entertainment (a division of Time Warner, Inc.) and CBS Corporation announced today the merger of their two struggling television networks together to form one jointly owned network which will debut this fall.The new network, which is to be called CW (for CBS-Warner) will replace UPN and The WB networks, which will shut down. The network will be a 50-50 partnership between CBS and Warner Brothers. The network will be carried on stations owned by the Tribune Company, amongst others.The merger is in response to the struggling of both networks, neither of which have attracted much viewership away from the big four networks since they being formed in the early 90s. However each have had some strengths. The WB has been more popular with younger viewers and has had hits with television shows Smallville and Gilmore Girls. UPN has recently received critical acclaim for its sitcom Everybody Hates Chris and World Wrestling Entertainment's Smackdown! has been a mainstay since it debuted on the network. The new network's schedule will be announced in May; until then the networks will operate their schedules independently. The new network is planning to target the 18-34 age bracket in prime time, and will contain both shows from the WB and UPN.With UPN's 12 affiliated station, together with Tribune's 16 stations gives the new network coverage over half of the country. The Tribune stations that will be apart of the new network is WGN in Chicago, WB flagship station, WPIX in New York and KTLA in Los Angeles. WPIX will become the flagship station of the new network. Tribune will relinquish its 22.5% stake in the WB in return for a 10-year affiliation agreement with the network in turn.Dawn Ostroff, currently the president of UPN, will become president of entertainment and John Maatta, currently the chief operating officer of the WB, will become chief operating officer of the CW.The anti-globalization culture jamming group The Yes Men recently delivered a presentation at a Wharton Business School conference on trade and investment in Africa.A performance artist, using the name Hanniford Schmidt, pretending to be a WTO representative, announced a new WTO initiative for "full private stewardry of labor" in some parts of Africa.  His talk attempted to make clear that this meant slavery."This is what free trade's all about," said Schmidt. "It's about the freedom to buy and sell anything—even people."Schmidt reported that "One conference attendee asked what incentive employers had to remain as stewards once their employees are too old to work or reproduce" but that "there were no other questions from the audience that took issue with Schmidt's proposal."Wharton Business School placed a notice on the conference site stating that their invitation of Schmidt had been based upon his misrepresentation of himself as a representative of the WTO, and that they do not endorse his views.Daryl Brown, former trader of Oklahoma-based Williams Power Company, pleads guilty in federal court of conspiracy to manipulate natural gas prices between 1998 and 2002, during the California energy crisis. Brown is the third Williams trader to plead guilty of similar charges since 2004. Brown had agreed to cooperate in an ongoing probe.U.S. Attorney Kevin Ryan said, "Mr. Brown admitted that approximately 75 percent of the trades he reported to industry newsletters were deliberately fabricated.  These false data skewed published prices so the company could illegally profit."Brown will be sentenced on September 22.The United Food and Commercial Workers International Union broke away from the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO), making it the third union to split from the AFL-CIO this week over disagreements about how to revive labor's diminishing influence.The departure of the UFCW, along with two other unions, theTeamsters, and Service Employees International unions from the AFL-CIO means it is losing more than 4 million of its 13 million members.Union membership in the U.S. has been declining for many years, and the breakaway unions want to commit more money to recruiting members. They complain that the AFL-CIO has spent too much money on backing political candidates, particularly Democrats, instead of organizing labor.UFCW President Joe Hansen wrote to AFL-CIO President John J. Sweeney saying: "Tradition and past success are not sufficient to meet the new challenges."AFL-CIO spokeswoman Lane Windham responded, saying "The UFCW leadership decision to leave the AFL-CIO, especially when working people are up against the most powerful, anti-worker corporate and governmental forces in 80 years, is a tragedy for working families. Only unions' enemies win when unions split our strength.""The unions that split from the AFL-CIO now face the challenge of having to work together to maximize the power of labor," predicted Harley Shaiken, a professor of labor issues at UC Berkley.Their clearest difference is in how they want a national labor organization to operate, Shaiken said. The breakaway unions favor a more authoritative federation that can compel member unions to act on its directives.The departure is part of the biggest rift in organized labor since 1938, when the CIO split from the AFL. When the groups merged to form the AFL-CIO in the 1950s, one of every three private-sector workers belonged to a labor union. Today, fewer than 8 percent of private-sector workers are unionized.In what participants are terming a victory, all 28 of the occupiers arrested this morning at the Thomas Cook office in Grafton Street, Dublin, Ireland have been released with a minimal punishment and Thomas Cook management are returning to the negotiating table.Employees had made plans to strike in order to obtain a larger redundancy package following the announcement of the closure of their store; when the company attempted to close the store earlier and without warning, in response the workers began an occupation.Of the over 44 people occupying the office last night, 28 refused to leave and were arrested between 4am and 5am this morning in a pre-dawn raid by the Garda Síochána reported to have involved at least 80 officers. "It was quite scary" when the police broke through the office's glass door, noted occupier Caroline Cullen, speaking to Wikinews. "We haven't had any notice", she recalls telling the officers. Occupiers had expected the police to arrive later at 11am.Cullen reports that of the 28 arrested, 27 went immediately to jail where they spent about nine hours; the 28th, Avril Boyne, was nine months pregnant and entered labour as the police arrived. She was taken to hospital and delivered a healthy baby girl, Chelsea, just after 11am.While in jail, Cullen says that the 27 "weren't treated like criminals". They were not handcuffed and were provided with good food. The meal consisted of a hot lunch of fish & chips, and chocolates for dessert. The Gardaí also gave the occupiers private toilet facilities.In court, the arrests of the 27 for contempt of court were purged, on the condition that they each sign a document saying they would comply with the court order in the future.The employees of the Thomas Cook office in Grafton Street will return to work as usual tomorrow, with negotiations about the size of the employees pension package resuming tomorrow morning between the employees and Thomas Cook management. The workers will be represented by TSSA general secretary Gerry Doherty. Cullen told Wikinews that the Thomas Cook workers were "absolutely delighted" with the situation and hope to have a final settlement with the company tomorrow.The Thomas Cook employees were supported in their occupation by the community and an impromptu and growing coalition of left-wing political groups. Socialist Party Councillor Matt Waine and People Before Profit Councillor Richard Boyd Barrett were among the 28 arrested this morning; the Workers Solidarity Movement and Eirigí also supported the demonstrations from the beginning; Sinn Féin made an official declaration of support after this morning's arrests; and two Labour Party (Ireland) TDs, not speaking officially for the party, criticised Thomas Cook management's conduct in statements released after the occupiers were released.Trade union Unite has declared solidarity with the TSSA and the Thomas Cook workers.Speaking to Wikinews from Socialist Party headquarters, Matt Waine told Wikinews that he and his party consider the results of the Thomas Cook occupation "definitely not a loss. It's a victory. The workers have laid down a very important marker for other workers that are in a similar situation." Workers, though, must remain militant, he said: "we feel that this issue has thrown the gauntlet down as to what they [workers] can expect from the police, the state etc. if they take action...this doesn't end here. I think the issue still remains of justice for the workers in terms of a decent redundancy package."Waine also took issue with the TSSA's refusal to support the occupiers after last night's court order ruled that the industrial action was an illegal occupation. While allowing that the TSSA's response in court was made "under pressure", Waine said that always complying with the law, as general secretary Doherty pledged the TSSA would do, is "not what the trade union should stand for. The rights of members should be paramount."Thomas Cook management was unavailable for comment.The Thomson Corporation and Reuters Group PLC announced Tuesday that they have agreed to combine the two companies. The boards of both Thomson and Reuters will recommend the merger to their shareholders.The Canadian Thomson-family holding company Woodbridge, which controls 70% of Thomson, has agreed to vote in favour of the deal and the Reuters Founders Share Company, which controls a special share in Reuters, will also support the merger.Based on the TSX CA$46.36 closing share price of Thomson on May 14, 2007, each Reuters share would be valued at 691 pence and, therefore, the full capital of Reuters valued at approximately £8.7 billion. Cash requirements for the deal are to be provided by Thomson. Woodbridge will own approximately 53 percent of the combined company, other Thomson shareholders 23 percent and Reuters shareholders about 24 percent.The merger arrangement will leave two separate companies that will be operated as a single entity. The boards of the two companies will be identical as will the senior executive management team. Thomson will be renamed to Thomson-Reuters Corporation, and will be listed on both the TSX and the NYSE. Thomson-Reuters PLC will list on the London Stock Exchange and the NYSE.Reuters current CEO, Tom Glocer, will become CEO of the combined company while Thomson President and CEO Richard J. Harrington will retire at the completion of the merger.Thomson has currently 32,000 employees worldwide, with operations in 37 countries and  revenues of US$6.6 billion in 2006. Thomson's major business operations centre around financial information and legal services, with smaller ventures in tax accounting, health care, and the scientific field. Thomson is headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, in the United States.Reuters is one of the world's largest news agencies, with a total of 16,800 staff in all divisions, but derives more than 90 percent of its revenue from its financial service business. It is the merger of Thomson and Reuter's financial services divisions that may have been the genesis of the talks. It has been suggested that both companies wanted a better economy of scale to compete with Bloomberg, the American financial services giant."We are enormously proud of the evolution of The Thomson Corporation and the value it has created for all our shareholders," said David Thomson, Chairman of Thomson. "We recognize the rich history of Reuters and are committed to uphold the Reuters Trust Principles."The chairman of Reuters, Niall FitzGerald, expressed his satisfaction with the merger. "The shared expertise and complementary strengths of these two companies makes for a strategically compelling and financially attractive combination," said FitzGerald in a joint press release. "I am especially proud that Reuters journalism will continue to be governed by the powerful Reuter Trust Principles of independence, integrity and freedom from bias."The new company is projecting efficiencies of greater than US$500 million per year, by the end of the third year after closing the deal.Criticisms were raised by Reuters journalists, who voiced concerns in an open letter to the Reuters Founders Share Company. They worried whether or not "a reconstituted Reuters would maintain the high standards of journalism and the integrity, independence and freedom from bias that have shaped the company's 156-year-old reputation."It is expected that the merger will draw the attention of regulators due to the size and nature of the transaction. "Antitrust authorities in Europe and the U.S. are almost certain to apply a more detailed and lengthy review of the acquisition than is typical, because of the limited number of companies that supply prices, data, news and financial tools," said Simon Baker, analyst, Credit Suisse in London.Thousands of demonstrators marched in London today over the tax affairs of Prime Minister David Cameron which were revealed as part of the leak of the Panama Papers.The protest started around 11:00 local time (UTC+1) on Whitehall opposite the police-guarded entrance to Downing Street, the Prime Minister's official residence. Just after 11:00, protesters blocked traffic on the northbound carriage in Whitehall. At 11:20, the police asked the protesters to move back on to the pavement, stating that they needed to balance the right to protest with the traffic building up. Around 11:29, the protest moved up Whitehall, past Trafalgar Square, along the Strand, passing by Aldwych and up Kingsway towards Holborn where the Conservative Party were holding their Spring Forum in the Grand Connaught Rooms hotel.The protest was organised after it was revealed that David Cameron has profited from offshore investments held by his father, Ian, that were organised in part by Mossack Fonseca, the Panama-based law firm whose communications were recently published.International steel conglomerate Corus Group is to axe 3,500 jobs worldwide.Up to 2,000 jobs are to be lost in the former British Steel plants in the United Kingdom. Owner Tata Steel employs 42,000 people worldwide, with 24,000 being in the UK. Corus did not comment on the report so far, but a union official told BBC News that the company would be making an announcement at 0930 UTC on Monday. The cuts would be part of long term restructuring plans made by soon to depart CEO Philippe Varin, which have been accelerated by the worldwide downturn.Tata Steel's sister company Tata Motors is said by The Sunday Times to be considering 1,500 job losses at the UK's Jaguar Land Rover car manufacturer. It is not thought that any Corus plants in the UK will close outright.Corus was formed from the merger of British Steel and the Dutch steelmaker Hoogovens, creating the ninth largest steel company in the world and the second largest in the European Union. The merger was uncomfortable and the company suffered severe financial problems in 2003. It later recovered and was bought by India's Tata two years ago.In New South Wales today, thousands of people joined a protest including 15 Labor Members of Parliament about the State Government's plans to privatise the electricity industry.The MPs included Paul Gibson, Upper House president Peter Primrose, and former MPs Kerry Hickey and Grant McBride.Mr Gibson was reported as saying, "I'm a member of the Australian Labor Party and I'm sticking to the Labor platform and policy."The Government seems to have ignored the positions of the protesters, with Premier Morris Iemma expressing to the first sitting of Parliament for 2008 that his Government's plans would proceed.Related instances in Tamworth occurred, when workers in the Electricity Trade Union walked off the job.As many as 1.5 million government workers, members of 11 unions, went on strike on Tuesday in protest of a government decision to reduce their retirement benefits, a change which would take effect in October.The strike closed thousands of schools, libraries and leisure centres, disrupted commuters, and reduced some facilities to emergency only staffing.UNISON claimed that more than a million workers had joined the strike, with General Secretary Dave Prentis saying "this overwhelming show of strength from Lands End to John O'Groats has obviously taken the Local Government Association and some local councils by surprise".The benefits change, would effect the "85 year rule," of the Local Government Pension scheme, which allows government employees to retire at 60 as long as the sum of their age and their years of employment sum to 85 or greater.  According to union representatives, the new retirement plan is targeted at lower paid employees, leaving higher paid employees to enjoy the same benefits as before.Ahead of the strike, the Local Government Association claimed that the changes proposed by unions "would add at least 2% a year to every council taxpayer's bill".The participating unions point out this is likely to be the largest strike in Britain since 1926.Last Friday, thousands of people, in a total of more than thirty US cities, took part in a protest against the economic policy of the US government.The event, which was inspired by the Boston Tea Party, took place due to comments made by CNBC presenter Rick Santelli."This is America! How many of you people want to pay for your neighbors' mortgages, that has an extra bathroom and can't pay their bills?" said Santelli, speaking on-air to the television audience.  "We're thinking about having a Chicago tea party in July. All you capitalists that wanna show up at Lake Michigan, I'm gonna start organizing." The protest took place in anger against the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA). Several protesters voiced their opposition to this act. "I'm sick and tired of it," said protester Barbara Keeton, speaking to WYFF4.com. "That's my money. That's my grandchildren's future. It's down the toilet.""The debt that Obama's got, is way higher now, less than 100 days after he's been in office," she continued.Organizers of Friday's protests have announced that they are planning a new series of protests on April 15.The Singapore Navy on Thursday warned of a possible pirate threat to ships passing through the Strait of Malacca after receiving a correspondence from an unnamed terrorist organization.According to the Navy, the intent of the terrorists was to "achieve widespread publicity and showcase that they remain a viable group." While the threat received covered only oil tankers, other large cargo ships were also at risk of attack, naval officials went on to say.  To reduce possible risks, the Navy urged ships to strengthen onboard security, including adding additional lights and lookouts. They also recommended that ships maintain a higher speed and report any unusual incidents to the proper authorities. The advisory said that past attacks in the Strait had been carried out by small vessels such as motorboats or fishing boats with armed crews. Commercial vessels were also warned to avoid known fishing areas accordingly.The Singapore Navy said that it had contacted other countries in the area to warn them of the threat. Both Indonesia and Malaysia have also announced plans to increase patrols in order to provide additional security.The Strait of Malacca is a major conduit for oil shipments. With around a third of global oil shipments passing through, it is the main route for travelling from the Middle East to Asia. Any attack on vessels within the Strait would likely have a major ripple effect on global trade.File:240-dogFighting.jpgThree Finnish men have been arrested as part of an investigation by the Finnish National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) into apparent illegal dogfights in various locations in the south of the country.Dog fights, in which two dogs are pitted head-to-head for the entertainment of spectators and for gambling, is illegal in Finland, and is covered by Finland's animal protection laws, as dogs often sustain severe or even fatal injuries. It is believed this case also involved gambling, thus rendering the suspects, if convicted, in breach of gambling laws also.The investigation was started in July after the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) forwarded information to the NBI, claiming that during an investigation of its own for a programme it was making into dog fighting in the United Kingdom, they had uncovered connections to comparable activity in Finland."We are trying to find out when the activity has started and how widespread it has been. Apparently, just a small gang of people has been involved." said Detective Chief Inspector Göran Wennqvist, adding that "We are now trying to find out whether or not this is part of a larger international organisation or just local criminal activity."It is believed the dogs went through training fights to test if they were suitable for fighting prior to actual events. A number of animals thought to have been used for fighting have been examined by a veterinarian to determine the types of injuries sustained by the dogs.Despite the fact that dog fighting is known to have occurred in various countries - including countries close to Finland, such as Sweden, Norway, and Russia - neither the police or the Finnish Kennel Club were aware of any previous incidents occurring in Finland, although chairman of the board of the Finnish Kennel Club Martti Mannersuo told reporters that he recalled a rumour "many years ago" of domestic dog fights occurring in Finland, although this went unconfirmed. Wennqvist, however, independently told YLE "In other Nordic countries, they have seen incidents of dog fighting since the 90's, but I haven't come across any cases in Finland in 32 years," although it is unclear if this was a confirmed case or if it were linked to the rumour Mannersuo had reported.Wal-Mart Canada's first three supercenters opened in Ancaster, London and Stouffville, Ontario.The idea originally started in the United States in late 2005 and was announced that it would be arriving in Canada.Flat screen TVs suspended from the ceiling will feature a television network, featuring fashion shows of Wal-Mart's clothing lines, TV commercials featuring brands the retailer carries, and corporate messages.With an expanded selection of electronics, hardware, home and housewares, the Wal-Mart supercentre could be compared to Future Shop, Home Depot, Home Outfitters, Shoppers Drug Mart, and Fortinos. The supercentre has wider aisles, higher ceilings, clear signage, and cash registers in selected departments such as electronics and clothing."Our goal is to become the one-stop shop for customers," said Mario Pilozzi, chief executive of Wal-Mart Canada. "You see how fresh that is today? We are going to maintain that freshness in these stores."Wal-Mart's Canadian supercentres are more sophisticated then their U.S. counterparts, because Canadian grocers have created higher expectations among the average consumer, company officials say.However, Wal-Mart openings are controversial in many communities. Activists claim they can be detrimental to local economies, driving out locally owned businesses, lowering wages, and leading to suburban sprawl.Wal-Mart already has plans to open fourteen new supercentres in 2007, of them Scarborough, Sarnia, Brampton and Vaughan will be early in the year.The United States amusement park operator Six Flags has shut down nine thrill rides at four parks after a 13-year-old girl's feet were cut off on a tower-drop ride yesterday at Six Flags Kentucky Kingdom in Louisville.Kentucky state officials said a loose cable on a ride called the Superman Tower of Power severed the girl’s feet above the ankles, but they had not determined how the cable broke free, or at what point in the ride the accident happened. The ride lifts passengers 177 feet (54 metres) straight up, then drops them nearly the same distance at speeds reaching 54 mph (86 km/h).The girl, whose identity has not been released, was taken to a hospital. Details of her condition were not immediately available.Six Flags spokeswoman Carolyn McLean told The Courier-Journal that there has never been a major incident on the Tower of Power. Formerly known as the Hellavator, the ride was built in 1995.In addition to Kentucky Kingdom, rides have been shut down at Six Flags Great America in Gurnee, Illinois; Six Flags St. Louis in Eureka, Missouri; and Six Flags America, Prince George's County, Maryland.A Superman Tower of Power Ride at Six Flags Over Texas in Arlington has not been shut down because it is not the same as the ones in Kentucky and the other locations that have been shut, Six Flags spokeswoman Wendy Goldberg told the Associated Press.The rides that have been shut down are made by a Swiss-owned company called Intamin.Cedar Fair Entertainment Company said it was shutting down similar thrill rides at its theme parks at Kings Island in Mason, Ohio; Canada's Wonderland in Vaughan, Ontario; Kings Dominion in Doswell, Virginia; Carowinds in Charlotte, North Carolina; and Great America in Santa Clara, California.Time Warner Inc announced that they are unable to locate a container holding 40 backup tapes. These tapes contain personal information on 600,000 current and former employees back to 1986. This information includes details on dependents and beneficiaries, in addition to Social Security numbers. Customers were not affected, Time Warner said.The U.S. Secret Service is investigating and has not found any evidence that the tapes have been misused. This loss affects most of the 85,000 current employees. The tapes were lost by Iron Mountain Inc., a data storage company, which routinely handles off-site data storage for Time Warner and many other Fortune 500 companies. Time Warner has said that the tapes would require expensive equipment to read them, and that they were encrypted.New York — Time Warner Cable is close to a deal with Sprint Corp. to offer mobile telephone service under the TimeWarner brand to the cabler's 11 million subscribers, according to a report in Wednesday's The Wall Street Journal.If such a deal is struck, Time Warner will be the first cable company to offer the so-called "quadruple threat" in telecommunications, by offering voice, video, internet and mobile services in a single package.The Journal reported that Time Warner would test market the new mobile service in Kansas City before the end of March.Any such deal could strengthen Time Warner's plans to expand its entry into the telephony market. The company said it expects to have 200 thousand voice customers when it closes its 2004 books Friday. As of mid-December, the company said it was adding about 10 thousand new wired voice customers per week.For voice customers Time Warner is competing with regional telephone monopolies Verizon, SBC and BellSouth, which among them control the two largest mobile networks in the United States: Verizon and Cingular.A bid topping $17.7 billion was jointly proffered by Time Warner Inc. and Comcast Corporation on Thursday to buy beleaguered Adelphia Communications Corporation in an industry consolidation move. Adelphia is the fifth largest cable service provider in the United States with nearly 5 million subscribers.The market-share grabbing bid trumps the previous Cablevision offer of $16.5 billion.  The bid is under scrutiny by the presiding judge over the Adelphia’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, and must also be approved by the company’s creditors owed in the range of $20 million.The acquisition race to gain dominance in the cable service provider market is driven by the high cost of  installation and maintenance of cable lines. Fiber optic networks deliver traditional entertainment programming over a cable wire and is becoming increasingly popular for broadband internet content. The growing trust and recognition of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) suggests phone service subscribers will eventually migrate to cable voice communication as opposed to keeping with traditional copper land lines. Telephone company operators are scrambling to keep up.The largest percentage of the bid would be put up by Time Warner (TW), who could gain by getting subscribers from the valuable Los Angeles market currently owned by Comcast and Adelphia. TW can also simultaneously divest itself of a stake owned by Comcast in TW by making a tax-free swap using some of the newly garnered Adelphia subscribers.While the consolidation would likely get a look by the government with an eye towards a growing monopoly in the market, it would doubtfully be blocked considering the existence of competing technologies. Competition exists in the form of still numerous television by airwaves usage, satellite providers, radio content companies, and telecom providers.Adelphia suffered a corporate scandal in 1992 with similarities to the WorldCom fall. Members of the Rigas family, founders of the company, were alleged to have siphoned off millions of dollars and hidden $2.3 billion leading to the bankruptcy filing. John Rigas and son Timothy were convicted July of 2004 and await sentencing.Several tobacco manufacturers and retailers in the United Kingdom have been fined a total of £225 million for price fixing. The fines were imposed by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) following an investigation lasting seven years. It is the largest penalty ever issued by the OFT for breaches of the 1998 Competition Act, with the case involving two major tobacco makers and numerous British supermarkets.Together the manufacturers involved, Imperial Tobacco (whose brands include Golden Virginia and Lambert & Butler) and Gallaher Group (who own Silk Cut and Benson & Hedges among others) make almost 90% of all cigarettes and roll-ups sold in the UK. They were fined £112 million and £50 million respectively.The supermarkets facing the largest penalties were Asda and The Co-operative Group, at £14 million each. Other stores fined were First Quench, Morrisons, Safeway, Shell garages, Somerfield, T&S Stores (now One Stop) and TM Retail. Also taking part in the price fixing were Sainsbury's, though they received immunity from being fined after alerting the OFT and co-operating with the investigation. Some of the other companies also earned reductions in their fines through co-operation with the OFT.Similar allegations against Tesco were not pursued due to a lack of evidence.Imperial Tobacco denied the charges, claiming in a statement that its dealings with the retailers were simply legitimate "promotional arrangements". They have said they are considering an appeal against the decision.In a press release the OFT said that the fines would send out a strong message. "Practices such as these, which restrict the ability of retailers to set their resale prices for competing brands independently, are unlawful." said Simon Williams, OFT Senior Director of Goods. "They can lead to reduced competition and ultimately disadvantage consumers.""This enforcement action will send out a strong message that such practices, which could in principle be applied to the sale of many different products, can result in substantial penalties for those who engage in them."Toilet paper supplies in Trenton, the capital of the US state of New Jersey, may run out by week's end following their city council's dispute over budgets.The council has declined to sign a contract for paper products worth $42,573 after falling out over a $4,000 charge for paper cups.Lauren Ira, a spokeswoman for Mayor Tony Mack, said that while the money has been made available to purchase the tissue, the Council is unwilling to sign the contract. The decision means that buildings such as Trenton City Hall may run out of toilet paper by Friday.Former police officer George Muschal, now Trenton's South Ward Councilman, spoke of the decision in an interview with Bloomsberg. He said the Council was not willing to bow to Mack's order for paper cups, designed to carry hot beverages. He cited reports that the extreme nature of the order was down to fears some cups would be "stolen" for home use. He told the website: "We're the checks and balances over the administration, and we're not going to send out any blank checks."The rejected contract for paper products is part of a $182.6 million budget laid out by Mack in November. The budget has yet to be adopted due to arguments over its viability; if agreed, it will go into place on July 1, the start of the new fiscal year.Toll New Zealand has announced that it will keep the Overlander train service but on a reduced timetable, the service was initially due to stop service September 30. Toll said that they reached the decision because of the huge amount of public support the train service received, including a 16,000 person petition.The Overlander will originally run for only three days a week; Friday, Saturday and Sunday during winter on the original timetable. But during summer through to autumn the service will run seven days a week. Toll hopes that this will cover all the needs of its patrons.David Jackson, Toll NZ CEO, said: "We have had tremendous support from the regional councils and will consider an upgraded service option and offering alternate packages aimed at both domestic users and the tourist market."Jackson said: "The continuation of the Overlander allows Toll to look at other funding options. We want to explore options that may be open to us to achieve this with the support and input of various interested parties. We especially appreciate the support of the regions to assist with marketing."The decision comes days after the New Zealand Government announced that they will not provide financial assistance."Over the next few weeks we will be speaking to key people with the aim being of putting in place a clear plan for the positive development of the Overlander. Clearly it cannot remain in its current format so change will be fundamental for its survival. Reducing the services will allow us to perform refurbishments on the existing carriages and it [is] expected that this work will be completed by the start of the summer season."Sue Morris, district mayor for Ruapehu, said: "The decision to save the Overlander is a relief. It's hugely important, it's our future. We are relying on the train to continue for a tourist option here, we're about toursim in the Ruapehu District, it's about bringing 13,000 passengers here."The Manning Group has a proposal out for electro-diesel trains running two times a day and stopping eight times between Auckland and Wellington. Tom Manning said: "[I am] pleased Toll is looking at upgrading options for the Overlander and I am still open to working with the company to bring better trains to the network."Toll New Zealand has said that it will cancel the Overlander train service from September 30, 2006. The train runs from Auckland to Wellington, and is the only passenger train service that does.The North Island Main Trunk line has been used in New Zealand for passenger services for 97 years, beginning in 1909.Toll said it had been running the train service at a loss for many years now and was no longer viable to continue running the service. They also say that they approached the New Zealand Government for help so they could continue the Overlander but "after working through with the Government both parties concluded there was not the passenger numbers to justify keeping it running. Significant investment would also have been required to replace the aging carriage fleet," David Jackson, Chief Executive of Toll New Zealand, said.Only 50,000 people used the train each year compared to the 200,000 people who use the Tranz Alpine in the South Island.It was cheaper and shorter to catch a plane, between NZ$100-$282 for an one-hour flight, compared to $158-$170 for a 12-hour journey.The New Zealand Green Party is disappointed by the news. Co-leader of Greens, Jeanette Fitzsimons, said "I predict that as oil prices continue to rise further we will need The Overlander again."Tom Baker, one of the ten actors to play The Doctor in the BBC's long-running television series Doctor Who, has become the voice of the new BT text messaging voice service, which translates a text message sent from a mobile phone to a BT landlines into a voice messages heard by the receiver as an answerphone message.Baker's voice will replace the earlier computer-synthesized voice that was previously used. BT said that his voice was chosen as it was instantly recognisable. It took him 11 days to record 11,593 phrases and sounds which could then be broken down and reassembled by a computer to make new words. It then took five months to process these recordings to make a workable service.BT have said that there will be no barriers as to what Tom Baker's voice can 'say', including rude words. "What appeals to me most is the thought that I will be bringing good news to people whether it is a cheeky message, a birthday greeting, or just a quick hello," said Baker.The service, which can only be received by those with a BT line, costs nothing to receive voice messages, and text messages are charged at the normal rate.BT GROUP revealed that texts to landlines had soared 70 per cent in volume on the first day that Tom Baker's voice was used to deliver messages, and have now passed the three million mark in just ten days.Tony Blair, United Kingdom's former Prime Minister, made his first public appearance since stepping down as PM yesterday at a speech entitled Global Relations: A Conversation with Tony Blair to an audience of about 2,400 in Calgary, Alberta from noon to 2:30 p.m. in the Telus Convention Centre, sponsored by Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD Canada Trust).Lunch was served with an authentic Alberta beef steak. Alberta premier Ed Stelmach, Calgary mayor Dave Bronconnier, and other public officials were there. "Congratulations on winning a third term. As a three-term prime minister I can tell you that's when things get rough," Blair told Bronconnier.During the speech he talked about Canada on the world stage, the controversial military role in Afghanistan, defending the country in war-devastated places, as well as other large issues facing Canada.Blair said it's not about being on the left or right side of politics, it's about being open or closed."If we want to win, we can't just be for democracy and freedom. We have to be for justice and fairness," Blair said to the audience that paid CA$400 to attend the event. "It's a battle of ideas.""If we're going to fight this terrorism off, we're going to have to show them we're as tough as they are ... and stay the course." Blair said even though it'll be a long-road in the war it's important to not give up the fight against "the forces of extremism."Blair is an Envoy in the Quartet on the Middle East, which is involved in mediating the peace process in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He become Envoy the same day he stepped down as PM."This morning I looked at your local papers and saw 'Premier Under Fire'. And I thought, 'Oh God, why, what have I done now?' before realising that I wasn't PM anymore. I'm still adjusting."He also commented about Alberta's oil and gas royalty dispute saying, "I'm just glad it's not my decision," and after three terms of being PM he's "learned when to keep my mouth shut." Alberta has the second largest oil reserves in the world and Abu Dhabi National Energy Co. recently made their third offer for $5-billion to buy Alberta-based company Prime West Energy Trust. In relation to that, Blair said, "Calgary is not only the new centre of Canada or North America, but a global centre for the world.""I often say to people, Canada will become one of the most powerful nations in the world." He also pointed out, "As power grows... so does more responsibility. What you need to do is carry with it your optimistic spirit. You're a country that can easily play as large a role as anyone else.""Optimism is something you get very easily when you come to Canada," he said relating to Canada's strong alliances with other countries. He said Canada has a "can-do" attitude.After, he sat down with former premier of New Brunswick Frank McKenna, now TD Bank's deputy chairman, in green armchairs, part of TD's advertising campaign, and had a Q&A period.Journalists were not allowed to use cameras or recording devices during the event as ordered by Scotland Yard, the Globe and Mail reports, who were told by event organisers.Blair also praised Canada's wine, "This is a secret you've just got to get out."An EF4 tornado struck near St. Louis, Missouri Friday night, forcing the closure of Lambert-St. Louis International Airport and damaging over 2,700 buildings in St. Louis County. The National Weather Service also confirmed that an EF1 tornado touched down in neighboring St. Charles County and an EF2 touched down in Pontoon Beach, Illinois.The city of Bridgeton, in North St. Louis County, was hit by the EF4 tornado. According to the National Weather Service, it was the most powerful tornado to touch down in the St. Louis region since 1967, with winds ranging from 166 and 200 miles (267 and 322 kilometres) per hour. Aftereffects of that tornado were also reported in Maryland Heights, Missouri.One official estimated that anywhere from 50 to 200 homes in the Maryland Heights and Bridgeton areas incurred damage, but early numbers released by St. Louis County indicate that over 2,000 buildings in those two cities had suffered "noticeable damage," which does not include minor damage. Around 30,000 people in the region did not have power Saturday, out of a total of 47,000 affected residents.Authorities with search and rescue dogs went door-to-door Saturday, looking for possibly trapped residents. Aerial imagery was being used in damage assessment. Area residents unaffected by the tornado were assisting those that lost their homes, reported St. Louis television station KSDK.The Harmann Estates neighborhood of Bridgeton was heavily damaged during the storm, with many residences losing roofs and siding. Officials have already condemned some of the subdivision's homes. St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley reported 25 homes in Bridgeton and Berkeley, Missouri as being completely destroyed and an additional 35 as uninhabitable.Granite City, Illinois was struck by the EF2 tornado, while New Melle, Missouri was hit by the EF1. Fourteen New Melle homes sustained minor damage, while four were heavily damaged.The storm also caused the temporary shutdown of two major St. Louis highways. Portions of Interstate 70 and Interstate 270 were closed Friday night due to fallen power lines and storm debris. Both blocked sections have since reopened, but officials said it would take a few days to remove all the debris, which they pushed onto the roadsides.Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, which is immediately west of Berkeley, suffered heavy damage Friday night from the same tornado, and was forced to halt all regular operations Saturday while crews worked to clear the affected terminals. Eight flights had been forced to land in Kansas City, Missouri Friday night due to the tornado. About 500 people were in Lambert Airport when the tornado hit. A Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) spokesperson said other US airports were not affected by Lambert's shutdown. Lambert is not an airline hub and is significantly less busy than it was ten years ago.In a Saturday press conference, Rhonda Hamm-Niebruegge, Lambert's director, said the airfield and Terminal 2 were "fully functional," but the main terminal's Concourse C had been severely impacted by the storm. That terminal, which sustained the heaviest damage, serves Air Tran, American Airlines, Cape Air, and Frontier Airlines. The total cost of repairs at Lambert is expected to be in the millions of dollars, but Hamm-Niebruegge said the airport does not yet have a good estimate.One passenger of a waiting plane at Lambert told KSDK that heavy winds pushed the aircraft about 20 feet (6.1 metres) while it was still attached to the gate. Two other planes on the tarmac were unable to return to the airport, so passengers were bused back. Five planes—four operated by American and one by Southwest Airlines—suffered damage, and some will undergo major repairs.Some travelers inside the airport received medical attention for minor injuries caused by flying glass. A handful of people were transported to a local hospital for additional treatment, but all were later released. "We get to the terminal and lights were out, glass everywhere, blood everywhere from people had been cut," recalled one witness. Another person at the airport reported, "The ceiling was falling. The glass was hitting us in the face. Hail and rain were coming in. The wind was blowing debris all over the place. It was like being in a horror movie. Grown men were crying."On Saturday, it was evident that Concourse C would not be open for some time, said Mayor of St. Louis Francis Slay. A large section of its roof was missing and around half of its windows had been blown out by the high winds. Debris and water from the storm were present inside the airport as crews worked to restore power and assess damage to the terminal. Missing windows had been boarded up, ruined carpet had been removed, and the control tower was functional by Saturday afternoon. The power was back on by 7:40 p.m. CDT (00:40 UTC) that evening.The airport resumed outgoing flight services Sunday, although several incoming flights landed at Lambert Saturday evening. Slay said the airport will be running at 70 percent capacity until mid-week, depending on the availability of airline crew members and planes. Airlines using Concourse C will have their operations temporarily relocated, he added. On Sunday, Southwest was operating at normal capacity, while AirTran moved to Concourse B and canceled four of its eleven scheduled flights. A spokesperson for American said the airline would have planes ready for normal Monday operations. American had previously canceled all St. Louis flights scheduled for Sunday.On Saturday afternoon, Missouri Governor Jay Nixon arrived at Lambert and visited areas devastated by the tornado. He originally planned to tour Maryland Heights, Bridgeton, and Berkeley, but Nixon was only able to tour Berkeley due to an approaching line of storms. While in St. Louis, the governor said 750 Missouri homes had been damaged by Friday's tornadoes and that federal assistance was forthcoming. Nixon reported that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) was involved in assessing storm damage, as well as that US President Barack Obama had already contacted him, promising relief funds. US Representative Lacy Clay, said Saturday that he would brief Obama on the situation.The state declared the affected areas of St. Louis County a disaster area. No one has reported serious injuries or deaths as a result of the storm, although some people were treated for minor injuries. "It was horrific and for that much damage to been done, to have no loss of life, is truly a blessing," Slay said.Luckyrajah Paramanatha, known by his nickname "Lucky", claimed his $18 million Lotto 649 jackpot Tuesday.The previously purchased free play lottery ticket was bought at the Sunny Convenience Store on Eglinton Avenue East in Scarborough, Ontario (a suburb of Toronto). He checked them on March 19, the official draw date."I'm so happy," Paramanathan said. "I can't stop smiling...I started screaming. I never imagined I would win this much. I'm still shocked and overwhelmed."Paramanatha, 43, who lives in Scarborough, moved to Canada seven years ago and is a maintenance worker at a Toronto apartment building and cleans city swimming pools. He earns $48,000 a year from both jobs. Paramanatha said that he has been playing the lottery ever since he moved to get his wife and two sons, aged 7 and 10, from Sri Lanka to move to Canada."This win will allow me to bring my wife and two sons to Canada to start a new life," he said.He currently lives in an apartment building with his friend but plans later to buy a house with his family.The city of Toronto has prepared to help deal with the forecasted traffic congestion by opening up free parking for car-pools at 14 city-owned community centres, banning parking on some city streets, and opening up some bus-only lanes to car-pools.The initial deal, which was rejected, offered a 2% wage increase over five years. With a huge turnout the union-members voted against accepting the offer with a 99% majority  according to a press release by the union. The union rejected the latest offer Friday reported to be a three-year contract with raises of 2.75 percent in the first year, three percent in the second and 3.25 percent in the third.Toronto's public utility, Toronto Hydro Telecom, will make Canada's largest city into a huge wireless hotspot."This is both an exciting and very important initiative for the city of Toronto", said Toronto's mayor, David Miller. "It puts us on the leading edge of the telecommunications industry nationwide and globally."Toronto Hydro Telecom will offer customers free access for the first six months. After that, it will begin to charge for services."Wi-Fi technology is the new benchmark for urban living", stated Toronto Hydro president David Dobbin. "It's standard equipment in many electronic devices, from laptops to portable entertainment units."Private telephone companies are questioning why a public utility needs to compete with the private sector.Mike Lee of Rogers Communications Inc. questioned why the city of Toronto wanted to enter the internet access business."It will not be an easy business", Lee told the National Post. "In this day and age, the focus should be on core operations more than anything. I was surprised to see they are looking to get into this business."Brian Sharwood, a telecom analyst in Toronto, said the municipality will likely install the wireless transmitters and receivers on its lamp posts as a way to blanket the city, a process known as "wireless mesh networking".Bob Kinnear, president of Amalgamated Transit Union Local 113, said today that Toronto, Ontario, Canada transit workers may begin striking as early as this Monday.  A strike of the 8 400 employees would leave approximately 1.3 million daily riders looking for other means of transportation and clogging city roads.The union voted down the Toronto Transit Commission's (TTC) offer March 9 with a 99% vote in favour of a strike.  The five-year offer was said to include a two per cent wage increase in each of the next three years.  The union said it wanted increased pension contributions and more leniency in scheduling.  The union has now been in a legal strike position since April 1 but has said it would withhold strike action as long as serious negotiations were taking place.  Today Canadian Press reported that TTC vice-chairman Joe Mihevic said the two sides were in "heavy, heavy" negotiations but going well and hoped they would continue.Mr. Kinnear, however, announced a noon Friday deadline for a contract and told reporters that he feels the commission has been "dragging their heels on issues that they absolutely know are key to a settlement".  He characterized the commission's negotiations as a "strategy of delay, defer and ignore".The most recent TTC strike was in 1999 and jammed city roads for two days before the provincial government ordered the union back to work.Toy manufacturer Mattel announced today that they are recalling more products over fears of dangerous levels of lead in the toy's paint.  This soft, but heavy and poisonous metal can be fatal when there is more than 10 μg/dL in the blood. The 800,000 toys have been recalled over safety fears and are thought to be mostly Barbie products. This recall has increased the concern over the safety of the Chinese production process.  The lead paint was traced to an un-authorised producer and that firm was closed down, however the most recent source has not yet been located.Chinese production accounts for almost 65% of Mattel's overall production.  Mattel is considered as one of the most stringent producers in the market however their reputation is in danger.  Toys that are currently being produced are being packaged ready for the Christmas rush, however there are fears that if these are recalled then there will be a Christmas shortage.Toyota has been accused by a U.S. House of Representatives committee with misleading the public and investigators over its recent recalls.The accusations, in a statement from the House Energy and Commerce Committee, claim that Toyota both relied on a flawed study in its assessment of the issue of sticking accelerator pedals at the heart of the recalls, and then made misleading statements about its response.  According to the authors of the letter, Henry Waxman and Bart Stupak, Toyota dismissed, rather than investigated, the idea that the cars' computers were at fault.  In a statement, James Lentz, the president of Toyota's American division, claimed that hardware issues were to blame, and that dealers were repairing the faulty part.  Toyota also released a study commissioned from the research firm Exponent that said electronic systems were not to blame.  According to the House committee, however, the study involved only six vehicles, none of which had problems with their electrical systems, and was insufficient to produce an accurate result. "Our  preliminary assessment is that Toyota  resisted the possibility that electronic defects could cause safety   concerns, relied on a flawed engineering report and made misleading   public statements concerning the adequacy of recent recalls to address   the risk of sudden unintended acceleration."The company is under a criminal investigation, and has received two subpoenas for documents from two House committees relating to the recalls, although whether they are directly related to the letter is unclear.  The documents are related to accelerator issues in several models, as well as brake problems with the Prius hybrid car, and were served earlier in in February by a federal grand jury and the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Toyota has released upwards of 75,000 pages of documents under the requests.In a separate, though related, development, it has emerged that Toyota last year negotiated a limited recall for two models, the Toyota Camry and Lexus ES, that were affected by the accelerator recalls, saving the company an estimated $100 million.  A confidential internal presentation in July 2009 made the claim, and a month later, a Lexus ES, one of the models under the limited recall crashed in California, killing four people.  The claims apparently referenced a September, 2007 recall of floor mats that could trap gas pedals, the same problem that triggered a full recall of numerous Toyota cars to fix the same problem.  In the same presentation, the company claimed to have avoided recalls of another model related to rust, as well as delaying new federal safety regulations.On Friday, a new generation solar powered cargo vessel, the Auriga Leader has docked in North America for the first time.  Toyota Motor Corp will employ this car carrier for automobile shipments to Europe and North America from Japan.  The vessel will be operated by the Japanese-based NYK Line.Auriga Leader has 328 solar panels to provide 40 kilowatts, about 10% of the ship's power while sitting idling in dock. This amount of energy is the equivalent to the power used by ten average homes. "This is the first ship to direct the solar power into the ship's main electrical grid. It's helping all of the time, and its helping with everything, like the ship's thrusters and the hydraulics for the steering gear," said Brian Mason, national manager of marine logistics and export for Toyota.The panels are installed on the ship’s car-carrier, and then connected to the onboard 440 volt electrical network.  Nippon Yusen K.K. and Nippon Oil Corp created the Auriga Leader's US$ 1.6 million innovative  green technology solar power grid.  The cargo ship has a length of 200 meters (656 ft) and gross tonnage of 60,000 GT, which is capable of carrying 6,400 automobiles. Richard Steinke, executive director of the Port of Long Beach said of the joint demonstration project, "From our standpoint, it's another positive step," to reduce diesel emissions and the release of greenhouse gas.US regulators intend to fine Toyota Motor Company $16.4 million over allegations that the company failed to notify government officials in "a timely way" about flaws in its vehicles that led to a major recall earlier this year.The fine is the maximum penalty allowed under current US law, and would be the largest ever against an automaker, dwarfing a $1 million fine against General Motors in 2004. The U.S. Transportation Department is also considering the possibility of further fines if it was determined that the company had committed other violations of US law. The fine is the result of an investigation opened on February 16 into Toyota's actions during the recall of 2.3 million vehicles in the US. Toyota now has a period of two weeks in which it can appeal the fine.Current law requires an automaker to notify the US government within five days if it has determined that a safety issue exists in one of its vehicles. Internal Toyota documents obtained by the government showed that the company was aware of the issues in its cars as early as September 2009, well before it reported the problems to the US government in January.US Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said that the government has "proof that Toyota failed to live up to its legal obligations," and that "they knowingly hid a dangerous defect for months from U.S. officials and did not take action to protect millions of drivers and their families."Toyota, in a statement posted on their website, said that "We have already taken a number of important steps to improve our communications with regulators and customers on safety-related matters as part of our strengthened overall commitment to quality assurance." The statement added, "These include the appointment of a new Chief Quality Officer for North America and a greater role for the region in making safety-related decisions."Japan's Nikkei newspaper reported that Toyota is poised to recall 270 thousand gas-and-electric Prius vehicles (model ZVW30) sold in the US and Japan between May and December 2009, due to a flaw in the car's anti-lock braking system.  Takayuki Fujimoto, a transport ministry official, said the government has yet to receive a recall notice from Toyota. "Nothing has been decided on whether we will recall or not", he stated. Toyota cannot announce a recall in Japan until it notifies the ministry, but said it was currently discussing how to deal with the issue with Japan's transport ministry and U.S. safety authorities.Toyota has faced a US lawsuit alleging it covered up safety problems. The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration launched a formal investigation into the braking problems on Thursday after 124 complaints from consumers. Since  May 2009, two hundred thousand new Prius cars (model ZVW30) have been sold in Japan and another 103,200 in the United States.Car manufacturer Toyota is to recall almost 1.7 million cars in two simultaneous recalls, that include the Toyota Avensis and Lexus IS 250, after concerns over fuel systems, which, if combined, amount to the biggest Toyota recall for six years.Japan's transport ministry stated it was possible for slight cracks to appear in fuel pipes in Avensis models, which may widen if the cars continue to be used. In the United Kingdom, Toyota GB are offering free repairs, which are expected to take around four and a half hours each. The Lexus IS 250 is involved in a separate recall, with around 280 thousand models outside of Japan being recalled over a faulty fuel pressure sensor, which can possibly come loose, causing a fuel leak.The Managing Director of Toyota GB stated "We are committed to putting the customer first and have a total focus on the quality of all our products. We will liaise with our customers to carry out the repair procedures as efficiently as possible, with minimal disruption".Toyota has recalled over 16 million cars globally since late 2009.The automobile manufacturer Toyota has said that it will recall up to 1.8 million cars across Europe, after a problem with the accelerator pedal was discovered.According to the firm, eight models were affected by the problem — AYGO, iQ, Yaris, Auris, Corolla, Verso, Avensis, and RAV4 — after it was discovered that the accelerator may become stuck in a depressed position, resulting in uncontrollable speeding.On Thursday, Toyota said it would recall 1.1 million cars in the US; a day previous, it had suspended eight models from sales. Last week, 2.3 million cars in the US were recalled due to the pedal issues.The chief executive of Toyota Motor Europe commented on the recall. "We understand that the current situation is creating concerns and we deeply regret it," said Tadashi Arashima. The firm, however, noted that it wasn't aware of any accidents resulted by the malfunctioning accelerator pedals, and not many pedal problem incidents were reported in Europe. "The potential accelerator pedal issue only occurs in very rare circumstances," Arashima added.The National Automobile Dealers Association, meanwhile, commented that Toyota showrooms could lose as much as US$2.47 billion worth of revenue due to the incident."Toyota veterans will likely hear the news with disbelief and keep faith in the brand, but new customers could definitely be scared off," remarked Robert Rademacher, who is the president of the trade group ZDK, as quoted by Business Week.  "This recall has a dimension which we've never seen before."There are concerns that the problem may result in reduced consumer trust in Toyota. Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst for Fairesearch GmbH & Co. in Germany, noted: "If this is a one-time event, huge as it is, Toyota may be forgiven. But if something happens again in the next months and years, they will have gambled away customer trust in Europe as well."Analysts for Morgan Stanley, however, said they believed Toyota would not suffer much from the incident. "The company's actions to correct the situation are timely enough to avoid major brand damage," they remarked in a note to investors.US Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood made the announcement Monday, saying in an e-mailed statement that "Toyota has accepted responsibility for violating its legal obligations to report any defects promptly."  Toyota has still not admitted any wrongdoing, and said that it disagreed with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), which levied the fine against Toyota. In a statement, Toyota said it "denies N.H.T.S.A.’s allegation that it violated the Safety Act or its implementing regulations. We believe we made a good faith effort to investigate this condition and develop an appropriate counter-measure."Toyota is still at risk of lawsuits from those affected by cars that crashed due to a safety defect in the accelerator pedal. Numerous such lawsuits have been filed, and analysts said that the total cost of the lawsuits could be upwards of two billion dollars in 2010, and possibly as much as ten billion in total. While the government fine is largely symbolic, as the amount was limited by US law, it could provide support for lawyers who are filing legal charges against Toyota. If the cap on the fine was not in place, Toyota would have been fined a total of $13.8 billion; each of the 2.3 million defective vehicles sold would have had a $6,000 fine.Additionally, the NHTSA is reportedly considering a second fine, also of $16.4 million, based on evidence that there were two separate defects in the affected vehicles, and the company is facing an investigation from both the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission.Toyota, the Japanese auto maker, has issued a voluntary recall of 870,000 of its Sienna minivans in North America (600,000 in the United States and 270,000 in Canada).The models affected are the first and second generation vehicles, which were manufactured between 1998 and 2010. It has been discovered that salt, used to grit roads and melt snow in northern US states and Canada, could potentially cause corrosion in the spare tire carrier cable. In a worse case scenario, this corrosion could lead to the wheel becoming detached and becoming a hazard for following vehicles. The new 2011 version of the Sienna is not affected, nor are all wheel drive versions of the vehicle.In a statement, Toyota said that "In the worst case, the carrier cable may fail and the spare tire could become separated from the vehicle." In the same statement, Toyota's Chief Quality Officer in North America, Steve St. Angelo, said that "Toyota is listening to its customers attentively, and we want to make sure their voices are heard...We are also working diligently to develop a remedy as soon as possible."The latest blow to Toyota's reputation for safety and quality comes just days after the company announced the suspension of sales of its luxury Lexus GX 460 SUV over fears that it was susceptible to rollovers.Japanese auto maker Toyota is to temporarily suspend sales of its luxury Lexus GX 460 SUV following an unfavorable verdict from Consumer Reports, which concluded "Don't Buy: Safety Risk," the first such warning in almost a decade.After conducting its standard emergency handling tests on the 2010 version of the Lexus GX 460, Consumer Reports became concerned that the rear of the vehicle had a tendency to slide out, which in real life situations could lead to rollovers. However, the consumer organisation is also unaware of any such incidents with the 5000 GX 460s sold since its launch three months ago.Already embattled with ongoing safety issues with its vehicles, Toyota has been quick to act, though it did claim that the car was safe to drive and that it had passed internal safety standards. According to Toyota, "Lexus' extensive vehicle testing provides a good indication of how our vehicles perform and we are confident that the GX meets our high safety standards."Toyota Motor Company announced they have formalized an agreement to develop an electric version of the RAV4 SUV with Tesla Motors.In May 2010, Akio Toyoda and Elon Musk, leaders of Toyota and Tesla, respectively, announced they would work together on electric vehicles. The agreement formalizes this announcement and would allow Tesla to work with Toyota at an automobile production plant in California.The plant will open 2011, when Tesla reopens it after it bought the Fremont, California plant. The plant was previously used by Toyota and General Motors, but was shut down when Toyota said it would not produce cars in California.Tesla currently produces only a single model, the US$109,000 Roadster, although it is currently designing a second model, the Model S, which will be produced at the Fremont factory.Analysts supported the move; John Boesel, CEO of a green-transportation trade group, said that "Toyota's willingness to partner with Tesla to provide an electric version of one of the Japanese automaker's existing vehicles suggests the partnership between the two companies is going to be a meaningful one."Following this announcement, Tesla's shares rose $0.75, while Toyota's fell $1.65.Romania's National Road 66 (DN 66) will face traffic restrictions between the cities of Târgu Jiu and Petroşani, in the southern part of the country, between May 17 and November 15 due to hydroelectrical operations on the Jiu river. The traffic restrictions mean that traffic will not be able to access the road on Tuesdays and Thursdays of every week, between the hours of 22:00 and 06:00.The National Company of Motorways and National Roads issued a press release informing motorists of alternative routes to take, including the route Târgu Jiu-Râmnicu Vâlcea-Brezoi-Sibiu-Simeria-Haţeg-Petroşani, Târgu Jiu-Drobeta Turnu Severin-Caransebeş-Haţeg-Petroşani and Târgu Jiu-Filiaşi-Drobeta Turnu Severin-Orşova-Caransebeş-Haţeg-Petroşani.Over 50 people have been injured today when two trains collided head-on at the Bet-Yehoshua station, near the city of Netanya on the railway from Tel Aviv to Haifa. Most of the injuries are minor, with no casualties or serious injuries reported in the media.The trains advanced slowly, one leaving the station and one entering it. One of the trains was completely derailed. The Israeli Railway Authority CEO said the accident was caused by a personal error of one of the conductors, but a police investigation is still ensuing. This is the second serious accident for Israeli trains within half a year. Four months ago, a train car derailed and burst in flames, injuring 79 people, most of the injuries due to inhaling of smoke. The Israel Railway Authority notified the passengers that the tracks from Tel Aviv to Haifa will be closed for at least a week, but later the company manager announced that rides would continue within 24 hours, while a fast and open investigation will follow. He promised that the results will be publicized immediately upon being received.In Helsinki, the Finnish trade union for bus and truck drivers has gone on strike on Sunday evening, mainly over the use of part-time labor.  The strike is estimated to affect 100,000 people in the capital area, crowding the remaining transit system on Monday morning.  The strike is halting almost half of all bus traffic in and around Helsinki, especially hurting travellers commuting from outlying cities Espoo and Vantaa, where over 60% of bus traffic will be stopped.The strike also affects 4,000 of Finland's 55,000 delivery trucks, as well as waste management in many areas.  The strike is not affecting trains, trams or the underground, but heavy crowding is to be expected.  Authorities are also warning of traffic jams during rush-hours as people use personal cars instead of public transportation.A report published today by DEFRA, a UK Government department finds that transporting food to and around the country has significant social and environmental costs. The report, carried out by external consultancy AEA Technology, estimates these costs to have been £9 billion ($16 billion US) in 2002. The Government says it wants to work with the food industry to reduce social and environmental impacts by 20% by 2012.The report set out to make an assessment of the impact of food miles and to develop a set of indicators that will show when progress has been made to reduce these negative impacts. The distance that food travels between producer and consumer (food miles) has increased over the past ten years. Increasing food miles has been seen as undesirable in and of itself but the report says that the situation is more complex and that the mode of transport has to be taken in to account. The increase in food miles between 1992 and 2002 was associated with increasing levels of congestion and increasing emissions of greenhouse gases while emmissions of some local pollutants such as SOx and NOx have declined.The Food and Drink Federation, which speaks for food manufacturers, was concerned about the focus on food miles but welcomed the "acknowledgement that more local sourcing does not automatically reduce the environmental and social costs associated with food miles." The Federation went on to stress that "on imported ingredients, the usual mode of transport used by food manufacturers is by sea, which does not give rise to any significant impacts. Air transport is generally not used by food manufacturers."Another industry group, the British Retail Consortium said that retailers would  "welcome the opportunity to introduce further transport efficiencies into their operations - always working from the principle that making existing resources work harder makes both good environmental and commercial sense."Environmental campaign group Friends of the Earth is worried that the UK Government will not take the firm action it believes is necessary in the light of the report. A statement from the group said  "The Government must get tougher to reduce food miles. Unless it tackles this problem the impacts will become worse and Government targets to reduce carbon dioxide levels will be much harder to achieve."Jean-Claude Trichet, president of the Frankfurt, Germany, based European Central Bank ECB, today in an interview with radio station Europe-1 scolded France for spending to much, warning the country's finances were in a 'critical' state. Previously, French president Nicolas Sarcozy had attacked the ECB for not lowering rates even when the euro reached a new record high of 1.41 € against the US dollar. Trichet used the radio interview for a counter-attack and claimed that the problems France might have with international competition were homemade and resulted from "France’s high public expenditure and inability to curb the rise in its production costs", stating that France should take Germany as a role model, with lower public expenditure and higher export rates.As for exchange rates, Trichet referred to the G7 group, where exchange rates are and should be negotiated, and just mentioned the quote of Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke, that a strong dollar was good for the US economy.At 7 a.m. PDT the 499-foot water cooling tower of the Trojan Nuclear Power plant was imploded using dynamite. The cooling tower, which is located in Rainier, Oregon, is the largest in the world to be demolished. For the past thirty years the tower has been an icon of the Pacific Northwest. Controlled Demolition Incorporated, which was hired to bring down the tower, used approximately 3,300 sticks of dynamite. The company also imploded the King Dome in Seattle, Washington in 2000. Prior to the implosion, Interstate 5 and Highway 30 as well as river traffic on the Columbia River was blocked as a precaution.The plant, which is owned by Portland General Electric, began operation in May 1976 and was shut down in January 1993 due to structural problems. It was decommissioned in 1999 when the reactor was taken upstream by barge to Hanford Nuclear Reservation. Some fuel rods are buried at the site, although they are in a casket over 900 feet from where the cooling tower sits.New Zealand electricity generator and retailer TrustPower said today that it is considering a wind farm development at Lake Mahinerangi, south of Dunedin, in the lower South Island of New Zealand.  In a development which could be worth up to NZ$500 million (US$347 million), to the Otago region according to TrustPower chief executive, Keith Tempest.TrustPower said in a statement that the 300 megawatts wind farm, built in three 100 megawatts installments, could eventually provide enough electricity to power 150,000 homes and that it will be a world class installation that will guarantee security of electricity for the region.According to Tempest "A windfarm development at Mahinerangi would enable us to better utilise the hydro storage available behind our Waipori scheme," Lake Mahinerangi is also the site of TrustPower's largest hydro lake.TrustPower expects to apply for environmental consents under Resource Management Act later in the year if engineering reports prove the site satisfactory. After the announcement TrustPower’s shares remained unchanged at NZ$6.16. (US$4.26)Currently the largest windfarm in New Zealand is operating at Te Apiti in the Manawatu; producing 90 megawatts of electricity. NZ Power companies are seeking to have resource consent procedures simplified for smaller-scale windfarms.Sunday, January 24, 2010 Air America, the progressive talk radio network founded in 2004 that focused on and syndicated progressive and liberal commentators and issues and was intended to be an opposite to conservative talk radio has ceased broadcasting and intends to file for Chapter 7 liquidation bankruptcy.A statement has been posted on Air America's website, by the chairman of Air America Media, Charlie Kireker. The statement read, "It is with the greatest regret, on behalf of our Board, that we must announce that Air America Media is ceasing its live programming operations as of this afternoon, and that the Company will file soon under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code to carry out an orderly winding-down of the business."The statement pointed out the current economic situation saying, The very difficult economic environment has had a significant impact on Air America's business. This past year has seen a "perfect storm" in the media industry generally. National and local advertising revenues have fallen drastically, causing many media companies nationwide to fold or seek bankruptcy protection."Adding, "From large to small, recent bankruptcies like Citadel Broadcasting and closures like that of the industry's long-time trade publication Radio and Records have signaled that these are very difficult and rapidly changing times."However, Air America has had stability problems since it's founding 2004. This is not the first time the company behind the network has filed for bankruptcy. The company filed for Chapter 11 reorganizational bankruptcy in March 2006. The network has also suffered from turnover with executives and owners.The radio network, which had over 100 affiliated stations, hosted well-known personalities such as comedian Al Franken, who hosted The Al Franken Show, which was billed as the network's flagship program, from 2004 to 2007 when he left his show and the network to run for the United States Senate. The radio network has also brought other liberal commentators much exposure such as Rachel Maddow, who hosted The Rachel Maddow Show on the network. Maddow gained prominence when she started appearing on the cable news network MSNBC which eventually culminated in her receiving her own television show, aptly-named, The Rachel Maddow Show. Her radio show on Air America now most consists of audio from television show broadcast the night before. Other commentators on the network with their own shows consisted of Randi Rhodes, Thom Hartmann, Mike Malloy, Sam Seeder and most recently Montel Willams.Sam Seeder's response to the network's shutdown was, "The fact of the matter was, it was always a very challenging business proposition, and it never had the right management." He added, “Radio is a dying industry.” Seeder hosted programs on Air America up until last year.According to The New York Times, Maddow declined to comment and Senator Franken's office could not be reached. Other progressive talk hosts such as Ed Schultz and Stephanie Miller are unaffected by the shutdown because their shows and content are syndicated by other distributors and were never affiliated with Air America. Miller's executive producer, Chris Lavoie wrote on his Twitter page, "We’re NOT affected by the shutdown of Air America!" Many of the radio hosts featured on Air America will be unaffected because they have either left the network, or switched to a different company to syndicate their shows.Alan Colmes, a liberal commentator for the Fox News Channel wrote on his blog, "Its demise is, sadly, not a shock, but will certainly be misinterpreted and overstated by conservatives who love to pontificate about how liberals can’t make it in broadcasting and who will dance on Air America’s grave."Colmes continued saying, "I look at radio as a broadcaster, not as a liberal." He noted, "Their business model in larger markets was pay-for-play, an expensive proposition often without financial return. Because conservatives were so entrenched on heritage stations, the progressives on Air America were relegated to smaller, less powerful, under-performing signals that could not compete with their more established counterparts; certainly not without lots of promotion and time to develop, both of which were denied in most cases."Air America's statement closed by saying, "We are proud that Air America's mission lives on through the words and actions of so many former radio hosts who are active today in progressive causes and media nationwide. In the years ahead, as we look back, we should all be proud of our passionate determination to assure that our nation's progressive voice would be heard loud and clear. Through the hard work and dedication of current staff, and those who preceded you, a lasting legacy was forged which will now continue through other voices and venues."The Turbolinux operating system, a variety of GNU/Linux free/open source software, has been chosen as the in-house server software for the front-end banking operations of China's largest bank, replacing SCO Unix.  The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) announced the migration on Thursday, April 28.The announcement is significant in terms of the sheer size of the bank.  "This is the biggest Linux implementation in China," said General Manager Claude Zhou of Turbolinux China.  The ICBC serves more than 108 million customers and manages their combined assets of US$640 billion (5.3 trillion renminbi).  Its 390,000 employees are scattered across 20,000 branch offices throughout China.  The planned deployment will be undertaken in steps and is estimated to take three years.  Zhou described the reasons for the planned migration as the stability and security of Linux.  Nielse Jiang, an analyst at IDC, also attributed the switch to insufficient support by the SCO Group.  "In China, SCO Unix offers very weak support for customers; they have so few employees," Jiang said.ICBC selected Turbolinux over its various competitors, including Microsoft Corporation, in part because of its need to maintain its custom-written Unix-based software.  The increasing scalability and stability of Linux also were factors in the decision.Turbolinux has been China's number one source of Linux for the past 4 years.  In 2004, Turbolinux held 62.0% of the Chinese server market, and also had 24.9% desktop market share, a much larger portion of desktop share than GNU/Linux holds in the United States.Turbolinux is an Asian-Pacific distribution of Linux with its corporate headquarters located in Tokyo, Japan, and offices in China and the United States.  Turbolinux claims that its "Turbolinux 7 Server was the first-ever to conform to Internationalization standards to help simplify development of applications that require multiple language support — a critical requirement for software distributed globally," and supports the use of its software in the Japanese and Chinese languages.Turbolinux was also used as the operating system of choice for China's recent supercomputer, the Dawning 4000A.  With its unveiling on November 15, 2004, China became the third country, after the U.S. and Japan, to surpass the 10 teraflops level of performance in a single machine. The computer, located in Shanghai Supercomputing Center, contains 2,560 64-bit Opteron processors from AMD, each running at 2.2 GHz, and at its introduction was the 10th fastest computer in the world.Turbolinux is being spread throughout China, both throughout government and the business sector, in key areas such as transportation and telecommunications.  In December 2004, ZTE Corporation, the largest telecommunications manufacturer in China, partnered with Hewlett-Packard and Turbolinux to bring the benefits of GNU/Linux software to that industry.The other three largest banks in China have either already announced plans for major migrations to GNU/Linux servers running various distributions, or are expected to do so later this year.Wikinews reported previously that after finding out that he will not have to service a troublesome brand of British-made planes, RJ-100, at the airport, Şükrü Can, the manager of Turkish Airlines (THY) maintenance service, slaughtered a camel right on the tarmac of Istanbul's Ataturk Airport.The Transportation Minister of Turkey, Mr. Binali Yıldırım commented yesterday (Dec 20th) on the incident in a parliament session, backing the slaughter of a camel by THY's personnel. He saidSwedish media company Modern Times Group, owner of Stockholm-based TV channel TV3, claims monetary damages from Swedish mobile telephone operator 3 totaling 300 million Swedish kronor for trademark infringement by using the number "3" as their name. Modern Times' TV3 has used a logotype saying "3" for many years. However, on July 1 the Stockholm district court (Stockholms tingsrätt) decided that TV3 does not have exclusive rights to the number 3, disagreeing that the mobile telephone company's use of the numeral was a violation of Swedish trademark protection laws.TV3 has three weeks to appeal the verdict to keep it from becoming legally enforceable. In making the decision, the Stockholm court allowed other disputes between the companies not concerning the use of the numeral "3" to continue to be argued before it.Two British footwear chains have entered administration, a form of company liquidation in the United Kingdom. Both Barratts and PriceLess are owned by parent company Stylo. Stylo has not entered administration itself but shares have been suspended.The chains have a joint workforce of around 5,450 employees and operate 400 stores around the United Kingdom. In February Stylo purchased 24 stores from shoe retailer Dolcis after it had gone bust.  A spokesman for Stylo said that they did not anticipate any short-term improvement in trading conditions. It was also mentioned that the company had the support of the Lloyds Group and Barclays Bank.  No stores are yet planned to close.Other companies that have entered administration due to the financial crisis include MFI, Rosebys, Whittard of Chelsea, and Zavvi.Johnson and Johnson has released information that two patients have died after taking the company's heart drug Natrecor.  The deaths were not included in a report of a study the company released in October, and the company says they did not know of the two deaths when the original report was released.  The company intends to reanalyze the data to see if these two deaths are of statistical significance to the drug's risk.Natrecor is a drug used to treat acute heart failure and has been approved by the FDA since 2001.  The FDA told the company a year ago to further explore the mortality data, in which the company said to have not found a statistically significant difference for mortality between the drug and a placebo.A new report is said to be available in March about the possible health effects of the drug.A prank by three young kitchen staff at Hungry Jack's fast food restaurant in the Central-Western New South Wales city of Bathurst went wrong when two customers required medical treatment after eating burgers they had laced with multi-purpose cleaner.According to staff at the Emergency Department of Bathurst Hospital, two Hungry Jack's customers became ill Sunday night after eating burgers contaminated with a chemical believed to be multi-purpose cleaner.  One of the patrons was in a serious condition upon arrival at Bathurst Hospital due to being allergic to an ingredient in the cleaning product.  "He presented to the emergency department as he was having an allergic reaction after eating a burger from Hungry Jacks, he was in a really bad way when he arrived here and if he had waited much longer it could have been much worse," said a Greater Western Area Health Service employee.  "We called Hungry Jacks and they said that three of their employees had been goofing off and sprayed multi-purpose cleaner inside the burgers so we then treated the patients for poisoning."Both customers are expected to make a full recovery. During an investigation undertaken by Wikinews reporter Nathan Carter, it was learned that the chemical sprayed into the burgers was KAY multipurpose cleaner which is reported to cause nausea, diarrhoea and mucosal and gastric irritation. The Material Safety Data Sheet for KAY multipurpose cleaner lists Antonic Surfactants as its hazardous ingredient.In New South Wales, it is a criminal offence to make food intended for sale unsafe punishable by 2 years imprisonment.  Due to restrictions on the publication of the name of young people involved in crimes in New South Wales, the names of kitchen staff can not be published.  Wikinews was told by Hungry Jack's staff that the staff involved in the incident remained employed by Hungry Jack's.  Josh, a Hungry Jack's manager at the Bathurst restaurant, told Wikinews that his boss Adam was aware of the food contamination issue and would be taking steps to address it.At least two Kentucky Fried Chicken [KFC] restaurants, operated by G & H Restaurant Specialties, have closed in Buffalo, New York "for remodeling," according to signs placed on the front doors of at least one location on Elmwood Avenue and Bryant Street in Buffalo. The other KFC is located on East Delavan Avenue, also in the City of Buffalo. Despite the claim of closing for remodeling, the Erie County Health Department says that several health code violations were found at both locations. The most recent violation was logged by the health department in March at the Elmwood location for failing to keep food stored at correct temperatures. Violations were also cited for failing to keep cooking supplies and equipment sanitary and for not supplying hot water to the bathroom for employees.G & H Restaurant Specialties has not released a statement regarding the violations, but the corporate offices in Louisville, Kentucky for KFC said, "our franchisee has finalized a plan for some structural repairs... The units will be temporarily closed while these building maintenance issues are addressed. [They will be] re-opened as soon as the repairs are complete."The health department also gave violations out to the East Delevan store for failing to maintain a clean floor throughout the restaurant and for not stopping food from becoming contaminated. Several rat traps were also found inside the storage cooler and around the kitchen area, but the establishment was "not free of rodents," said Commissioner of the Erie County Health Department, Dr. Anthony Billittier.Billittier also said that caulking and traps were seen on the outside of the East Delevan restaurant, which was an attempt to keep the rats out. "It shows that they're trying to take care of a problem. But it also shows that they have a problem."As of Thursday, May 10, 2007, the Elmwood KFC has yet to reopen. It is not known if the East Delevan location opened today or not.Another mining accident occurred on Monday, in the city of Copiapó, Chile, where 33 miners had been trapped for 69 days and were rescued on October 13.Two miners, Homero Aguirre Aguirre, 40, and Daniel Lazcano, 24, were killed in the Los Reyes mine in Quebrada de Puquios, located 65 kilometers (40.4 miles) east of Copiapó, according to La Tercera. Both workers began working in the mine on the same day, and were natives of Cabildo, a town in Valparaíso Region. Mauricio Silva, aged 21, was injured in the eye, and was taken to the Regional Hospital of Copiapó.According to authorities, the accident occurred due to mishandling of explosives. It was originally reported that only one miner had been killed.Mining Minister Laurence Golborne told El Mercurio that mining companies "should be careful about the works that are being done in the mines along the country." The Los Reyes copper mine belongs to Sociedad Legal Compañía Minera Del Sur (Del Sur Mining Company, Legal Society). Golborne said that the mine was not authorized to utilize explosives by Sernageomín (National Service of Geology and Mining).Two New Zealand men, Richard Stuart Hayes and Troy Jonathon Elliot, have been convicted of running an illegal mobile text based competition after 27 winners did not receive the car prizes. The pair were found guilty yesterday in a decision reached by Judge Nicola Mathers in Auckland District Court, following a February hearing.The two convicts, whose names were suppressed until yesterday, are the directors of the company which ran the 'TxtDrive' competition in March 2004, the Watch and Win Company. The company had hoped to gain a profit of NZ$2.5 million, but due to lack of interest and entrants they could not afford to honour the daily prizes as they had only raised $414,595."I am satisfied that the Department of Internal Affairs (DIA) has proved to me beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Hayes and Mr Elliot organised an illegal lottery. I consider they deliberately entered into the scheme and were careless as to the legality of this novel scheme." Judge Mathers said.During the 27-day competition, cellphone users had to send a $0.99 text message during television adverts on TV 2 for the opportunity to win a Peugeot car a day or free products from Pizza Hut.Settlements have been reached with the winners; only one received a car.Hayes and Elliot argued that it was not a lottery but a sales promotion, which means it didn't need to be licensed by the DIA.Mark Woolford, DIA lawyer, said "Internal Affairs had to prove that the Hayes and Elliot organised the competition, that it was a lottery under the definition of the Gaming and Lotteries Act 1977, and that it was not authorised as a lottery by Internal Affairs."A sales promotion is defined as "Any competition promoted by a manufacturer, distributor, wholesaler or retailer for the purpose of promoting the sale of goods or services." Judge Mathers said she was satisfied the TxtDrive competition was an illegal lottery.The two men are to appear back in court on 6 October, they face either a fine of $4,000 or three months in prison under the maximum penalties.There are at least two big winners in Tuesday night's US$370 million Mega Millions lottery drawing which is held in 12 U.S. states. The two winning tickets were sold in Georgia and New Jersey, but lottery officials say that no one has come forward to claim their millions.One ticket was sold at a store called Campark Liquors, which is located in Woodbine, New Jersey. The other ticket was sold at what is called the Favorite Market, located in Dalton, Georgia.The drawing, the biggest in Mega Millions history, was moved from its usual location in Atlanta, Georgia to Times Square, New York because at one point, according to New York's lottery commissioner, Robert McLaughlin, at least 1,000,000 tickets an hour were being sold in the state of New York.Some people in Ohio were not so lucky. In fact, the state's lottery system, for reasons still not known, went off-line at 10:25 p.m., just over a half hour before the drawing was to be held.At least one person was one number away from winning the jackpot, matching five of the six numbers. That ticket is worth $250,000 and was bought at Burtonsville Crown Beer & Wine in Montgomery County, Maryland.The previous record for the highest multi-state lottery was set back in 2006 when the Power Ball jackpot paid out at least $365 million dollars to eight people in Nebraska. Another multi-state lottery, The Big Game (which was later named Mega Millions) has the third highest jackpot of $363 million dollars which was paid out in 2000.The lottery numbers were, 16-22-29-39-42 and the Mega Ball was, 20. The odds of actually winning the jackpot, by yourself, was at least one in 176 million. Each group of numbers costs only one dollar.Police in La Grange, North Carolina have arrested two women after they received a tip that the Family Dollar store was being used as part of a marijuana ring. Pending an investigation, police shut the store down.Belinda Pearson, 46, the store manager and her associate Melissa Collie, 40, were arrested when police found 23 pounds of the drug inside the store. Earlier in the week, police said the anonymous tipster stated that a delivery of two packages of the drug was made. After a week of investigating, police arrested both women on March 14 and charged them with drug trafficking. Both were freed after making bail and were scheduled to be in court on March 15."The marijuana has a street value of approximately US$35,000. It was about the only thing in the store you couldn't buy for $1," said Chris Hill, a major from the Lenoir County Sheriff. He said the whole operation lasted a week. Owners of the store are said to be on the way to the location where they will take over the store's management. Family Dollar is a United States chain that sells a variety of things from food items, clothes and housewares. Most items in the store cost less than $10.00. There are almost 6,600 stores across the U.S.Larger and bigger than the Taipei World Trade Center (TWTC), the Taipei World Trade Center Nangang Exhibition Hall (TWTC Nangang) was finally completed on December 24.According to the hall owner, Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), TWTC Nangang owned 2650 booths twice larger than current TWTC (1300 booths), several companies from different industries wanted to exhibit in TWTC Nangang by participating in some international shows, but the competition was apparently intensive because of limitations on booths and scales.Recently in a press conference, Minister of Economic Affairs of the Republic of China Steve Ruey-long Chen said to media: "After the TWTC Nangang was finished its construction, it will bring on opportunities for companies from different industries including exhibition industry."TAITRA also announced that some international shows will be moved to Nangang including the Taipei Cycle, Taipei PLAS, TAITRONICS and Food Taipei. COMPUTEX Taipei will exhibit in not only TWTC Nangang but also TWTC Hall 1 & 3, Taipei Show (formerly known as TWTC Hall 2), and the Taipei International Convention Center to challenge the largest scale in June, 2008.Companies wanted to exhibit in the TWTC Nangang, but due to the construction of Neihu Line of Taipei Metro, it is still in process, and shows with similar industries will be exhibited in the same schedule respectively at TWTC Hall and TWTC Nangang, the traffic will increase on those two exhibition centers after TWTC Nangang will be launched on March, 2008. TAITRA currently considered moving important trade shows to Nangang rather than domestic market shows.In a close vote, union members rejected the proposed contract negotiated by the Transport Workers Union Local 100 (TWU) and Metropolitan Transportation Agency (MTA) after a crippling transit strike ground New York City to a halt in December.Calling the rejection "disappointing news to all New Yorkers",  Mayor Michael Bloomberg called on the TWU and the MTA to return to the bargaining table as soon as possible.  The TWU has expressed that it is ready to negotiate, but the MTA has not made any comment at this time.After a week-long rallying effort, including radio advertisements by TUW Local 100 President Roger Toussaint encouraging union members to vote for the proposed contract, the voting period ended at 12:00 EST (17:00 UTC) and ballots had been counted by 17:00 EST (22:00 UTC).  The final tally was 11,227 to 11,234 against - A difference of seven votes.The former CEO of Tyco International, Dennis Kozlowski, as well as CFO Mark Swartz are convicted of taking more than $600 million from the company. Charges include grand larceny, securities fraud, conspiracy, and falsifying business records.The first trial ended in a mistrial after one juror received a threatening letter. Nancy Salomon says of the second trial that the "Defense was counting on the jury not reaching a verdict; they had used their challenges during the jury selection process to kick almost every potential juror who had a college degree, or had any business experience or Wall Street experience off the jury ... they were hoping that this case was just going to be too confusing for the jury." While the jury did take 11 days to arrive at their decision, they found Kozlowski and Swartz guilty on 22 of the 23 counts. To combat the aggressive jury selection strategy undertaken by the defense, the prosecution "basically gave the jury several credit hours worth of an MBA", teaching them about following paper trails and detecting falsification of business records. It paid off during deliberation as the jury requested over 100 documents to review.Kozlowski and Swartz directly stole approximately $150 million USD from Tyco and acquired $430 million more by inflating the company's stock value and then secretly selling company shares. Bail was set at $10 million each. The two former executives face a minimum of eight years in prison, up to a maximum of 25 years. In addition, Kozlowski is accused of evading $1 million in sales taxes on six paintings that he bought in 2001 in a separate New York State case, and Swartz faces tax evasion charges in New Hampshire. If convicted in these cases as well, they would face up to 30 years in prison.With violence against foreigners escalating daily, and after being deluged with various threats and demands from al-Shabaab, a radical Islamic militant group with ties to al-Qaeda, the United Nations World Food Programme announced on Tuesday that, as of the end of this week, they are going to suspend all of their operations within southern Somalia—including the distribution of desperately needed food aid to Somali civilians. This is now the third humanitarian agency, after CARE International and Doctors Without Borders, to evacuate from the war-torn nation. The pull out, which will include the closing down of all UN offices and the withdrawal of all local staff, is going to effect over one million Somalis—many of whom relay on this food program for their daily meals. When asked by the New York Times to further explain the UN's decision, Peter Smerdon, a spokesperson for the program, said via telephone from Nairobi, Kenya, "In the past few weeks there has been a harder line of unacceptable demands and conditions set by armed groups (such as al-Shabaab) in these areas. We sadly had to make the decision to pull our staff out."Smerdon also cited the fact that over forty aid workers have been killed between January 2008 and September 2009, and that four volunteers still remain in the hands of their captors.Furthermore, when asked how this move by the UN will effect the Somali people, Smerdon said simply, "People will go hungry...you could see malnutrition rates rising [as a result]." When asked by a British newspaper, The Morning Star, the same question, another program representative, Emilia Casella, conveyed like sentiments, "[Those] dependent on food assistance in southern Somalia face a situation that is particularly dire."In a nation that—due to civil war—has not had a functioning government in over two decades, Islamic extremists groups—such as al-Shabaab—as well as various warlords and pirate gangs control most of the Horn of Africa nation, except for its besieged capital, Mogadishu, which is protected by African Union and NATO troops in addition to UN peacekeepers.According to the UN, al-Shabaab—which has direct influence over the area that is going to be effected—presented their offices with numerous lists of demands. Among their demands was that the UN pay Shabaab a $20,000 protection fee every six months, seek Shabaab approval for all their projects, fire their entire female staff, and run their operations according to the militant group's schedule. When asked by The Associated Press about the UN's decision to leave southern Somalia—including his own town of Jilib—Somali civilian and father of eight children, Abdullahi Awnur, said that al-Shabaab is responsible for driving the UN food program away, and that what they are doing is "indirect[ly] killing" innocent people.Awnur went on to say, "We have been forced to flee from our houses and depend on [UN] food aid, and now that it is finished, that means [al-Shabaab] here does not want us to live."Despite all that has been said, al-Shabaab spokesperson, Sheik Ali Mohamud Rage, told New York Times reporters that he found these claims to be "baseless" in their origins. He continued by stating that, "All we (al-Shabaab) ordered them (the UN) was to buy food from Somali farmers and distribute it. They (the UN) do not want to do that, and because of that, they have made this very ridiculous justification." Nevertheless, the UN has noted that even when harvests were good, Somali farmers are only able to supply 30-40% of the food needed to sustain the bulk of the country's population. "[Somalia] has been described as the most complex emergency in the world, and perhaps the most dangerous to operate in. However, the world is not hearing this," say David Gilmour director of CARE International's Somali branch.The Tax Policy Center has published a table that states that taxpayers earning more than $10,000,000 in 2004 paid lower tax rates than taxpayers earning between $1,000,000 and $10,000,000. Among other things, it breaks down the average tax rate by cash income into various income tax categories.According to the Tax Policy Center, the average tax rate paid by the 9,000 taxpayers earning over $10,000,000 in 2004 was 20.1%, more than 2% lower than the nearly quarter million taxpayers earning between $1,000,000 and $10,000,000.  If taxpayers earning over $10,000,000 were taxed at 22.3%, the rate of those earning between $1,000,000 and $10,000,000, the federal government would have received an additional $4.8 billion in revenue.Taxpayers who earned more than $10,000,000 paid a lower average rate than any category of taxpayer earning over $100,000.  Although taxpayers in the $75,000 to $100,000 range paid 18.9% of their income in taxes, 1.2% less than those making over $10,000,000, taxpayers in the $100,000 to $200,000 range paid an average of 20.6%, or 0.5% more than those making over $10,000,000.Furthermore, the Tax Policy Center's analysis is described by David Cay Johnston, New York Times columnist and author of Perfectly Legal as "understating the real economic gains of those at the very top, who have perfectly legal ways to defer reporting income for tax purposes."The Tax Policy Center is a nonpartisian joint venture of the Urban Institute and Brookings Institution and comprised of nationally recognized experts in tax, budget, and social policy who have served at the highest levels of government.In an unexpected move, US Airways has placed a $8 billion bid for Delta in the morning of November 15, 2006, rallying the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which closed at 12,251.71, a record high. The offer to buy Delta once the Atlanta-based airline emerges from bankruptcy protection by the middle of 2007 would give Delta's unsecured creditors $4 billion in cash and 78.5 million shares of US Airways stock. Delta has yet to file its own plan of reorganization. If completed, the deal would combine two of the oldest and most storied airlines in the United States. Delta started as a crop duster in the 1920s and grew to make its base at Atlanta-Hartsfield the nation's largest airport. US Air started as a mail carrier in the 1930s and has gone through several mergers and two bankruptcies."Consumers will have more choice and more reach, and a carrier that has a cost structure of a low-fare carrier," US Air CEO Doug Parker said in a phone interview. The last airline deal of this magnitude, United Airline's proposed purchase of US Airways, was blocked by the Justice Department on antitrust grounds in 2001, just before the Sept. 11 terrorist attack.Management of Delta have not endorsed the deal, stating they wish to prevail as independent. On Wall Street, however, US Air (up $6.64 to $57.57) investors welcomed the proposal, sending the carrier's stock soaring more than 12 percent in midday New York Stock Exchange trading. Investors also were pleased with Delta, with shares soaring 19 percent but then going back to modest gains. If the deal is completed the airline would operate under the name of Delta but nothing is set in stone.The United States (U.S.) and China this week initiated a trade dispute over tires, auto-parts, and poultry products just a week ahead of the 2009 G-20 trade summit in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.The most recent trade policies enacted by the U.S. government includes a September 12 decision to impose a 35% trade tariff on Chinese tire imports as an anti-dumping measure. The trade policy came about as a result of a trade-complaint initiated by the United Steelworkers Union (USW) filed before the U.S. International Trade Commission. As reported by Steve Levine of BusinessWeek, "In [the USW's] trade complaint to the U.S. International Trade Commission, the USW invoked a provision in China's 2001 accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) that allows protection from surging imports from the country [China]. The union documented a tripling of Chinese tire imports from 2004 to 2008 [...]" The Trade Commission initially recommended a 55% tariff however, President Obama agreed to only 35%. The trade tariff will be diminished by 5% per year for the next three years to 25%. The deadline for President Obama's decision was September 17.  The trade tariff will take effect on September 26, pegging rates at the new level from the current 4%. The dispute will now move to the WTO where it can take up to 18 months for adjudication.  To quantify the impact of the tariff, in 2008 China supplied US$1.8 billion in tires to the U.S. or about one-third of the U.S. market, with two-thirds of U.S. companies producing their tires in China. It's likely that the effects of the suit will exceed $1 billion in trade costs, as reported by several other news agencies.  On the 14th of September, the Chinese government via its Ministry of Commerce website, announced that they would institute an investigation into the dumping of U.S. auto parts and chicken products; they are also filing a complaint at the WTO regarding this matter.  A formal announcement of trade tariffs against U.S. goods has not occurred.The two countries' executive and economic teams will meet in Pittsburgh for the G-20 meeting on September 24 and 25 to discuss these and other economic issues.On Tuesday the U.S. Army released its revised solicitation for the Ground Combat Vehicle infantry fighting vehicle three months after scrapping its previous plans.The United States Army retracted its first solicitation for the Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV) on 25 August. It was decided by the army to begin anew after a "red team" recommended that the army either upgrade the existing ground vehicle fleet or rewrite the requirements. Program officials choose to end evaluations of vehicle submissions and to begin again in two months with new requirements.The previous design requirements emphasized modularity, affordability, rapid design and low risk technology. The infantry fighting vehicle variant would have carried a crew of three and nine infantry dismounts. It was initially to be compatible with the current Battle Command Control and Communications Suite but would gradually use a more revolutionary network. The system would support networking between external systems, vehicles and soldiers. It was to be transportable by C-17 cargo aircraft, rail, and ship and be as logistically deployable as the Stryker. The army officials were open to tracked or wheeled submissions but suggested that it be tracked due to the weight stemming from the requirements. The vehicle had an off-road speed requirement of 30 mph (50 km/h) and was required to deliver improved maintainability and consume less fuel than the Bradley Fighting Vehicle. The army wanted the vehicle to leverage an autocannon, a anti-tank guided missile system and non-lethal weapons. The army wanted the vehicle to have the blast protection level equal to the MRAP and supplement armor with active protection systems.The army wanted the first vehicle variant to be a troop carrier that would displace the aging M113 APCs and M2 Bradleys. Later, other variants of the GCV would appear.There were four known competing contractors for the Ground Combat Vehicle contract. BAE Systems led a team consisting of Northrop Grumman, QinetiQ, and Saft Group. BAE offered a tracked vehicle with a hybrid-electric engine, a baseline weight of 53 tons and a maximum weight tolerance of 75 tons for modular armor and various countermeasures including a V-hull and active protection systems. General Dynamics led a team consisting of Lockheed Martin, Detroit Diesel, and Raytheon. General Dynamics offered a vehicle using diesel and leveraging an active protection system. SAIC led a consortium called Team Full Spectrum which included Boeing, Krauss-Maffei, and Rheinmetall. SAIC offered a vehicle based on the Puma. Advanced Defense Vehicle Systems (ADVS) submitted its proposal for a wheeled vehicle but was rejected for being non-compliant.The predecessor to the GCV, the Manned Ground Vehicle family, was canceled in April 2009. Similar programs like the M8 light tank and XM2001 Crusader have also been scrapped in the past. The Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle, Joint Light Tactical Vehicle, and Ground Combat Vehicle programs have been targeted for cancellation by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform.American automobile manufacturer Chrysler LLC has said that it wants to eliminate 789, or about a quarter, of its 3,200 dealers by early June. In a bankruptcy court filing on Thursday, the firm stated its network has too many dealers competing between each other and is antiquated.A June 3 hearing has been scheduled in the US Bankruptcy Court to determine whether the move should be approved."This is a difficult day for us and not a day anybody can be prepared for," said Jim Press, the Vice Chairman of Chrysler.Company executives said the firm is trying to eliminate dealers with poor performances, and retain those who make the strongest sales. Over 50% of the dealerships that are to be eliminated sell less than a hundred automobiles per year."We recognize in the short term we will see some loss of sales. But based on the long term ... the dealer [network] is key and it's going to be very strong, powerful, with a much better financial viability," said Press.American automobile manufacturer General Motors (GM) announced plans Friday to shut down about 1,100 of its dealerships, in an effort to evade bankruptcy and lower its expenditures.GM's move comes a day after Chrysler, another U.S. car maker, released a list of 789 dealerships that it was closing. Unlike Chrylser, GM will not publicly announce the dealerships that it intends to shut down. Instead, dealerships whose franchises won't be renewed after October of next year will receive a private letter telling them of the decision.At the moment, GM has 6,246 dealers in the U.S. It intends to reduce that number to 3,605 by the end of 2010. GM said the dealerships that were to be closed are "underperforming and very small sales volume U.S. dealers."“They’re dealerships that are in most cases hurting, losing money, and in danger of going out of business anyway,” said GM's sales, service, and marketing vice president in a telephone conference. “It’s a move that people could argue should have been taken years ago but this leadership team had no choice but to do it today.”The dealers that are to be closed represent 18% of the firm's dealership network, but only 7% of GM's 2008 revenue.According to senior defense officials, U.S. service men and women around the world, including those at war in Iraq and Afghanistan, may receive only one-week's pay instead of two in their next paycheck if the government shuts down this weekend due to the federal budget impasse.The military can't be paid during a funding lapse until a new appropriations bill or continuing resolution is passed by Congress.If the funding bill is allowed to expire on April 8, it will be in the middle of a standard military two-week pay period, so the Pentagon would likely send out paychecks for just the first week of the pay period, and not the second, leaving many service members strapped for cash for the remainder of the month.Historically, workers such as the military who are legally obligated to work during a shutdown, do eventually receive back pay for it. But that doesn't help pay bills that are due presently.Additional details on the military's plan for funding during a potential shutdown are expected in the next day or so.Pentagon press secretary Geoff Morrell said earlier Tuesday that department leaders hadn't figured out how pay would be affected for the military, including the 146,000 servicemembers in Iraq and Afghanistan.Morrell said the Pentagon would continue key national security responsibilities including fighting the Afghanistan and Iraq wars, and continuing operations in Libya and earthquake assistance to Japan.The likelihood of a shutdown continues to increase, and President Obama continues to reject a Republican measure that would fund the government for another week but cut $12 billion from the budget.An investigation by the United States Coast Guard has concluded the largest oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry was partly the result of a "poor safety culture" aboard the Deepwater Horizon oil rig. The April 2010 explosion aboard the rig, which is located in the Gulf of Mexico, triggered a disaster that led to widespread environmental damage.The report squarely blames Transocean, which managed the Deepwater Horizon, for being largely responsible for the explosion that claimed eleven lives. The rig had "serious safety management system failures and a poor safety culture," the report says. Transocean fiercely rejected allegations that crews aboard the rig were badly trained and equipment was poorly maintained.A slapdash safety environment on Deepwater Horizon would mean equipment was not mended or replaced if it meant losing valuable hours of drilling, the Coast Guard found. Electrical equipment believed to have caused a spark that ignited flammable gas was described as being in "bad condition" and "seriously corroded." The report found that other deficiencies—improperly assembled gas detectors and emergency equipment; audible alarms switched off because of nuisance false warnings; complacency with fire drills; and poor preparation for dealing with a well blowout—all contributed to the disaster.Transocean attacked the report's conclusions and suggested the Coast Guard may have played a role in the disaster. A spokesperson for the company said Deepwater Horizon had been inspected by Coast Guard officials only months before the explosion, officials who said it complied with safety standards. "We strongly disagree with—and documentary evidence in the Coast Guard's possession refutes—key findings in this report," the company said.This week, Deepwater Horizon owner BP launched legal action against Transocean. It also filed a lawsuit against Halliburton, the company that cemented the well, and Cameron, which manufactured the rig's failed blowout preventer. BP is reportedly seeking to claim US$40 billion in damages, and alleges it has taken a massive financial hit and loss of reputation. In a statement, BP said it filed the lawsuits "to ensure that all parties ... are appropriately held accountable for their roles in contributing to the Deepwater Horizon accident".In the lawsuit against Transocean, BP claims the company missed signs that a disaster was imminent and that it "materially breached its contractual duties in its actions and inactions leading to the loss of well control, the explosion and the loss of life and injuries onboard the Deepwater Horizon, as well as the resulting oil spill." Halliburton, BP alleges, was riddled with "improper conduct, errors and omissions, including fraud and concealment" which led to the disaster, and continues to refuse to cooperate with investigators. Transocean dismissed the lawsuit as "desperate" and "unconscionable," and announced a countersuit against BP, which it claims was responsible for the disaster "through a series of cost-saving decisions that increased risk, in some cases severely." Halliburton and Cameron, which is also countersuing, announced they would defend themselves against BP's allegations.U.S. President Barack Obama marked the anniversary of the explosion by conceding that although "progress" has been made to ensure the safety of deep water drilling rigs, "the job isn't done." Obama's comments came less than a week after leading experts raised serious questions over the security of deep water drilling as the U.S. government approves more exploration without improving safety measures. Charles Perrow, a professor at Yale University, said the oil industry "is ill prepared at the least" to deal with another oil spill, despite repeated assurances from the industry and the government, which insists lessons have been learned from the Deepwater Horizon disaster. "I have seen no evidence that they have marshaled containment efforts that are sufficient to deal with another major spill," he said. "Even if everybody tries very hard, there is going to be an accident caused by cost-cutting and pressure on workers. These are moneymaking machines and they make money by pushing things to the limit."However, politicians have insisted they are doing all they can to help clean the coast of oil. "Cleanup efforts in some places are still ongoing, and the full scale of the damage done to our state has yet to be calculated, but the good news is that most all of our fishing waters are back open again," said Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal at a press conference. "All of us here today want the entire nation to get the message that Louisiana is making another historic comeback."Gulf Coast residents, activists and relatives of the crewmen who were killed in the explosion paused this week for the anniversary of the oil spill's beginning. A helicopter took the victims' families from New Orleans to over the site where the rig stood, where it circled. "It was just a little emotional, seeing where they were," said one victim's mother. Remembrance services and candlelight vigils were held in the Gulf Coast region, which continues to suffer from the fallout of the catastrophe. The families have expressed anger at BP, who they say is being unfair and slow in paying out compensation from a $20 billion fund. The area is still heavily affected by the disaster and reconstruction of the seafood industry that once thrived is slow. While tourists are beginning to return to the region, many are angry at BP and the Obama administration over how they handled the disaster. All the fishing waters in the area have now opened again, but people who live in the area remain dissatisfied. "I don't see any daylight at the end of this tunnel," one fisherwoman said. "I don't see any hope at all. We thought we'd see hope after a year, but there's nothing."The Conference Board, a non-profit global business organization, said on Thursday that its index of leading economic indicators in the United States rose by 1.2% last month, the second consecutive increase. The rise is the largest back-to-back increase since the last two months of 2001, the group said.Seven of the ten indicators had seen an improvement: stock prices, money supply, building permits, capital-goods orders, consumer expectation and interest-rate spread. The three indicators that had contracted were initial jobless claims, consumer-goods orders, and work hours at factories."The recession is losing steam," said an economist for the Board, Ken Goldstein. "Confidence is building and financial market volatility is abating. Even the housing market appears to be stabilizing.""If these trends continue, expect a slow recovery beginning before the end of the year. However, employment will take longer to turn around," he added.In the United States Senate on Tuesday, Senators Byron Dorgan, a Democrat from North Dakota, and Mike Enzi, a Republican from Wyoming, introduced the "Freedom to Travel to Cuba Act" (S.428), a bill that would lift the travel restrictions that have prevented U.S. citizens from visiting Cuba since the early 1960s. The bill is co-sponsored by 20 senators, and the House of Representatives is considering a companion measure, H.R. 874, introduced by Representatives Bill Delahunt and Jeff Flake. The House measure has 121 cosponsors.Senator Dick Lugar, the ranking Republican member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, spoke in favor of the bill, saying that the United States' embargo on Cuba had "failed to achieve its stated purpose of bringing democracy to the Cuban people."Senator Bob Menendez of New Jersey, a Democrat and a second generation Cuban-American, opposes the bill, arguing that free travel by Europeans, Canadians and the citizens of other Latin American countries has not helped to democratize the island nation. "The regime has not opened up," said Sen. Menendez. "On the contrary, it has used resources to become more oppressive."The United States has not had diplomatic relations with Cuba since 1961, and has maintained a trade embargo on the country since 1962. President Barack Obama has spoken in favor of changing U.S. policy towards Cuba, but has not offered specific details.The United States Chamber of Commerce issued a press release supporting the bill. "The US embargo on Cuba is a 50-year failure, and lifting the ban on travel is a good first step toward a more rational policy," said Myron Brilliant, an officer of the organization. Other organizations issuing press releases in support of the bill include the U.S. Rice Producers Association and the non-profit Center for Democracy in the Americas.The U.S. House of Representatives approved the Central American Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA) early morning Thursday, with a narrow vote of 217 in favor, 215 against. Voting was held open for an hour, 45 minutes past the House's 15-minute voting rule as the President along with other supporters lobbied into the night.The vote was so close, if one House member changed a "Yea" vote to a "Nay" vote, CAFTA would have failed in a 216-216 tie.The confidence of American consumers in their economy has slipped unexpectedly in July after it had risen the previous three months.The Consumer Confidence Index dropped from 106.2 in June to 103.2 this July, the Conference Board said in New York. Analysts blame it on Amercians' increased fear over job security, wage perspectives, and rising gas prices.But Lynn Franco, director of the board's Consumer Research Center, is unconcerned: "The overall state of the economy remains healthy and consumers' outlook suggests no storm clouds on the short-term horizon."In the last months, several large American corporations have announced job cuts. Among them are Eastman Kodak, Hewlett-Packard, and Kimberly-Clark.Private consumer spending is considered to be the backbone of the U.S. economy since it accounts for two-thirds of its Gross Domestic Product. However, in the last few years, the correlation between consumer confidence and actual retail sales has been questioned since consumers were spending money even when survey figures said they wouldn't.United States Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld announced the closure of 33 major military facilities in 22 states around the U.S. When word of the plans to shuffle facilities was released, closing some and expanding others, many community leaders shuddered.Cities like San Antonio, Texas, a town built on the back of military establishments, fear the possible economic effects. If the city's bases were closed, the city and local businesses could be crippled. The current announcement, however, benefits the city of San Antonio with the expansion of Ft. Sam Houston, despite the closure of two air bases.Groton, Connecticut, on the other hand faces the closure of a submarine base. Senator Joseph Lieberman (D-Conn) claimed the closure was "cruel and unusual punishment." His state would lose 7,133 military jobs as well as 1,041 civilian jobs. Many communities around the nation stand to lose, while others could end up winners, as a result of the announced re-shuffle.The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has released an official annual report to the United Nations (UN) on greenhouse gas emissions in the United States.  The report is drafted, held for 30 days of public comment, then released to the Secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) each year in April.This year's report is the ninth since the EPA began producing the emissions inventory in 1997, after the US signed and ratified the UNFCCC in 1992.  The UNFCCC, a legally non-binding treaty created to address global warming, is not as well known as the Kyoto Protocol, which is a more recently updated protocol based on that treaty.  The United States did not ratify the Kyoto Protocol; however, it was ratified by 127 other nations and went into effect for them on February 16, 2005.The U.S. Treasury Department reported  the government posted  a monthly  budget deficit of US$222.5 billion in February, the largest monthly deficit ever recorded. The February deficit, announced on Thursday, outstripped the February revenue gain of $110 billion. The report comes at a time when the White House and both national political parties  are under extreme pressure to reduce the deficit as well as the total U.S. debt. There is no agreement on how to reduce spending and increase government revenue, and both Democratic and Republican measures have been voted down.Factors contributing to the February 2011 deficit compared to that of February 2010 included a 69% reduction in corporate tax receipts, and an increase of  29% in  interest payments due on the U.S. debt. The government also spent more than in the previous February on entitlement programs, including an increase of 11% on Medicare. Government measures, such as an extension of  unemployment insurance benefits, cuts in the payroll tax and some  business tax reductions also contributed to the deficit.The White House has predicted that the U.S. budget deficit will reach $1.6 trillion this year and then fall to $1.1 trillion in 2012. Treasury Secretary, Timothy Geithner,  has warned  that by April 15 of this year, the U.S. is likely to reach its $14.3 trillion borrowing limit.The FCC issued a consumer advisory on April 15 in response to a recent flurry of e-mails claiming cell phone users will soon have their phones  assaulted by telemarketers. In a paper titled  The Truth about Cell Phones and the National Do Not Call Registry, the FCC reasserted that it is prohibited for telemarketers to use automated dialers to contact U.S. cell phones.The paper notes the federal government itself does not maintain a national cell phone registry. Users of the do-not-call registry can, if they choose to, add cell numbers in addition to their traditional land-line listings. Up to three numbers per e-mail address can be added if done on-line.The much anticipated do-not-call registry went live in October 2003. The registry has, in the FCC’s own words, been an “overwhelmingly popular initiative.” It serves as an option for consumers to stop unwanted telemarketing calls and currently contains over 80 million subscribers.Additionally, in an FCC change to the registry guidelines effective January 2005, telemarketers are now required to update their call lists against the registry once each month. Previously, the update requirement was once every 3 months. Newer regulations also require marketers to unblock their numbers so users of caller ID will know when a telemarketer calls.The U.S. contact information is 1-888-382-1222 by phone, or https://www.donotcall.gov/default.aspx by Internet, and registry to the do-not-call list is free.The United States Gross Domestic Product (GDP) plunged at an annualised 6.1%, after shrinking by 6.3% in the last three months of last year, according to a report released by the US Commerce Department, making the ongoing recession the worst in at least fifty years.The report was released just hours before Federal Reserve officials were scheduled to convene to decide how much money to insert into the economy.The GDP has now fallen for three quarters in a row for the first time in almost forty years. The decline is worse than the average 4.7% drop forecast by economists.“We are likely to emerge from this recession very slowly and the recovery will be very weak. The aggressive policy response we have gotten will take time to work, but it will counter the still-strong headwinds holding the economy back,” said the chief economist at Morgan Stanley in New York, Richard Berner.Stock market shares went up on Wednesday, following an analyst's report suggesting that non-performing assets will reach their height in 2009. As of noon, the Standard & Poor's 500 index had gained 2.2%, reaching a level of 873,59 points.The median house price in the United States plunged 6.5% in May to $217,000. In February of 2005, the median price of a home was $237,300.The Economist newspaper said in its June 16th issue; "In other words, it looks like the biggest bubble in history." by way of reference to what is happening with housing prices in the USA and much of Europe.Japan provides an example of how a boom can turn to bust. Property prices have dropped for 14 years in a row (40% from their peak in 1991); and yet, the rise in prices in Japan during the decade before 1991 was less than the increase over the past ten years in most of today's "housing boom" countries.The total value of residential property rose by more than $30 trillion over the past five years in developed economies, an increase equivalent to 100% of the combined GDPs of those countries. This increase dwarfs all previous house-price booms and is greater than the global stockmarket bubble in the late 1990s. Much of the recent housing activity is being driven by speculative demand. The National Association of Realtors (NAR) reported that 23% of all American houses bought in 2004 were for investment, not for owners to live in. Another 13% were bought as second homes. NAR also found that 42% of all first-time buyers made no down-payment on their home purchase last year.Many investors are buying solely because they think prices will keep rising, which is a warning sign of a financial bubble. In Miami, Florida, as many as half of the original buyers resell new apartments even before they are built, and properties can change hands two or three times before somebody finally moves in.Britain's Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) reported prices have been falling for ten consecutive months. Forty nine percent of their surveyors reported falling prices in May. This was the weakest report since 1992 during Britain's previous house-price bust.Final August unemployment data was released yesterday with states indicating continued nonfarm payroll contraction going into the fall.The Labor Department indicated an overall increase in unemployment in 27 states, a decrease in 16 and no change in 7.  Record high jobless rates were reached in California (12.2%), Nevada (13.2%) and Rhode Island (12.8%); the highest since widespread state data was first reported in 1976.  California's rate was influenced by the state budget passed in July which closed a US$24 billion shortfall by cutting many state-provided programs which included many state jobs.  Michigan, again, had the highest unemployment rate in August at 15.2% which is nearly double its August 2008 unemployment rate of 8.6%.  North Dakota, again, had the lowest unemployment rate at 4.3%. The current national unemployment rate is 9.7%.On the jobs-front, forty-two states lost jobs last month led by Texas, Michigan, Georgia, and Ohio, totalling over 216,000 jobs; eight states recorded increases in job positions. The biggest job gains were in North Carolina and Montana.  Since the recession began in December of 2007, there have been nearly 7 million jobs lost nation-wide.Data for September will be released in the first week of October.After years of declining subscription rates, the owners of U.S. magazine TV Guide ordered a complete overhaul of the 52-year-old publication. Gemstar-TV Guide International, the corporate parent of the magazine says the current format of the magazine has caused it to become unprofitable.The changes will be effective with the October 15 issue. Lack of profitability has been a point of contention between Gemstar management and its largest shareholder, Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. Included in the new design is a shift away from detailed listings to more of a People or Entertainment Weekly celebrity-focused format. Included in that change will be the elimination of the 140 localized editions of TV Guide in favor of one national publication with only "Eastern" and "Pacific" times listed for program listings. The magazine's owners noted that with the advent of digital cable and satellite TV, more viewers rely upon electronic program guides provided free by the television service provider than printed listings.TV Guide officials say the current magazine is made up of 25 percent news content printed on glossy paper and 75 percent TV listings printed on newsprint and in black-and-white. The new version of the magazine will be completely four-color and on glossy paper. Additionally, the news-to-listing ratio will flip with 75 percent of future content being feature articles on celebrities and television programs.A second change will be the magazine's size as it moves from a digest-sized publication to a full-sized glossy. The company expects the larger edition will be more profitable against competition such as People and US Weekly. But that profitability may be at the expense of national reach.Although the magazine is getting physically larger, according to reports, the readership is expected to shrink. Gemstar expects many of is subscribers not to renew with the new format. Currently the TV Guide guarantees 9 million subscribers to its national advertisers. According to reports, it is only guaranteeing 3.2 million subscribers to its revamped publication once it hits newsstands.United States automobile manufacturing firm General Motors filed for bankruptcy and Chapter 11 protection from its creditors at 12:00 UTC Monday, in a Manhattan, New York federal bankruptcy court. This was the largest bankruptcy filing for a U.S. manufacturing company, and with declared assets of $82.29 billion and a debt of $172.81 billion, and the fourth largest bankruptcy filing in recent U.S. history — after the bankruptcies of {{w|Lehman Brothers|| ($691.06 billion), Washington Mutual ($327.91 billion), and WorldCom ($103.91 billion).A federally mandated minimum wage increase for U.S. workers goes into effect today. The 70 cents per hour increase, from US$5.15 to $5.85, is the first hike since 1997.The increase, which was approved by Congress in May, is the first stage of a 3-step increase over the next two years. Next summer, the minimum will increase by another 70 cents per hour, followed by another bump of 70 cents in the following summer, bringing the minimum wage to US$7.25 an hour by 2009.The increase is aimed at helping minimum wage earners keep above the poverty level. The United States Department of Health and Human Services considers anyone who earns less than $10,210 per year to be in poverty. At the previous minimum wage level, a person working 40 hours a week would only exceed this by $500 a year.As many as 20 states took the initiative to raise minimum wages before this federal government action became effective. Those states will only be affected by the new law if they fall beneath the new federal mandate.By comparison, today's current minimum wage for adults in the United Kingdom is equivalent to almost $11.50. As of 2005, Mexico's minimum wage was Mex$4.50. The lowest minimum wage in Canada is C$6.50 in New Brunswick. The highest in Canada is in Nunavut, C$8.50 or US$8.15.Many countries in Europe, such as Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Switzerland, Germany, Austria, Italy, and Cyprus have no minimum wage laws, but rely on employer groups and trade unions to set minimum earnings through collective bargaining. As of December 2006, the Australian standard federal minimum wage is A$13.47 per hour, equivalent to US$11.90.An increase in the United States federal minimum wage was approved by Congress on Thursday as part of the military funding bill. President Bush is expected to sign the minimum wage increase proposal into law, as he supported it while it was in the legislative process.The minimum wage raise was a campaign promise made by Democrats in the 2006 elections and is cited as one of the reasons the Democrats won control of Congress. Any lower minimum wage levels previously set by U.S. state legislatures will be superseded by the new federal law that boosts the minimum wage from US$5.15 to $7.25 per hour. The wage raise will happen gradually, being completed in two years. "Within 60 days, those who make $5.15 an hour will receive $5.85. Within a year, it will be $6.55. Within two years, it will be $7.25" according to Monique Newton of MyrtleBeachOnline.A U.S. nuclear-powered submarine collided with a Japanese oil-tanker in the Strait of Hormuz late last night. Only minor damage to the tanker and no serious injuries were reported. The USS Newport News submarine collided with the stern of the Japanese oil-tanker, causing minor damage to the tanker. No personnel on either vessel were seriously injured, US Navy and Japanese government officials said. The straits of Hormuz connect the Persian Gulf to the Arabian Sea and is a major waterway for oil tankers. Immediately after the incident the tanker was able to continue to nearby port in the United Arab Emirates. The tanker is owned by Japanese shipping company Kawasaki Kisen Ltd. The Japanese government was informed of the incident soon after by the Navy and the U.S Embassy in Tokyo. They have requested that the U.S investigate the cause of the incident. The recent incident is a stark reminder of the February 2001 incident when a U.S. Submarine rammed into a Japanese fishing vessel in waters off Hawaii, killing nine people.Over the weekend, millions of Americans faced the new ban of online gambling. The legislation was attached by Rep. Bill Frist to the Port Security bill.Many of the public companies that offer online gambling have been quick to react and give their outlooks on the legislature. Party Gaming and 888 among others have said that they will shut down all U.S. operations if President Bush signs the bill into law. This sent online gambling stocks tumbling with Party Gaming leading the way with a 55% decrease in market value.The people involved are awaiting to see what happens over the next few weeks.The U.S. Postal Service has filed a request with the independent Postal Rate Commission seeking a 2-cent increase in first-class mail. Other types of mail would probably increase as well, with the proposed higher rates taking effect early next year.First class mail would go from 37 cents to 39 cents; postcards from 23 cents to 24 cents. The Postal Service blamed the proposed increase on a 2003 law requiring the agency to place $3.1 billion annually in an escrow account. They said they would withdraw the rate request if Congress changes the law.Tensions are running high at the U.S. Postal Service as it faces an enormous budget shortfall. Even after announcing it was cutting 3,000 jobs, the beleaguered government agency is still quickly running out of money. Postmaster General John Potter asked the United States Congress for help on Wednesday, once again bringing up the possibility of reducing mail delivery from six to five days a week. The service reduction would save approximately $3.5 billion this year. Another way to cut costs could include changes to how it pays for its employee retirement plan, which would save a further $2 billion. Closing small and rural post offices is another possibility that has been discussed. Many measures have already been taken to stem the agency's losses. Construction of new facilities has been put on hold and existing ones put up for sale, millions of man-hours have been cut, and executive salaries have been frozen. House Oversight Post Office Subcommmittee chairman Stephen F. Lynch (D-Mass.) has expressed reluctance with the plan to reduce service, saying "With the Postal Service facing budget shortfalls the subcommittee will consider a number of options to restore financial stability and examine ways for the Postal Service to continue to operate without cutting services."Other than cost cutting, Congress could also appropriate taxpayer dollars to fund the struggling Postal Service, which currently does not rely on public funding outside of a subsidy for international voting mail and services for the blind. If nothing is done, the USPS will soon run completely out of money, and may be unable to pay many of its bills. Salaries are the agency's highest priority to continue paying, though other debts may have to wait to be paid, said Potter. Last year the Postal Service lost $2.8 billion.The Producer Price Index for October report released today shows prices for finished goods increased by 0.7 percent in October, prices rose by 1.9 percent in September.  Liquid Petroleum Gas climbed 1.4 percent compared with 24.7 percent in September.  Gasoline dropped 3.3 percent, it increased 12.7 in September.   Diesel fuel climbed 22.7 percent, having advanced 1.5 percent the previous month.  Prices for foods changed very little, a mere 0.1 percent decline, it increased 1.4 percent the previous month.  The Producer Price Index is a US government report on prices as seen from the producer of goods.  This shows prices before effects such as government subsidies, sales and excise taxes, and distribution costs.  The index is used as a leading indicator of consumer inflation in the future as changes in price will eventually flow down to the consumer.  The index can be found at the US Department of Labor web site.On September 26, United States Representative Duncan Hunter (R-Calif.) introduced a bill to prohibit federal grants to Columbia University in response to Columbia's decision to allow Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to speak on campus.  The legislative bill, titled "Restore Patriotism to University Campuses Act", states that "[t]hrough their invitation, Columbia University provided a public, prestigious platform on United States soil from which on September 24, 2007, President Ahmadinejad spoke and defended his wide-ranging support for terrorist activities." The bill arrived at the House of Representatives within two days after the speaking engagement. A portion of the bill requests a denial of funds to the University, "for permitting State terrorist access to campus." According to the Council of Foreign Relations in the United States, its country's State Department has called Iran, "[the] most active state sponsor of terrorism." Iran's parliament, in September this year, labelled the U.S. forces as terrorists.Hunter, who is seeking the Republican Presidential nomination, argued in favor of the bill last week.  "If the left-wing leaders of academia will not support our troops, they, in the very least, should not support our adversaries," he said.  "By hosting President Ahmadinejad, Columbia University openly insulted the thousands of servicemen and women serving in Iraq, most of whom are direct targets of the munitions that he is sending across the Iraq-Iran border."Prior to Ahmedinejad's speech, U.S. President George W. Bush expressed a different view, saying that Columbia's invitation "really speaks to the freedoms of the country."  "I'm not so sure I'd offer the same invitation, but nevertheless, it speaks volumes about the greatness, really, of America. We're confident enough to let a person express his views," he said.U.S. retail chain stores Kroger’s, Walgreens and five other food and drugstore chains have filed a lawsuit against the world’s largest credit card company, Visa International Inc. The federal lawsuit claims the company practices fee fixing on transactions, and with restricting competition among member banks.The retail merchants claim that Visa acts in collusion with its member banks to fix transaction fees taken as a percentage of each retail sale. The suit was filed Thursday in the U.S. District Court in Manhattan, and seeks unspecified damages.  Member banks, those banks that issue and process merchants’ Visa transactions, are unable to negotiate transaction fees directly with the merchant, and merchants are forced to accept Visa purchases regardless of the issuing bank. The complaint says, “The merchant restraints have resulted in exorbitant interchange fees that bear no relationship to the cost of the services being provided." Merchants see the rising use of card transactions and the effect it has on their bottom line.   The interchange fees are currently 1.75% from most banks, but on some cards it rose this year to 2.9%. The National Retail Federation said for 2004 that between Visa and MasterCard, they pulled in $17.4 billion, a surcharge borne by the consumer regardless of whether they pay by cash or plastic.Retailers do not oppose transaction fees, but believe they should be based on market forces. They claim that technology has lowered the cost of processing the transactions, but the savings is not being passed along to them. There are currently four major credit card providers in the U.S.Webpronews writer John Smith cites this merchant quote: "The collective setting of interchange fees by Visa and its member banks constitutes horizontal price-fixing that leads to higher retail prices for our customers," said Paul Heldman, Kroger senior vice president and general counsel. "This hidden cost must be borne by all Kroger customers, whether they pay for their groceries with cash, by check or by debit or credit card. At a time when technology has made card authorization and processing faster, cheaper, safer and more efficient than ever, we believe that our customers should be receiving the benefit of declining interchange fees. Instead, Visa is using its extraordinary market power to profit at our customers' expense."A small group of Connecticut retailers filed a similar lawsuit last month naming along with Visa, MasterCard and several other large banks. The suit was filed in Connecticut’s federal court. That suit also calls the fees “exorbitant”.The Vice-President of Visa, Paul Cohen, said "It appears this is another in a series of attempts by some merchants to receive all the value of electronic payments, while shifting their normal costs of doing business onto consumers."The U.S. Senate passed a revised bailout bill designed to help the struggling U.S. financial economy, which has measures nearly identical to the bill rejected by the U.S. House of Representatives on Monday."Senate Democrats and Republicans believe it is essential that we work quickly on this important legislation to restore confidence to our financial system and strengthen the economy," said Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid.The new revisions include raising the FDIC insurance cap to $250,000, a move designed to please progressives. However, the $110 billion in tax breaks, earmarks and what has been called pork barrel spending is not offset by any increases in revenues and has added opposition to the bill from some Representatives in the House.Earmarks added into the bailout bill included $192 million in tax rebates for the Virgin Islands rum industry, $148 million in tax cuts for the wool industry, $100 million tax cuts to the auto racing industry, and $48 million in Hollywood tax incentives. Vice President of Taxpayers for Common Sense, Steve Ellis, offered his explanation for the pork and earmarks added in. "People who support some of these provisions will forget about the $700 billion and concerns they may have on that, and say, 'If you give me a few million in tax breaks for my constituents, I'll go along'".The tactic seems to have worked, however, managing to flip enough votes to pass the bill."The inclusion of parity, tax extenders and the FDIC increases has caused me to reconsider my position," said Representative Jim Ramstad (R Minnesota), who voted against the previous bill on Monday. "All three additions have greatly improved the bill."But Representative Marcy Kaptur (D Ohio) was not changing her no vote. "I will not support this legislation because it's the wrong medicine," she said.The Senate took H.R.1424, a bill originating in the House concerning "equity in the provision of mental health and substance-related disorder benefits under group health plans, to prohibit discrimination on the basis of genetic information with respect to health insurance and employment," and extended it with the bailout provisions.H.R.1424 was introduced on March 9, 2007, by Rep. Patrick Kennedy (RI-1) and had the support of First Lady Rosalind Carter.  It is noted on the Congressional Website that "On 10/1/2008, the Senate passed H.R.1424 as the vehicle for the economic rescue legislation. In the EAS version of the bill (Engrossed Amendment as Agreed to by the Senate), Division A (pp.1-110) is referred to as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008; Division B (pp. 110-255) is referred to as the Energy Improvement and Extension Act of 2008; and Division C (pp. 255-441) is referred to as the Tax Extenders and Alternative Minimum Tax Relief Act of 2008."  It was not treated as an appropriations bill in the House.There were two votes in the Senate. The first was to amend H.R.1424, which required 3/5 to be accepted, which it was.  The second was a vote on the bill. Passage of the Bill required only a 1/2 majority. It was passed with 74 yeas and 25 nays.  Senator Kennedy did not vote.The U.S. Senate is debating the 2007 budget this week, dealing with, among many things, controversial issues such as the oil drilling in Alaska, raising the national debt ceiling, and an amendment that would fund $1.5 million dollars to veterans' health-care. The Senate is also considering budget measures over an amendment that would increase funding for local and state law enforcement to combat methamphetamine.The national debt ceiling is supposed to prevent the U.S. public debt from growing to excessive amounts. If the national debt grows to reach beyond a previously budgeted ceiling level, branches of government are shut down and provide only limited services. The shut down force a reduction in spending. The measure is meant to prevent excessive amounts of national debt from occurring. Rather than letting the level of national debt approach that ceiling, it is typical practice within the U.S. Congress to raise the national debt ceiling annually.The $781 billion increase asked for this year is the fourth hike request in the last five years. Bush administration budgets have pushed debt ceiling increase request to a level of 46% higher over five years, a $3 trillion increase.Senator Judd Gregg, Budget Committee Chairman, argued in favor of increasing the ceiling, citing growths in the economy under the Bush administration. Kent Conrad, ranking Democrat member of the Budget Committee, rebutted that the economy has not been recovering as well as it has been after World War II and six other similar recovery periods, and that the economic period after World War II averaged 3.2% in growth.A "PAYGO" amendment by Conrad Burns would have required offsetts for any new spending beyond the original resolution. It failed, needing 51 votes, but receiving 50. Lincoln Chafee's amendment would increase funding by $2 billion for the Americans with Disabilities Act.On Wednesday the U.S. Senate released its version of the U.S. healthcare overhaul that has recently been advocated by President Barack Obama.The U.S. Senate Finance Committee released an 18-page summary of the 223-page bill that will, according to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Senator Baucus, cost US$856 billion over 10 years.  The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill will cost US$774 billion over 10 years and will cover 94% of Americans.  The Senate version was orchestrated by Senator Baucus, a Democrat from Montana.  The bill was released without any Republican support from the committee.  However, today, the bill received support from a bi-partisan group of Senators including the Republican Senator from Maine, Olympia Snowe and Independent Joe Liberman.  If the bill's passage is determined along party lines, Democrats will need at least one Republican Senator to avoid a possible filibuster in the Senate.The proposal mandates nation-wide individual insurance by 2013 and omits a government-run insurance clause as is included in the U.S. House version; instead, the plan calls for non-profit healthcare cooperatives.  The healthcare cooperatives would be provided with US$6 billion in initial funding to cover start-up fees and costs. Individuals refusing to obtain coverage can be charged up to US$950 annually with families fined up to US$3,800 per year.  Small businesses will not be mandated to provide healthcare to their employees but those who do will receive tax credits. Also, insurances companies that have more expensive individual plans will be taxed for 35% of the amount that that the plan exceeds the federal individual threshold of US$8,000 or the family threshold of US$21,000. The bill includes clauses for protection against coverage suspensions due to illnesses and protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. It will not pre-empt state laws on abortion and does not provide for abortion payments except in cases of rape or incest. The plan also mandates registration with the Social Security Administration as a means to avoid illegal alien use of the program.The bill will reportedly be paid for by US$850 billion in spending reduction, taxes and fees to include reduction in Medicare benefits.  The Senate Finance Committee is the last approval authority before the Senate or House bills can be considered for floor debate.The biggest U.S. stock market index, the Dow Jones, plunged by more than 416 points by the closing bell on Tuesday, the worst single-day decline since the re-opening of the markets following the September 11th terrorist attacks. The slip followed a 9% sell-off in Chinese markets. Other stock indices, such as the Nasdaq and the S&P 500, dipped by 96 points and 50 points, respectively. It was the 7th largest single-day decline is U.S. history.Analysts blamed the slide on a number of factors: (1) U.S. and Chinese stock exchanges had powered upward for too long and were due for a significant correction; (2) inflation and the prices of bonds and equities had become too high; (3) the U.S. is headed for an economic recession. Alan Greenspan indicated on Monday that the U.S. economy would not sustain its recent growth, where the Dow Industrials set day-to-day records and the White House signaled on Tuesday that it would revise its estimate of fourth-quarter 2006 GDP growth down to an annual rate of about 2.3 percent from an initial forecast of 3.5 percent and was increasingly nervous that the figure could come in even lower.Around 3 p.m. EST, Reuters reported that the New York Stock Exchange had implemented on-floor tradition restrictions meant to curb the sell off.The decline also occurred on the day that a plot to assassinate U.S. Vice President Richard Cheney failed in Afghanistan.The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday overturned a witness tampering conviction against accounting firm Arthur Andersen LLP for destroying documents related to now-bankrupt energy giant Enron Corp.  The verdict virtually put Andersen, once one of the largest accounting firms in the world and the fifth-largest in the United States, out of business.In a unanimous opinion written by Chief Justice William Rehnquist, the court threw out the verdict due to serious flaws in the jury instructions.  The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals had upheld Andersen's June 15, 2002 conviction in Houston.  In the court's view, the instructions allowed the jury to convict Andersen without proving that the firm knew it broke the law or that there was a link to any official proceeding that prohibited the destruction of documents.  "The jury instructions at issue simply failed to convey the requisite consciousness of wrongdoing," Rehnquist wrote. "Indeed, it is striking how little culpability the instructions required."  Rehnquist's opinion also expressed grave skepticism at the government's definition of "corrupt persuasion"--persuasion with an improper purpose even without knowing an act is unlawful.  "Only persons conscious of wrongdoing can be said to 'knowingly corruptly persuade,' " he wrote. The ruling came very quickly, as oral arguments in the case had taken place on April 27. Justice Department attorneys claimed Andersen employees were instructed "undertake an unprecedented campaign of document destruction" in order to impede a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into Enron's conduct.  Deputy Solicitor General David Dreeben likened Andersen's behavior to "shredding its smoking guns."However, Maureen Mahoney, arguing for Andersen, countered that the employees involved merely followed the company's policy on destroying unneeded documents, and that the shredding occurred before Andersen received a subpoena on November 8, 2001.  She also claimed that under the government's legal definition of "corrupt persuasion," acquittal was virtually impossible.The justices seemed to indicate which way they were leaning very early in oral arguments, as they peppered the government lawyers with hostile remarks.  Justice Antonin Scalia called the government's theory of prosecution "weird."  Justice Sandra Day O'Connor was particularly troubled by the trouble the jury initially had sifting the evidence.  "If this thing is so confusing," she asked, "how is a businessperson supposed to know?  How is a lawyer supposed to know?"Andersen's appeal was backed by the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers.  In a friend-of-the-court brief, the association claimed that the government's broad definition of "corrupt persuasion" put defense lawyers at risk for prosecution simply for advising clients of their rights to assert legal privileges or review document retention policies.Despite the ruling, which returns the case to the Fifth Circuit, it is highly unlikely Andersen will ever return as a viable business.  It lost nearly all of its clients after its indictment, and was forced to shut down its American accounting practice due to federal laws that forbid convicted felons from auditing public companies.  The firm still faces more than 100 civil suits related to its audits of Enron and other companies.  Once 28,000 employees strong, the Chicago-based Andersen is now down to around 200 employees who are largely occupied with handling the civil suits and other details of winding down the partnership.The United States continues to implement new trade barriers; the most recent tariffs emerged on Wednesday, targeting solar panels imported from China.The new tariff is a result of a query submitted in December 2008 by GES USA, an American solar company. The resultant inquiry sought to clarify tariffs levied on solar panels imported from China, imports which, for nearly two decades, were considered a duty-free commodity.In early January, U.S. Customs officials reportedly informed the company that the solar panels contained electronic devices that place the panels in the electric generator import category which is subject to a 2.5% import tariff.  Specifically, the ruling cited the presence of diodes on the solar panels as evidence of electric generation and hence they must be treated as an electric generator.  Small solar panels already incur a 3.9% tariff.  The January decision was made by a U.S. trade specialist whose rulings can be overturned.The tariffs will be levied on imported panels that provide electricity for all uses.  Additionally, tariffs will be collected dating from the beginning of 2009.  The Solar Energy Industries Association estimates that the accumulated tariffs from this year may total more than US$ 70 million.  This week's tariff revelation caught many industry leaders off-guard and yesterday the Solar Industries Association moved to block the tariff.  The Association president, Rhone Resch, stated "... We're taking it [the tariff] very seriously and we will be responding. ... The industry is in the process of preparing a challenge".  The Association intends to file their appeal with senior U.S. Customs officials who have the option to overrule the decision to implement the tariff.  However, if the officials do not revoke the tariff, then the case must go before the U.S. Court of International Trade.The U.S. amount spent on imported solar panels roughly matches the income from exported panels; US$ 605 million imported versus US$ 555 million exported, according to the Commerce Department figures on the first seven months of this year.  Major solar panel importers have already begun to move their operations to the U.S.The United States announced plans to help India become a "major world power in the 21st century" on Friday.Washington has offered to engage in a strategic dialogue with India regarding security issues such as missile defence and other issues, such as cooperation in the high-tech, economic, and energy sectors, under the plans."Its goal is to help India become a major world power in the 21st century," AFP reported a senior US official speaking under condition of anonymity as saying. "We understand fully the implications, including military implications, of that statement."The government of Canada is fighting to keep Washington from having access to passenger lists for Canada's domestic flights. The Canadian transport minister Jean Lapierre said two-thirds of Canada's domestic flights at some point cross through American air space. The Minister said he may have to re-route them (around U.S. airspace) rather than breach the privacy rights of domestic Canadian passengers.In plans which are not yet finalized, Washington recently warned Canada (and other countries) the U.S. intends to require that its no-fly list procedures apply to all foreign airlines which pass through U.S. airspace. After 9/11, a watch list of suspected terrorists was created by the U.S. that bars those on the list from air travel within its borders.On Wednesday, Lapierre said it's a “very hot issue,” and that he’s working to protect the privacy of Canadians.“I’m very worried about it. We don’t think it’s a good idea that Canadians travelling from one (Canadian) city to another would have to be checked under the American no-fly list.” Lapierre said. He estimates that nearly two-thirds of the 278,000 yearly flights between Canadian cities cross over the U.S. border. Most major flight zones from urban centers in Canada are in its southern portion, close to the U.S. where even winds might push a plane across the border.If the matter can not be resolved, Lapierre said, “We would have to take a northern route, which would be much more expensive.” Yahoo! News Canada reports that Lapierre intends to lobby U.S. Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta against the changes.Last year, the Canadian province of British Columbia put controls on firms that handle an individual's personal data that prevents them from sharing private information on Canadians with U.S. authorities. The issue goes to Canada's sovereignty of its citizens and the U.S. sovereignty of its airspace.The historically close relations between Canada and the U.S. was evident during the recent Virgin Atlantic incident, where a flight was intercepted by 2 Canadian CF-18 jet fighters. They were scrambled from Quebec to escort the inter-continental flight originating from London to the Halifax International Airport after a hijacking signal, an apparent accident, was sent from the plane. The plane was detained in Halifax on Friday for approximately four hours. Ultimately it was cleared, and landed safely at its original destination in John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City.Both the ACLU and the Electronic Privacy Information Center are involved in lawsuits against the U.S. government relating to no-fly lists. EPIC has received documents under the U.S. Freedom of Information Act which it says "establish that the TSA administers two lists: a "no-fly" list and a "selectee" list, which requires the passenger to go through additional security measures. The names are provided to air carriers through Security Directives or Emergency Amendments and are stored in their computer systems so that an individual with a name that matches the list can be flagged when getting a boarding pass. A "no-fly" match requires the agent to call a law enforcement officer to detain and question the passenger. In the case of a Selectee, an "S" or special mark is printed on their boarding pass and the person receives additional screening at security."The U.S. government warned private financial services that al Qaeda is planning a cyber attack on the U.S. stock and bank accounts, officials said on Thursday.Homeland Security spokesman Russ Knocke says: "There is no information to corroborate this aspirational threat. As a routine matter and out of an abundance of caution, US-CERT issued the situational awareness report to industry stakeholders."The officials said that the attacks are aimed at destroying the databases of U.S. banking and stock market web sites. The Homeland Security group claims that the threat was for all of December. A U.S. official said that the threat was posted on an website and called for the attack to avenge the imprisonment of Muslims in the Guantanamo detention camp.The United States announced that it will be willing to sell F-16 fighter jets to Pakistan on Friday. U.S. State Department officials said that the sale would improve regional security.A senior U.S. official, speaking to AFP on conditions of anonymity, reportedly said that the amount of planes which will be sold to Pakistan is "relatively small," although he said that" there is no set limit on what the United States is going to be willing to sell."Pakistan reportedly wants 25 of the planes, which have a maximum range of over 2,000 miles and are capable of being used for ground or air attacks.President Bush personally telephoned Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to inform him of the new developments before the announcement, according to White House officials.According to a spokesman for Singh, the Indian prime minister expressed "great disappointment" and said that it could have "negative consequences" for the security of India.The senior U.S. official also said that "we don't see any impact on the relevant military balances in the region." He added that the United States would be willing to sell both F-16 and more technologically advanced F-18 fighters to India, if India desired them.New Delhi Television reports that the offer "has been welcomed" by India's Ministry of External Affairs. Xinhua has stated that India is seeking a new contract for a purchase of 126 fighter planes. The announcement was also welcomed by the Pakistani government. "We welcome this good gesture and it shows good friendship between Pakistan and the United States," Pakistani Information Minister Sheikh Rashid said.Xinhua reported that potential sales could benefit US aerospace giant Lockheed Martin, which hopes to fill "looming gaps in the production line."The company "has not been officially notified by the U.S. government of any agreement", Lockheed spokesman Tom Jurkowsky told the Washington Post. The Bethesda-based company said that it would have to close its production line in Fort Worth, Texas if it does not receive additional orders by this fall.On Friday, Transport for London (TfL) announced US-based taxi booking application Uber would not get a renewed private hire operator license after their current permit expires at the end of the month. The regulatory body released an official statement on their website and stated Uber London Limited was "not fit and proper to hold a private hire operator license".TfL said Uber London "demonstrate[d] a lack of corporate responsibility" for reporting serious criminal offences, and for obtaining background of the drivers and medical certificates. In August, police said Uber allowed a driver despite allegations of sexually assaulting a passenger. The company has been accused of sexism and bullying. TfL in its statement also complained about possible use of "greyball" software to prevent officials from accessing the application for law enforcement duties.According to Uber's statistics, about 3.5 million people in London use Uber. There are some 40 thousand drivers tied with Uber within the British capital. Per the Private Hire Vehicles (London) Act 1998, Uber can appeal against TfL's decision within three weeks. Uber received an interim renewal for four months in May, and it is set to expire at the end of the month. To this announcement, Uber London's General Manager Tom Elvidge said, "By wanting to ban our app from the capital Transport for London and the Mayor have caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice. If this decision stands, it will put more than 40,000 licensed drivers out of work and deprive Londoners of a convenient and affordable form of transport. To defend the livelihoods of all those drivers, and the consumer choice of millions of Londoners who use our app, we intend to immediately challenge this in the courts." He also added, "This ban would show the world that, far from being open, London is closed to innovative companies who bring choice to consumers."TfL said Uber's irresponsibility could compromise the safety and security of the public. In contrast, Uber's response said their service enhances safety. London mayor Sadiq Khan, on Facebook, said, "[...]all companies in London must play by the rules and adhere to the high standards we expect — particularly when it comes to the safety of customers. Providing an innovative service must not be at the expense of customer safety and security. I fully support TfL's decision — it would be wrong if TfL continued to license Uber if there is any way that this could pose a threat to Londoners' safety and security. Any operator of private hire services in London needs to play by the rules."Uber has received criticism from traditional taxi drivers as well as government officials. Uber was banned from Bulgaria and Denmark, and faces regulatory issues in France, Italy, Hungary, and Spain. It also faced legal inquiry for use of greyball in the US to resist government regulation of the application. Regarding the complaint about improper use of use of Greyball, Elvidge cited an independent review and said it "found that 'greyball' has never been used or considered in the UK for the purposes cited by TfL". Uber operates in over 40 cities and towns in the UK.First-quarter net profit stood at 2.625bn Swiss francs (US$2.19bn; €1.7bn) up 15% from last year's 2.28bn Swiss francs. Assets under management grew to 2.36 trillion Swiss francs (US$1.97 trillion; €1.53 trillion); an increase of 21.2bn Swiss francs on last year.Despite the solid performance, CFO Clive Standish told the media "Clearly we have seen a slowing of the markets over the quarter, particularly in March... There is a perceptible slowdown in markets as we speak."Reacting to the pessimism, UBS shares dropped 1.5%.The government of the United Kingdom has given corporations like fast food chain McDonald's the right to award high school qualifications to employees who complete a company training program. Two other businesses, railway firm Network Rail and regional airline Flybe, were also approved. The decision was made by the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority, which oversees the national curriculum.McDonald's said it will offer a "basic shift manager" course, which will train staff in marketing, customer service, and other areas of restaurant management. Completion of this course will be the equivalent of passing the GCSE, the standard exam taken at age 16, or the Advanced Level, taken at age 18.Network Rail plans to offer a course in rail engineering, while Flybe is developing a course involving aircraft engineering and cabin crew training. Passing Flybe's course could result a university level degree.Prime Minister Gordon Brown supports the plan. "It is going to be a tough course, but once you have got a qualification in management you can probably go anywhere," Brown said. He emphasized the importance of higher education, saying, "Every young person needs a skill and to think about going to college, doing an apprenticeship or university."John Denham, Secretary of State for Innovation, Universities and Skills, called the decision "an important step towards ending the old divisions between company training schemes and national qualifications" and said it will "benefit employees, employers and the country as a whole."However, some people are unsure of the plan's effectiveness. Sally Hunt, general secretary of the University and College Union, said, "We are unsure whether those institutions would be clamoring to accept people with McQualifications," using a derogatory term for the program.UK Chancellor George Osborne today announced a new £200 million research ship to ply Arctic and Antarctic waters."One of the final frontiers in the world where there is still much discovery to be done are the polar oceans" said Osborne, explaining "our two current polar exploration ships are nearing the end of their life and need replacing. So I am delighted that we are investing in a new polar research ship to carry cutting edge British technology to put British scientists at the forefront of research in both the Antarctic and the Arctic oceans".The icebreaking ship is to belong to the British Antarctic Survey and is funded from a £7 billion pot earmarked for science over the next six or seven years. Osborne told those gathered at Cambridge's Laboratory of Molecular Biology today he had "made it [his] personal priority in government to support [scientific] endeavour."Funding body the Natural Environment Research Council (Nerc) says the current ships, RRS James Clark Ross and RRS Ernest Shackleton, are to carry on operating at least until 2020. They were built in 1990 and 1995 respectively; RRS Ernest Shackleton is a leased Norwegian vessel. The new vessel is intended to be able to stay in the field longer and, unlike RRS James Clark Ross, feature a helipad.Other specifications include the ability to launch unmanned submarines  and scientific gliders, devices towed behind ships to gather data, as well as power through 2m (6.6ft) thick ice at three knots.Osborne also announced the start of consultations on how to spend the rest of the £7 billion. The announcements come shortly  after Nerc completed upgrades to ocean-going 'bluewater' ships RRS Discovery and RRS James Cook. "The new vessel will make Nerc's entire fleet, ton for ton, the most advanced scientific fleet in the world" according to Nerc head Professor Duncan Wingham, speaking to the BBC.British bank Northern Rock received emergency loans from the Bank of England yesterday, as it felt the effects of the financial crisis originating in the U.S. subprime mortgage market. Queues formed outside branches as many customers sought to withdraw their savings, and shares fell heavily.Northern Rock, based in Newcastle, is one of the UK's largest mortgage lenders, with total assets and loans of £113 billion. Pressure has grown on the bank as other institutions have become less willing to buy mortgage debt, following the American subprime crisis.The support from the central bank was authorised by the Government and the Financial Services Authority, following assurances that the problems were temporary and the bank remained solvent. Some current mortgages are being used as collateral. The lending is an "unlimited" facility, at an interest rate higher than the base rate. Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling, speaking on Radio 4's Today programme, encouraged customers to carry on as normal, stating that "Northern Rock will be able to carry on its business".Northern Rock chief executive Adam Applegarth also called for calm, but customers were seen queuing outside branches across the country to withdraw money. It is reported that the company website also crashed under the demand.Shares in the bank fell 31.5% on Friday, down almost 60% from their highest value this year. Applegarth admitted that profits would be hit, but stated that the bank would adapt to the changes. Shares in other lenders also fell, with Paragon being the most extreme, dropping almost 17%. The FTSE 100 closed down 1.17% (74 points) following a recovery in the afternoon. The last time the Bank of England acted as "lender of last resort" in this way was in 1973, after the collapse of Cedar Holdings.Troubled U.K. bank Northern Rock is to be nationalised, the first such move since the 1970s. The Treasury made the decision after a long period of uncertainty which began in September 2007 when it was revealed that the bank had approached the Bank of England, as lender of last resort due to problems raising funds in the money markets.The move means that bids from Virgin Group and a proposal for a management buyout have been rejected. In a statement by Alistair Darling, Chancellor of the Exchequer, said that "in current market conditions, we do not believe that they deliver sufficient value for money for the tax-payer".Workers including drivers for Kuehne and Nagel Drinks Logistics (KNDL) have voted in favour of striking. KNDL, which delivers beer and soft drinks to about 30,000 locations in the UK, was in talks with Unite yesterday to try and resolve the dispute.The vote is a response to a proposed restructuring in which a number of operations currently performed at the firm's 29 distribution centres would be relocated to three new 'super-hubs'. Although no distribution centre closures are currently planned, the union says workers fear future job losses, and are also concerned products will spend more time on the road, spoiling the taste of beer.A Unite official said "We have tried to engage with the company but they have repeatedly failed to resolve this dispute." A KDNL spokeswoman said "We are committed to continuing dialogue with Unite in order to reach a resolution before any action is taken." She also pointed out Unite is yet to decide dates for the strike; Unite has described "one final chance" to resolve the dispute.A Unite ballot of 970 KNDL employees produced a turnout of 64% of which 85% voted to strike. The distribution centres involved are mostly in England, but sites in Aberdeen, Dundee, Bathgate, and Inverness in Scotland and Swansea in Wales are also affected.KNDL delivers high-profile brands including Britvic soft drinks and Heineken, Kronenbourg, and Fosters beer. Customers include chains Weatherspoons, Enterprise Inns, and Trust Inns, and airports, cinemas, and leisure centres. Even Premier League football clubs are among KNDL's delivery rounds.Border patrols at Britain's airports may be left short-staffed as the Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS) have voted to strike for twenty-four hours next week on Thursday, July 26, the day before the opening of the 2012 Olympic Games in London. PCS members working in the Home Office, which operates the Border Agency, voted for the strike on Wednesday to protest against the loss of jobs at the Home Office, as well as pay and conditions of workers.Following the strike, union workers will also take other action including working to rule and a ban on overtime.Prime Minister David Cameron has condemned the strike: "I do not believe it will be right. I do not believe it will be justified." Jeremy Hunt, the culture secretary, said the behaviour of the PCS was "totally irresponsible". Theresa May, the Home Secretary, described the strike as "shameful" and noted the government will put in contingency arrangements.Mark Serwotka, the head of the union, described the government's reaction as "hysteria" and claimed "there'll be no disruption to the Olympics".The Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS), the largest civil services trade union in the United Kingdom, yesterday reversed its decision to hold a strike for its UK Home Office worker members scheduled for today, the day before the Olympic Games are due to start in London. The strike, which was called last week as a result of job reductions being made, would have affected the UK Border Agency (UKBA), the Identity and Passport Service, and the Criminal Records Bureau, at London Heathrow Airport amongst other UK airports.PCS General Secretary Mark Serwotka cited the "significant development" of the creation of 1100 new job positions, 800 in the UKBA and 300 in the Passport Service, as the reason for the union's decision change. "We believe that significant progress means that there is no case for the union to proceed with industrial action tomorrow," Serwotka said yesterday morning. The PCS also reported position recruitment advertisements appearing on the Internet for London Heathrow, London Luton and Gatwick Airport.However, the UK government's Home Office denied that they had created such positions. "We have made no concessions to the PCS and are not creating any new jobs in response to their threat of strike action", a spokesperson for the Home Office stated. Saying the recruitment effort, initiated two months ago, was amongst scheduled modifications to the UK Border Force, the spokesperson clarified: "Unfortunately, due to an administrative error, a figure of 400 posts was repeated in both adverts by mistake. This will now be corrected".Serwotka's announcement was made one hour before lawyers representing the UK government had been due at the High Court to attempt to gain an injunction preventing the strike. According to the PCS, the government's plan was based on accusations that twelve staff members in Brussels and Paris became involved in the dispute despite the fact they would be unaffected. The PCS' decision was welcomed by airport operating company BAA. "So far passengers arriving for the Olympics have had a smooth journey through Heathrow and it is great news that those arriving tomorrow can also expect a warm welcome to London and the Games", a spokeswoman for BAA said yesterday. UK Home Secretary Theresa May had considered the PCS' plans "opportunist and wholly unjustified". Serwotka said he had "[a]bsolutely no regrets" about his previous decision to call the strike.The PCS has also postponed plans to launch a work-to-rule initiative during the 2012 Summer Olympics.The UK operations of Setanta Sports have been placed into administration. Financial firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu confirmed the division would be liquidated.The sports broadcaster, which employs 420 people in Ireland and the UK, entered administration after plans to raise fresh capital through the Russian-American businessman Leonard Blavatnik failed.With effect from today, the company is to cease accepting payments from television customers who had subscribed to its broadcasting services, and 200 employees in the United Kingdom are to be made redundant. Administrators will attempt to find a buyer for the Irish and international arms of the company.The administrators at Deloitte are Neville Kahn, Lee Manning, and Nick Edwards. The specific companies in administration are Setanta Sport Ltd and Setanta Transmissions (UK) Ltd. Setanta Ireland is not under administration.Setanta's UK sports channels, Setanta Sports 1 & 2, have ceased transmission in the UK, but are continuing transmission in Ireland. Other UK channels that have gone off-air include Setanta Golf and Setanta Sports News.  Racing UK, which was bundled by satellite and cable television operators with Setanta channels, is not owned by Setanta and will continue transmission. Customers who subscribed to the channel via Setanta will be offered the option of subscribing to the channel directly.64 of the people facing redundancy work for ITN, which had contracted with Setanta to produce Setanta Sports News. The rights that Setanta had to broadcast football matches to subscribers are to revert to their rights holders. The rights to broadcast 46 Premier League football matches for the next football season, and 23 matches for the three following seasons, have already reverted, and were sold to United States broadcaster ESPN for £260 million yesterday.Because of UK and European Union monopoly and competition laws, broadcaster British Sky Broadcasting is not permitted to bid for the broadcasting rights that Setanta had.United Kingdom cable TV operator NTL has agreed to buy Telewest Broadband for $6 billion USD (3.4 billion pounds). NTL’s and Telewest’s service territories do currently overlap. The acquisition is expected to save the companies 1.5 billion pounds.NTL has agreed to pay $23.93 for each Telewest share, in cash and NTL stock. Current Telewest shareholders will own approximately 25 percent of the combined company. While both companies operate exclusively in the UK, they are listed in New York on the U.S. NASDAQ exchange. Once the acquisition is complete, the combined company will have 5 million customers in the UK . Competitor British Sky Broadcasting (BSkyB) has almost 8 million. The combined company will also be the second-largest residential telephone company in Britain behind BT Group plc.If the deal is approved, regulators and both companies shareholders' should close in the first quarter of 2006.In the United Kingdom, The Carphone Warehouse, Celebrity Big Brother's sponsor, has pulled out after some of the reality TV show's contestants were accused of racism, with which the company did not want to be associated. The Perfume Shop has announced they will withdraw the perfume Shh... of Jade Goody, one of the contestants accused of bullying with a racist undertone. Motorcycle insurance company Bennetts unilaterally terminated its deal with former Miss England Danielle Lloyd to front an advertisement campaign.The accusations centre around recent comments made by Jade Goody, Danielle Lloyd and Jo O'Meara (a former member of pop act S Club 7) about Bollywood actress Shilpa Shetty. The racism row was sparked by Jade's mother, who referred to Shilpa as "the Indian", instead of calling her by her name. She also asked Shilpa: "Do you live in a house or a shack?" There have been remarks over her accent, her alleged lack of hygiene when cooking, and reactions because she touched the food of housemates with her hands. Danielle Lloyd said: "You don't know where those hands have been." Lloyd also commented to Goody about the Indian actress: "She wants to be white".When asked about the incident in the Diary Room, Shetty said "...I don't feel there was any racial discrimination happening from Jade's end. I think there are a lot of insecurities from her end but it's definitely not racial."Hertfordshire Police, the constabulary within which the Big Brother House falls, have received numerous formal complaints they will be investigating. Politicians, other celebrities, and fans spoke of their disgust as the UK media regulator Ofcom received a record number of complaints that rose tonight to 33,000. The Commission for Racial Equality is investigating if the footage was manipulated to deliberately imply racism.Labour Party MP Keith Vaz even proposed a motion in the House of Commons condemning the abuse. He said "If this racist behaviour goes on, they [Jo O'Meara, Danielle Lloyd and Jade Goody] should be asked to leave". Chancellor Gordon Brown, currently on tour in India, told reporters in Bangalore: "I want to reassure people that what British people are proud of is our reputation for tolerance and fairness." Others believe this reflects a racist tendency in British our Western society in general. The newspaper Times of India ran the headline "Big(ot) Brother bullies Shilpa". "What is happening in Big Brother is just holding the mirror to the western society. This is the real, discriminating face of the West.", was the reaction of Bollywood film director Mahesh Bhatt. Ken Livingstone, the Mayor of London, accused Channel 4 of damaging the country's reputation.The show was recently losing viewers, but as a result of the controversy, viewing rates are up for the program.The United Kingdom Chancellor Gordon Brown blamed oil producers from OPEC for oil prices surge in the BBC's Sunday AM programme. Mr Brown accused 'the cartel' of the lack of reaction on China's rising oil demand. He said that he wanted OPEC to increase supplies by the end of the month.However, the Chancellor insisted that the government would not ease the tax on fuel, saying that the price surge is "a global challenge that demands global measures". He admitted the situation is as serious as it was in 1970s oil crisis, but added that the slump can be avoided due to stability and low inflation rate of the British economy.Mr Brown will probably have to face country-wide protests on high fuel prices. The protesters from the Fuel Lobby give the government three days to meet them to discuss lowering the fuel tax, then they threat refinery demonstrations and motorway go-slows.The United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer, the Right Honourable Gordon Brown PC MP, in a speech to the British House of Commons today presented his ninth Budget, what is very likely to be his last Budget before the next UK General Election.  This opened the parliamentary debate on the 2005 Finance Bill, and was followed by responses from the opposition parties.In a 48 minute long speech, the Chancellor presented a Budget of "tax cuts that are reasonable, spending that is affordable, and [economic] stability that is paramount", that was "the prudent course for Britain".  There were few surprises that had not already been indicated in his 2004 pre-Budget report.  The increase in the threshold on stamp duty was greater than that forecast by commentators, as was the amount of the Council Tax rebate to households with pensioners.The UK Chancellor of the Exchequer, Alistair Darling, has revealed the 2008 budget,  which he describes as a "responsible Budget to secure Britain’s stability in the face of global uncertainty."The budget report showed that the government expenditure for 2008 was higher than the total government funds, meaning that the governments debt has increased over this financial year.The budget report mentioned a increase in fuel duty. The budget report said that "the planned fuel duty increase of 2 pence per litre in April 2008 will now be postponed until October 1, 2008. Main road fuel duty rates will rise by 1.84 pence per litre on 1 April 2009, and will increase by 0.5 pence per litre above inflation on 1 April 2010".Traditional "sin taxes" - duty on alcohol and tobacco - formed a headline-grabbing part of the announcement: the alcohol tax is to increase by 6% more than inflation, with an inflation+2% increase in each of the next four years. This will result in a near-immediate increase of 4p per pint of beer, 3p on cider, 14p on wine, and 55p on a bottle of spirits. A packet of 20 cigarettes will cost 11p more. An additional £950 duty will be charged on the most polluting new cars when they are first bought.The winter fuel allowance paid to over-60 year olds, is increased by £50 to £250, while over 80s will receive an extra £100, to £400.In the budget speech Darling described the financial forecasts. He said that his "forecast shows the UK economy will continue to grow throughout this period of global uncertainty – a view supported by the Bank of England, the International Monetary Fund and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development."Mosaic Fashions, a UK clothing firm, is set to make history as it becomes the first foreign company to list on the Iceland Stock Exchange (ISE).Mosaic, which owns the clothing brands Oasis, Karen Millen, Coast and Whistles, operates 600 stores and is majority owned by  retail investment group Baugur. Mosaic employs approximately 5,400 staff throughout the UK and Ireland.The exchange was founded in 1985 and has since grown to encompass 34 firms with a combined value of over US$21bn (€16.3bn; GBP11.1bn).The leading supplier of school uniforms in the United Kingdom, Lancashire-based manufacturer Trutex, has announced it is "seriously considering" including GPS tracking devices in future ranges of its uniform products after conducting an online survey of both parents and children.“As a direct result of the survey, we are now seriously considering incorporating a [tracking] device into future ranges" said Trutex marketing director Clare Rix.The survey questioned 809 parents and 444 children aged nine to 16. It showed that 44% of parents were worried about the safety of pre-teen children, and 59% wanted tracking devices installed in school apparel. 39% of children aged nine to 12 were prepared to wear clothing with tracking devices in them, while teenagers were notably less enthusiastic and more wary of what Trutex has admitted they see as a "big brother" concept.However, Trutex has claimed the tracking devices would bring about worthwhile benefits, including being a valuable resource for parents who wanted to keep a close eye on where their children were at all times."As well as being a safety net for parents, there could be real benefits for schools who could keep a closer track on the whereabouts of their pupils, potentially reducing truancy levels" says Rix.Each year, Trutex supplies 1 million blouses, 1.1 million shirts, 250,000 pairs of trousers, 20,000 blazers, 60,000 skirts and 110,000 pieces of knitwear to the UK.It is not the first company to manufacture school uniforms with a central focus on child safety; last week Essex firm BladeRunner revealed it was selling stab-proof school blazers to parents concerned about violence against their children. The blazers were outfitted with Kevlar, a synthetic fibre used in body armour. It has already received orders internationally, including Australia.If the Trutex tracking devices go ahead, it is unclear where in the uniform they will be located.A British High Court judge has ruled that Pringles are not a potato snack and therefore not subject to a 17.5% tax.The judge, Justice Nicholas Warren, overruled a Value Added Tax (VAT) Tribunal decision that imposed the 17.5% tax which is also applied on other potato products.Pringles' owner Procter & Gamble had claimed at a ruling in May that Pringles do not feel, look, or taste like a crisp. Justice Warren ruled that since Pringles are only 42% potato, it is exempt from VAT.British drivers have been urged not to panic buy fuel because of the 4-day walkout by delivery drivers working for companies delivering to Shell petrol stations.  The 600 workers have walked out over pay disagreements, wanting an increase to their current pay of £36,500, however their union Unite turned down a last-minute offer of £41,500.Hoyer UK, which employs tanker drivers for Shell, said, "We extended our offer to the very limits that our business could sustain." However Unite said in a press release that, "this dispute could have been resolved if Shell had advanced a fraction of the billions of pounds in profit they make every month", continuing to say, "one of the world's richest companies is prepared to play Pontius Pilate and see the British public inconvenienced rather than settle this dispute for a sum smaller than the chairman's pay increase last year"Shell admitted that the walkout could leave some of its 1,000 forecourts without fuel, but the UK Petrol Industry Association, which represent oil refiners, said that forecourts would have around 4 days of supply, maintaining usual stocking levels.  Shell also commented that the strike impact would be "significant", as the company runs around 1 in 10 of all petrol stations in the UK.  British Business Secretary, John Hutton, said that "the strike, which will have a disproportionate effect on people in Britain, cannot be justified," and urged both sides to resume negotiations in order to settle the dispute.  "We have been working closely with industry to put in place detailed contingency plans to reduce as far as possible the disruption for the driving public," he added.  Unite's press release also confirms that "provision has been made for fire, police and the emergency services."Tanker drivers on strike have set up picket lines at many of Shell's UK refineries, including those in Stanlow, Avonmouth, Plymouth, Pembroke, Cardiff, Kingsbury, Basildon, Grangemouth, Aberdeen, Inverness, Jarrow and Luton Airport.According to government figures, the UK economy grew by 0.1% in final quarter of last year, thus officially ending the country's recession. The rise was weaker than the 0.3%–0.4% predicted by economists.Previously, the economy had shrunk for six consecutive quarters, the longest since records were started, in 1955. However, during the entire of 2009, 1.3 million people lost their jobs.The statistics office noted it was possible that the numbers might be revised downwards, after an anticipated second estimate - and the third, final number - which would mean that the recession wouldn't have officially ended after all. The Miami Herald, however, reports that it's more likely the statistics would be revised upwards instead."Of course there will be further bumps along the road. Be in no doubt about that," said treasury chief Alastair Darling. "But I am confident that as long as we stick to the path that we have set [...] that we are going to see recovery through that back into growth."John Wright, the chairman of the Federation of Small Businesses, however, commented that the economic recovery was still "frail", saying that "in order to strengthen the recovery it is important that we boost consumer confidence and demand and that interest rates are held steady as continued investment in the economy will be the key to ensuring a sustainable recovery."The chief economist for the manufacturers organisation EEF, Lee Hopley, also commented on the figures. "Whilst today's data confirm that manufacturing is now out of recession, they also continue to raise questions over the health of the wider economy. The trajectory for the recovery, particularly in the next six months, is an uncertain one and the best prospects remain an export-driven turnaround."The United Kingdom economy shrank by 0.3% in the fourth quarter of 2012 according to figures released today by the Office for National Statistics, increasing the likelihood of a triple-dip recession. This comes after the 0.9% growth seen in the preceding quarter which is believed to have been due to the Olympic Games. The Office for National Statistics has said economic output remained flat throughout 2012.The British economy would have to contract in this quarter in order for there to be a recession, but hopes of positive figures are fading after a snow-hit Britain to the beginning of 2013 with figures suggesting a £500m a day being lost in output.Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said, "We can either run away from those problems or we can confront them. And I'm determined to confront them so we can go on creating jobs for the people of this country".The construction sector rose by 0.3%, however, the production in the industrial and manufacturing sector fell by 1.8% and 1.5% respectively.Six energy companies in the United Kingdom have announced that it is likely that the prices for energy bills could increase over the course of 2010. The companies, which are nicknamed the "big six" in the United Kingdom, did not pass on information that there would be price cuts in energy bills despite increasing profits. However, the companies have in fact sent a message in response saying that the prices of bills may even increase over the course of the next year. Energy company watchdog the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem) have estimated that energy companies will make gross margins of £170 ($276) per dual fual customer over the course of the next twelve months, due to the recent fall in wholesale energy costs.Ofgem have said: "Our analysis shows that based on an 18-month hedging strategy and assuming that retail prices remain unchanged, projected gross margin is set to increase by around £80 for dual fuel customers over the next six months."The "big six" energy companies in the United Kingdom are British Gas, E-on, Npower, Scottish and Southern Energy, Scottish Power, and EDF Energy.  British Gas stated: "Prices [are] likely to remain at historically high levels, and in fact likely to increase as non-commodity costs rise ever upwards."EDF Energy said: "[We] would of course be prepared to reduce tariffs if market conditions allowed." Scottish Power stated: "There are no immediate signals that would indicate a fall in retail prices for this winter, and risks of an increase next year." Scottish & Southern Energy commented:  "With forward annual wholesale prices significantly higher, and with upward pressures in terms of distribution, environmental and social costs, seeking to avoid an increase between now and the end of 2010 is an important goal."Meanwhile, a study by Consumer Focus in early September 2009 suggested that "energy companies were overcharging customers by £100 ($162) every year. A spokesperson for Ofgem said that there was no evidence of any cartel in operation, or evidence of profiteering. The spokesperson commented: "It is up to the companies themselves to decide whether to cut their bills. Consumer Focus data suggests that Scottish Power has increased dual fuel prices by the most since 2003 - up 148% - while decreasing prices by 0.6% so far this year. RWE's Npower has increased tariffs by 132% since 2003, but has reduced bills by 2.7% in 2009."The family of a railway worker in Oxford, United Kingdom whose death was tied to cancer caused by asbestos exposure received a payout of approximately £100,000.In 2005, Dudley Maasz was diagnosed with mesothelioma, a disease resulting from exposure to asbestos. He had been exposed to the substance during his time in the 1940s as a railway worker for Great Western Railway, where he took part in cleaning engines and serving as a fireman. Maasz died in July 2006. The company BRB (Residuary) Ltd., the successor to British Railways Board, came to an agreement to give Maasz's family a payout of £98,000 and costs as a settlement.Brigitte Chandler, the Maasz family's solicitor, told BBC News, "We were able to establish that Mr Maasz death was caused by asbestos during his employment at the Oxford works." Dudley Maasz's brother Norman described him to BBC News as outgoing, and a "friendly chap". He said that he had noticed his brother begin to complain of shoulder pain approximately four years ago, and subsequently began to sleep more and later was bedridden a majority of the time. "One day I looked at him and thought — my goodness — he was half the size, he'd been eaten away, I felt so sorry for him," said Norman Maasz.BBC News reported that no individual from BRB (Residuary) Ltd. was available to provide a comment about the payout to the Maasz family.The UK Government has announced that it is cutting the rate of Value Added Tax (VAT) by 2.5 percentage points, to 15%, in a move to get consumers spending again.This move, along other tax cuts, is going to require the government to increase borrowing to record levels, according to experts cited by BBC News.Gordon Brown, the UK Prime Minister, has stated, "I don't see this as a gamble, I see this as necessary, responsible action, that any sensible government would want to take.""Those people who say do nothing now, would leave people, as in the 1980s and 1990s, without hope that their mortgage problems could be sorted out, or their jobs problems could be sorted out," he continued in a discussion on BBC television programme "The Politics Show". "It would be lacking in compassion, as well as irresponsible, in my view."David Cameron, the leader of the opposition, has expressed his concern over the move. "I think people are going to be shocked tomorrow [Today] when they see the extent of government borrowing," he said yesterday, before the move was official. "Maybe £80bn this year, before the recession's even properly started, and possibly over £100bn next year. And next year that is over £4,000 extra for every family in the country.""So I do have a real concern about a government going on a borrowing binge that even they are now admitting is going to lead to much higher taxes later."In his statement announcing the move, Alistair Darling, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, has admitted that the national debt will go up from 2.8% to 4.4% over the next year, although he stated that these changes were necessary to avoid a recession. The move, which will come into effect next Monday, will last until the end of next year, and Darling stated that it will cost the government £12.5 billion. This was announced as part of the 2008 pre-budget report.Vince Cable, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, also commented on the tax cut. "A big tax cut's desirable, that's certainly the case. And a VAT cut would act very quickly, which is positive," he stated.  "But we prefer a different approach which is more targeted on people who really need it. And we believe that people on low incomes, low wages should get an income tax cut - lifting thresholds or reducing the rate. And that's a much better way of concentrating resources where it needs it."15% percent is the lowest rate of VAT permitted by the European Union.The government of the United Kingdom has outlined its plans for the development of the Britain's railway network in a white paper presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State for Transport, Ruth Kelly.Ruth Kelly described the report as "the most ambitious strategy for growth on the railways in over 50 years" and announced that capacity will be increased to cope with an expected 20% growth in passenger numbers over the next seven years through a £10 billion investment.The government is to continue to limit the rate of increase of regulated tickets, which include standard season and saver tickets, to a maximum of 1% above inflation, and plan to introduce a simplified ticketing structure of four basic ticket types. Today's announcement also extended the government's commitment made in March of this year to fund extra carriages. An additional 300 brings the total to 1,300 carriages to be acquired to relieve overcrowding. The impact of the investment the government has outlined will be concentrated in tackling areas of high overcrowding on the rail network. In particular, Ms Kelly has highlighted a number of key projects. These include the improvement of Reading and Birmingham New Street stations and the approval of the Thameslink modernisation programme. 150 stations across the network will be upgraded and refurbished at a cost of £150 million.The largest opposition party, the Conservative Party, greeted the release with much scepticism, saying that the paper contains "reheated announcements that are years later than promised". A spokeswoman for the Liberal Democrats described it as a "missed opportunity" to encourage more people to use trains in favour of cars or planes and suggested that much of the investment outlined in the document had been announced before.George Muir, of the Association of Train Operating Companies which represents the companies providing passenger train services on the British rail network, said that the white paper is the "first plausible plan for expanding the railway" in recent years.The British government has decided to sell off its stake in the British nuclear weapon manufacturer, Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE). The move has been met with anger and claims of cover up by the opposition parties. The news was broken by Jacobs Engineering, the California based company who bought the government's shares, and by a single line comment on the British Nuclear Fuels (BNFL) website. British Nuclear Fuels plc, a government owned company, held one third of the shares in AWE's operating company, with British firm Serco and American defence contractor Lockheed Martin each having a further third. The Atomic Weapons Establishment, which is based in Aldermaston, produces the warheads for the Lockheed Martin Trident D5 missile used by the Royal Navy's Vanguard class ballistic missile submarines.The details of the deal have not been published, though opposition Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Vince Cable suggested the deal was "probably in the millions rather than the billions", echoing fears that the firm may have been undervalued in its sale. Both the methods of the deal's announcement and the deal itself have been attacked by both opposition parties. There is anger in some quarters over the deal being revealed on a website rather than through the commons, the Liberal Democrats describing such a failure as staggering. The Liberal Democrats have also raised the issue of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, their defence spokesman Nick Harvey questioned "The whole argument used for Britain having a separate weapons establishment is that this is required by the non-proliferation treaty, as technology sharing is not allowed. We must therefore query the rationale of a US company having a majority shareholding in AWE. How does this all square?"The Tories have also raised doubts over the decision, with Commons Public Accounts Select Committee member Richard Bacon suggesting that they may involve the National Audit Office. The Tory defence spokesperson, Gerald Howarth, commented that the firm was "critical" and said "What I'm absolutely determined is that the United Kingdom should have total control of its independent nuclear capability". Mr Howarth criticised handing over control to American firms, saying that the British people would want to know "their politicians are in command of the research and development of this capability".The Ministry of Defence has defended the decision, saying "the UK Government not AWE that sets the UK's nuclear policy". The MoD also assured that the sale would have no affect on the independence of the British nuclear deterrent or on the safe operation of AWE. These statements have been backed up by news from the government that it has retained the ability to re-assert control over the site should it feel the need, due to a "Special Share".Shop Direct group, One of the United Kingdoms home shopping retailers are to cut 1,150 jobs as they shut down a call centre in Merseyside. The closure of the call centre was said to be part of the company’s transformation to an online-led business. 250 of the job loses are to be offered relocation within the company. Currently 56% of Shop Directs business is in the form of online sales. They set for this to rise to 70% of sales within two years. Chief Executive of Shop Direct, Mark Newton Jones, said that Shop Direct is a strong and growing business and puts the cuts down to the way customers shop with the company."Our business is changing because the way our customers choose to shop with us is changing. We are a strong and growing business. In order to maintain this growth, we need to continue to adapt and change to the needs of our customers," said Jones in a statement.Over the 2008 Christmas period group sales were up 9% and online sales were up by 44%. According to the Liverpool Echo several staff were in tears after hearing the news and some collapsed. A 90 day consultation is under way.After dropping 1.9% in July, house prices in the United Kingdom are now falling at the fastest rate since 1990, according to Nationwide Building Society.The average price of a home has dropped by £20,000 down to £164,654, losing 10.5% of its value in 2008. Property values fell by 1.9% in the past month, and 1.5% in July. In another study, it was revealed that house prices have been steadily falling since October last year.Nationwide's chief economist, Fionnuala Earley said that activities in the housing market had recently been "very subdued", although there are signs of increased interests in home sales, possibly due to the appeal of lower house prices.The Bank of England stated there has been an increase in the number of people taking out a fixed rate mortgage as opposed to a variable rate loan. Further research by Nationwide has concluded that mortgage approvals also fell by 65% last month.According to an announcement made by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) on Tuesday, the inflation rate of the United Kingdom measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increased to 3.5% in January 2010, an increase of 0.6% from December 2009. For the UK, this is the second largest month-on-month inflation rate increase on record. The inflation rate for the country has also now reached its highest level since November 2008.The causes of this inflation rise include a 70% rise in oil prices, and value added tax recently being increased to 17.5%. The headline inflation rate of the Retail Prices Index (RPI) also increased from 2.4% for the month of December 2009 to 3.7% for the month of January 2010. Meanwhile, the underlying rate of RPI increased from 3.8% to 4.6% over the same period.The British Government has an inflation target of 2%, which was surpassed by more than 1%. For this reason, Mervyn King, who is the Governor of the Bank of England has written a required explanatory letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling. In the letter, King wrote: "Although it is likely to remain high over the next few months, inflation is more likely than not to fall back to the target in the second half of this year."Alistair Darling then wrote a letter in response, which said that the future expectations of the inflation was "subject to some uncertainty" as countries around the world continue to recover from what he called the "deepest downturn in modern times".The Office for National Statistics (ONS) have made a statement saying the inflation rate of the United Kingdom measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increased to 4% in January 2011. In December 2010, this figure was 3.7%. According to BBC News Online, 4% is the highest CPI that the UK has experienced since November 2008.There are various reasons for the raised British inflation rate, including value added tax (VAT) increasing from 17.5% to 20% on January 4 and the value of crude oil rising. The inflation rate of the Retail Price Index in the country has increased to 5.1%; previously, the value was 4.8%. The CPI has now been a minimum of a percentage point higher than the intended 2% target for one year and two months.The ONS revealed that the price of petrol per litre, which the CPI measured at £1.27 (US$2.04, €1.51) (£5.77/ Imperial gallon), was a record peak. The rising values of tobacco, alcohol, hotels, restaurants, transport and furniture are also said to have caused the increase in VAT. Between December 2010 and January 2011, the rate of the CPI increased by 0.1%, the first time that inflation rose during these two months since records commenced in 1997. The ONS have stated that "[t]wo of the main factors that had an impact on the January data are the increase in the standard rate of Value Added Tax (VAT) to 20% and the continued increase in the price of crude oil".Mervyn King, the current Governor of the Bank of England, has written  a letter and sent it to George Osborne, the present Chancellor of the Exchequer of the British government. The letter provides an explanation for the inflation outlook and what can be done to overcome it. Within the letter, King states that the inflation is anticipated to increase to 5% within the next few months."The MPC's central judgement, under the assumption that Bank rate increases in line with market expectations, remains that inflation will fall back so that it is about as likely to be above the target as below it two to three years ahead," Mervyn King stated in the letter. "The MPC judges that attempting to bring inflation back to the target quickly risks generating undesirable volatility in output and would increase the chances of undershooting the target in the medium term."During the last week, the UK interest rates remained at 0.5%. The Bank of England has kept this figure at half a percent for twenty-three consecutive months.The Bank of England has decided to keep the interest rates for the United Kingdom at 0.5%. A meeting of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), of the Bank of England, was responsible for causing the figure to remain at what are the lowest interest rates for the country on record. They have remained at 0.5% since March 2009. The course of quantitative easing, a form of monetary policy used to stimulate an economy when the interbank interest rate is either at or close to zero, will also  be remaining at approximately £200 billion (US$304 billion, €228 billion) in the UK.Mervyn King, the current Governor of the Bank of England, is also currently the leader of the MPC. He noted that it will take a great amount of time for the economy of the UK to recover. The British Chambers of Commerce, a trade organisation representing British business abroad, have also stated that reconstruction is still currently "fragile".David Kern, the chief economist of the BCC, commented: "We expected and support the [MPC's] decision to continue with a holding approach. But, it should consider new techniques aimed at improving the effectiveness of the quantitative easing programme." He also commented that "[g]iven the dangers still facing the economy, it is important that the MPC perseveres with an expansionary strategy. Threats of a double-dip recession remain more serious in the near future than risks of higher inflation."The United Kingdom emerged from the financial crisis of 2008-09 in the fourth quarter of 2009. According to the BBC, recent official statistics revealed the country's economy grew by 0.4% in the final three months of last year.The FTSE 100 index closed higher today despite of the incidents in London. The markets fell over 50 points when the reports first came out, but recovered later and closed 6.4 points higher at 5,221.6.The stock market had been expecting another attack and today analysts said the FTSE had been "amazingly robust".Dow Jones keeps fallingThe Dow Jones in New York fell 60 points today to 10,629.This afternoon the RAF launched an operation to rescue nineteen sailors from a Spanish trawler in difficulties in a North Atlantic storm.Radio contact with the FV Cibeles was lost yesterday evening at 2030 UTC when the crew reported to the ship's owners that they were in trouble. Last night, UK Coastguard picked up a satellite emergency beacon signal as winds reached speeds of over 70 mph.This morning a RAF Nimrod maritime patrol aircraft located the ship adrift 180 miles off the Scottish Western Isles. A nearby tanker, the Aegean Spirit, diverted with the intention of taking the trawler in tow and arrived at 1500 UTC. However, the tanker was unable to take the trawler on tow, and with no other vessels capable of towing the ship nearby, the Coastguard Rescue Seeking helicopter "Mike Uniform" was launched from Stornoway to extract the crew. The tanker remained on scene to offer some protection from the weather, currently reported as gale force winds and rough seas.The UK Parliament has been discussing the proposed nationalisation of the troubled UK bank Northern Rock. If the bill is passed it will be the first such move by the UK government since the 1970s. The bill was introduced by Yvette Cooper from the UK Labour Party. Philip Hammond (Conservative) responded by saying that the bill should only apply to Northern Rock as if a similar crisis happens again parliament should carry a new bill through parliament. Hammond also said that the House of Commons were not given enough time to discuss the bill. Simon Hughes (Liberal Democrats) said he accepts nationalisation is required but that he thinks the bill should be passed through over a longer period of time to allow the House of Commons to fully review the bill.Conservative Members of Parliament said lots of conventions in lawmaking had been broken in the bill. Yvette Cooper responded to this saying that she hopes Members of Parliament will "understand the unusual circumstances" of the situation regarding Northern Rock.The UK Chancellor of the Exchqequer, Alistair Darling has defended the bill by that some of the powers are necessary not only to "transfer ownership from" the private sector but also to "transfer ownership back" to the private sector. He also claimed that part of the powers granted by the bill were supported by the Conservative Party who have stated that they wish to oppose the bill. He also said that Northern Rock would have gone bankrupt if the government had not intervened.Shadow Chancellor of the Exchqequer, George Osbourne responded to the Darling's statement by saying that the parliament should be made aware of the risks of buying Northern Rock. For example, Osbourne said that the pension deficit of Northern Rock should be released to parliament to allow them to make a more informed decision on the nationalisation.Petrol prices across the UK rose to an average of 91.1p per litre (U.S. $6.02 per U.S. gallon) of premium unleaded on Tuesday, which is the highest they have been for five months. Prices have been rising ever since December 2005, when they reached a trough in the current cycle of 87.6p a litre ($5.79/gal.), and have gained about 1.5p a litre (2.6 cents) in the last 10 days.Across the UK, petrol prices ranged from 86.9p to 100.9p ($5.74 to $6.67) for unleaded and 89.9p to 105.9p ($5.94 to $7.00) for diesel.These figures coincide with the results of a motorists survey from AA Personal Loans, which showed that most drivers are ignorant of petrol prices. Just 14% of those surveyed were able to correctly give the current price of petrol. Out of 1700 people surveyed, the lowest estimate was 69p a litre ($4.56/gal.) and the highest was £3 a litre ($19.83/gal.).In the United Kingdom, the average price of unleaded petrol has reached a record high of 121.76p a litre. The previous peak was 121.61p a litre, on May 12, 2010. In comparison to last year, petrol is more expensive by 11.88p, according to The Automobile Association (AA). The price for 50 litres has therefore increased by £5.94. Edmund King, current president of the AA, stated: "In the past week, we have seen the average price of petrol shoot up 1.7p a litre across the UK and diesel rise 1.61p. It comes at a particularly bad time for drivers, who have struggled with appalling winter weather and often seen their fuel drain away while stuck in snow-bound traffic jams. Our only hope is that either oil and fuel markets settle back down or the pound strengthens against the dollar. Until then, it is an even more uncomfortable ride for families trying to keep cars on the road."iAt 125.73p a litre on average, diesel is approximately eight pence lower than its July 2008 peak of 133.25p; It remains 14.21p more expensive than last year.In January 2011, the prices of fuel are anticipated to rise again due to the increased value added tax rate and higher hydrocarbon oil duty prices coming into effect. Adrian Tink, a motoring strategist for the RAC, believes that the latter should be called off: "It's unbelievable to think that, compared with this time last year, petrol is 13p a litre more expensive. That's over £7 more every time you fill up an average tank. While the increases this year have been driven by a number of factors, you can't get away from the fact that we have seen five rises in fuel duty in the past two years — and we're due another one in January, plus a VAT rise. Who knows what the price will be come January 5, 2011? An average of 125p per litre is very feasible."Police officers and officials at an emergency meeting have voted to ballot every United Kingdom police officer over the right to strike. They also called for the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, to resign over the current dispute and further passed a vote of no confidence in the home secretary's ability to deal with pay and conditions.Under current UK law, it is illegal for police officers to stage walk outs as part of protests or disputes, however some members of the force want to strike over the pay package dispute and thus are lobbying for the right to strike to be allowed once again. This has also been supported by a petition, started by Keith Vaz, chair of the home affairs select committee, which has been signed by 78 MPs.This comes after the decision by the UK government not to backdate a 2.5% pay rise to September 2007, leading to a loss of income, from £130 - £264. However the government says that this is necessary to control inflation in the UK.Gordon Brown, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom has today admitted that the developed world will enter a recession. "Having taken action on the banking system, we must now take action on the global financial recession," he said, speaking to Members of Parliament (MPs).  "[There will be a] recession in America, France, Italy, Germany, Japan and - because no country can insulate itself from it - Britain too," he continued.These comments echo those made recently by Mervyn King, governor of the Bank of England.Leader of the opposition David Cameron said that Brown should take some of the blame for the crisis. "He claimed the credit in the boom, why won't he take responsibility in the bust?"Sushil Wadhwani, who was formerly a member of the Bank of England's monetary policy committee also reacted to these recent comments. "The committee has been too slow to acknowledge the risks of a recession and they have fallen behind the curve," he said. "The consequence of their relative inactivity so far is that the recession is likely to be deeper and more prolonged than was necessary."Markets today continued to fall dramatically. As of 15:30 UTC, the FTSE 100 index had fallen by 152.18 point to a value of 4077.55, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell back below 9,000 with a 2.89% drop.British rail company South West Trains (SWT) is to cut 180 jobs.The franchisee for lines out of London's Waterloo station has already announced 480 job cuts. The redundancies affect front line staff in ticket offices and at stations and further managers and administrators.Bus firm Stagecoach Group, LSE: SGC which runs South West Trains and East Midlands Trains, says that cuts are required because predicted passenger growth will now not happen. SWT's subsidy from the government is falling from £61 million in 2008 to £23 million this year. The subsidy becomes a premium payment next year, with over £36 million to be paid by SWT in 2010.Train crew and maintenance staff will not face redundancy and the number of services, which are generally mandated by the Department for Transport, will not be reduced. The Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union condemned the job cuts. Bob Crow, the union's general secretary, said “SWT’s attacks on its staff and passengers are eating into the very fabric of the railway they are supposed to be running, and they must be stopped". He said that the RMT wanted to ensure there were no compulsory redundancies but that "the company seems to be heading towards a ballot for strike action". Crow also restated the union's longstanding demand for the railways to be renationalised, saying "South West Trains has shown itself to be incapable of running a railway for the benefit of its passengers and the economy, and it is time for the franchise [to come] back into the public sector".SWT's statement on the cuts said "The company will continue to review its operation and take any further steps required to ensure it has a secure business for the long-term. Our priority will remain maintaining services to our customers, protecting jobs for the majority of our people and providing a strong foundation for growth when the economy improves."The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR), the regulatory authority for Great Britain's railway network, has launched an investigation of Network Rail procedures following a complaint from Virgin Trains regarding over-running engineering works on New Year's Eve. Network Rail, who are responsible for the British railway infrastructure, have announced that as part of ongoing engineering work to improve the West Coast Main Line, no services will be able to pass through Rugby on December 31. The closure will affect services operated by Virgin Trains, London Midland and First ScotRail.Chris Gibb, the Managing Director of Virgin Trains said, "I am very disappointed that Network Rail (NR) has given us so little opportunity to warn our passengers of this further disruption. We were first warned of the possibility of this additional work on 6 December.""Because of the seriousness of the situation we felt it necessary to refer the matter to the Office of Rail Regulation. We simply cannot have NR bullying train operators in this way just because their engineering planning processes are in a mess."The company has warned passengers that journeys are likely to be extended by an hour or more in some cases. Whilst the ORR will be investigating the complaint from Virgin, they have ruled that the work should still go ahead. A spokesman for Network Rail said, "Work will be ongoing for most of the next year, but the Christmas period is the last major opportunity we have to do key work while passenger numbers are down during the relatively long holiday period."It was only realised at the beginning of December that work was falling behind. Rail companies are usually given 12 weeks notice of engineering work. Virgin were told only at the beginning of the month, so that is very late."Network Rail is extremely sorry and apologises to passengers for the inconvenience."According to the company, the engineering works will contribute to enabling increases in service frequencies and reductions in journey times on the West Coast Main Line from December 2008.The United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading accused the credit card association MasterCard UK, which includes most major British banks, of overcharging customers between March 2000 and November 2004.The OFT found that an agreement between MasterCard UK members, setting the so-called 'interchange fee' - a charge paid to banks by retailers - caused high cost for UK consumers and was against competition regulations. The British watchdog said that the interchange fee was too high and forced the UK retail sector to raise prices.MasterCard UK disagreed with the OFT and announced that it would appeal the decision. The company said that British consumers benefit from the agreement, as more retail stores accepted credit cards.MasterCard has changed its fee policy last November, but the change has not satisfied the OFT. If the company cannot prove the new fees do not violate competition rules, it may be found guilty and fined up to 10% of its annual worldwide turnover.The OFT is also investigating MasterCard's biggest rival, Visa, in the same case.Two major retail chains in the United Kingdom — general retailer Woolworths Group and furniture vendor MFI Group — have entered administration. Entertainment UK — which distributes videos and DVDs to retailers and are owned by Woolworths — have also entered administration."The boards of Woolworths PLC and Entertainment UK Ltd have concluded that there is no longer any prospect of those businesses being able to operate as a going concern," said a Woolworths statement.Woolworths, who sells household goods, music and other items, owns 815 stores nationwide, and MFI owns 111. MFI CEO Gary Favell said he had "secured the future of the MFI business" in September when he led a management buyout, but cracks rapidly appeared. Favell revealed administrator Kroll were to take control of the property division and half the stores were surrendered to the administrators. He also asked landlords to grant a three-month period of no rent for the 'new' MFI, which only some agreed to, leaving Kroll to seek payment for the rest.Now the entirety of MFI is in administration, with MCR as the administrator. "Closing down sales" have been announced by MCR. Analysts predict that while in the short term consumer confidence will be damaged by the collapse, in the middle term it will help the situation as excess competition and capacity are removed. MFI employs 1,500 people.The administrators for Woolworths and Entertainment UK are consultancy firm Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu. "In the last 24 hours we have received expressions of interest from a number of parties for both the retail and wholesale businesses," said Deloitte partner Dan Butters. "We are working hard to ensure that any sale of the business, in whole or part, will preserve jobs." The 25,000 Woolworths employees have their positions safe until Christmas.Shares in Woolworths have been suspended at just over a penny each. The firm also owns 2Entertain, a DVD publishing joint venture with BBC Worldwide, and book wholesalers Bertram Books. Both are currently operating as usual, although Woolworths is seeking to sell 40% of 2Entertain to the BBC."The important thing is in the long run that employees in this company - where the businesses and the shops are not going to stay open in the longer term - can get other jobs quickly," Prime Minister Gordon Brown said. "That's why we're going to move in immediately to give advice to employees."In the United Kingdom, the Royal Mail have announced that they will increase the price of first-class stamps by a record 5p on April 4, 2011. This means that they will now cost £0.46. The company have also confirmed that the price of second-class stamps will be concurrently increased by 4p, increasing their value to £0.36.On November 8, The Postal Services Commission voted to allow the Royal Mail to perform these actions. At present, the Royal Mail lose 6.4p for every stamped letter delivered by them. These increases should allow the company to receive an extra £380 million in revenues per year.Moya Greene, the chief executive officer of the Royal Mail, commented about this decision. "We have thought carefully about these increases as we are conscious of the difficult economic circumstances our customers are facing," she stated. "No-one likes to pay more and we regret having had to take these tough decisions on pricing. After these increases, we will continue providing value-for-money as our prices will still be among the lowest in Europe. We are investing heavily to modernise our operations, which is all about providing our customers with the services they need in today’s open, highly competitive postal marketplace. With the sharp declines in mail volume, our revenues are falling. That means if we don’t generate more income, we will simply not be able to keep funding our six-days-a-week collection, sorting, transport and delivery operation to the UK’s 28m homes and businesses."The price of parcels that weigh below two kilograms will remain unaffected. However, if parcels are over two kilograms in weight, the price will increase by 8%. The minimum price for special deliveries will become £5.45, an increase of 40p. After 0830 local time, company mail collections will also come at a yearly charge of £210.Below is a table providing information of what prices for standard, large and franked letters will be as of 4 April 2011, as well as details of what the increases in price are for the letters in comparison to their current value.The United Kingdom's Serious Fraud Office is to launch an investigation into the collapse of car manufacturer MG Rover. The move follows the conclusion of a four-year enquiry started immediately after the firm became insolvent.The group of four who owned MG Rover — John Towers, Nick Stephenson, Peter Beale and John Edwards — have been accused of asset stripping. The quartet, known as the Phoenix Four, paid a symbolic £10 (approximately €15) for Rover in 2000. At that time the company received an interest-free loan from former owner BMW for £427 million (approximately €700 million) and came with a large amount of unsold stock.Between then and Rover's April 2005 bankruptcy, by which time there were unpaid debts of £1 billion (approximately €1.5 billion), the Phoenix Four had removed an estimated £40 million worth of assets including pensions and salaries. An enquiry was launched by ministers  that was expected to take a year, but the final report was not delivered to business secretary Lord Mandelson until three weeks ago.The government used taxpayer's money to fund a £6 million loan to MG Rover and attempted to negotiate a deal with a Chinese company, but these efforts failed. MG Rover's collapse caused the loss of an estimated 15,000 jobs, including with various suppliers. A former MG Rover factory does still build a small number of MG sports cars in Longbridge by Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation, who bought most of the designs.The Phoenix Four released a statement criticising the criminal investigation. "There has never been any suggestion of improper conduct by the directors and this was confirmed in a report by the administrators PWC six months after they took over the running of the company. Four years on, any suggestion [of] another further investigation is frankly ridiculous and smacks of kicking this issue into the long grass. If the government has been so concerned to get to the heart of the matter why has it flatly refused more than 30 requests under the Freedom of Information Act which would have revealed correspondence and documents the directors believe would have shed some light on the government’s role in the affair?"Afflecks Palace, the "iconic, alternative shopping centre" in the Northern Quarter of Manchester in England, United Kingdom, was saved from closure this week after long-running rumours that the market may have to "kick out its traders" due to a dispute between the management of the Afflecks Palace brand and the leaseowner for the building, Bruntwood. Rumours suggesting that Bruntwood were looking to redevelop the building started early in 2007, when it became apparent that the property developer was not actively seeking to renew the twenty-five year lease that the management of Afflecks Palace had with them concerning the building. These initial fears were added to by news that Bruntwood was looking to redevelop other buildings it owned in the Northern Quarter area, specifically the parking complex opposite Afflecks, with an eye towards taking advantage of the "property boom" in Manchester at the time. There were also fears that if Afflecks did remain open, "rents would rise".These initial fears were eventually propagated closer to the end of the year when a letter from the management of Afflecks Palace told individual stall holders that "... management have received no formal response from Bruntwood to a tenancy request notice served in October [2007]", going on to add that "We can only assume therefore that they do not intend to offer us a new lease".Following the release of this letter, public support for Afflecks Palace was quickly made obvious when a 5,000 signature petition was submitted demanding the centre remain open for business. This seemed to prompt talks between Bruntwood and the Afflecks Palace management and, eventually, lead to this week's news that the market was - indeed - to remain open. The result of the talks was that Bruntwood "bought out" the Afflecks Palace brand. A joint statement between the management of Afflecks Palace and Bruntwood said: "After 26 years of trading, Afflecks' management has sold their company to Bruntwood in an agreement that protects the future of Afflecks. Bruntwood will manage Afflecks while they look for a new owner who is skilled in running market style businesses and can bring a similar level of enthusiasm and dedication that the existing management has."A spokesperson speaking on behalf of Bruntwood also added that: "Never in our 30 year history have we bought one of our customer's businesses, but Afflecks is a Manchester icon that we wanted to protect. We aren't however expert in managing markets, so will look for a suitable long term owner. In the meantime, the most important aspect is that we have arrived at a solution with Afflecks management that protects an independent retail environment and provides the existing stallholders with security."Traders from the market celebrated the news by holding a party yesterday.Mass-walkouts took place today in cities throughout the United Kingdom, as students campaigned against rising tuition fees and government cuts. Protests took place for the second time in as many weeks in places such as Aberystwyth, Cambridge, Southampton, Liverpool, and Brighton. Events included a 'study-in' at the Edinburgh Liberal Democrat headquarters, a 10am protest in Trafalgar Square attended by thousands, and a 'dress in red' march in Manchester.In Cardiff, at least a hundred students rallied outside the main gates of Cardiff University's main building, in an event organised by a group named Actions Against Cuts Cardiff, with the support of a member of the National Union of Students executive committee. Occupations of university buildings have also begun in Birmingham, Plymouth, and the Royal Holloway. In London, students are infuriated by what they say is London South Bank University's decision to ban anti-cut related meetings from their campus earlier this month. One student described it as "undemocratic and scandalous" as, according to the students, they were forced out of their booked room by security guards, and prevented from partaking on any on-campus meetings -- but South Bank University maintains that it was a "misunderstanding" due to a double-booked room. Dr. Phil Cardew, Pro Vice-Chancellor of LSBU, maintained that "freedom of speech lies at the very heart of the higher education community whether it is academic, political or social debate", and that "the students were encouraged to continue their discussions in the Students Union".Not all the demonstrations were peaceful. Central London saw two officers injured as the police attempted to hold back the protesters, a police van attacked and vandalised, and three arrests were made. Police, keen to make sure that the 30 Millbank occupation was not repeated, were out in force, clashing with students in Cambridge, where two arrests were made, and kettling protesters of up to a thousand, according to protest organisers, as dusk approached.The group that organised the protests, the "National Campaign Against Fees And Cuts" (NCAFAC), told students in the run-up to the protests to not "be afraid of blocking traffic if you have enough people". On their blog, they stated that "[they] would like to see university students planning to march around their campus, bursting into lecture theatres and spreading the word", a move that would breach many University codes of conduct. When contacted by Wikinews, the group did not respond to requests for clarification.Universities are facing more than £900m ($1.4bn) cuts in the next three years. This protest comes as, earlier this month, 50,000 students and lecturers took to the streets in a National Union of Students organised rally, which culminated in the violent occupation of the Conservative Party campaign headquarters at 30 Millbank. In Westminster, a student suspected of throwing a fire extinguisher off the headquarters' roof pleaded guilty in court today, under the charge of violent disorder, and will appear in Southwark Crown Court at a later date for sentencing, the maximum of which is five years imprisonment. Some protesters involved in the 30 Millbank occupation led an 'energising meeting' in Cardiff yesterday, prior to today's demonstration.Many students do not understand the reasoning behind the cuts. The Trotskyist student group, Cardiff University Socialist Students, wonder why, compared to the "£120 billion the government throws away every year on evaded, avoided and uncollected taxes", the "few billion" required to pay tuition fees is "tiny". The group also advocates cutting the Trident nuclear deterrent in order to pay for fees, and wonder why the vice-chancellor of the university was awarded a 4% pay rise (to £275k p.a.) compared to last year, whilst during the economic recession.Last week, three hundred sixth-formers marched in Finchley, Margaret Thatcher's old constituency, throwing shirts at the local Tory headquarters, echoing the phrase "They ripped the shirts of our backs". Lower income college students are hit badly by the budget cuts, as plans to abolish Educational Maintenance Allowance (EMA), the up-to £30 a week subsidy for 16-19 year-old full-time students with household incomes of £30,810 or less.The protests were primarily organised on the popular social networking site, Facebook. One Facebook user said earlier this week that the protests were "a perfect opportunity for students to show how disappointed we are with Nick Clegg", who was advised by security officers earlier to desist from cycling from his home in Putney to Downing Street over fears that he could be pounced upon by angry students en route.The British government have vowed to ban payment fees and other hidden and excessive credit card charges. They hope to do so by the end of 2012, following a consultation in the new year.Hidden fees are often not shown until the end of an ordering process on the web which prevents consumers from making an informed choice and comparing the actual prices of different products and services according to the Office of Fair Trading. Plans are also underway to bring in Europe-wide regulation of credit card fees in 2014.Mark Hoban, a Treasury Minister, said consumers "have a right to understand the charges they may incur up front and not be hit through a hidden last-minute payment surcharge." He said the plans announced today will increase "transparency" for consumers, and that consumers currently "feel ripped off".The Office of Fair Trading have listed some examples of particularly high charges: with EasyJet charging £8, Ryanair £6, and thetrainline.com £3.50 extra to pay for tickets with credit cards. The consumer group Which? claimed that these surcharges were increasing the cost of air travel by £265,000 a day (or about £97 million per year). The OFT stated that the figure was £300m a year. A Wikinews reporter contacted Which? about this disparity but they had not responded at the time of publication.The British government has given permission for new nuclear power stations to be built in the United Kingdom. This decision follows months of public debate and controversy over the proposal. Many Britons have argued for greater use of renewable energy supplies, but the government has said that even with a big increase in investment, renewable sources will not meet all of the UK's additional energy demands. It is expected that 25 GW of additional generating capacity will be required over the next two decades, partly as compensation for old nuclear stations which will be closed down. This additional capacity must be met while reducing overall greenhouse gas emission as per the Kyoto Protocol.The government also announced big increases in spending on renewable energy research and for the construction of onshore wind farms. It is claimed that 20% of energy will be produced from renewables by 2020, and if there are new breakthroughs in renewable energy science this figure may be increased further. Philip Wolfe of the Renewable Energy Association (REA) told the BBC "The government has seen the light on renewables. The energy review supports what we and many others have been consistently saying - that renewables, energy efficiency and decentralised systems are the strongest prospects for secure and sustainable energy supplies." The new nuclear plants will cost 400-500 million UK pounds (700-900 million US dollars) and will generate 1.5 to 2 GW of power each. These will provide the baseline amount of additional power should there be a lack of success in new areas of renewable energy research. The private sector will initiate, fund, construct and operate the new nuclear plants and will cover the full cost of decommissioning and their full share of long-term waste management costs. The Government proposes to address potential barriers to new nuclear stations, but says it will not provide any taxpayer money for the nuclear industry - tax investment will only be put into renewable energy research. This approach is similar to the successful approach adopted in the USA. It contrasts with early UK nuclear power development, where individual power plants or small groups of plants were planned and built by separate publicly funded research and engineering groups, but there was poor planning of nationwide issues such as waste management. Critics argue that the government has only put the nuclear option on the table as it is privately run and does not require government investment, whereas increasing renewable energy production would cost taxpayer money.The review also discusses energy self-sufficiency, and points out that the increase in renewable energy to 20% of the total will improve the UK's self sufficiency. No mention is made of opening uranium mines in the Orkney islands (or reopening Cornish uranium mines) in order to make the UK self-sufficient in uranium, something which Margaret Thatcher tried to address in 1980.Some critics were disappointed that the review had little discussion of the reduction of emissions from transport, a sector which gives a larger contribution to the total UK emissions than electricity generation. This may relate to the high costs associated with significant reductions in emissions in the transport sector.Transport company Metronet, the firm responsible for upgrading three-quarters of London tube system, is facing administration following a preliminary decision from rail arbiter Chris Bolt which limits the amount that London Underground (TfL) is obliged to pay for cost overruns to £121 million. The company had asked for £551m.The arbitrations follows a row over who should pay for the overspend, estimated at between £1.2bn and £2bn in total. Metronet have claimed that the costs are due to changing requirements from TfL. This was disputed however by TfL and the Mayor of London, who has said previously that the costs were due to "management incompetence".The Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, has previously stated that he will not give Metronet one penny more than he is legally obliged to, and that if they go into administration TfL will step in and take control.The company was awarded the tube contract under a Public-private partnership arrangement, which was a central policy of the Labour government, but fiercely (and legally) contested by the London Mayor.The Metronet board have said they are considering their position and will make a statement later today or tomorrow.Metronet, a company set up to manage the upgrade of three-quarters of London's tube network, has gone into administration (which is similar to Chapter 11 in the United States) after having accrued debts of up to £2 billion, following the decision on Monday to limit the amount of extra funds that the company would receive from public funds.A notice on the Metronet website announced that the Boards of both Metronet BCV (responsible for the upgrade of the Bakerloo, Central and Victoria lines) and Metronet SSL (responsible for upgrade of the 'sub-surface' lines) had asked the Mayor to seek the appointment of a PPP Administrator. The statement says that the decision follows a period of 'financial uncertainty', with the decision of the arbiter leaving Metronet "unable to carry out its contract".Metronet's shareholders, the companies Atkins, Balfour Beatty, Bombardier, EDF Energy and Thames Water had blocked access to an extra funds, and each have a limited liability of £350 million, their original equity stake.Transport for London have reassured the public that tube services will not be affected - Metronet is not responsible for day-to-day operation - but it is so far unclear what will happen to the upgrade contracts.In the United Kingdom, the unemployment rate has increased by twenty-seven thousand and has achieved a total of 2.53 million. This figure, which was measured between October 2010 and January 2011, is the highest rate of unemployment the country has experienced since 1994. The Office for National Statistics (ONS) stated that the percentage of those jobless was eight per cent, the peak for that rate since 1996. In the three months approaching February 2011, nearly five hundred thousand occupations were vacant, an increase of twenty-four thousand in comparison to the preceding three months.According to the ONS, the quantity of 16-24 year-old individuals without an occupation has increased by 0.8% to a record peak of 20.6%, including students who are seeking employment. British Prime Minister David Cameron described this number as "disappointing, once again".The executive office also commented that, in February 2011, 10,200 fewer people were requesting Jobseeker's Allowance, causing the total amount to decrease to 1.45 million people. 25,000 more people aged 50–64 now have an occupation, causing the amount of those employed in that age demographic to rise to a record 7.3 million. Cameron has described this situation as a "very mixed picture".According to BBC News Online, the average worker's wage was £453 ($729, €521), including bonuses, in January 2011. In comparison to last year, 2.3% of wages were larger in January of this year, which is less than half of the UK's Retail Price Index; it currently stands at 5.1%.Overall, the total amount of employed individuals has increased by thirty-two thousand and now stands at 29.16 million, the peak value since autumn 2010. 132,000 public sector occupations were eliminated, whereas 428,000 of them have originated within the private sector. "Clearly any increase in unemployment is unwelcome and a disappointment and it underlines the need for a Budget next week which focuses on growth," commented Chris Grayling, the Minister of State of the Department for Work and Pensions, "on creating an environment where businesses are growing and developing and creating jobs."Within the four UK countries, thirty-eight thousand more people in England have become unemployed. The unemployment levels in Northern Ireland and Wales have increased by four thousand and two thousand respectively. However, in Scotland, unemployment has decreased by sixteen thousand.Data released on Wednesday from the British government says that the unemployment rate in the United Kingdom has reached its highest level in thirteen years, with the jobless rate at 7.9%.2.47 million people are now out of work in the UK, up 210,000 or 0.7% in the quarter leading to July. The unemployment level has not been this high since November 1996.Young people, aged 16 to 24 years old, have been affected the most by the recession, with 947,000 having been out of jobs, the highest level recorded.Some economic analysts have suggested that the jobless rate may eventually reach three million, even if layoffs slow."While the deepest job losses are now probably over, the outlook for the labour market remains far from encouraging. Doubts and concerns over the strength and sustainability of any recovery are likely to encourage businesses to keep their labour forces as tight as possible," economic forecaster Howard Archer for Global Insight said.Following on from January's strike, the UK's Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS) yesterday took 24 hours strike action in a dispute over working conditions within call centres providing Jobcentre services for the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP). A press release sent Sunday night by Katrine Williams, the Chair of PCS Wales, states 70% of members who voted were in favour of the industrial action.PCS members "suffer oppressive working conditions that simply result in high levels of stress and sickness" according to the union, and points to the 2,779 staff who left Jobcentre Plus call centres since April last year – approximately 20% of the workforce in the 37 Jobcentre Plus offices handling calls from the public – as evidence of the challenging work environment. The union says management is "obsessed with hitting call centre targets at the expense of providing good quality services to the public".The DWP characterises the action differently, stating 75% of staff voted against the strike. According to the DWP staff work under reasonable terms, but "we have to ensure that our service is available when our customers, who include some of the most vulnerable people in the country, need us." To that end the DWP readily admits it uses performance measures to ensure high productivity and performance, their goal is to "deliver value for money for the taxpayer", and they do not have any plans to change the way they do business.A report in the Liverpool Daily Post cites more than 500 Merseyside staff on strike, and quotes PCS regional secretary Peter Middleman describing the culture in-place in Jobcentre Plus contact centres as "battery-farmed working practices". Similarly, the Lancashire Telegraph cites 120 staff on strike at the Cardwell Place call centre and the expectation that 2,500 across the North West of England were expected to take action; Middleman is quoted describing the call centres as "the modern day equivalents of dark, satanic mills where our members are over worked, overly monitored and forced to endure an obsession with arbitrary targets". The DWP reported the union informed them approximately 40% of the 9,000 staff in JSP contact centres would be taking action, which tallied with their own estimates.Face-to-face Jobcentre services were unaffected by yesterday's strike action; the union have announced that this will be followed with an indefinite ban on members working overtime.UK firm BAA Limited has been told by the Competition Commission that they must sell three of their airports within two years. Gatwick and Stansted airports, both serving London, England, and either Edinburgh International Airport or Glasgow International Airport in Scotland must be sold, in that order.BAA, mostly owned by Spain's Grupo Ferrovial, described the ruling as 'flawed'. Despite challenging a preliminary ruling last year, BAA had also already begun the process to seek a buyer for Gatwick in 2008. Ferrovial, who will still have a London airport with Heathrow, has two months to appeal if they wish. The two year deadline is an extension of the deadline given by the Commission in its previous ruling. Ferrovial, who bought BAA and their seven UK airports in 2006 for US$14 billion, complained that the ruling was impractical given the current recession. Gatwick and Stansted must be sold to different buyers to ensure adequate competition between both airports and Heathrow. The decision has been praised by airlines including Ryanair and Easyjet.Senior politicians in Britain's Conservative Party pledged today to scrap the Human Rights Act, freeze fuel duty until 2015, and clear the UK's deficit by 2020.In a speech to the Conservative Party conference in Manchester, Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne said: "Provided we can find the savings to pay for it, I want to freeze fuel duty for the rest of this Parliament." The fuel duty rise had been scheduled for next September. This announcement follows a similar cancellation of a planned fuel duty rise in the Chancellor's March Budget which would have come into force in September.Party aides said the plan would save motorists £750m a year, with petrol prices 20p a litre cheaper than they would have been if plans by Labour had been followed. Edmund King from The Automobile Association welcomed the announcement on fuel duty, but said: "it is worth remembering that every time there is a spike in fuel prices, the Chancellor brings in money due to the 20 per cent VAT [Value Added Tax] rate on petrol and diesel. This is not exactly a give-away, as even with a duty freeze the Chancellor is still raking in approximately 60 per cent of the pump price in duty and VAT."Osborne also announced that he intends to end the deficit by 2020 and wants to keep the nation's finances at a surplus. This would be accomplished by a new round of cuts after the election amounting to £25 billion."So I can tell you today, that when we’ve dealt with Labour's deficit, we will have a surplus in good times as insurance against difficult times ahead. Provided the recovery is sustained, our goal is to achieve that surplus in the next parliament. That will bear down on our debts and prepare us for the next rainy day. That is going to require discipline and spending control."Osborne's speech also stated that the government intends to continue with reforms to the welfare system and to require those who have been unemployed for more than two years to take part in work placements in order to get benefits: "They will do useful work to put something back into their community; making meals for the elderly, clearing up litter, working for a local charity."Labour MP and Shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury, Rachel Reeves, said Osborne's fuel duty plans were "panicky" and an "aspiration" without funding. Reeves said of Osborne's plans regarding the deficit: "nobody will believe a word he says".Home Secretary Theresa May told the conference that the next Conservative Party manifesto will commit to repealing the Human Rights Act 1998, backing a statement to the same end made by Prime Minister David Cameron in an interview over the weekend.May argued that European human rights law had prevented the deportation of Abu Qatada to Jordan, and that the guarantee of a "right to a family life" had become a "free-for-all" for appeals against deportation. In addition to repealing the Human Rights Act, May raised the possibility of leaving the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) altogether. "The Conservative position is clear. If leaving the European convention is what it takes to alter our human rights laws, that's what we will do."The Attorney General Dominic Grieve has expressed caution about plans to repeal the Human Rights Act or leave the ECHR, saying it "could be interpreted as a sign that Britain is not interested in creating a better world"."If we leave it then we have to take the international reputational consequences of doing so."The Conservatives have also faced questions about their relationship with the UK Independence Party (UKIP). Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP, attended the Conservative conference and raised the question of deals between UKIP and the Conservatives at a local level. A number of Conservative MPs have said that the Conservatives and UKIP should work together during the election including Bill Cash, Douglas Carswell, and Peter Bone.Senior leaders in the Conservative Party have rejected any suggestion of working closer with UKIP. George Osborne said: "The only candidates who will stand for the Conservative party at the election are Conservative candidates – a sort of statement of the obvious."Mayor of London Boris Johnson joked of the UKIP deal suggestions: "you kip if you want to, David Cameron's not for kipping".The Financial Conduct Authority, one of Britain's banking sector regulators, indicated it has decided to drop an inquiry into banking culture, including practices and payment of banking staff. The inquiry was intended to review "whether culture change programmes in retail and wholesale banks are driving the right behaviour, in particular focusing on remuneration, appraisal and promotion decisions of middle management, as well as how concerns are reported and acted on".A spokesman for the Financial Conduct Authority stated: "A focus on the culture in financial services firms remains a priority for the FCA[...] There is currently extensive ongoing work in this area within firms and externally. We have decided that the best way to support these efforts is to engage individually with firms to encourage their delivery of cultural change as well as supporting the other initiatives outside the FCA."The Shadow Chancellor, Labour's John McDonnell, said shutting down the inquiry would be a "dangerous and costly mistake" and said: "This will be a huge blow to customers and taxpayers who are all still paying the price for the failed culture in the banking sector that's been widely attributed to be among the main causes of the crash and the scandals over Libor and price-fixing".Members of the Treasury Select Committee have also been critical of the cancellation of the review. On Twitter, Labour MP John Mann stated the "FCA surrender to big banks today is entirely from pressure from Treasury and Osborne". Conservative MP Mark Garnier, told the BBC: "There has always been this great argument that perhaps the Treasury is having more influence over the regulator than perhaps it ought to and certainly, if I was looking for a Machiavellian plot behind what's happened here and the tone of the regulator, then I suppose I would start looking at the Treasury."Richard Lloyd from the consumer group Which? expressed disappointment at the cancellation of the report: "It's disappointing that the regulator has decided against publishing this report on the culture of banking. Cultural change doesn't happen overnight, so despite signs of improvement, the FCA must not take their eye off the ball and should continue to clean up the industry"The FCA has had no leader since Martin Wheatley resigned in July following an expression of no confidence by George Osborne, the Chancellor of the Exchequer.The Ukrainian Parliament voted to oust the Prime Minister and his cabinet Tuesday after the handling of the countries gas crisis with Russia last week.Viktor Yushchenko called the vote "incomprehensible, illogical, and wrong".Although Russia and Ukraine have solved the crisis, for the time being, when the two countries agreed to new gas prices last week, the parliament described the deal as "traitorous," reports The Independent of London, and ousted Prime Minister Yuri Yekhanurov's government in response.Both Members of Parliament and even opposition groups, said they were unhappy with the governments response to the crisis, and began to accuse it of "selling out to Russia and betraying national interests".The motion to oust the government, which both shocked and surprised many MP's was backed by 250 of the 450 members of Parliament. Mr Yushchenko's former ally and one-time prime minister, Julia Tymoshenko, was among those who voted against the government.Yushchenko is calling the no-confidence vote politically motivated.It is expected, however, that the government will remain in place until parliamentary elections are held, which are scheduled to occur in March.The debate, at the moment, is whether the standing parliament has the authority to dismiss the prime minister. While the constitutional amendments allowing such an action were adopted Jan. 1, Yushchenko and Yekhanurov claim that only the parliament set to be elected in March will have such an ability.However, there are some that believe that the parliament's move was more about gaining "political leverage" than responding to the gas crisis, reported the Los Angeles Times.Yushchenko also accused Ukraine's parliament on Wednesday of "destabilizing the country by sacking his government," a move which sent the local currency plumitting to its lowest point in nearly nine months.Yushchenko met Vladimir Putin for the first time since the Russian president ordered gas taps to be turned off to his ex-Soviet neighbor at the new year in a bitter dispute over prices that briefly disrupted supplies to the rest of Europe.Last week Moscow agreed to a new contract, which Ukraine would pay nearly two times the amount it did before. The two leaders barely touched on the energy issue in comments to reporters after their meeting, instead focusing on the positive side of their strained relations."Ukraine and Russia have entered an excellent phase in bilateral relations, a phase of personal friendship, which allows us to discuss wonderful prospects," Russia's Interfax news agency quoted Yushchenko as saying.News reports are claiming that dolls depicting former Nazi leader Adolf Hitler will go on sale in Ukraine. These reports cite Ukraine's Zerkalo Nedeli newspaper which reported that a toy manufacturer would release the line of Hitler dolls in the summer.The 40cm doll will reportedly first be available in Kiev with a £100 (GBP) price tag and comes with a large range of accessories in a presentation box with the dates of Hitler's birth and death.Nazis images are illegal in Ukraine, with positive portrayal specifically banned. However, there are allegations that right-wing nationalist politics are gaining strength in the country and that xenophobia and racism are on the rise, including some said to be comparable to that present in Germany under Nazi rule. Fascism and propaganda are also banned.When the former Soviet Union, including Ukraine, was invaded by Germany under Hitler's rule 2–3 million Ukrainians were among the casualties, of which 1.5 million were Jews.Adolf can be dressed in various guises, including "early days Adolf", which consists of a brown shirt and jodhpurs, and "Wartime Adolf", which features a grey tunic, black trousers and the Iron Cross medal. The doll also comes with boots and shoes, caps, gloves, full uniforms, cane and belt which can be placed on Hitler, whose arms move, allowing the doll to replicate the famed salute of its real life counterpart.Also included is a model of Blondi, Hitler's female German Shepherd, who was exceedingly loyal to Hitler. Hitler poisoned Blondi with cyanide in 1945 at the same time as taking his own life in his bunker at Berlin."It is like Barbie. Kids can undress fuhrer, pin on medals and there's a spare head in the kit to give him a kinder expression on his face. He has glasses that are round, in the manner of pacifist John Lennon," said one saleswoman. The company, which will release the dolls in Summer, says that if demand is high a range of toys themed on the Third Reich may be released, to include barracks, working models of crematoriums and gas chambers, concentration camps and interior models of the chancellery.The doll is not set to be released until the summer, but BBC News Online has footage suggesting that some stores are selling the doll already.Protests in Ukraine are set to continue after opposition leader Arseniy Yatsenyuk rejected a deal offered today by the president, Viktor Yanukovych, for Yatsenyuk to become Prime Minister. Yatsenyuk and the opposition movement known as 'EuroMaidan' have said they want certain demands, including running new elections, to be met before taking a power-sharing deal.On Twitter, Yatsenyuk told the President: "No deal... we're finishing what we started. The people decide our leaders, not you."Protests started in November of last year after the Ukrainian government decided to reject a free trade deal with the European Union and build stronger ties with Russia. Following the rejection of the EU deal, the Russian government has bought US$15 billion of Ukrainian government bonds and given a discount on gas supplies from Russia, cutting the price from over $400 per 1,000 cubic metres of gas to $268.50. The right-wing Ukrainian politician Oleh Tyahnybok said at the time President Yanukovych had "pawned whole sectors" of the Ukrainian economy to Russia.Russian president Vladimir Putin has called the protests in Ukraine the work of "very well prepared and trained militant groups". Putin said: "This is an attempt to shake the current and, I want to emphasise, legitimate authorities in the country."On November 30, riot police detained protesters and allegedly used violence against them. In December, a statue of Vladimir Lenin was brought down by protesters. Protesters have claimed that after being arrested, they have been tortured by police including being beaten, forced to strip naked.The protests have become more violent in the past week following a shooting of two protesters—Serhiy Nihoyan and Mikhail Zhyznewski—on Wednesday. The police denied responsibility.After every earthquake, flood, or other disaster, the call goes out for pledges to fund emergency relief. Then a second round of begging tries to convert those pledges into actual payments. In the meantime, some relief is delayed, and people die. Money that does eventually come may not be in proportion to the need. For example, relief funding for the 26 December 2004 tsunami generally came rapidly and exceeded the amount requested, but famine relief for 3.5 million Kenyans suffering drought is now 75% underfunded.To help solve these problems, the United Nations this month created the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) as a rainy-day savings account, to be dipped into when urgent needs require that money be spent within days--not in several months after aid pledges start being fulfilled. The Fund is about half way to the goal of half a billion dollars in deposits, which could be spent for either natural or man-made disasters."We meet to launch a fund that is proactive rather than reactive. The CERF will provide a ready pool of resources that better empower the United Nations in funding immediate relief efforts in the aftermath of disasters," said UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan on March 9.Jan Egeland, the UN Emergency Relief Coordinator, will manage the Fund. "We are working on the two first allocations from the CERF...One is to the Horn of Africa and Kenya drought, the other one is to Cote d'Ivoire where humanitarian work and the civilian population is suffering so much," he said. "Too often, aid resembles a lottery in which a few win but most lose based on considerations other than need. We must move from lottery to predictability so all those who suffer receive aid."The biggest donations paid so far are $41 million from Sweden and $30 million from Norway. The largest pledges are $70 million from the United Kingdom and $24 million from the Netherlands.The Convention on Domestic Workers (also known as the ILO Convention 189) is to take effect next year after the Philippines ratified it earlier this month, according to the United Nations. It follows the lead taken by Uruguay which ratified it earlier this year. Only two countries are needed in order for it to take effect.Upon taking effect, the convention is intended to protect the rights of around 53 to 100 million domestic workers around the world. Based on UN estimates, many of them are women and migrant workers. The ILO has noted that these workers work in a sector that lacks regulation and is informal. According to the UN, the convention intends to grant the workers several rights. These include freedom of association and collective bargaining, protection from child labor, forced labor, and discrimination. Also included are chapters that entitles domestic workers to a contract that specifies the type of work, salary, the hours of work, paid leave, and days off.The number of hungry people in the world is projected to reach an all-time high of 1.02 billion this year, according to a report published by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). The report blames this latest spike in world hunger chiefly on the global economic recession, which has increased unemployment and reduced incomes among the poor, leading to greater food insecurity.The report, published on Friday, estimates that over 1 billion people will go hungry each day in 2009, a first in human history. This is a significant increase over last year's estimate of 915 million hungry people. According to the FAO, this increase of around 100 million people is not a result of poor harvests, as in the past, but rather a poor economy."A dangerous mix of the global economic slowdown combined with stubbornly high food prices in many countries has pushed some 100 million more people than last year into chronic hunger and poverty," said Jacques Diouf, Director-General of the FAO. "The silent hunger crisis — affecting one sixth of all of humanity — poses a serious risk for world peace and security."Although food prices have declined from their record high levels in mid-2008, the report states that global food prices are still high compared to previous years, and that domestic prices remain prohibitively high in developing countries. In Mauritania, for example, a staple food such as wheat still costs over 600 USD per tonne, whereas in the United States the price has fallen below 300 USD.The current economic situation has intensified the problem created by high food prices. Many sources of income for developing countries, including remittances, foreign direct investment, foreign aid, and international trade, are expected to undergo severe declines. In addition, because of the global nature of the economic crisis, previously-used mechanisms such as currency depreciation and borrowing from international credit markets are more limited in their scope, according to the FAO.In developing countries, the report says, the urban poor are likely to be most affected by the economic slowdown, as their ability to find work is most dependent on factors like foreign investment and export demand. However, rural areas could also be affected, as an urban back-migration to the farms would put more pressure on an already strained rural job market. Budget constraints would lead families to purchase more grain products, which are cheaper than meat, dairy products, and other foods rich in protein. The result of such diet changes is often malnutrition.Investment in agriculture, according to Director-General Diouf, is the key to overcoming poverty and hunger in poorer countries. These countries "must be given the development, economic and policy tools required to boost their agricultural production and productivity", he said. Kanayo F. Nwanze, President of the International Fund for Agricultural Development, says that investment in agriculture is not only essential for overcoming hunger, but also for promoting economic growth in developing countries. "To unleash this potential and reduce the number of hungry people in the world," he said, the international community must ensure that farmers "have access not only to seeds and fertilisers but to tailored technologies, infrastructure, rural finance, and markets."However, the economic slowdown has forced the UN’s World Food Programme to shut down some of its operations, as it receives less financial aid from donor countries. Out of a required yearly budget of 6.4 billion USD, the agency currently has less than one-fourth of that amount.The Service Employees International Union, a trade union in the United States and Canada, was trying to unionize 8,300 workers in nine different Ohio hospitals through elections that were scheduled for this Wednesday and Friday. But then organizers from a second union, the California Nurses Association, visited the hospitals to encourage the workers to vote not to join the S.E.I.U.  These actions led to the service employees union on Tuesday asking to postpone the vote by workers at the nine hospitals, all which are a part of the Catholic Healthcare Partners system.Andy Stern, the service president is quoted as saying, "nothing more than a flimsy cover for out-and-out union busting that we normally see from employers, not organizations that claim to care about workers."The California Nurses Association, said it dispatched organizers to Ohio because in its view the unionization efforts were part of a "sweetheart deal".Rose Ann DeMoro, executive director of the nurses association, condemned this agreement. She called it "a rigged scam" in which the service union would bargain without care if they won the vote."This was a top-down deal between an employer and a hand-picked union," Ms. DeMoro said. "There was a gag order on everyone, and as a result this was a banana republic election." "As for the future," DeMoro said, "no election is planned." She said that delaying the election was "a significant victory for employee rights."Dave Regan, president of a service employees’ local representing 35,000 health care workers in Ohio, West Virginia and Kentucky, called the nurses union’s conduct as, "Their conduct is indistinguishable from that of the most vicious anti-union employers," Mr. Regan said. "It violates every principle of unionism. Real people are worse off today as a result of their behavior."Orest Holubec, spokesman for Catholic Healthcare, said the system’s hospital in Lima had obtained a restraining order to bar the California nurses from entering restricted patient-care areas and aggressive leafletting outside hospitals. "They were doing exactly the kind of things we were trying to avoid," Mr. Holubec said. "They poisoned the well to the degree that we didn’t have the conditions that we tried to establish for a pressure-free environment."The besieged airline industry received some good news today, United Airlines plans to hire 2,000 flight attendants.  This is the first time in four years United has increased the number of flight attendants it employs. United Airlines, the second largest US carrier, furloughed many flight attendants as a result of decreased air travel after September 11th.  At one time 5,500 flight attendants were on furlough.  United finished recalling flight attendants on October 31st.  The airline's problems were further aggravated by soaring fuel prices forcing the company to file for chapter 11 bankruptcy which it plans to emerge from in 2006.  The new hires are intended to replace retirees and flight attendants who decided not to return from furlough. United stated that it will begin accepting applications November 13th at United flight attendant application pageThe leader of the government's political partner, United Future and Revenue minister, Peter Dunne has announced that there will be personal tax cuts to go along with the confirmed business tax cuts in 2008.Peter Dunne's newsletter, sent yesterday, said: "The business tax reduction proposals I announced with Michael Cullen in the Business Tax Review in July will go ahead from April 2008, and they will be accompanied by personal tax adjustments as well, just as we foreshadowed." They would be "the first major cuts by either government since 1996." Peter Dunne was the Revenue minister in 1996 as well.Finance minister and deputy Prime Minister, Doctor Michael Cullen, said: "Mr Dunne is clearly involved in an important branding exercise for United Future and nothing has changed."The Prime Minister, Helen Clark, did not comment.Before Peter Dunne announced the tax cuts, the Government had denied any tax cut proposals until November/December when they could see a clearer picture.Dunne said that the tax cuts would come in the form of rate cuts and threshold movements.Cullen said that if tax cuts were offered then they will be for everyone, including those in the low to middle income ranges.New Zealand First, another political partner of the government, claimed credit in its annual convention on Sunday that they were the ones who convinced Labour the value of tax cuts and changing the personal thresholds.Cullen last week said, when he announced the surplus; "We are engaged in a business taxation review that will almost certainly produce proposals for tax cuts in the business area to come into force on 1 April 2008 . . . and that may have implications for personal tax rates and thresholds, but I can't give you more information because [it is] not available."The business tax is dropping three cents to NZ$0.33.The United Kingdom economy will avoid a triple dip recession said the British Chambers of Commerce (BCC) in a statement yesterday reasoning that a better than expected performance in the service sector in the first quarter of 2013 has led to an increase in growth.The BCC chief economist, David Kern said: "The survey reinforces our assessment that recent GDP figures published by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) have exaggerated the weakness of the UK economy and the volatility in output [...] If an announcement of negative growth in the first quarter is misleadingly described as a triple-dip recession, confidence will again be damaged unnecessarily."The ONS statistics show the British economy shrank by 0.3% in the final quarter of 2012 and output remained flat throughout last year - the economy would have to grow in the first quarter of 2013 in order to avoid a recession. Later this month the ONS will publish its preliminary estimate of the first quarter GDP figures on April 25 which will indicate as to whether Britain has avoided a triple dip recession. A survey which was released on Tuesday by Markit Economics stated that the British manufacturing sector had shrank and output was falling. They also blamed the recent bad weather of heavy snow and loss of market confidence in the UK for the fall in output.The value of the British pound sterling has fallen resulting in an increase in exports abroad. The director general of the BCC, John Longworth said to the BBC that "the pound's helping" to increase exports. He went on to say, "There's been a major focus on helping businesses to export, rebalance the economy towards exports away from domestic. The fact that the domestic economy is flat and the Eurozone is flat in terms of trading is driving exports to the rest of the world."The United Kingdom has officially entered recession, with two consecutive quarters of negative growth. The last recession for the UK was nearly 18 years ago.The UK's gross domestic product shrank by 0.6% in the third quarter of 2008; this was followed by a 1.5% contraction in the following quarter. "The increased rate of decline in output was due to weaker services and production industries output," commented the Office for National Statistics in a statement released today."Manufacturing output made the largest contribution to the slowdown, falling by 4.6 per cent compared with a 1.6 per cent decrease in the previous quarter," the Office continued. Agriculture, fishing and forestry were the only industries not to fall between the last two quarters.UK shadow chancellor George Osborne commented that, "I think we are facing an exceptionally difficult time and unfortunately the figures that have just come out today confirm this is now going to be the worst recession for a generation." Bank of England Governor Mervyn King had previously commented that he felt there would be a recession until at least the first half of 2009, accompanied by "further marked falls in output."The UK joins a long list of countries in recession, including Germany, Italy, Singapore and the United States. The current global financial crisis was triggered by the subprime mortgage crisis in the US.The United States government officially charged 11 individuals today for the theft and sale of over 40 million credit and debit card numbers. The card numbers were stolen from nine US retailers including Barnes & Noble.The indictment includes computer intrusion, conspiracy, identity theft and fraud. This case is suspected to be the largest computer hacking and identity theft case ever to be prosecuted by the US Justice Department.The 11 people charged include three from the US, three from the Ukraine, two from China, and one each from Estonia and Belarus. The remaining person is only known by an alias, and his/her place of origin is not known.The reported "ringleader" of the group was Albert "Segvec" Gonzalez, of Miami, Florida. If Gonzales, who is in custody in New York because of another computer hacking charge, is convicted of the numerous indictments, he could face life in prison.According to the Justice Department, after hacking into wireless computer networks of the victim companies, the group would install a sniffer program to identify card numbers and steal information required for use of the numbers. The compiled information was then stored in computer servers owned by the group. The credit card numbers were then sold online to the customers who would "cash out" the numbers by scanning them on to the magnetic strips of blank cards. The funds earned by the group from the sale of the numbers were either transferred to internet currencies where the money was laundered, or transferred directly to eastern European banks.The nine companies that were stolen from are T.J. Maxx, Marshalls, Barnes & Noble, J's Wholesale Club, OfficeMax, Boston Market, Sports Authority, DSW and Forever 21. Several of these retailers belong to TJX Companies."They used sophisticated computer hacking techniques, that would allow them to breach security systems and install programs that gathered enormous quantities of personal financial data, which they then allegedly either sold to others or used themselves," said US Attorney General Michael Mukasey.The United States economy grew at a 0.4% annual rate in the last three months of 2012 according to statistics released on Thursday by the United States Department of Commerce (USDOC). The revised figures are better than 0.1% previously estimated.Per the report, the increased estimate of economic growth is partly due to an increased estimate of plant and equipment investment, however a cut in defense and government spending led to a loss in output.The increased estimate comes after a hike in taxes at the beginning of this year and $85 billion being withdrawn from government spending at the beginning of March. Economists are predicting the first quarter of 2013 (January–March) will have an annual growth rate about 2.5%.  A statement released by the USDOC said: "While non-residential fixed investment is higher than previously estimated, the revision to GDP has not changed the general picture of the economy".The United States economy shrank by 0.1% in the last three months of 2012 according to official statistics released on Wednesday by the United States Department of Commerce. The contraction in the economy comes after growth of 3.1% in the previous quarter (July to September) and is the first contraction since the 2009 recession. Economic growth is thought to have fallen due to cuts in government spending, including a 22% cut in the defence budget being the largest decline in defence spending since 1972. Economic analysts had expected a 1.1% in growth according to polling conducted by the news agency Reuters and that none of them had predicted a contraction in the economy.Export levels were at their lowest for almost four years, this may be due to the recession in Europe and a decline in growth in China. However, there were increases in consumer spending and investments which shows that there may be other problems with the economy and that the "fiscal cliff" issues of December did not worry markets too much.The international credit ratings agency Standard and Poor's has confirmed that the United States Government has had its national credit rating downgraded one full notch from AAA to AA+ in the light of the recent drama concerning the US debt ceiling and the negotiations to have it raised before the August 2 deadline, citing concerns about budget deficits.In a statement, S&P said that the main reason for the downgrade was that the final deficit reduction bill passed by Congress and the Senate this Tuesday past were insufficient. The potential at this stage is for the downgrade to raise the cost of borrowing for the US Government in the future. It also stands to have a knock on effect for investor confidence, BBC correspondents claim. Losing its "Triple A" rating for the first time in history is a significant blow to President Barack Obama, leading a country with enormous debt, unemployment at over 9% and the possibility of another recession to follow.The US Treasury is thought to dispute the downgrade. "A judgment flawed by a $2tn error speaks for itself," an unnamed spokesman said, referring to errors anonymously-speaking officials claim to have identified in S&P's maths. China's national state-owned news org Xinhua said China has "every right now to demand the United States address its structural debt problems and ensure the safety of China's dollar assets." The US is more indebted to China than anyone else.There are no plans at this time for the other two major credit rating agencies, Fitchs and Moody's, to follow S&P's lead.The United States Government reported the largest trade deficit in its history today, totalling $60.3 billion for the month of November.The Commerce Department reported a rise of 7.7% from the previous month, in an announcement that had taken economists and analysts by surprise. The reading had been expected to fall to $54 billion, following a softening in oil prices.The trade deficit through November totaled $561.3 billion, far above the previous annual record of $496.5 billion set in 2003, and put the country on track to record a trade imbalance topping $610 billion when the December figures are added.The University of Alberta is set to expand into the heart of Edmonton's downtown with plans now in place to purchase the aging Hudson's Bay building on Jasper Avenue between 102nd Street and 103rd Street. The deal, which is yet to be approved by the University's Board of Governors, could result in students starting classes in the building as early as September 2006.The building has been a huge vacancy in the downtown core, with only the broadcasting corporation CHUM Limited using any space. University of Alberta President Indira Samarasekera has said there are no plans to ask the company, which owns 91.7 The Bounce and A-Channel to move.The deal would also solve the University's space crunch. The total University population is growing much faster than the number of facilities required to support it, so expanding beyond the current campus makes sense. Establishing a presence downtown will also help the University and it's many spin off companies.The University has not yet decided how the project would be funded, but is currently looking at a number of options, including partnerships with all three levels of government.The Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) has announced it will take the unprecedented step of conducting a special review of flag carrier Qantas after three separate emergencies in two weeks.In the latest incident, a Boeing 767 headed from Sydney to Manila was forced to turn back yesterday after ground staff at the airport noticed what they believed to be smoke emanating from the jet's wing as it departed. It turned out to be fine spray from a hydraulic fluid leak, and the aircraft brought its 200 passengers back down safely at around 3:00 p.m., with ARFF trucks on standby.Despite the aircraft being forced to turn around, the pilot did not request a priority landing and so Qantas refused to describe the event as an emergency landing.Qantas has a largely good safety record, having never lost a jet aircraft or had a fatality on board one. Their last fatal accident was in 1951. However, recently two other events have led to some questioning of Qantas from within the aviation industry.Last Monday, a Qantas Boeing 737-800 returned to Adelaide after experiencing pressurization problems caused by the failure of an undercarriage door to retract properly. This followed the July 25 accident on board Flight 30, a Boeing 747 headed from London to Melbourne that had just made a stopover in Hong Kong, in which an exploding oxygen cylinder caused an explosive decompression. An emergency landing was performed in Manila, with a hole blown in the aircraft's side.According to Qantas staff, the problems are not a new thing. Qantas flight attendants have asked senior management for an emergency meeting over these latest events. The Flight Attendants' Association of Australia's president Steven Reed said "We want some assurances from the company that these are isolated incidents. Or are they something we should be concerned about? We need to meet with the company at a senior level to have these assurances." Such a meeting is said to be likely within a week.Qantas engineers have been complaining for some time about maintenance issues, saying that cost-cutting and outsourcing are compromising the quality of maintenance. Much work is now being done in countries such as Hong Kong, Malaysia and the Philippines. According to one engineering union official, recent incidents linked to outsourced maintenance include a failure of emergency lighting and flight attendants in the galley being electrocuted by faulty wiring.According to the Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers' Association's assistant federal secretary, Wayne Vasta, there has been a recent "change in culture" at Qantas, although he did say it would be inappropriate to blame only outsourcing. He said that while previously Qantas engineers had simply attempted to do the best they could, "Now it appears we have got to do the best job we can possibly do, within a budget." He also expressed a welcoming of the CASA probe.Qantas' engineers are currently lobbying for a pay rise, and say the airline is risking safety with cost cuts.Peter Gibson, spokesperson for CASA, said no trouble had been spotted in recent safety audits of Qantas, but they felt it 'prudent' to investigate given the recent string of incidents. He acknowledged that the review is unprecedented in CASA's history, and announced the probe would be headed by senior official Mick Quinn."We want to look at their safety systems to make sure that the systems are operating the way they should. All these things are stated in manuals. We want to make sure that what is in the manuals is being done," Gibson told reporters. He said the investigation should take around two weeks.Billionaire media mogul, Rupert Murdoch has filed for divorce from his wife of 14 years, Wendy Deng Murdoch. Ending months of speculation on their relationship, Murdoch filed in the New York State Supreme Court, Thursday morning.The filing noted the "relationship between husband and wife has broken down irretrievably." The split marks Murdoch’s third failed marriage. The couple signed a prenuptial agreement before their 1999 wedding which allows Ms. Deng a claim to a share of his US$11 billion empire. Murdoch has requested shared custody of the couple’s two children, eleven-year-old Grace and nine-year old Chloe.This is not the only split for Murdoch this week; with shareholders of his company, News Corporation, voting to split the business into two publicly traded companies. 21st Century Fox will focus on television and film interests, whilst the new News Corp will comprise newspaper and publishing assets.The world's largest package delivery company, UPS has announced a $1 billion dollar expansion at its Louisville, Kentucky air hub to meet their projected future demands. The expansion will add an estimated 5,000 jobs and make the facility the size of 113 football fields when completed in 2010. It will make the facility  capable of handling nearly 500,000 packages an hour. UPS is already the largest employer in Kentucky with nearly 18,000 employees. Many of the positions are part time and are held by students from the University of Louisville and Jefferson Community College, with whom UPS has a tuition reimbursement deal.With the US retail tradition of 'Black Friday' already underway early Thursday evening, some shoppers began gathering outside retail stores as much as 53 hours prior to these special sales events. This, according to a Texas man who told Wikinews that he and his companions had started gathering at their local Best Buy store at 1:00pm on Tuesday, awaiting the 6:00pm Thursday opening. Target retail stores opened across the country at 8pm (local time) on Thursday evening. At 8:45pm Thursday evening, approximately 500 cars were parked at the Target store in Tyler, Texas.  At least four camping tents were set up outside the Best Buy store in the Dallas, Texas area, during pre-dawn hours on Thanksgiving morning. Years ago, it was seen as something special for retail stores to open at 6am on the so-called 'Black Friday' following Thanksgiving Day; that time would be considered "late" by modern standards. Many retailers use barricades to organize those who gather at their storefronts. For the first time ever, a shopping mall in Las Cruces, New Mexico will open at 8pm on Thanksgiving Day and will remain open for 25 consecutive hours, closing at 9pm Friday evening.  In recent years, several significant injuries have occurred during the melee that often ensued when stores opened their doors for Black Friday events. In 2011, a woman shot pepper spray at 20 people who were waiting to purchase the newest Xbox system.Due to a growing US Hispanic population, the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) announced that all primetime shows in their upcoming lineup will be closed captioned in both English and Spanish.  In addition, four of the shows, as well as many theatrically-released films and other specials, will be dubbed in Spanish.The move was a major one for ABC.  Previously, only the Hispanic comedy The George Lopez Show was captioned and dubbed in Spanish.  "We wanted to move beyond toe-dipping and really dive in," said Stephen McPherson, ABC entertainment chief. "Almost half of the 41 million Hispanics in this country watch only or mostly Spanish-language television, and we want to bring that audience to ABC."The SAP function allows an optional second audio transmission, which may be used for transmitting programs in Spanish.  However, the additional costs of hiring voice actors to provide Spanish dialogue, as well as production costs, have been prohibitive for most networks.  McPherson said that while it was "not inexpensive", having Spanish-speaking viewership could yield a significant benefit.George Lopez will continue to air, dubbed in Spanish.  In addition, two of the network's most popular shows, Desperate Housewives and Lost, as well as the new comedy Freddie, will be dubbed; Spanish voice actors are currently being cast for the roles.The US economy added 173,000 jobs in August, the Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on Friday. The unemployment rate fell from 5.3 to 5.1 percent, the lowest since April 2008.Although August job gains were lower than most economists forecast, job growth numbers for June and July were revised upwards by a combined 44,000. Average job gains over the past three months stand at 221,000, compared to March-May's 189,000 monthly average. Over the past twelve months, job growth has averaged 247,000 per month.Average hourly earnings rose 0.3 percent, or 8 cents, marking the largest increase in earnings in seven months. Hourly earnings had risen by 6 cents in July. Wages have risen by 2.2 percent over the past year. Job growth in August was primarily concentrated in the health care and social assistance, financial activities, and professional and business services sectors. Those three areas of the economy added a combined 108,000 jobs. Food service and drinking places employment increased by 26,000 over the month, and other economic sectors saw employment hold steady. Manufacturing, on the other hand, saw employment decline by 17,000 in August. A stronger dollar and worldwide economic weakness make US exports less desirable, leading to a flattening in manufacturing employment so far this year after steadily rising in the early years of the US economic recovery.The solid overall job gains led analysts to slightly raise expectations for a decision by the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates this month. Investors raised the likelihood of a September rate increase from 26 percent before the jobs report to 30 percent, and stocks dropped by over one percent on Friday. "The payrolls data is certainly good enough to allow for a Fed rate hike in September," said Deutsche Bank's head of currency strategy, Alan Ruskin. "The big question is still whether financial market volatility will scupper the plans.""This is the first time the market has looked at a Fed meeting and really has no idea what the Fed is going to do," said Mark Kepner, a New Jersey equity trader with Themis Trading. "Right now you're looking at the overall uncertainty and that's what's hanging on the market. I don't think this number in and of itself changes how somebody's going to vote."The United States air-carrier Spirit Airlines announced Tuesday that it will begin charging up to US$45 in fees for carry on baggage. The fees target baggage which is stowed in overhead bins, and not under seats. The fees will take effect for travelers who fly on or after August 1.Spirit will charge US$45 for passengers who pay at the airport, US$30 for those who pay in advance, and US$20 for members of its frequent flyer program. Spirit already charges between US$15–45 for the first checked bag, and up to US$345 for five checked bags.The move is the latest in an industry trend which is moving to lower upfront fares, and more hidden fees such as baggage fees or the loss of free services such as meals. Even the measure of charging passengers for restroom use as has been proposed by Irish carrier Ryanair. Ryanair also closed all of its check-in desks in 2009, relying more on on-line check ins.There has been a push among US lawmakers to introduce legislation to make the pricing of airfare more upfront by listing the post ticket fees. The backer of a proposed bill to enforce this, Senator Bob Menendez of New Jersey, said that it will allow travelers to understand all the charges from when they book the flight to when they check their bag.Rival United States airlines Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines announced today that they have agreed to merge. The new airline, which will use the Delta name, will be the largest commercial airline in the world.Technically, Delta will be buying Northwest in a roughly US$3 billion deal. Northwest shareholders will receive 1.25 shares of Delta for each share of Northwest. Based on Monday's closing prices on the New York Stock Exhange this represents a 17% premium for Northwest shareholders.Richard Anderson, the Delta chief executive officer who will also head the new company, said: "We said we would only enter into a consolidation transaction if it was right for all of our constituencies; Delta and Northwest are a perfect fit. Today, we’re announcing a transaction that is about addition, not subtraction, and combines end-to-end networks that open a world of opportunities for our customers and employees. We believe by partnering with our employees, including providing equity to U.S.-based employees of Delta and Northwest, this combination is off to the right start."The combined company would have $35 billion in annual revenue and approximately 75,000 employees. The deal does have to receive regulatory approval. "We will look at the competitive effects of the transaction and how it would affect consumers," said Gina Talanoma, a spokesperson for the United States Department of Justice.Airline industry consultant Robert Mann told Reuters, "It's a very optimistic view on an industry that's been very dismal for the last couple of weeks."Delta Airlines and Northwest Airlines, the third and fourth-largest US airlines, filed for bankruptcy protection from creditors on Wednesday. Together with United and US Airways, four of the seven biggest US carriers are now operating under bankruptcy protection, representing 51% of US passenger flight capacity. The filing occurred due to rising fuel prices, high labor expenses and competition from low-fare carriers.Delta and Northwest both said that bankruptcy protection would cause no changes for passengers in their flight schedules and frequent-flyer schemes. However, analysts say that cuts in some flights can be expected in the future.US airlines in the first quarter of 2010 managed to eke out a US$12 million profit, mostly from "ancillary" services like checked baggage fees, pet transportation fees and more.Compared to the first quarter of 2009, checked baggage fees soared 33% to $769 million. The airlines also reaped $554 million in reservation change fees, and made $534 million from other ancillary sources; such services (including checked baggage fees, reservation change fees, etc.) made up 21.7% of Spirit Airlines' income, the highest in the industry. The US airline industry is made up of 21 carriers, according to the U.S Department of Transportation.The five "network" or legacy carriers—including United Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Continental Airlines, American Airlines and US Airways—continue to struggle and posted a $163 million loss as a group. Delta Air Lines had the highest profit, at $107 million, while American Airlines was at the other side of the carriers, with a $322 million loss. Low-cost carriers fared better, posting a $115 million profit as a group, with Southwest Airlines having the largest profit, at $54 million, while Allegiant Air's profit margins were the highest of the budget carriers at 20%. Regional airlines made a $60 million profit.The world's airlines expect a US$2.5 billion profit as a whole, despite an earlier forcast of a loss. However, many investors and groups, such as the International Air Transport Association (IATA), are somewhat doubtful of this number, as oil prices are expected to remain volatile, leading to the possibility of high prices cutting into airlines' profits.The United States and France have announced their intention to work together in an effort to implement additional United Nations sanctions on Iran.The announcement came after a meeting between US President Barack Obama and French President Nicolas Sarkozy. According to Obama, the two nations planned on having the new sanctions implemented "within weeks." Sarkozy pledged that the whole of Europe would be part of the plan, saying that he would make "all necessary efforts to make sure Europe as a whole engaged in the sanctions regime." He said that he planned to specifically work with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and British Prime Minister Gordon Brown in his efforts. Merkel has previously said that if the UN will not agree to implement sanctions, Germany, in concert with other nations, may introduce sanctions of their own.Obama said that the US would not wait for an extended period of to implement new sanctions, saying that he was "interested in seeing that regime in place within weeks." Despite his commitment to the new sanctions, Obama also acknowledged the divisiveness that they provoked in other countries, saying that it was "something that we have to work on." Most notable among the opposition is China, which says that sanctions could "complicate the situation."  There have already been three rounds of sanction enacted, which have banned trade of nuclear material, frozen financial assets of individuals and corporations engaged in nuclear activities, blocked all arms exports from Iran, and advocated for examination of Iranian banks. The proposed fourth round would target the oil trade in Iran.A US$14 billion bailout package deal for the "Big Three" United States automakers — Chrysler, Ford, and General Motors — has been rejected in the United States Senate after failing a procedural vote.The bill was rejected after bipartisan discussions on the bailout broke down when Republican Party leaders insisted that the United Auto Workers (UAW) union agree to increase wage cuts by next year in order to bring their pay into line with those of Japanese automobile companies in the United States. The UAW refused to meet the demands.The final vote count in the Senate was 52-35, eight short of the 60 needed to pass. Only ten Republicans joined forty Democrats and two independents in voting for the bill. Three Democrats voted with thirty-one Republicans against it.Senate Majority leader Harry Reid said that he was "terribly disappointed" by the failure of the bill to pass. "I dread looking at Wall Street tomorrow. It's not going to be a pleasant sight," Reid said. "Millions of Americans, not only the auto workers but people who sell cars, car dealerships, people who work on cars are going to be directly impacted and affected." Republican Senator Bob Corker was also unhappy about the rejection. "We were about three words away from a deal. We solved everything substantively and about three words keep us from reaching a conclusion," he said.Some Democrats now want U.S. President Bush to reserve a portion of the $700 billion bailout package earmarked for Wall Street to assist the flagging car industry.Stock markets worldwide fell dramatically on the news, with Japan's Nikkei average losing 484.68 points, or 5.6 percent, reaching a level of 8253.87 points. Shares in the auto companies Toyota, Nissan and Honda all dropped by no less than 10 percent apiece. European stocks, such as those in the United Kingdom and Germany, also lost ground, with the FTSE-100 index of leading shares falling 176.3 points to a level of 4,211 at midday.United States automobile company General Motors announced it has lost US$6 billion in the first quarter of 2009, amidst heavy declines in revenues. Not including special items, the firm said it had lost a net $5.9 billion dollars, or $9.66 per share. In the first quarter of last year, GM had reported a loss of $381 million, or $0.67 per share. Most financial analysts had forecast the automaker's losses to be over $6.7 billion, or $11.05 per share. GM had also reported that it had spent $10.2 billion in an effort to prevent bankruptcy. The manufacturer has received over $15 billion in bailout money from the federal government.The company has a deadline set at June 1 to draw up a restructuring plan. If it doesn't do so by then, it will be obliged to file for bankruptcy protection."We're focusing very much on the cost side of the business but once you start losing revenues you get into a vicious circle from which you can't recover," said Ray Young, the chief financial officer for GM."We continue to see a 60-80 percent chance of a GM bankruptcy. While the GM equity today is largely uninvestable, we increasingly believe GM may emerge substantially stronger from a bankruptcy - provided the Chapter 11 process is not overly drawn out - particularly given the scope of targeted dealer cuts," analyst Himanshu Patel said.The United States auto manufacturer Chrysler, which has been badly affected by the ongoing recession, has asked the US government for an additional US$5 billion in aid on top of the four billion it has already received, saying that it plans to fire three thousand employees. At the end of last year, the auto maker had just over 54,000 employees, meaning that the layoffs will equal about six percent of its total workforce.In addition, Chrysler will cut the Chrysler Aspen, PT Cruiser, and Durango from production.Another automaker, General Motors (GM), announced that it seeks $16.6 billion in loans from the government, in addition to the $13.4 billion that it has already received. GM plans to lay off 47,000 employees and close five factories. GM says that it might need as much as $30 billion from the US Treasury Department, an increase over their previous estimate of $18 billion. The company has warned that it might run out of money by March if more aid was not given.Rick Wagoner, GM's chief executive, described the firm's plan as "comprehensive, responsive, achievable, and flexible". "We have a lot of work in front of us, but I am confident it will result in a profitable General Motors," he said, adding that "today's plan is significantly more aggressive because it has to be." GM says that it could be profitable in two years' time, and might be able to repay all its loans by 2017.A third US car manufacturer, Ford Motor Company, has said that it can make it through this year without any government aid.The US Treasury Department will review the car makers' survival plans for several weeks before a decision is made on whether or not to extend the loans. That decision is due by the end of next month.According to the SEC, Goldman Sachs failed to inform investors of a conflict of interest in the banks' marketing of sub-prime mortgage investments, which were being sold at a time of uncertainty in the US housing market.  The SEC says that a Goldman subsidiary, Paulson & Co, had been involved in the selection of securities included in the mortgage investments.  It had not been disclosed to investors that Paulson had bet that the value of the investments would fall, benefiting Paulson but not those who bought the investments.The securities, which were combined into a package called Abacus that was sold to investors, lost over $1 billion during the collapse of the US housing industry.  According to the SEC, Goldman, Paulson, and the creator of Abacus, a vice-president of Goldman Sachs named Fabrice Tourre, all knew that the housing market was going to collapse, but continued to sell Abacus despite the risks.  Tourre had been in command of selecting the investments within Abacus, and then was the person responsible for selling it to investors.  He had told those who invested in Abacus that its components had been selected by an independent party, ACA Management.In all, 99% of the investments within Abacus were downgraded, and investors lost upwards of a billion US dollars.The SEC alleged that "Goldman Sachs arranged a transaction at Paulson's request in which Paulson heavily influenced the selection of the portfolio to suit its economic interests."  In a short response from Goldman, the bank said that "The SEC's charges are completely unfounded in law and fact and we will vigorously contest them and defend the firm and its reputation."The U.S. NBA team the Cleveland Cavaliers and its partner Flash Seats filed a federal lawsuit on Monday in Ohio against leading ticket seller Ticketmaster. Ticketmaster is being accused of violating anti-trust laws. According to TicketNews.com, Flash Seats provides an electronic, paperless ticketing system to Cavaliers season ticket holders, and the lawsuit is moving “to stop Ticketmaster’s ongoing campaign to utilize its substantial market power in ticketing service to exclude actual and potential competition.”The Cavs and Flash Seats allege that Ticketmaster is “coercively seeking to enforce its primary-ticketing contracts" (relating to the direct sale of tickets to the public) with the Cavaliers and other customers, by allegedly trying to make the Cavs “use only Ticketmaster’s own secondary-ticketing program (relating to the resale of tickets) or none at all.”Ticketmaster President and CEO Sean Moriarty, in response to the lawsuit filed Monday by the Cleveland Cavaliers and Flash Seats, said the Cavs “breached their contract” with Ticketmaster when the team turned to Flash Seats for the handling of secondary ticket sales.“The Cavaliers' and Flash Seats' lawsuit aims to deflect attention from the fact that the Cavaliers and Ticketmaster fairly negotiated a contract for Ticketmaster to serve as the team’s exclusive primary and secondary ticketing company,” Moriarty said in a prepared statement.The United States has blocked the use of its advanced technology for mapping mineral deposits in China, according to Australian mining operation BHP Billiton (BHP)."They can dictate where we can and can't use it," a BHP spokeswoman said.The Australian first reported the decision last week, after Clinton Dines, the chief of BHP's Chinese operations, told analysts about the U.S. Navy's decision. BHP confirmed this story to The New York Times in Melbourne last Friday.The U.S. maintains a list of munitions which are prohibited from being exported to China.  Pentagon spokewoman Lt. Col. Tracy O'Grady-Walsh confirmed that the Falcon system was on the list of prohibited munitions and that it could not be exported for use in China without a waiver from the President. The ban has been in place since the Tiananmen Square incident in 1989.The Falcon system, used by BHP under a special license from the U.S. Navy, is based upon American nuclear-submarine technology. Technically described as an "airborne gravity gradiometer", the Falcon system has been adapted by BHP to explore for a broad range of minerals underground. BHP has used the system since 2000. At the time, a BHP executive described the system as "the holy grail of the exploration industry."BHP earns 10 percent of its revenue from sales to China.Conduit, a subsidiary of the US directory assistance organisation kgb, is to create six hundred new jobs in the Welsh capital Cardiff by the end of 2012. Conduit is currently searching for 320 employees and intends to employ a further 280 this year.In a statement, First Minister of Wales Carwyn Jones described the news as "yet another indication that Welsh government policies are having a beneficial effect supporting the economy and creating jobs during these difficult times", saying he was "delighted that Conduit is yet again expanding its operations in Wales." Edwina Hart, Minister for Business, Enterprise, Technology and Science, said she was "pleased that using the economic levers we have at our disposal, such as creating sector-specific enterprise zones, we continue to attract and retain world class business in Wales."The new employees will work at Fusion Point, an office area in Cardiff city centre. Prior to this announcement, Conduit already had in excess of 1900 employees within three Welsh bases in Cardiff Gate, Swansea, and Cardiff city centre. This new contract has been created in association with a residential care service provided by British Gas.Conduit Europe chief executive officer Denis Creighton said of the company's decision: "Wales delivers our best performance figures period. And that's why we're planning to focus future growth here."The United States' third-largest airline operator, Delta Air Lines, will cut 1,000 jobs due to a planned service reduction at their Cincinnati hub. The carrier also announced they will sell 11 of their Boeing 767-200 planes to an air-cargo company, ABX Air Inc., since they are the least fuel-efficient aircraft in the fleet.Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport lost 9 destinations, but the carrier said there would be no inconvenience to passengers. Delta will fly to 20 new "business destinations" from Atlanta and Salt Lake City, instead. Also 41 international connections are to be maintained or expanded.The changes took place due to the difficult financial situation of the company, which suffered $10 billion in losses since 2001, and warned that they would file for bankruptcy if unsuccessful in lowering costs.The United States Congress has returned from a two-week recess to face a busy agenda before it completes its session later this month. President George W. Bush is urging lawmakers to approve his funding request for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan as a first priority.President Bush renewed his criticism of majority Democrats in Congress who want to tie a timetable for the withdrawal of United States troops from Iraq with approval of more funds for the war effort."It's unconscionable to deny funds to our troops in harm's way because some in Congress want to force a self-defeating policy — especially when we're seeing the benefits of success," said President Bush.Mr. Bush says progress made on the battlefield as a result of a boost in the number of troops in Iraq this year would be undermined by a troop withdrawal timeline.The President has requested US$196 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. The House of Representatives has approved US$50 billion of that. But in the Senate, Republican blocked a similar funding package last month because it included a timetable for a troop withdrawal.Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said the failure of the Senate to approve the war funding should not be blamed on the Democrats."If not for the stubborn refusal of the president and his Republicans enablers to work with us, we would have accomplished a lot more," said Senator Reid.Although Mr. Bush had warned that the Pentagon would be forced to begin laying off civilian employees if the funds are not received soon, Senator Reid said the Pentagon could shift funds for the war effort from other accounts.Besides funding for the war, Congress must also pass legislation funding government agencies and programs. In addition, lawmakers may also try to revise a wiretapping law that expires in two months.The United States Congress is currently drafting a bill known as the Communications Opportunity, Promotion, and Efficiency Act of 2006 that would revise and update the 1996 Telecommunications Act. Currently phone and cable lobbyists who own the broadband networks, such as those from AT&T and BellSouth, are calling on the federal government to permit them to operate Internet and other digital communications services as private networks.  The bill as it now stands states that certain classes of Internet providers "may not unreasonably" impair, interfere, restrict or limit applications or services, such as Web sites or voice-over-IP phone connections. Consumer advocates such as Common Cause and some large Internet companies such as Google and Yahoo are concerned that this change will result in a loss of what is being called network neutrality, and are demanding specific language in the bill to address it. Three weeks ago, the House Subcommittee on Telecommunications rejected an amendment to the bill that would have strengthened provisions for network neutrality. The amendment was defeated by a vote of 28 to 8.Network neutrality is a principle of computer networking that describes networks designed so that no communication, application, or service is either given preferential treatment or restricted.  Advocates of network neutrality fear that allowing broadband networks to operate unregulated could lead to preferential treatment toward certain companies at the expense of others.  Phone companies who oppose network neutrality legislation contend that some mechanism needs to be in place in order to pay for expansion of the public Internet.  Edward Whitacre, AT&T's chief executive officer, had made remarks on the issue that consumer groups found inflammatory.  In remarks made on November 7, 2005, presumably referring to Internet sites using their network connections, he called for "some mechanism for these people who use these pipes to pay for the portion they're using. Why should they be allowed to use my pipes?"  Whitacre has since reversed his public statements, saying on March 21, 2006, "Any provider that blocks access to content is inviting customers to find another provider. And that's just bad business."Federal Communications Commission chairman Kevin Martin believes that the FCC already has the authority to enforce network neutrality provisions, citing a North Carolina case in which the FCC acted against Madison River Communications for blocking Vonage VoIP phone service.Representative Fred Upton from Michigan, chairman of the Telecommunications and the Internet Subcommittee, describes the bill as a way to "ignite the marketplace — unleashing great advances in technology and delivering to consumers a variety of new services at a lower cost that were once never even imagined. Every consumer in the nation with a telephone, television and access to the Internet will be better for it — the wave of the future is now." Michael Copps, a FCC Commissioner, said recently, "This Internet may not be the one we know in the future there are threats to it out there... Entrenched interests are already jockeying to constrain the openness that has been the Internet's defining hallmark." A recent poll done by The Consumer Federation of America (See source 5) shows that the Internet has taken on an important role in the daily life of Americans. With two-thirds reporting it is important for personal communications and researching products, over half said it is important for getting news and, about 40 percent cited online banking, e-commerce, and retrieving government information as significant ways in which they used the internet. They expressed a great deal of concern about discriminatory practices of communications network operators.The revision of the 1996 Telecommunications Act was proposed by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Joe Barton, R-Texas, and U.S. Rep. Bobby Rush, D-Ill., in late March and went on to the full committee on April 5.There are suppositions that the US Democratic Congress may re-establish the luxury taxes, which were already once introduced in the 1990s.  The suppositions resulted in the National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors commissioning a report on various tax issues. Material goods such as jewelry, watches, expensive furs, jet planes, boats, yachts, and luxury cars had already been subjected to additional taxes back in 1990. After 3 years these taxes were repealed, though the luxury automobiles tax was still active for the next 13 years. Rodderick A. DeArment, a representative of law firm and lobbyist Covington and Burling, guided the report.  The report outlined the fact that, in 1993, the Congress did not collect as much money from the luxury taxes as it had predicted.  It also stated that although its ravaging effect on employment in several industries was sensible, "the turnover that occurred in Congress made it possible for the new group to learn the same lessons again".The luxury tax could produce unpredictable effects for the watch industry and the report was meant to inform the members of this branch about the effects of these taxes on this luxury goods' industry.The United States Congress passed a US$787 billion stimulus package late Friday night, in an effort to curb the recession and boost the faltering US economy.The bill was passed by a vote of 60&ndashp;38, barely reaching the minimum number of 60 votes needed to make the bill a law. Only three Republican senators voted for the measure. Shortly before the Senate vote, the US House of Representatives approved of the stimulus by a margin of 246–183, with all 176 Republicans and seven Democrats voting against the bill.The Senate vote was delayed until night so that Democratic Senator Sherrod Brown could fly back from Ohio, where his mother had recently died. He cast the final and decisive sixtieth vote in favor of the stimulus bill.President Barack Obama is expected to sign the bill into law in Denver, Colorado on Tuesday, February 17."This is a major milestone on our road to recovery, and I want to thank the members of Congress who came together in common purpose to make it happen," Obama said in his weekly address. "I will sign this legislation into law shortly, and we'll begin making the immediate investments necessary to put people back to work doing the work America needs done. This historic step won't be the end of what we do to turn our economy around, but the beginning."64% of the stimulus package is intended for spending and money for social programmes, while another 34% is devoted to tax cuts. The plan also limits cash bonuses and incentive compensations for Wall Street executives. Over $48 billion of the stimulus has been reserved for transportation projects, such as high-speed rail, road, and bridge construction. Tens of billions more will be used for funding states to prevent any cuts that they would otherwise be forced to make to aid local governments and schools.Democrats say that the plan will help create three and a half million jobs, and that the plan's tax cuts will help 95% of all US residents, mainly with the use of $800 breaks for couples and $400 for individuals. Those who do not earn enough money to pay income taxes will also be eligible for the breaks. Additionally, breaks will be given to first-time homebuyers and car buyers, in an effort to give a boost to two industries badly affected by the recession.Senate Majority leader Harry Reid said that the stimulus package was the most important legislation that he had ever worked on. "The country is in trouble and we're so fortunate we were able to get it passed. It's going to give this country a shot in the arm."Others, however, such as Senate Minority leader Mitch McConnell, are highly critical of the plan. "This isn't Monopoly money. It's real. It adds up, and it has to be paid back, by our children and by their children," he said, adding that it "is unlikely to have much stimulative effect.""The bill that was about jobs, jobs, jobs has turned into a bill that's about spending, spending, spending," said House Republican leader John Boehner from Ohio, throwing a copy of the bill on the floor in protest.Last week, the House of Representatives passed a stimulus package worth $825 billion with no support from Republicans. Shortly thereafter, the Senate passed a slightly different version of the bill worth $838 billion. The differences between the two bills had to be bridged in a Senate-House committee before it was voted upon in both houses.With online gaming in persistent worlds becoming more prevalent, a US congressional committee has begun to look into the tax implications of these booming online economies. Games such as World of Warcraft and Second Life have large player driven economic systems in which - either following the rules or against them - real world currencies are exchanged for in-game currencies. With the GDP of some of these economies rivaling that of some small countries, the US government is wondering if it is missing out on a potential source of tax revenue: or as some gamers might put it, the IRS is asking "You buy gold?".In cases where exchange of a real world currency for in-game currency is permitted by the rules of the game, some of these online games such as Second Life require that players report any income generated by these means to his or her government. In most on-line games however, a black market exists where players buy and sell in-game currencies in direct violation of the game's rules; situations involving black markets are notoriously hard to tax.Compounding the issue of currency exchange is the existence of in-game assets. In the real world if someone wins a luxury vehicle, he or she is expected to pay a capital gains tax on his or her winnings. If a 40 person "raid" in World of Warcraft gets a rare "drop," worth up to thousands of dollars if sold illegally, should they be required to pay a capital gains tax?Even if the issue of capital gains is ignored, there is still the matter of sales tax. In many of these games, non-player characters and players alike sell items to one another. If sales tax is to be applied, at what rate should it be charged and to what State does it go? Questions such as these have just recently been answered in much less hazy situations such as online versions of brick and mortar establishments.Dan Miller, senior economist for the Joint Economic Committee had this to say on the issue, "I found that talking about this issue with some of the other economists on the committee, they are not really familiar with what a virtual economy is. The idea of Second Life or World of Warcraft or some of these other synthetic universes, they have trouble wrapping their head around it. So there's an educational hurdle to overcome here." The preliminary findings of the committee state that virtual economies deserve clarification of existing tax laws, not new taxes.Consumer confidence rose in December to levels closer to those before huricane Katrina according to the Conference Board Consumer Research Center's consumer confidence index.  The index was at 105.5 before the huricane  hit the port of New Orleans disrupting oil production and trade for a large part of the country.  The index was at 102.7 in December last year.The index rose to 103.6 from a revised 98.3 for November.  The index was expected to only rise to 102.5. "Consumer confidence continues to bounce back and is now at its highest level since Hurricane Katrina struck the Gulf Coast" said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board Consumer Research Center.Most of the change is attributed to falling gas prices and an improved job outlook."The resiliency of the economy, recent declines in prices at the pump, and job growth have consumers feeling more confident at year-end than they felt at the start of 2005," Franco said. "Even though all of the improvement over the past twelve months has been in consumers' assessment of current conditions, and expectations remain below earlier levels, consumers are confident that the economy will continue to expand in 2006."The crew of a United States-flagged ship managed to retake the craft from four Somali pirates on Wednesday, but the boat's captain is reported to be held hostage in a lifeboat. According to the authorities, a US destroyer and six other vessels were dispatched to the scene.The ship involved in the incident was the 17,000-tonne Maersk Alabama, which was headed to Mombasa, Kenya. It was attacked by Somali pirates about five hundred kilometers from Somalia's coast, according to the CEO and president of Maersk, John Reinhart.Ken Quinn, the ship's second mate, said that the four pirates were in the vessel's lifeboat with the captain, having sunk their boat after seizing the Alabama.The ship's crew had taken one of the pirates hostage in an attempt to swap him for the captain, but the ploy failed."We had a pirate we took and kept him for 12 hours," Quinn said to CNN. "We tied him up and he was our prisoner." The crew returned the pirate, but the pirates did not release the captain. "So now we're just trying to offer them whatever we can, food, but it's not working too good," Quinn said.The Maersk Alabama was carrying food aid to the Kenyan port of Mombassa when it was attacked by the pirates. Twenty US crew members were aboard. According to Quinn, the crew did not have any weapons, but pirates were armed with Kalashnikov assault rifles. The crew locked themselves in the steering gear compartment of the ship, and remained there for twelve hours. Quinn says that the pirates "got frustrated because they couldn't find us."Piracy in the waters off the coast of Somalia and the Gulf of Aden is rife: this is the sixth ship to be seized by Somali pirates in the area in a week. The last time an American ship was attacked by African pirates was in 1804.Robert Gates, the Secretary of Defense of the United States, has announced wide-ranging cuts in United States Military programs. In a press conference at 3pm EDT today, Gates said that, effective immediately, a number of top-line programs would be ending.Ten per cent of the military intelligence budget is one of the lead items to be cut, said Gates, noting the huge increase in military intelligence money since 9/11. Meanwhile, "we're looking at cutting a third of the budget for services and support contracting over the next three years", Gates noted, saying that military contracting had proved inefficient compared to in-sourcing. Gates also proposed elimination of the U.S. Joint Forces Command, saying that while the command's function was important, it did not require a four-star general and 2,800 staff to operate.The proposed cuts would particularly impact the economy of the Commonwealth of Virginia, whose northern counties employ large numbers of defense contractors and Department of Defense employees. Gates said, though, that some of the money saved from program cuts might go to increased shipbuilding, noting "we probably need more money for shipbuilding", and that an expanded shipbuilding program would create jobs at shipyards in Norfolk, Virginia, with Virginia potentially gaining more jobs than it lost.Gates did not announce new cuts in military hardware programs, but stated "any bill that takes the alternate engine to C-17s to the president, I am confident will be vetoed", referring to a proposed $485 million program for the aircraft."This agenda is not about cutting the department's budget. It is about reforming and reshaping priorities" said Gates, who cast the cuts as efficiency savings. "I am determined to change the way this department has done business for a long time." He also said the cuts were pre-emptive, to stave off deeper cuts mandated by Congress: "My fear is that in tough times, people will see the defense budget as a place to solve the nation's economic problems."Today's announcement, according to Gates, is part of a larger program of defense spending cuts. "This effort will not end this fall or with the FY 12 budget submission".According to the US Congressional Budget Office (CBO), the US budget deficit reached a record $1.4 trillion in the fiscal year to September 30.The deficit was about 9.9% of the country's GDP, over three times the level in 2008 and the highest since the Second World War ended. Economical analysts had initially predicted a deficit of $1.6 trillion.The deficit was blamed on decreased tax revenues and higher government spending. The CBO also said on Wednesday that tax revenue dropped by 17%, or $420 billion, to its lowest level for over half a century.The previous record deficit was in 2008, at $459 billion.On Friday Ford Motor Company announced the United States Department of Justice was performing a criminal investigation of Ford's internal emission testing practices. Ford said in a financial filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that the criminal investigation started on some unspecified date after Ford voluntarily disclosed the matter to the federal government on February 21.Ford said in their filing the matter "currently focuses on issues relating to road load estimations, including analytical modeling and coastdown testing", and "does not involve the use of defeat devices" which were an issue with another automaker previously."Ford is fully cooperating with the government, and we'll keep them posted on what we're finding through our investigation and technical review", Ford told The Verge. In the filing itself Ford also made this point, writing "In addition, we have notified a number of other state and federal agencies. We are fully cooperating with all government agencies."In February, Ford announced investigating itself, following employee concerns that emission testing calculation could be inconsistent. The employees were reportedly concerned about the calculation of "road load", a measurement of ordinary resistance factors such as tire resistance and aerodynamic drag. Ford started its investigation by hiring law firm Sidley Austin, according to The Verge.According to the filing, Ford voluntarily disclosed this matter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on February 18, and also to the California Air Resources Board on February 21.Due to the declining value of the United States dollar, tourism officials in India have decided to no longer accept the American currency at the site of the Taj Mahal and 120 other Indian historical sites.The monument has refused to take dollars since November, as such, any American tourist wishing to visit the white domed marble mausoleum of Mughal emperor Shah Jahan for his wife Mumtaz Mahal will pay over 500 Indian rupees (US$ 12.80 at the current exchange rate) to be allowed in and additionally receive a free bottle of water.The decision came as a result as part of the continuing decline of the American dollar, falling 11 percent in 2007 and now valued around 39 rupees.Tourism Minister Ambika Soni told CNN-IBN that it seemed more practical and will save tourists money because "the dollar was weaker against the rupee," Soni added "Before the dollar lost its value, there was a demand to have (admission tickets) just in rupees."American economist Nouriel Roubini has said that Portugal should consider seeking a bailout because of its weak growth and high amount of debt. Roubini made the comments to the Diario Economico newspaper. He said that it is becoming "increasingly likely" that Portugal will need international help. His comments came after Ireland received a €85 billion bailout from the European Union.Portugal has become the second most likely eurozone country to require a bailout after Ireland, but it has paid all its insurance debt for this year. After news about Ireland's bailout became available, the euro rose around $1.33. After trading at $1.3181 in Asian trade, it sank to its lowest level since September 21.Roubini also commented on the situation of Spain, the fourth largest economy in Europe. He said that the country is "too big to bail out." Nicholas Smith, the director of equity research at MF Global in Tokyo said: "The one to really watch is Spain, as the eurozone's fourth largest economy, bigger than Greece, Ireland and Portugal put together. The question is whether the Union has the capital firepower to rescue Spain in the way it has for Greece and Ireland."He commeted on the euro zone as a whole. He said "The economic outlook over the next few quarters, the next few years, is going to be weak economic growth ... The policy consequence is going to be more monetary easing," Roubini added. "The only central bank officially against further quantitative easing is the European Central Bank, but the pressure coming on sovereigns and the pressure coming on the financial sector in the euro zone are going to force the ECB to provide liquidity and increase base money."Latest figures from the US government say that the country's economy gained 290,000 jobs in April, the largest single-month gain since March 2006.According to the Labor Department, excluding temporary workers for this year's census, the number of non-farm jobs increased by a seasonally adjusted 224,000.The unemployment rate, meanwhile, increased from 9.7% to 9.9%; the apparent contradiction is because 195,000 people who previously gave up searching for jobs started looking for work again, entering the labor force and augmenting the jobless rate.The increases were larger than expected by economic analysts; according to a survey done by MarketWatch, economists believed the country would have added 185,000 jobs for last month.President Obama commented on the numbers earlier today at the White House, saying: "This is the largest monthly increase in four years [...] we've now seen job growth for four months in a row. These numbers are particularly heartening when you consider where we were a year ago, with an economy in freefall."Continuing a trend of steady employment growth, the United States economy added 215,000 jobs in July, the Bureau of Labor Statistics said on Friday. The unemployment rate remained unchanged at 5.3%."Job growth is quite strong," stated Jim O'Sullivan, chief economist at High Frequency Economics, a data analysis firm in New York. "This pace of employment growth is clearly strong enough to keep the unemployment rate trending down."Average hourly earnings rose 0.2%, marking a rebound after growth stalled in June. Wages have grown by 2.1% over the past year, below the Federal Reserve's target of 3.5% annual wage growth, and not much more than the underlying rate of inflation. While sluggish wage growth remains a pocket of weakness in the economic recovery, steady payroll gains averaging 242,000 per month over the past twelve months have led observers to consider a Federal Reserve interest rate hike as increasingly likely, according to The New York Times."We view this report as easily clearing the hurdle needed to keep the Fed on track for a September rate hike," said Rob Martin, an economist at Barclays in New York. "The bar for not moving now is much higher."Although the Federal Reserve has not explicitly stated that they plan to raise interest rates in the near future, the US central bank has stated that it would raise rates when it has seen "some further improvement" in the jobs market. The Fed has not increased interest rates since 2006, and during the 2007-2009 recession, it lowered rates to historically low levels.According to official data, the US economy grew by an annualised rate of 5.7% in the last quarter of last year.The figure is still an initial estimate, but was higher than the 2.2% annualised growth recorded in the third quarter of the year. Economic analysts polled by the Reuters news agency had predicted a 4.6% rise.The Bureau of Economic Analysis, which releases the economy growth reports, noted that the figures were based on estimates and incomplete data, and might be revised later.Christina Romer, an economist for the White House, described the growth as being "the most positive news to date on the economy", saying: "It is important not to read too much into a single report, positive or negative. There will surely be bumps in the road ahead. Nonetheless, today's report is a welcome piece of encouraging news." Jack Ablin, chief investment officer for Harris Private Bank in Chicago, Illinois, remarked that "it's [the number] very solid and gives us a running start into the second half of the year when we can't rely on government stimulus. That's part of the plan, to get us moving as fast as possible so when life support is removed we'll have a pulse."European finance ministers at the G-20 meeting which opened Saturday, November 20th, are expected to discuss the current exchange rate of the euro vs. the dollar. The euro is currently trading high against the dollar, so that it takes around $1.34 (as of December 4, 2004) to buy one euro. This has the effect of making exports from Europe to the USA more expensive, increasing the likelihood that US consumers will buy from a non-EU country. The exchange rate is set by the currency markets, although it is heavily influenced by the current account status (ie. the balance of trade between countries).Some European leaders want the United States to take action to increase the value of its exchange rate. The US though is seen as not wanting to do this, for two reasons:A low dollar relative the euro means that all exports from the US to Europe are cheaper for Europeans to buy, increasing the likelihood that Europeans will buy US items and thus helping the US economyMany actions which governments have done in the past to bolster unnaturally their currency have been fought by the market, and the market won. The most famous example is George Soros' "breaking of the Bank of England"One side-issue that this discussion might evoke is that of the exchange rate between the dollar and the Chinese yuan, which is fixed by China. Studies of this exchange rate using the concept of purchasing power parity (ensuring that a dollar traded to Chinese yuan will still buy roughly the same amount in China) show that the Chinese yuan has been around 50% undervalued for the past two years. This makes things from China on average 50% cheaper for a US consumer than they should be. US officials have throughout 2004 repeatedly called for China to end this practice. Normally it would end itself, i.e. even with a fixed exchange rate this process could only go on for so long before the entire Chinese market becomes valued differently. But since the Chinese central bank has been constantly lending money to the United States government (via the purchasing of US treasury bonds), that effect is mitigated.The United States Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) has announced that inerting systems in airliner fuel tanks are to be made mandatory. The move, in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), is in response to a recommendation made by the country's National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) as part of its investigation into a 1996 air disaster. TWA Flight 800 was a Boeing 747 that exploded in mid-air twelve years ago today, on July 17, 1996, above the Atlantic Ocean. All 230 people on board the New York to Paris flight were killed as the aircraft disintegrated shortly after takeoff from John F. Kennedy International Airport. It was ultimately determined that center wing fuel tank had exploded after sparking faulty wiring ignited a volatile fuel-air mix in the tank.After the investigation was completed the NTSB requested that the FAA enforce the requirement of inerting systems to prevent dangerous fuel-air mixes from being ignited. One of the most feasible ways of doing this is with nitrogen pumped into the tank, reducing the amount of oxygen available and making ignition difficult or impossible. The NTSB has a 'Most Wanted List of Transportation Safety Improvements' and inerting systems for airliners have been on the list since 2002.Since TWA 800 there have also been similar explosions in Thailand and India, but both occurred on the ground and resulted in no fatalities.The FAA's new directive requires all new aircraft from August 20 to have the equipment fitted. It also requires all carriers to retrofit their fleets, with half of their airliners to be compliant within six years and every jetliner in the US to have the technology fitted in nine years.The FAA's announcement was made at the Virginia hangar where the remains of Flight 800 are stored.Air carriers, who until now have fought against the changes, say that there will be a cost running into millions of dollars. If the nitrogen system is installed, the cost of retrofitting an airliner is at US$92,000 for mid-range jets such as the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320, and costs $311,000 for a Boeing 777 or other similar long-range widebodied airliner. The 747, which has a large center wing fuel tank, is especially vulnerable to such explosions.In a rare television interview, the chairman of the United States Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke, said that the country's recession will "probably" end this year if the government is able to bolster the banking system.Speaking on the CBS network "60 Minutes", Bernanke said that recent efforts by the government probably avoided a depression similar to the one that occurred in the 1930s. He also said that he didn't expect any of the US's largest banks to fail. However, he stressed that the prospects of ending the economic downturn in 2009 probably relied on getting the financial markets working normally and making the banks to lend more freely again."We've seen some progress in the financial markets, absolutely. But until we get that stabilized and working normally, we're not going to see recovery. But we do have a plan. We're working on it. And, I do think that we will get it stabilized, and we'll see the recession coming to an end probably this year," he said.Bernanke noted that he expects the unemployment rate will continue rising above the current 25-year high of 8.1% even if the government is able to end the 15-month recession.The chairman said that the largest possible danger now was the absence of "political will" to fix the economy.Bernanke is the first incumbent Federal Reserve chairman to take a television interview for two decades. The chairman said that he decided to do so because it was an "extraordinary time" for the US, and it gave him an opportunity to speak directly to the public.The United States 2008 federal deficit has reached a record high, US$454.8 billion—more than double last year's deficit. Financial experts believe that next year, the deficit will reach over $700 billion, while the National Debt Clock has recently run out of digits to record over $10 trillion in national debt.The deficit is now equivalent to 3.2% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the United States, with the government's total income being 17.8% of GDP, and total outlays being equivalent to 21% of GDP.Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson blamed the deficit on the housing market, related markets, and slow growth. He said the news would "reinforce the need to not only address short-term challenges, but pursue policies that promote economic growth and fiscal responsibility, and address entitlement reform". Democrats like Senator Kent Conrad, however, placed the blame on "President Bush's failed policies". "The reality is that the next president will be inheriting a fiscal and economic mess of historic proportions," said Conrad, adding that "it will take years to dig our way out". Another Democrat, House Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt, also blamed the Bush administration.  "The eight years of this administration will include the five biggest budget deficits in history," he said. "The resulting debt will be passed to our children and grandchildren."Jim Nussle, director of the Office of Management and Budget said that he believes that the deficit will start to decline. "The bipartisan stimulus bill and the slow economy are the primary reasons for the increase in deficit as reflected in this year's budget results. This increase reinforces the need to adopt and maintain policies that promote economic growth and fiscal responsibility, including entitlement reform and pro-growth tax policies. I am confident the economy can return to stronger growth with a declining deficit—after working through current challenges if Congress limits wasteful and excessive spending."On Wednesday, at the first live public news conference  ever  given by the Federal Reserve (Fed), Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke  explained  the US central bank's recent policy  to a small group of reporters and answered some questions.The conference was conducted two hours after the release of a report by the Fed's policymaking  committee, the Federal Open Market Committee outlining its policies decided the day before. Until 1994 the Fed  gave no information about the  policy decisions made in its meetings pertaining to  short-term interest rates and other policies. The public was left to guess what decisions were. In 1994 the Fed began issuing brief reports. Unlike the US, the central banks in Europe, Japan, Canada and other countries have regularly meetings with the press after making such  policy decisions. The public has increasingly been aware of the secretive practices of the Fed, especially after its unprecedented intervention with massive bailouts of large financial institutions during the recent financial crises.  At Wednesday's  meeting, it was decided that the Fed would maintain  near-zero interest rates  to stimulate the economy. It announced that it plans  to  end its program of buying back treasury bonds by the end of June, a program receiving criticism from Republicans concerned about the budget deficit. Bernanke’s  exchange with reporters, called "historic" by the Los Angeles Times,  was the first of a series of  regular news conferences  planned to be held quarterly by Bernanke to provided the Fed with more transparency. He was cautious in his remarks.   He made no news but  explained in general terms the Fed's policy. He said the Fed is attempting  to revive the US economy  by creating jobs and keeping inflation low."The trade-offs are getting less attractive at this point," Bernanke said. "Inflation has gotten higher … it's not clear we can get substantial improvements in payrolls without some additional inflation risk."During the conference, Bernanke said he recognized  that the average American was unhappy with  the  increasing inflation and the  slow job growth, but said the Fed projected that  long-term inflation will remain stable while he acknowledged the effects of  the short-term price increases which he said were driven largely by the increase in the price of oil."There’s not much the Federal Reserve can do about gas prices, per se, at least not without derailing growth entirely, which certainly is not the right way to go," Bernanke said. "After all, the Fed can’t create more oil." When asked by reporters to explain his vague answers, he gave general replies. For example, when asked to clarify  the Fed's intention to maintain near-zero interest rates  for an "extended period" he said the wording suggested this period would probably continue  through a couple more policymaking meetings at least."Unfortunately, the reason we use this vaguer terminology is we don’t know with certainty how quickly response will be required," he said.Diane Swonk, chief economist at Mesirow Financial, said of Bernanke's performance at the press conference, "He was well-prepared and did exactly what he wanted to do - do no harm."The US Federal Reserve has just raised the base rate of interest for the 11th month in a row, despite concerns that the economy will slow after Hurricane Katrina.The rate rose by a quarter of a percentage point to 3.75%, but analysts have predicted it may rise to 4.5% in the coming months, in spite of consumer spending being down. The Fed says it is hoping to counter soaring house prices and the high price of oil. Economic growth in the US this year is forecast at around 3.3%, but government officials estimate that 0.5% growth could be lost due to Hurricane Katrina.However, analysts are confident that the economy is robust enough to withstand and shake off the effects of high oil prices and unemployment caused by Hurricane Katrina.The Federal Reserve took over American International Group (AIG) on Tuesday in an US$85 billion loan, in exchange for a 79.9% stake in the company. A press release issued Tuesday stated that "the Board determined that, in current circumstances, a disorderly failure of AIG could add to already significant levels of financial market fragility and lead to substantially higher borrowing costs, reduced household wealth, and materially weaker economic performance."The deal allows AIG to draw up to US$85 billion in loans over the next 24 months to shore up the orderly sale of various divisions of the company without further interruption to the economy. In exchange, the Federal Reserve will have a 79.9% equity stake, primarily in the form of equity participation notes. The loan carries an interest rate of LIBOR plus 850 points. Should AIG fail, the loan is covered completely by company assets. Should AIG recover however, taxpayers could potentially recover large profits. This news comes on the heels of the Federal Reserve refusing to bail out Lehman Brothers, forcing the company to file for bankruptcy on Monday after Bank of America(BoA) and Barclays PLC pulled out of negotiations over the weekend. The fact that AIG has thousands of divisions engaged in business across the globe sets them apart from the recent problems with other banks. AIG was built up over the last several years via the buyouts and mergers of many companies around the world, offering AIG's stockholders a diverse base of income which allowed it to steadily increase profits. It is this interconnectedness that had the Federal Reserve worried. Should AIG collapse, it could set off a global chain reaction in multiple markets. In an interview with the New York Times, former Treasury official Roger Altman said, "It’s the interconnectedness and the fear of the unknown. The prospect of the world’s largest insurer failing, together with the interconnectedness and the uncertainty about the collateral damage — that’s why it’s scaring people so much."While AIG, like many other banks, found itself embroiled in the middle of the sub-mortgage lending crisis, AIG has also been struggling to deal with controversies in other complex financial instruments such as credit default swaps. These markets have been exploding for several years, but due to lack of regulation by the government, recent reversals have seen AIG's stock value tumble by over 90 percent in the last year.The United States Federal Reserve has  announced an increase of 25 basis points (0.25%) in the federal funds rate bringing it to 5.25 percent. It also announced its approval of a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate to 6.25 percent.The federal funds rate is the interest rate at which depository institutions such as banks lend balances they maintain at the Federal Reserve (called federal funds)  to other banks overnight. The discount rate is the interest rate that an eligible bank is charged to borrow short term funds directly from the central bank through the discount window. In its statement, the Fed said that growth is moderating from its quite strong pace earlier in the year, which it partly attributed to a cooling of the housing market and the delayed effect of increases in interest rates and energy prices. The Fed noted that inflation measures were "elevated" in recent months and that while productivity gains have held down increases in labor costs and inflation expectations "remain contained". However, it pointed out that high levels of resource utilization and high energy and commodity prices have the potential to sustain inflation pressures.In its outlook over its future moves, the Fed statement said "Although the moderation in the growth of aggregate demand should help to limit inflation pressures over time, the Committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information."The US Federal Reserve has raised the federal funds rate by 25 basis points (a quarter of a percent) to 4.75%.  The Federal Open Market Committee said, "Economic growth has rebounded strongly in the current quarter but appears likely to moderate to a more sustainable pace."   The commmittee also said that the recent rise in energy prices has had a small effect on inflation and increasing productivity has offset growing labor costs which has helped keep inflation modest.  However, the rise indicates the advent for future wariness over the state of the economy, with huge budget deficits yet to ofset it seams unlikely that the rates will decrease in forthcoming years, The federal chairman Ben Bernanke appeared at the senate board in the pursuit to implicitly state the statusquo worries.A federal court in New York, New York ruled Monday that American financier Bernard Madoff can remain free on a US$10 million bond. Madoff faces charges of securities fraud in case that may reveal losses as large as US$50 billion. He was originally arrested on December 11, 2008.Federal prosecutors had argued that Madoff had violated terms of his bail by mailing valuables to relatives from his Manhattan apartment, where he is under house arrest.Judge Ronald L. Ellis ruled that, "The government fails to provide sufficient evidence that any potential future dissemination of Madoff's assets would rise to the level of an economic harm."The judge, however, did say that "it is appropriate that his ability to transfer property be restricted as completely as possible." Madoff will be required to submit a complete inventory of items in his apartment.A Wall Street adviser, Madoff was arrested and charged by the FBI last December with a single count of securities fraud, also known as stock fraud and investment fraud. He allegedly told senior employees of his firm on December 10, that his business "is all just one big lie" and that it was "basically, a giant Ponzi scheme [since at least 2005]."The US government released a preliminary report on the US economy today.  The report, produced by the Bureau of Economic Analysis, states that the economy grew by 4.3 percent in the third quarter of 2005.  In the second quarter of 2005, real GDP increased 3.3 percent.  The rise is attributed to increases in personal consumption (4.2 percent), equipment and software (10.8 percent), government spending, and residential fixed investment (8.4 percent).  Imports, which deduct from the GDP, also increased. Exports, however, increased.Government consumption expenditures increased 8.1 percent.  National defense had an increase of 10.3 percent.  Nondefense spending increased 3.6 percent.Gross national product, which better reflects the economy in from the employee's perspective, increased 4.4 percent in the third quarter.According to data released on Tuesday, home prices in the United States plunged at the highest rates ever recorded in January.The S&P/Case Shiller index of home prices in twenty major cities in the US announced that values of homes have slumped over 30% since their peak in 2006 across the country. Regional variations have resulted in larger losses in states such as Nevada and Florida. In the year to this January, prices fell by 19%."There are very few bright spots that one can see in the data. Most of the nation appears to remain on a downward path," said the chairman of S&P's index committee, David Blitzer, in a statement. Consumer sentiment also slumped, with the Conference Board's index of confidence rising only slightly from last month's all-time low, reaching 26.0."Job conditions are terrible. There is a general sense of uncertainty because people are peppered with bad news around the world," said Brian Bethune, an economist for IHS Global Insight.Sales of previously owned homes in the US fell at the fastest rate ever recorded last December, according to data from the National Association of Realtors (NAR).According to the association, existing home sales fell 16.7% last month, to an annual rate of 5.45 million, the largest crash since 1968. The figure was less than the 5.90 million units, or an eleven percent drop, predicted by most analysts.Sales of homes went up for the entire of 2009 to 5.156 million units, or 4.9% for the year, and prices dropped from 2008 by 12.4%.NAR chief economist Lawrence Yun described the figures as being "probably the largest annual drop since the Great Depression". He said that "the market is going through a period of swings driven by the tax credit. We're likely to have another surge in the spring. Job creation is the key to a continued recovery in the second half of the year."Pierre Ellis, a senior economist for Decision Economics in New York, commented on the figures, saying: "The drop in home sales is the payback for the acceleration of sales that occurred with the original first-time home buyers tax credit. [...] There is an issue as to whether the decline represents a fundamental weakening.""The housing market continues to face significant headwinds, including high unemployment, record delinquencies and foreclosures, the specter of rising mortgage rates as the Fed's [mortgage-backed securities] purchase programs comes to a close in late March, and tight credit," Omair Sharif, an economist for RBS Securities, noted."Still, the resale market showed resilience in the second half of 2009, and the expansion and extension of the tax credit to April 30 could boost purchases during the spring selling season," he said."We’ll see a pickup in existing home sales in the next couple of months as people take advantage of the tax-credit extension", economist Adam York of Wells Fargo Securities LLC in Charlotte, North Carolina claimed. He fore-casted a pace of 5.4 million. He said that there were unlikely to be buyers of homes, despite the fact that the U.S. was "past the bottom."All four regions of the country saw a decline in sales. In the Northeast, sales fell 19.5 percent, in the Midwest, they plunged 25.8 percent. The South, the country's largest region, saw a 16.3% decline, while in the West, sales waned by 4.8%.US stocks fell slightly after the announcement, but went back up later in the day.On Friday, the United States House of Representatives passed House Resolution 2998, better known as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, following days of debate. The final vote was 219–212, with only 8 Republicans voting for the legislation, and 44 Democrats voting against it. The resolution addresses the "greenhouse effect," and calls for a 17% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, and an 83% reduction by 2050. In addition, the legislation will establish new requirements for utilities, and various incentives for "going green."The resolution was sponsored by Representative Henry Waxman of California, and Representative Edward Markey of Massachusetts. At 3:09 a.m. (EDT) on Friday morning, a 341 page amendment was added to the resolution. In an attempted filibuster, House Minority Leader John Boehner read the majority of the added amendment, and stated that "...when you file a 300-page amendment at 3:09 a.m., the American people have a right to know what's in this bill." Reactions to the legislation have been mixed, with opponents and advocates speaking out. The President of the Union of Concerned Scientists, Kevin Knobloch, said that the Union was "thrilled that Congress has finally caught up with science and the American people in recognizing the need to switch on clean energy." A report by the The Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank, stated that the legislation would "damage the economy and hobble growth."Most House Republicans opposed the bill for going too far in its regulation, with GOP chairman Mike Pence saying that "raising the cost of energy is a bad idea in prosperous times." Democrat Dennis Kucinich, on the other hand, opposed the bill for not going far enough, calling it an "illusion" that "locks us into a framework that will fail." Kucinich pointed out that the bill gives subsidies to coal, which is not a clean source of fuel, and includes greenhouse gas emitters such as trash incinerators under its definition of "renewable energy."The US House of Representatives rejected a bill on the USD 700 billion bail out of US banks. The voting on the bill has completed.If passed, the bailout plan would have allowed for the United States government to purchase devalued mortgage backed securities, resulting from the subprime mortgage crisis from troubled financial institutions. The US Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson has said that the plan could cost up to $700 billion. There has been considerable debate over several parts of the plan, which failed with 228 votes opposing, 205 supporting, and 1 not voting.  The bill had much more support by the Democratic Party (with 60% of Democrats voting "aye") than the Republican Party (of which only 33% voted for the bill).George W. Bush described the bill before the vote was made. "This legislation deals with complex issues, and negotiators were asked to address them in a very short period of time. I appreciate the leadership of members on both sides of the aisle, who came together when our nation was counting on them. Negotiations are sometimes difficult, but their hard work and cooperation paid off," he said, in a speech in which Bush begged politicians to support the bill.Bush continued describing the bill. "The bipartisan economic rescue plan addresses the root cause of the financial crisis — the assets related to home mortgages that have lost value during the housing decline. Under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, the federal government will be authorized to purchase these assets from banks and other financial institutions, which will help free them to resume lending to businesses and consumers."According to BBC News, congressmen opposed the bill after receiving 50 times as many letters against the bill as for the bill. George Bush attempted to respond to the criticisms of the bill by US citizens. "I know many Americans are worried about the cost of the bill, and I understand their concern. This bill commits up to 700 billion taxpayer dollars, because a large amount of money is necessary to have an impact on our financial system. However, both the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office and the Office of Management and Budget expect that the ultimate cost to the taxpayer will be far less than that".The US House of Representatives voted today to increase the Federal minimum wage from US$5.15 per hour to US$7.25 per hour as Democrats moved to fulfill their promise to pass legislation on a host of issues within the first 100 legislative hours of the newly elected congress.The final vote in the House was 315–116, with 82 Republicans joining Democrats to vote the bill into law. The bill will now go to the Senate, where a debate on whether it should be bundled with tax cuts for small businesses is expected. The last increase was in 1997 when President Clinton encouraged the Republican controlled Congress to vote in favor of the bill.The U.S. Federal Reserve (Fed) today raised interest rates by 0.25 of a percentage point to 2.75 percent. The increase in the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other, is seen as an anti-inflationary measure and was widely expected by the financial community.It is the seventh time the Fed has raised interest rates since June 2004 when rates stood at just 1 percent -- a 46-year low.The U.S. economy has been gaining strength since the economic downturn in 2001 and 2002. The rebound was largely fueled by historically low interest rates which enabled consumers to borrow much more money than they would have otherwise -- thus boosting personal consumption.As a result of the ongoing global financial crisis of 2008–2009, American employers have cut 598,000 jobs over the past month, the most in one month since December 1974. The unemployment rate also rose approximately 0.4 percent, bringing the rate up to 7.6 percent (11.6 million people), the highest since January 1992. This is according to the United States Labor Department's monthly unemployment report released last week.US President Barack Obama asked Congress today to support and quickly pass a $900 billion economic stimulus package that would, according to some, help create more jobs and decrease the unemployment rate. "All of us in Washington must remember that we’re here to work for the American people. And if we drag our feet and fail to act, this crisis will turn into a catastrophe," said Obama in a statement this morning. Obama warned that the rate could grow to double digits if Congress did not act fast and pass the bill allowing the package, and stated that the report was "very troubling.""These numbers demand action. It is time for Congress to act," he also said, "That's 3.6 million Americans who need our help," he stated, referring to the number of American workers that had been laid off since the United States officially entered economic recession in December 2007.Factories have been hit the hardest in the past month, laying off 207,000 workers, approximately 20 percent of the month's layoffs and the most by the industry since 1982. The next highest was the construction industry, which cut an estimated 110,000 workers last month. Other hard-hit industries include the financial industries, cutting 42,000 jobs, the retail industry, which cut 46,000, and leisure and hospitality, losing 28,000 workers."This is a horror show we’re watching. By every measure available - loss of employment and hours, rise of unemployment, shrinkage of the employment to population rate - this recession is steeper than any recession of the last 40 years, including the harsh recession of the early 1980s," stated Lawrence Mishel, an economist and president of the Economic Policy Institute, a US-based research organization focused on the economy. Economic forecasters reported that their predictions had actually been less severe than the report stated.The United States Congress is currently debating a $900 billion economic stimulus bill that will attempt to halt the recession, and will continue to do so until a measure has been reached.The number of newly-laid off US residents has fallen to the lowest level in a year and a half. The Department of Labor reports new unemployment claims totaled 432,000 last week, down 22,000 from the previous week.That is the lowest figure since July, 2008, and a significant reduction from the nearly 700,000 jobs that were being lost each week during the worst stretch of the economic recession in early 2009.Global Insight economist Nigel Gault commented that he thought unemployment is easing. "The trend is clear. It is well established now, and the [unemployment] trend is down. We are now roughly in the zone which is consistent with the economy just beginning to add jobs," he said, as quoted by Voice of America.Not only are new job losses down, but the total number of people receiving unemployment benefits has also dropped by 57,000.  If the trend continues, the number of jobs created will outpace job losses, and US unemployment, which stands at a 26-year high of ten percent, will decline, according to Gault."We can look forward to 2010 with a lot more confidence that some of those jobs are going to come back," Gault said. "They are not all going to come back quickly and maybe some of them will never come back. But we are going to start creating jobs."The federal government will issue its next unemployment reading next week.The improved unemployment numbers follow reports of a boost in US consumer confidence and indications that retailers fared better during the economically-critical holiday shopping season than had been anticipated.The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose back up to 10,018.28 Wednesday, rising 275 points after the United States Department of Labor said initial jobless claims were lower than expected.The report, which showed a modest dip in initial jobless claims, was better than what a poll of economists had predicted. The economists, who were polled by Thompson Reuters, had predicted 465,000 initial jobless claims in the month ending July 3; the number the Labor Department released was 454,000. The four-week average of initial claims also fell 1,250 to 466,000, the Labor Department said on its website.Also, after the International Monetary Fund raised its 2010 world growth estimate to 4.6% from 4.2%, international markets rallied. The S&P 500 rallied along with the Dow, up 3.13% to 1,060.27. However, the Nasdaq stayed flat at 2,159.47.The US government has filed a lawsuit against American Airlines on behalf of three pilots.  The pilots were employed by the company while serving in the Naval Reserve and Air National Guard.  The US Department of Justice alleges that when the pilots were called into active duty by the US military, American Airlines denied them employment benefits. The Department of Justice said in a complaint filed in the US District Court in Dallas that American Airlines conducted an audit of leave taken for military service by pilots in 2001.  The Justice Department charges that based on that audit American Airlines then cut the employment benefits of pilots who had taken military leave while not cuting benefits of pilots who had taken non-military leave.Justice Department Assistant Attorney General Wan Kim said "This nation depends on our reservists to faithfully carry out their duty. No reservists, indeed no members of the armed forces, should ever be punished or discriminated against for answering the call of duty."This is the first class action lawsuit under the 1994 Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.The United States House of Representatives approved a measure on Thursday to impose a heavy tax on bonuses to executives from companies that have been bailed out by the government. The bill was passed by a margin of 328-93.Under the bill, executives making over US$250,000 a year would be charged a 90% tax on bonuses. The tax would apply to firms that have been given at least $5 billion in aid from the government.The move comes after recent outrage at American International Group (AIG), which gave out $165 million in bonuses to its top executives after receiving no more than $180 billion in government bailouts. AIG has said that the bonuses had to be given out, as the company was legally required by contract to do so. Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of the House, said that the bill was necessary because of the bad judgment shown by firms who received bailouts from the government."We must stabilize the financial system in order to strengthen our economy and create jobs. We must also protect the American taxpayer from executives who would use their companies' second chances as opportunities for private gain. Because they could not use sound judgment in the use of taxpayer funds, these AIG executives will pay the Treasury in the form of this tax," said Pelosi to reporters following the House vote.The Senate is expected to vote upon a similar version of the bill. If approved, the differences between the two versions would have to be bridged before it could be signed into law.Politicians from both houses of the United States Congress have reached a consensus over a stimulus package worth hundreds of billions of dollars.The package was bridged between the House of Representatives' version of the stimulus, which was worth US$820 billion, and the Senate's version, which cost $838 billion. The package now costs $789 billion, and devotes resources to tax cuts and spending intended to help revive the faltering US economy.The House of Representatives' version of the bill was passed without any Republican support, while the Senate's version, which was voted upon on Tuesday, was backed by only three Republican senators.The stimulus is aimed at giving help to those who have suffered from the recession, in the form of food stamps, health coverage, unemployment benefits, and various other things.US President Barack Obama hailed the agreement as a "hard-fought compromise"."I want to thank the Democrats and Republicans in Congress who came together," he said, "with the urgency that this moment demands."Obama is to sign to bill into law after the revised version of the stimulus is passed by Congress. He has said that he wants the bill on his desk ready to sign by this weekend.Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid estimated that the package should introduce three and a half million jobs. More than a third of it is to be devoted to various incentives for middle-class Americans and tax cuts.Republican politicians, however, still disapprove of the stimulus plan, saying that the package is too costly and will increase the size of the federal government and not create any new jobs.US stock markets posted modest gains at the end of day following the agreement.Mega Millions, a multi-state lottery in the United States, produced no winner on Tuesday night's drawing which had a jackpot of US$363 million, sending Friday's drawing to an all time world record high of $500 million. Players must match all 5 numbers and the Mega Ball in order to win the jackpot. Only 47 tickets with a $250,000 payout were sold, which matched at least five numbers, but not the Mega Ball. Over 2.5 million tickets matched only the Mega Ball for a cash prize of two dollars. The numbers drawn were 9, 19, 34, 44 & 51. The Mega Ball was 24.The previous U.S. lottery jackpot record was $390 million which was set by Mega Millions in 2007. Two individuals won the jackpot from Georgia and New Jersey. In January 2011, the jackpot rose to $380 million the second largest ever, producing two winners, one in Idaho and the other in Washington. In 2006 Powerball reached $365 million with one winner in Nebraska. After all taxes are paid on the prize money, Tuesday's Mega Millions jackpot would have been worth just over $180 million. The lottery's last jackpot winner was on January 24 when a College Park, Georgia resident won $72 million. Since then there have been eighteen drawings which produced no jackpot winner.The next drawing occurs on Friday at 11:00pm (EDT).Following incorrect statements by media organizations that include Fox News and the New York Post earlier in the week that the US Marine Corps were changing their hats in order to make them more gender neutral, the Corps issued a statement yesterday countering the claim, saying they are only changing the dress hat for women.  In a statement on their website, they said this change is only "for female Marines because the current manufacturer is going out of business".Commandant of the Marine Corps General James F. Amos is quoted in the Corps statement as saying, "the President in no way, shape or form directed the Marine Corps to change our uniform cover."  The quote follows media claims the US President directed the Marine Corps to make a change to a more "girly" dress hat.The women's hats were made by a different manufacturer than the men's hat.  At the same time, the US Department of Defense also asked the Corps to develop a more unisex option for both dress and service hats.  In preparation for a quarterly meeting of the Marine Corps Uniform Board scheduled for next week, a survey was sent out asking for feedback on whether women's hats should be made to more closely model the current men's dress hat or if all Marines should switch to the Dan Daly cap.Other changes in the US military uniforms are scheduled to take place by the end of the year. In the Navy, flame-resistant variant coveralls are scheduled to be introduced in December of this year. Admiral Bill Gortney, the head of Fleet Forces Command, is quoted in the Marine Corps Times as saying. "Our sailors' safety is our primary concern here [...] If you’re on board a ship and a fire breaks out, you rush to that scene, you escape that scene or you're assisting a shipmate in whatever you’re wearing. And so this fills in that particular need. You combine this with our existing flash hoods and gloves and you tuck your leg pants in [...] it will provide the fire-resistant capability that we think is needed."The United States Senate has approved a bill that will increase the federal minimum wage to $7.25 [USD] over a period of two years. If passed and signed into law, this will mark the first time the minimum wage has been increased in 10 years. The measure will also decrease the amount of taxes that small businesses pay by about 8.3 billion dollars, which will balance out the cost to raise the minimum wage."[This is] a victory for the American people. Passing this wage hike represents a small but necessary step to help lift America's working poor out of the ditches of poverty and onto the road toward economic prosperity" said Edward Kennedy (D) the representative of the state of Massachusetts.The measure passed with 94 votes. Three votes were cast against the bill.Despite the approval, the full House of Representatives and the full Senate must agree on the measure before the bill is to be signed into law by president George W. Bush.The current federal minimum wage is $5.15 [USD].The U.S. Navy has chosen the US-Europe US101 helicopter to be the next Marine One, the helicopter for the U.S. President.The present aircraft, Sikorsky SeaKings, are around thirty years old and do not have the payload capacity to carry the modern communications gear demanded by the White House. The contract is expected to cover the purchase of 23 helicopters.When invitations were made to industry inviting proposals for replacements, Sikorsky offered their H-92. Lockheed Martin did not have a suitable helicopter and, rather than developing, a new design, offered the European EH101, renamed the US101. The US101 will be built in America using mainly US components with some European content.The EH101 was developed jointly by the British company Westland and the Italian Augusta, who formed the AugustaWestland company. The helicopter has seen service with the British Army in Bosnia, the Royal Navy in the recent Iraq war and with Canadian Coastguard in search and rescue operations.The United States Labor Department reported that U.S. employers cut 533,000 jobs in November, the largest such monthly cut in 34 years. In another indication of the worsening economic situation in the U.S., the unemployment rate reached a 15-year high of 6.7 percent, from 6.5 percent in October.It was the largest job loss in a single month since December 1974, when 604,000 jobs were cut.More job cuts have been announced since these figures were compiled, with 12,000 job cuts expected at telecommunications company AT&T. The economy has now lost 1.26 million jobs in the past three months, after 403,000 jobs were lost in September and a further 320,000 in October. Job losses since the beginning of 2008 total 1.91 million.The job losses were "much worse than expected," said Peter Morici, a business professor at the University of Maryland. "The threat of widespread depression is now real and present," he added. "Factoring in discouraged workers, unemployment is closer to 8.7 percent. Add in part-time positions that cannot find full-time employment, and the hidden unemployment rate is nearly 13 percent."The Wall Street stock market reacted to the news negatively: the Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 171 points in the first thirty minutes of trading, going down to 8,206 points. The other two major indexes, the Nasdaq Composite and the S&P 500, also lost ground.The U.S. gross domestic product in the fourth quarter is projected to drop by as much as five percent at an annual rate, according to IHS Global Insight. An unemployment rate of nine percent has been predicted by Goldman Sachs."The United States is willing, under the duty-free, quota-free commitments we will make, to provide duty free access cotton for these West African countries" the US trade representative announced at the WTO talks in Hong Kong Thursday. The US is under heavy pressure to drop Cotton tariffs and subsidies.Mali, Burkino Faso, Benin, Chad, and Senegal complain that the tariff free offer does not address the subsidies United States provides to domestic cotton growers.  Some countries claim the subsidies against the WTO's anti-dumping policy."The real problem for African cotton producers is dumping on the world market, resulting from domestic and export subsidies. That is why we need to agree this week on additional disciplines on domestic support" EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson said."They don't take in any cotton. They export cotton. Their textile industries have all moved abroad. Why would they import any of our cotton? What they need to do is halt the subsidies. Without subsidies they can't produce" Francois Traore, president of the African Cotton Producers Association, said.Portman argued cutting global tariffs are as least as important as cutting subsidies.India has a 10% tariff on cotton imports, under current WTO rules it could raise the tariff to 100% at any time.  China imposes a 1% tariff on the first 4 million bales, after which a tariff of 5% to 40% is applied.  By comparison the US allows a small amount of cotton at low duties and then applies a 20% on the remainder.A bill in the US Congress this week contains a cotton program known as Step 2, which pays exporters and millers to buy US cotton.  The WTO has declared the program illegal."We know with certainty that it's the US subsidies that are causing problems for our farmers." Mamadou Salissou Habi Niger's minister of trade said.African cotton producers have said that they will not endorse any deals that emerge from the Hong Kong talks if rich countries do not reduce cotton subsidies to their own farmers.United States President Barack Obama announced Sunday night that an agreement between Republican and Democratic leaders has been reached that, if passed by Congress, will allow the government to raise its debt limit before it begins to default on its debt on Tuesday.The deal has yet to be approved, with a vote by lawmakers in Congress not likely until Monday at the earliest. Some lawmakers from both the Democratic and Republican parties have previously said that they will not vote for the agreement in question.According to Obama, the deal, agreed upon by leaders of both the House of Representatives and the Senate, will lead to a total of a trillion dollars in spending cuts over the next ten years, as well as the creation of a Congressional committee tasked with coming up with a proposal by November to further reduce the government's debt.Obama said that "the leaders of both parties in both chambers have reached an agreement that will reduce the deficit and avoid default, a default that would have had a devastating effect on our economy."Senate Democratic leader Harry Reid and Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell expressed optimism that Congress will pass the compromise deal. The Senate vote is due on Tuesday.John Boehner, leader of the Republicans in the House, said that while "[t]his isn't the greatest deal in the world [...] it shows how much we've changed the terms of the debate in this town." He also said that he plans to call a vote on the deal "as soon as possible." How much support the proposal has in the house is unclear. Democratic leader of the House Nancy Pelosi stated some Democratic members are resistant and are not likely to vote for the proposal.Speaking Thursday in the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House, United States President Barack Obama presented new proposals for financial reform."While the financial system is far stronger today than it was a year one year ago, it is still operating under the exact same rules that led to its near collapse," said President Barack Obama. "My resolve to reform the system is only strengthened when I see a return to old practices at some of the very firms fighting reform; and when I see record profits at some of the very firms claiming that they cannot lend more to small business, cannot keep credit card rates low, and cannot refund taxpayers for the bailout.  It is exactly this kind of irresponsibility that makes clear reform is necessary."Obama's two key proposals were to limit the types of operations that a bank may undertake and to limit the size of the largest financial firms.Under the proposals banks would be prevented from owning or investing in hedge fund or a private equity fund. Nor would they be allowed to sponsor such funds. To limit size of financial institutions, further consolidation of the financial sector by restricting growth in the market share of their liabilities.Obama called the restrictions on banking operations the "Volcker Rule" in reference to Paul Volcker, the chair of the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board. These activities are "unrelated to serving their customers," Obama said.According to Obama, the current "economic crisis began as a financial crisis, when banks and financial institutions took huge, reckless risks in pursuit of quick profits and massive bonuses.  When the dust settled, and this binge of irresponsibility was over, several of the world's oldest and largest financial institutions had collapsed, or were on the verge of doing so.  Markets plummeted, credit dried up, and jobs were vanishing by the hundreds of thousands each month. We were on the precipice of a second Great Depression."The President said his administration is seeking to protect consumers and close loopholes that allowed financial products such as credit default swaps without oversight. The goal would be to strengthen capital and liquidity requirements to make the financial system more stable. Another goal of Obama's reforms would be to ensure that the failure of one firm could not take the entire economy."We've come through a terrible crisis.  The American people have paid a very high price.  We simply cannot return to business as usual.  That's why we're going to ensure that Wall Street pays back the American people for the bailout.  That's why we're going to rein in the excess and abuse that nearly brought down our financial system," Obama said in closing.Before any of the proposals can go into effect, they will have to be passed into law by both houses of the United States Congress.United States President Barack Obama stated Monday that insurance giant AIG is in financial trouble due to "recklessness and greed," and called for legal action to stop the company from giving out millions of dollars in bonuses to its executives."It's hard to understand how derivative traders at AIG warranted any bonuses, much less $165 million in extra pay," Obama said. "How do they justify this outrage to the taxpayers who are keeping the company afloat."Obama's statement comes after reports surfaced last weekend saying the insurance agency, which is in deep financial trouble, had paid US$165 million to executives in bonuses, after receiving $170 billion as part of a government bailout plan.AIG has said that the bonuses have to be given out, as the company is legally required by contract to do so. A representative with the National Economic Council, Lawrence H. Summers, also said that the bonuses were required to be given out. If AIG had refused to give out the bonuses, employees could file a lawsuit against the company for the money."We cannot attract and retain the best and the brightest talent to lead and staff the A.I.G. businesses — which are now being operated principally on behalf of American taxpayers — if employees believe their compensation is subject to continued and arbitrary adjustment by the U.S. Treasury," AIG CEO Edward M. Liddy said in a letter addressed to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on Saturday.Liddy said that he asked Geithner "to use that leverage and pursue every legal avenue to block these bonuses and make the American taxpayers whole.""I want everybody to be clear that Secretary Geithner's been on the case," Obama said. "He's working to resolve this matter with the new CEO, Edward Liddy, who, by the way, everybody needs to understand, came on board after the contracts that led to these bonuses were agreed to last year."If the bonuses cannot be stopped, the U.S. Congress says they want AIG to reimburse the government. Congress is looking to impose stiff new taxes on the pay, or ordering the company to return the money which was originally granted from a government bailout. In a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday, senator Richard Shelby promised that the treasury will recover all of the money. Several U.S. senators along with Liddy have sent letters to AIG asking for the bonuses to be renegotiated, something AIG agreed to and says they will reduce future bonuses by 30%. Senators state that if Libby does not respond by renegotiating the bonuses, the Senate Finance Committee will propose an excise tax. Not only will an excise tax be proposed on AIG, but all companies receiving bailout money and their employees who receive bonuses.Numerous House Democrats have introduced legislation which would place a 100% tax on any bonuses of over $100,000 from companies that are receiving government bailout funds. Meanwhile in the Senate, a bipartisan proposal by Max Baucus (D-Montana) and Charles Grassley (R-Iowa) would levy a special 90% excise tax on AIG's bonuses. Asked Senator Baucus, who chairs the Senate Finance Committee: "What is the highest excise tax we can impose that will stand up in court? Let's find out."The US government announced yesterday that economic growth in the USA has slowed to 2.4% in the second quarter as the economy struggles with high unemployment and the aftermath of the worst recession since the 1930's. This slower rate compares with a newly revised number of 3.7% for Q1, and 5% in Q4 of last year. Economists had been expecting economic growth of 2.5% for Q2. For this year's second quarter, the Bureau of Economic Analysis' report on the economy carried more disappointing news. Consumer spending growth in the North American country slowed from 1.99% in Q1 to just 1.6%. Also, businesses and retailers stocked shelves at a slower pace, and America's trade deficit, the largest in the world, widened as the country imported more goods.The US Commerce Department also revised some of their estimated economic growth statistics.  The Department revised their estimate of Q1 economic growth from 2.7% to 3.7%, and also revised their estimate of the severity of the 2007–2009 recession from a real-GDP contraction of 2.5% to an new figure of 2.8%.  Also, there were some economic bright spots in Q2.  State and local governments, who have been cutting spending for months, spent 1.3% more than in Q1.  Residential investment grew 27.9% from −12.3% in Q1.  Nonresidential building investment rose for the first time in two years, and disposable personal incomes rose 4.4%, though it appears that people are not spending it.The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) approved Thursday, in a four to one vote, two new nuclear reactors at Southern Company's Plant Vogtle in Burke County, Georgia. This is the first time a new reactor has been approved since 1978, the year before the Three Mile Island accident. The only vote against the plant came from NRC chairman Gregory Jaczko. In a statement, he said "Right now we know there are things that need to be fixed, things that need to be changed, or at least things that need to be analyzed. For us to issue this license, and say 'we’ll deal with them later,' to me is kind of putting the cart before the horse."The CEO of Southern Company, Thomas Fanning, said the approval was a "monumental accomplishment." In a conference call after the approval, he told reporters, "Anything that we learn from Fukushima, I assure you we will bring to bear", referring to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster. In an interview, he also said regulatory oversight "has been thorough, it has been thoughtful and it is complete." Environmental groups may bring a case to federal court in order to stop the completion of the new reactors. Wikinews contacted two environmental organizations, Greenpeace and the Union of Concerned Scientists. Greenpeace recommended a post about the approval on their staff blog, which said "Rather than expand the use of this dangerous and stupidly expensive technology, our government should stop subsidizing nuclear corporations’ bad investments and instead develop plans to phase out nuclear power and better secure the deadly radioactive wastes." The Union of Concerned Scientists has yet to comment.The new units are to be Westinghouse Electric AP1000 reactors. They would each have a net generating capacity of 1117MW. The construction cost is expected to be roughly USD14 billion (EUR10.6b, JPY1.1 trillion), and the reactors may be operational by 2017.The report, authored by the US military, the PPw|US Geological Service}}, and the US Agency for International Development, stated that the total wealth in mineral reserves is upwards of US$900 billion, although Afghan President Hamid Karzai has said the value of mineral reserves in the country could be as much as US$3 trillion.Resources claimed by the report include:421 billion dollars worth of iron;274 billion dollars worth of copper;81 billion dollars worth of niobium;51 billion dollars worth of cobalt;25 billion dollars worth of gold;Undetermined amounts of lithiumAccording to Jawad Omar, the spokesperson of Ministry of Mines, the potential income from mining the reserves would be enough for the country to become self-sustaining, without the need for international financial aid.US military official General David Petraeus said that there was "stunning potential" for Afghanistan, going on to say that "[t]here are a lot of ifs, of course, but I think potentially it is hugely significant."Waheed Omar, a spokesperson for Karzai stated that "it's very, very big news for the people of Afghanistan and that we hope will bring the Afghan people together for a cause that will benefit everyone."Analysts were less optimistic about the potential for a mining industry. Janan Mosazai, one such analyst, said that "I highly doubt it will be able to either properly manage these resources or use the riches to build a more peaceful and prosperous Afghanistan for all Afghans." Mosazai cited Nigeria as an example of a country that has seen increased violence as a result of abundant natural resources; in that case, oil.On Monday, United States electronics retailer Circuit City announced that it would file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Second largest in its field, behind Best Buy, the company has previously announced that it would close down 155 of its locations leaving an estimated 8000 employees jobless.The retailer also said more cutbacks will be on the way.  "Circuit City was incredibly successful in the 1980s and 1990s, but they never changed after that," says David Schick, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus.In August, Best Buy, reported that its profits had gone up to show a quarterly profit of US$200 million. Meanwhile, Circuit City reported a loss of $239 million in September.The US House of Reprensentatives is seeking to lift a nine year old ban on export sales of the F-22A Raptor stealth  fighter. US lawmakers approved an amendment that would allow Lockheed Martin, the aircraft's primary manufacturer, to sell the aircraft overseas to foreign nations. Every defence bill since 1997 contained language that prohibited the sale of the multi-role aircraft to foreign nations, due to concerns that the advanced technology in the plane may reach the wrong hands. Japan and South Korea, both strong allies of the United States are considered to be likely customers, if the ban is lifted.The amendment was introduced by Rep. Kay Granger, (R-Texas), whose constituency, the Fort Worth district is home to a major Lockheed Martin facility. The lifting of the ban comes at a time when continued US orders will no longer be guaranteed and that the aircraft's continued production is important for Lockheed Martin Aeronautics' business.On Tuesday, the United States Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations held a hearing titled "Credit Card Practices: Unfair Interest Rate Increases." The hearing examined the circumstances under which credit card issuers may increase the interest rates of cardholders who are in compliance with the terms of their credit cards. It was a follow-up to a March 2007 hearing.Subcommittee Chairman Carl Levin said in his opening statement: "Today's focus is on credit card issuers who hike the interest rates of cardholders who play by the rules — meaning those folks who pay on time, pay at least the minimum amount due, and wake up one day to find their interest rate has gone through the roof — again, not because they paid late or exceeded the credit limit, but because their credit card issuer decided they should be 'repriced'."Present to testify on behalf of credit card issuers were Roger C. Hochschild of Discover Financial Services, Bruce L. Hammonds of Bank of America Corporation, and Ryan Schneider of Capital One Financial Corporation.Much of the 90 minute hearing focused on specific cases where interest rates were raised, allegedly because credit scores of the debtor dropped, and not because they were delinquent or otherwise behind on payments. According to Levin, this practice made it so that almost all payments went towards finance charges with almost none toward repaying the principal. This, he felt, is an unfair practice, as the credit card companies were negligent in informing their customers of the rate hikes and the reason for such hikes.The collective credit card debt of Americans totals an estimated US$900 billion. Issuers have come under pressure to disclose their policies in regards to setting fees and interest rates. The US Truth in Lending Act requires that terms of a loan be set forth up front. Fluctuating interest rates on credit cards would, on the surface, appear to violate this act.Roger C. Hochschild disagreed, arguing that "every card transaction is a new extension of credit ... This makes it difficult — and risky — to underwrite, and price, the loan based solely on the borrower's credit-worthiness at the time of application [for the card]."Ryan Schneider, agreed: "The ability to modify the terms of a credit card agreement to accommodate changes over time to the economy or the credit-worthiness of consumers must be preserved.""Attempts to interfere with the market here ... will inevitably result in less credit being offered," warned Bruce Hammonds. "Risk-based pricing has democratized access to credit," he added.All three credit card executives also mentioned an ongoing Federal Reserve System review of credit card rules that already proposes a 45-day notification ahead of any rate changes.Committee members criticized the industry for varying practices. Included in the criticism was the practice of mailing checks to card-holders, failing to notify applicants that obtaining additional cards could lower their credit score and raise their rates, and "ambushing" card-holders with raised rates.Ranking minority member of the subcommittee, Norm Coleman said, "families find themselves ensnared in a seemingly inescapable web of credit card debt. They particularly report being saddled with interest rates that skyrocketed on them seemingly out of the blue."The United States Senate Committee on Finance approved a proposal to reform health care on Tuesday, clearing it to move forward.  The bill passed by a 14-9 vote, gaining support from the committee's thirteen Democrats, and one Republican.Senator Olympia Snowe was the only senator from the Republican party to back the bill. However, she said this might change as the bill moves through Congress."There are many, many miles to go in this legislative journey. My vote today is my vote today. It doesn't forecast what my vote will be tomorrow," Snowe said.President Barack Obama, who supports the bill as part of his effort to overhaul the country's health care system, welcomed the committee's vote. "We are closer than ever before to passing healthcare reform but we are not there yet.  Now is not the time to pat ourselves on the back - now is the time to dig in further and get this done.  In this final phase we should engage with each other with civility and seriousness that has brought us this far and that this subject deserves."The bill, which contains a ten-year plan with an estimated cost of US$829 billion, is aimed at lowering healthcare costs and increasing the affordability of insurance.  Proponents will now seek to merge it with another bill from the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions.  Senate Finance Chairman Max Baucus emphasized, "Americans want us to craft a package that will get the 60 votes needed to pass."  He argued that the Finance bill was the best candidate to attract needed the centrist support.Critics, however, have said that the proposed plan is too costly, and will cause the government to interfere too much into the private healthcare sector."We can now see clearly that the bill continues its march leftward," said the senior Republican on the committee, Senator Charles Grassley. "This bill is already moving on a slippery slope to more government control of healthcare."A Saturday, July 26th, meeting of the United States Senate resulted in the passing of a $300 billion housing aid bill designed to help homeowners facing foreclosure by providing financial aid. In addition, the bill created a government emergency fund for mortgage companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The legislation is expected to benefit up to 400,000 homeowners. The Congressional Budget Office said that between now and December 31, 2009, that if any bailout for the companies was needed, they expected it to be less than $25 billion.The House on July 23th, passed the bill with a final vote of 272 in favor and 152 against. The final vote in the Senate was 72 in favor and 13 against. President Bush had initial woes about the bill based upon a $3.9 billion part of the legislation allowing for repurchase and improvement of foreclosed homes by the stricken neighborhoods. The Bush Administration believed that this could be a potential problem, because it created a incentive for mortgage companies to foreclose homes. Bush has since changed his mind on the matter and is expected to sign the bill in the near future.The bill has been considered one of the most important pieces of housing legislation in years. Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut said that "this bill is going to make a difference almost immediately." Despite the bill's overwhelming support, it has had its dissidents. "We are pretending to chain a monster here and we are, instead, letting that monster loose," said Arizona Representative Jeff Flake. Originally a supporter of the bill, Senator Charles Grassley of Iowa has changed his opinion because of the addition of the emergency fund for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. "This bill has fallen prey to the special interests on Wall Street and K Street at an unjustifiable expense to taxpayers and homeowners on Main Street," said Grassley.In a vote of 74-25 last Thursday, the US Senate passed a measure that would change bankruptcy laws, making it harder for individuals seeking relief from their debt burden to avoid repayment. Almost twenty Democrats joined Republicans, who currently hold a majority of the seats in the US Senate, in passing the bill.Lobbyists for credit card companies and financial services firms have worked for the bill during the last two administrations. A similar measure passed both the Senate and House during the previous administration, but then President Bill Clinton pocket-vetoed the measure in 2000.The United States Senate passed a stimulus package worth US$838 billion on Tuesday, aimed at creating millions of new jobs and steering the economy out of the recession. The Democrat-controlled Senate passed the bill by a vote of 61-37, with only three Republicans supporting the plan. The move comes in the midst of a recession, which has claimed 3.6 million jobs in the US.Before the bill can be signed into law by the president, the Senate package first has to be reconciled with a different version of the plan that was adopted by the House of Representatives. The main differences between the two versions are over spending priorities and how to expand Medicaid, the medicinal program. The Senate version would also give more resources to tax cuts, whereas the House's plan would devote more money to local governments and schools.President Barack Obama welcomed the news, calling it a "good start". "That's good news and I want to thank all of the members of the Senate who have moved the process forward," he said, speaking at a town hall meeting in Fort Myers. "We've still got to get the House bill and the Senate bill to match up before it gets sent to my desk, so we got a little more work to do over the next couple of days."Most Republicans voted against the stimulus package. Shortly before the Senate vote, Senate Minority leader Mitch McConnell spoke against the stimulus plan, speaking for most of his Republican colleagues: "This bill misses the mark. It is full of waste; we have no assurance it will create jobs or revive the economy," he said. "The only thing we know for sure is that it increases our debt and locks in bigger and bigger interest payments every single year."The only Republicans who voted for the bill were Senators Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe of Maine, and Pennsylvania's Senator Arlen Specter.Wall Street reacted negatively to the passage of the bill, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average down over three hundred points in afternoon trading.The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell more than 280 points, Friday, to 13181.91, just two weeks after soaring to a historic record of 14,000. Two other major indexes, the Nasdaq and the Standard and Poor 500, fell more than 2% in a widespread market sell-off. Shares of Bear Stearns, the largest United States underwriter of mortgage bonds, fell 6.3% today, resulting from Standard and Poor's altering its outlook toward the company to "negative" from "stable". The investment banking firm recently saw two of its major hedge funds sink after exposure to the sub-prime mortgage decline. Standard and Poor's report said the firm may have problems, including its hedge funds, that could hurt the firm "for an extended period."The company held a press conference at noon, but was unable to salvage its stock, leading to heavy losses in the rest of the financial sector. Chief Financial Officer Sam Molinaro remarked that the credit market was in the worst condition he had seen in 22 years.  American Express shares fell 5.6%, while homebuilder Hovnanian Enterprises fell 9.4% in the sell-off which impacted all the indexes. American Home Mortgage Investment Corporation shares fell 52.07% in the session after announcing plans to close most operations and lay off over 6000 employees. The company has also lost its lending license in four states including New York."It is with great sadness that American Home has had to take this action," Chief Executive Michael Strauss said in a statement. "Unfortunately, the market conditions in both the secondary mortgage market as well as the national real estate market have deteriorated to the point that we have no realistic alternative."Analysts say that the weakness in the stock markets and economy in general could prompt the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates, consequently allowing inflation to rise, but that it would also support stocks and ease borrowing. The Fed has not changed interest rates since June 2006.Three major United States stock market indexes closed at their lowest levels in over a decade on Monday, amidst declining investor confidence and worries that the government will nationalize the banks.The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell by 3.41%, or 251.4 points, to end the day at 7,114.3, its lowest level since October 1997. The Standard and Poor's 500 index lost 26 points or 3.5% to a level of 743.33, its lowest level since April 1997. The Russel 2000 Index of smaller companies dropped by four percent.The three stock market indexes have been falling for the last six days.The Nasdaq Composite index lost 53.5 points, or 3.71%, closing at 1,387.7. However, the index remained above its November 20, 2008 low of 1316.12. Despite the worries about the banks, bank shares climbed today. Bank of America shares rose by 3.2%, whilst Citigroup gained 9.7%. However, stocks for both banks have plunged more than 68% this year-to-date."People left and right are throwing in the towel. The biggest thing I see here is the incredible pessimism — the government is doing a lousy job of alleviating fears," said Keith Springer of Capital Financial Advisory Services. "Many investors simply can’t contemplate any more stock market risk in their portfolios. Sentiment in the market is very weak and negative," said the senior market strategist for Invesco AIM, Fritz Meyer.Wall Street had its best finish since November 2008 after a four day rally with the stock market’s indexes seeing their best weekly gain in nearly five months. The major indicators in the NYSE had a gain of around 10 percent.  This was mainly due to bank shares bouncing and alleviating fears about the economy.The Dow Jones industrial average (INDU) finished on 7223.98, an increase of 54 points from March 12 2009. The S&P 500 Index finished at 756.55 a 6 point gain and the NASDAQ composite had a 5.40 point gain as well to end the day at 1431.50.The rally began earlier this week after the news from Citigroup Inc. about managing profits during first two months of the year. The news lessened fears about the country's major financial institutions collapsing after the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September. There was more good news from Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co., who announced that they have had profits in the current year.Today was a mixed day for the financial sector, Drug makers had some gains and so did General Motors and Berkshire Hathaway , which helped the indexes gain. The value of the US dollar fell against  other world currencies, but gold prices increased.US stock markets dropped to twelve-year lows on Thursday, amidst falling confidence in the financial sector and worries over whether the US automobile manufacturer General Motors will be able to keep operating.The Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped by 4.08%, or 280.52 points, at the closing bell, reaching a level of 6595.32, a new 12-year low. The Nasdaq Composite lost 54.15 points, or 4%, to 1299.59, while the Standard & Poor's 500 plunged by 30.27 points, or 4.25%, closing at 682.60.Every stock in the Dow Jones, other than Wal-Mart, either lost ground or remained even, and all stocks in the S&P 500 index lost ground.General Motors' shares lost 15.5% after the auto firm announced that its auditors had "substantial doubt" over whether it would be able to keep operating.Shares of financial companies were lower by nine percent, with Bank of America losing 11.7% and Citigroup falling by 9.7%."What's most worrisome is that we haven't hit the crescendo yet," said Bill Groeneveld, the head trader for vFinance Investments. "Asset-management divisions are getting calls to just liquidate everything, and we haven't seen the big players come back in at all.""This is one of the worst bear markets in the last 100 years; it started out with the credit crisis and the subprime [loans], but it is like a forest fire that has raced across the clearing and ignited other parts: Autos, auto parts, the insurance companies have been hit very hard. The credit crisis is causing an unraveling of industry after industry because the banks don't lend," said David Dreman, the chief investment officer of Dreman Value Management.European markets were also lower today, with the London's FTSE index losing 3.2% and the DAX index of Germany falling by five percent.United States stock markets surged on Monday, following an announcement by the government to give another bailout to the banks. All three major stock indexes posted gains of about seven percent at the closing bell.Part of the rally was attributed to the US Treasury's announcement that it will buy up to US$1 trillion in toxic assets.The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 497.48 points, or 6.84%, to a level of 7,775.86, while the Nasdaq Composite soared 98.50 points, or 6.76%, to 1,555.77 points. The Standard & Poor's 500 index jumped by 7.07% or 54.37 points, reaching a level of 822.91.Among the winners in today's rally were bank stocks. Shares for the Frontier Financial Corporation, a regional bank serving the northwestern US, surged by 52%. Other banks also saw their shares increase: Bank of America stocks increased by 26%, JP Morgan Chase by 25%, and Citigroup by 19.5%.Crude oil prices were up $1.73 or three percent to $53.8 a barrel.Overseas stock exchanges also rallied: indexes in France, the United Kingdom, and Germany all rose by approximately 2.8%.Some say history tends to repeat itself. Today marked a day in history, when 20 years ago, the United States Dow Jones Industrial Average market crashed, on what is known as 'Black Monday'. The crash sent the market tumbling down 508 points, losing nearly 24%. On Friday, the Dow Jones nearly broke that record when the market closed at -366.94 points, down almost three percent.Several factors could be to blame for the loss, one being Turkey's government approving a measure  on October 18 to send Turkish troops into Iraq in an attempt to take out militants of the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK). This sent oil prices skyrocketing to the highest prices in history, with the highest record being just over US$89.00, which was set on October 18.Fears that the housing market in the U.S. has come to a standstill has also lead Caterpillar Inc., which manufactures and sells construction equipment to issue a warning that the standstill would cause profits to drop, and the American economy to be severely hurt. On Friday their stocks lost nearly six percent to close at $73.57.Investors and experts of the markets are disturbed by the losses calling the situation ugly."It's pretty ugly. A company like Caterpillar should be a poster child for global growth and benefits of the weak dollar. It makes you question: Is global growth really that strong? Has the earnings kick from the weak dollar played itself out?" said Bell Curve Trading chief strategy expert, Bill Strazzullo.Others believe that the losses were a way of emotionally responding to the events of 'Black Monday.'"Some of the earnings reports were a little disappointing but not that bad. I think we're responding emotionally to the 20th anniversary of the October 1987 stock market crash. I'd like to laugh except it hurts," said T Rowe Price Head trader, Andy Brooks.The NASDAQ also took heavy losses to close down 74.15 points or -2.64%, closing at 2,725.16. The S&P 500 was also hit hard, losing 39.45 points, or -2.56%, closing at 1,500.63.United States stock indexes posted gains on Friday, marking a four-week long positive streak. This comes despite a report released by the US Labor Department on the same day, which said that the US economy shed 663,000 jobs in March, with the unemployment rate reaching 8.5%, the highest since 1983.The Dow Jones Industrial Average posted a modest gain of half a percent or 39 points, ending the day at 8,017. The index has not closed above 8,000 since February. The last time the Dow had risen for four weeks in a row was between September and October of 2007, when the stock index reached its all-time high of over 14,000. The streak is the index's best since 1993.The broader S&P 500 gained eight points, or one percent, by the closing bell. The Nasdaq Composite had the largest gains of the three indexes, up 1.2% to 1,622. Both the S&P and the Dow gained over 3% over the course of the week, while the Nasdaq was up almost 5%.In other markets, both the German DAX and the Japanese Nikkei 225 indexes remained even, whilst the British FTSE 100 slipped 2.3%.US stocks plunged along with other stock markets overseas as a greater than expected rise in consumer prices fueled investors' fears that the Federal Reserve's campaign of raising interest rates is not over.  At the close of trading at 4:00 PM EDT, the Dow Jones Industrial Average had fallen 214.28 points, or 1.88%, to 11,205.61.  Technology stocks were not safe from the selling as well, as the NASDAQ fell 33.33 points, or 1.50%, to 2,195.80.  The NASDAQ has now turned negative for 2006.  Broader stock indices also finished much lower.  The S&P 500 fell 22 points (1.68%) to 1,270.32.  This is the biggest point loss on the Dow in 3 years.The Consumer Price Index (CPI) showed that prices to the consumer increased by a greater-than-expected 0.6% in April.  Core CPI, which factors out volatile food and energy prices, swelled by a greater-than-expected 0.3%.Market breadth was extremely negative with advancers beating out decliners by a 5 to 1 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange.  Volume was heavy with 2.95 billion shares changing hands. Of the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones Industrials, 29 of them closed down for the day.  The only stock in positive territory was Hewlett-Packard, which closed up $1.05 (+3.38%) to $32.16/share after reporting quarterly earnings after the close Tuesday.The selloff comes on the heels of the Dow rising to within 80 points of its all-time closing high of 11,722.98 just last week.  That rally was built on hopes that the Federal Reserve was close to ending its interest rate hike campaign.  Since that time the Dow has experienced 3 double-digit point losses. Many market analysts and technicians, including Ken Tower from Schwab's CyberTrader, felt that the market was overbought and was due for a short-term correction.  Today's inflation report suggests that the Fed might have to tighten interest rates further to combat inflation and slow economic growth to a more sustainable pace.  Higher interest rates increase the cost of money, thus discouraging borrowing by businesses and individuals. European stock markets fell more sharply than those in the US.  London's FTSE fell 2.92%, Frankfurt's DAX tumbled 3.4%, and Paris' CAC 40 fell 3.18%.After substantial gains yesterday, U.S. stocks rallied again this afternoon. The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed at 11,543.32, up 45.23 from yesterday and reached a four month high.This despite the fact that crude oil showed a slight rebound today of 21 cents, closing at $63.97 a barrel after seven days of losses. The increase came after the U.S. Department of Energy reported that crude oil inventories fell more than expected last week.US stock markets saw an unusually turbulent day yesterday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) losing almost a thousand points in thirty minutes, although later recovered somewhat to end the day with a smaller loss.The DJIA had its worst fall since 1987, a drop of 9% or 998.50 points, before going back up a bit to close with a loss of 3.30% or 347.80 points to a level of 10,520. The Nasdaq fell 82.65 points or 3.44%, and the Standard & Poor's 500 index dropped 3.24% or 37.75 points.According to some reports, the quick loss happened because a trader mistyped an order to sell a large amount of stock, causing the stock price to go down enough to trigger orders to sell elsewhere in the market.  (By the following day this theory had been abandoned.)  Other reports suggested that the biggest markets "slowed" their executions when it became clear that computerized errors were occurring; as a result, the vast majority of buy orders were briefly withdrawn, allowing the free-fall to continue for several minutes.Stock for the Procter & Gamble company fell almost 37% during the sell-off, about 75 minutes to the closing bell. An investigation started into whether any erroneous trades happened.Procter & Gamble spokeswoman Jennifer Chelune spoke about the incident: "We don't know what caused it. We know that that was an electronic trade [...] and we're looking into it with Nasdaq and the other major electronic exchanges."The Reuters news agency reports that, at their height, the losses cause equity values to lose $1 trillion.Some stocks saw extreme, but short, changes; for instance, consulting firm Accenture saw its shares plummet from about $42 to four cents, although it later rebounded to close the day at $41.09.Meanwhile, oil prices also dropped to lows not reached since February. Benchmark crude was down $2.86 to $77.11 in New York."The potential for giant high-speed computers to generate false trades and create market chaos reared its head again today," said Delaware senator Edward Kaufman. "The battle of the algorithms — not understood by nor even remotely transparent to the Securities and Exchange Commission — simply must be carefully reviewed and placed within a meaningful regulatory framework soon." Kaufman, along with senator Mark Warner from Virginia, called on Congress to investigate the cause of the mass sell-offs.Nasdaq, meanwhile, says that all trades of stocks at prices 60% higher or lower than the preceding price at or around 2.40 PM "or immediately prior" are to be cancelled; it noted that it coordinated its move with the other exchanges.Chief investment officer at Fort Pitt Capital Group Charlie Smith said: "I think the machines just took over. There's not a lot of human interaction. We've known that automated trading can run away from you, and I think that's what we saw happen today."In the past three days, the DJIA has lost 631 points, or 5.7%, mainly over concerns about Greece's ailing, debt-burdened economy. Peter Boockvar an equity strategist for Miller Tabak, commented: "The market is now realizing that Greece is going to go through a depression over the next couple of years. Europe is a major trading partner of ours, and this threatens the entire global growth story."US stocks suffered their biggest declines in more than two years on concerns about oil supplies from Iran and Nigeria. Crude oil prices jumped to more than $68 a barrel, levels not seen since September last year. Gold hit a 25 year peak and last traded at $553.50 an ounce.The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) slumped 213+ points today amid fears of Iran and terrorism. The index has now given up all its gains since the beginning of the year. Among its 30 components, only McDonalds ended the day in positive territory.  Disappointing earnings dragged down shares of General Electric Co. and Citigroup Inc.The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed today at a new record high of 13,861.73 as United States stock markets rose sharply. This is the first time the Dow got above 13,700. Today's 2.1% rally is the index' largest single-day percentage gain in nearly four years.Analysts cite earnings reports that exceeded forecasts as a catalyst for the buying spree. Most notably, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest private employer and retailer, which reported that same-store sales increased by 2.4%."Consumer are still spending so that was something for people to hang their hats on," said Hugh Moore of Guerite Advisors, when explaining the rally.Another contributing factor is being reported to be the announced acquisition of Canadian aluminum company Alcan Inc. for US$38.1 billion by multinational mining company Rio Tinto Group. This led to speculation, it is said, that Alcoa Inc., the leading aluminum producer in the US, may soon be the target of a take-over.Other benchmark indices also posted major gains today. The S&P 500 Index climbed 28.94 to 1,547.70, also a record high. The Nasdaq Composite Index rose 49.94 to close at 2,701.73, the highest since March of 2001.The Bush administration officially notified Congress Monday of its intention to sell sophisticated precision-guided bombs to Saudi Arabia. The action, coinciding with President Bush's visit to Saudi Arabia, is part of a broader U.S. effort to bolster Gulf allies in the face of a more assertive Iran. VOA's David Gollust reports from the State Department.The Bush administration has already briefed Congress on its arms sales plans for Saudi Arabia. Monday's announcement sets in motion a 30-day period in which the House and Senate can block the plan with a joint resolution - an action that appears highly unlikely.Under the proposed deal, worth more than $120 million, the United States would provide Saudi Arabia with 900 kits and associated equipment to convert conventional gravity bombs into GPS-guided smart-bombs, known as JDAMs.The weapons are a mainstay of the U.S. military arsenal and their accuracy would vastly enhance the capability of the Saudi Air Force, which has top-of-the-line U.S.-made fighter-bomber aircraft.The sale is part of a broader $20-billion arms package for Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states announced by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Defense Secretary Robert Gates last August on a mission to the Gulf, aimed at shoring up U.S. allies concerned about Iranian influence in the region.Several elements of the broader package including sales of Patriot anti-missile systems to Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, and upgrades for Saudi Arabia's AWACS airborne command and control planes, have already gotten congressional assent. Officials here say they also expect the Saudi J-DAMS sale to proceed despite concerns expressed by some congressional supporters of Israel.At the time the Gulf weapons sales package was announced last year, the Bush administration also committed to a 10-year, $30-billion arms package for Israel, representing a 25 per cent increase in annual U.S. arms aid to that country.Briefing reporters, State Department Spokesman Sean McCormack said the administration has assured Congress it would do nothing to upset Israel's military edge over potential enemies in the region."We've spent a lot of time assuring that we abide by our commitments to a qualitative military edge for Israel," said Sean McCormack. "This is something that President Reagan first talked about and it's been reiterated and reconfirmed by each successive president after that. We're committed to maintaining that qualitative military edge for Israel."Israel itself has not protested the pending sale. Israeli officials have said they anticipate being provided with a new-generation U.S. smart bomb more capable than J-DAMS, which have been in service for more than a decade.A spokesman for House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Tom Lantos, a prominent advocate for Israel in Congress, said he does not intend to push a resolution of disapproval.However one House member, New York Democrat Anthony Weiner, said he would introduce such a measure and already has more than 30 co-sponsors.Critics of the package have faulted Saudi Arabia's record in combating terrorism and advancing political reform. Under questioning here, Spokesman McCormack said the Saudi government has made "quantum leaps" in action against terrorist cells and financing in recent years and has begun the process of reform, though not necessarily at a pace that would please some critics.Two-thirds majorities of the members in both houses would be required to block the sale and officials here say chances for that appear nil.This morning, United States-based toy retail giant Toys "R" Us filed for liquidation with United States bankruptcy court. The company had about 735 stores in the country which may be closed as a result of the liquidation. The motion came after the US holidays, after which the company said its revenue fell short of expectations. Toys "R" Us was seeking cooperation with its Canadian business to leave 200 stores open, the court papers said. The company said it would be unable to realize an earlier goal to leave as many as 400 stores open.The papers filed in the court indicated that the United States holiday sales produced revenue US$250 million short of the expectations. In the report to the court, Toys "R" Us blamed in part its weakened e-commerce business. It wrote, "The stark reality is that the debtors are projected to run out of cash in the U.S. in May 2018."Toys "R" Us chief executive officer Dave Brandon said, "This is a profoundly sad day for us as well as the millions of kids and families who we have served for the past 70 years."Toys "R" Us said it was preparing to sell its businesses in Asia and Central Europe, including Germany, Austria, and Switzerland.In September 2017, Toys "R" Us filed for bankruptcy in the US and Canada, and a judge allowed a US$2 billion loan.Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, Bain Capital Partners, and Vornado Realty Trust purchased Toys "R" Us for US$6.6 billion in 2005. According to CNBC, the company had US$4.9 billion in debt at that time, which made it difficult for the company to adapt to the changing market.On Monday night, New Jersey, US-based toy retail giant Toys R Us filed for bankruptcy in the US as well as in Canada. The retailer filed it from Richmond, Virginia for Chapter 11 bankruptcy code in the US, and a judge allowed a loan of over US$2 billion.According to the filing, the retail chain owns US$6.6 billion in assets, but has a debt of US$7.9 billion. They were under a roughly US$5 billion debt since the company underwent a three-way acquisition in 2005. Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, Bain Capital, and Vornado Realty Trust acquired Toys R Us for around US$7 to US$7.5 billion. After the US judge approved a loan, Toys R Us received about US$3 billion from the lenders to continue the business and survive a competitive market, and restructure their business model. E-commerce giant Amazon.com, Walmart and Target are some of the competitors for the conventional 'brick and mortar' toy shop, with lower priced-merchandise and fast, cheap delivery. In a conference call in June, CEO Dave Brandon said "very, very aggressive pricing online" was causing problems. He also said the company was experiencing "significant weakness in demand for their products globally". Toys R Us are to clear a debt of US$400 million by May 2018.Toys R Us said they would continue to operate for the holiday season. Bankruptcy lawyer Jeff Gleit said Toys R Us "need to do both a financial restructuring as well as an operational restructuring" and "needs to modernize with the times". Last holiday season, Toys R Us made sales around US$4.5 billion. Overall, the company reported a US$29 million loss in 2016. CEO Brandon said, "Our objective is to work with our debt holders and other creditors to restructure the US$5 billion of long-term debt on our balance sheet, which will provide us with greater financial flexibility to invest in our business".Toys R Us employs more than 60 thousand people in 38 countries around the world in more than 1600 stores. The company's stocks fell by six percent after filing for Chapter 11 protection. US bankruptcy code Chapter 11 allows the company to restructure under a plan approved by the court. The company would also be shielded from creditors' claims during the process. For the stores located in Canada, Toys R Us filed bankruptcy in Ontario and are to undergo reorganisation. However, 259 stores located outside the US or Canada will not undergo reorganisation, the company said.Over 300 US-based retailers have filed for bankruptcy this year, and hundreds of stores closed.The United States trade deficit hit a new record in September to $66.1 billion, up $5.7 billion from August.  The trade deficit so far this year totals $529.8 billion.  A large part of the deficit is attributed to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.Some of the increase is attributed to energy imports that were needed after Hurricane Katrina slowed down domestic oil production.  Crude oil imports dropped $350 million due to shut down refineries, yet natural gas imports increased $3.7 billion.  Fuel oil and petroleum products increased by $6.8 billion.  There was also a 2.6 percent drop in exports.Also affected by Katrina, food exports fell $296 million from transportation delays caused by the shutdown of the port of New Orleans.  The total decrease in all exports was $2.8 billion. The largest trade deficit is with China, up $1.6 billion to a record $20.1 billion after a flood of toys, clothes, and televisions were shipped to the United States.The United States trade deficit increased to its highest level yet: $195.1 billion (£161 billion) in the first quarter of 2005, according to preliminary U.S. Commerce Department figures. The figure represents the sum of money flowing into the United States by selling exports subtracted from the amount of money leaving the United States from import purchases. The last quarter of 2004 saw a deficit of $188.4 billion.The new record-breaking deficit represents 6.4 percent of the US's gross national product, again an increase on last-quarter 2004 - up 0.1 percent. The deficit on goods increased from $182.2 billion to $186.3 billion, as imports of goods increased more than exports, particularly in industrial supplies and materials, capital goods, and consumer products. It is believed that China's economic boom, and the increase in imports from the country, is partly responsible.Analysts expressed concern at the findings, with Allan Seychuk, an economist at RBC Capital Markets, saying "This is not the direction markets were hoping to see for the mammoth current account deficit. The U.S. dollar has lost a great deal of ground because markets are uncomfortable with a deficit that has now reached record levels."The U.S. Commerce Department released new figures on Tuesday, showing an imbalance of US$61.04 billion as of February. The figure was up 4.3 percent from the US$58.5 billion deficit last January."While we imported the necessities, we didn't sell a lot to the rest of the world," Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors told Bloomberg. "As for the Fed, this report would likely mean more measured rate hikes," he said."We are sucking in more products faster than we can sell abroad. It will reduce GDP growth a bit, but not a lot," David Berson, the chief economist for Fannie Mae told Reuters.The trade deficit has been aggravated by high oil prices and a surge of textile imports after the lifting of quotas on January 1. Oil prices have been close to record levels recently, but light sweet crude fell $1.85 to US$51.86 on Tuesday, after the International Energy Agency issued a prediction that interest rates and fuel costs would slow down demand for oil.The new trade figures temporarily forced the dollar down against the yen and the euro. But later in the trading day, the dollar recovered lost ground as traders waited for a statement about the U.S. Federal Reserve meeting last March.A new redesigned US $10 bill was introduced at a ceremony yesterday on Ellis Island. The new bill adds three new background colors; red, yellow and orange. It continues to feature Alexander Hamilton, the first Treasury Secretary. The $10 bill is the third US bill to switch from the traditional green. The $20 and $50 bills were redesigned to feature color within the past two years.The improvements in digital technology have made it much easier for counterfeiters. "Ten years ago, 1 percent of (counterfeit) bills were produced on digital equipment. These days, 56 percent are produced on digital equipment, and the technology is more accessible to the general population," said Eric Zahren, spokesman for the Secret Service.According to the Treasury Department, to be able to keep ahead of counterfeiters currency will need to continue to be updated every seven to ten years. The $10 bill was last redesigned in 2000. "The intention was not to create a counterfeit-proof note—which is basically impossible—but one that's harder to duplicate and easier to authenticate," said Zahren. This new bill includes many new and enhanced security features such as color-shifting ink, a watermark, microprinting and a security threadDawn Haley of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing said in a statement "The new $10 note design continues the U.S. Government's efforts to make our currency safer, smarter, and more secure."  The new $10 bill is expected to go into circulation in early 2006.Treasury Department secretary Timothy Geithner and the Obama administration are pressuring Congress to allow the government to seize troubled financial institutions such as insurance companies and investment firms. Currently, banks are the only such entities that the government has authority to take over.Speaking before the House Financial Services Committee, Geithner said "The United States government does not have the legal means today to manage the orderly restructuring of a large, complex non-bank financial institution that poses a threat to the stability of our financial system." Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA) agreed, saying, "When non-bank major financial institutions need to be put out of their misery, we need to give somebody the authority to do what the FDIC can do with banks." Geithner would work with the White House and Federal Reserve to execute any such takeovers. The expanded powers would have allowed the seizure of companies such as pariah AIG, which has already received US$180 billion in government aid. The recent controversy over the payment of bonuses has bumped up the plan to high priority. It was initially to have been part of a more comprehensive overhaul by the government of the financial regulatory system.Not all are happy with the proposal. Republican House minority leader John Boehner derided the plan, saying it would be "an unprecedented grab of power."Maxine Waters (D-CA) criticised the government for its lack of transparency in dealing with the current crisis, and questioned Geithner on whether firms such as Goldman Sachs had received preferential treatment by the government. Such probing may indicate reluctance on the part of Congress to grant the expanded powers. Other than simply taking over a firm, the government would also be able to purchase its assets, guarantee losses, and take out a partial ownership interest. "It is a terrible, tragic thing that this country came into this crisis with such limited tools for trying to protect the economy itself from the kind of distress that would come as the system came back down to Earth," Geithner summarized.The United States Department of the Treasury's Bureau of Engraving and Printing unveiled a new United States one hundred-dollar bill Wednesday morning. This is the first time that the one hundred dollar note has been redesigned since 1996.Until now the one hundred dollar note, along with the one and two dollar notes, was not part of the newest batch of dollar note redesigns. The Bureau of Engraving and Printing redesigned the series 2006 5, 10, 20, and 50 dollar notes previously.The new one hundred dollar note will contain new security and design features. Along with a new stylized portrait of Benjamin Franklin, the note also features a quill pen and inkwell on the obverse. On the reverse it has a new larger printed '100' in gold lettering. The new security features include a EURion constellation, a new more secure watermark, and a new feature called 'motion' which uses 650,000 micro lenses to create a moving image.The note was originally slated for release in 2008 although budget constraints pushed the release date back to late 2009 or early to mid 2010. The note will go into general circulation by early 2011.The United States Department of Labor announced that the country's unemployment rate fell to a four-year low of 4.9%. American employers created about 169,000 new jobs in August. However, this trend is projected to end due to Hurricane Katrina (the data was collected prior to the hurricane).Economists expect the number of jobless to grow by more than 500,000 in September and the unemployment rate to drive up over 5% again, but they are unsure of the effect an of upcoming Federal Reserve decision on interest rates. Some sources believe the Fed will make no change, while others say the rates will likely be increased to prevent the economy from overheating, causing inflation, which also may be caused by the surge in crude oil and gasoline prices.The markets fell despite the unemployment data. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 12.26 points to 10,447.37 while Nasdaq fell 6.83 points to 2,141.07. The US dollar declined slightly against most world currencies.Unemployment in the United States rose sharply last month and government figures released late Friday show the number of new jobs was at its lowest level in four years. President Bush is considering more tax cuts in an effort to boost the nation's sagging economy.American unemployment rose to five percent last month, the highest rate since 2005 and new employment statistics released Friday show the U.S. economy added only 18,000 new jobs in December, far fewer than most economists expected."This economy of ours is on a solid foundation, but we can't take economic growth for granted, and there are signs that will cause us to be ever more diligent and make sure good policies come out of Washington," he said.The president says consumer spending is still strong and core inflation is low, but home values are declining and gasoline and food prices are rising.Mr. Bush warned opposition Democrats in Congress against raising taxes, saying that is the worst thing lawmakers could do. But he did urge them to pass legislation that could help more Americans refinance their homes."When Congress comes back, I look forward to working with them to deal with the economic realities of the moment and to ensure the American people that we will do everything we can to make sure we remain a prosperous country," he added.The ongoing financial crisis over adjustable-rate mortgages continues to affect the overall economy and not just home sales.  There has been a cut in jobs in the building industry and the Labor Department report also shows a drop in factory jobs.President Bush is considering an economic stimulus package that could include more tax cuts. In a Thursday interview with the Reuters news service, Mr. Bush said he and his economic team are considering all their options and he probably will not decide whether to act until his State of the Union Address later this month.Democratic Senator Charles Schumer is urging the president to take action to avoid what the lawmaker says could be the economy tumbling into recession.The US Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on Friday that unemployment in the country edged down from 10.2% to 10% in November, with fewer jobs lost in the previous two months than anticipated. The latest monthly figure was discussed at a congressional hearing yesterday as president Barack Obama welcomed the news but said he is still not satisfied.At a hearing of the bipartisan Joint Economic Committee at the Senate, lawmakers from both major US political parties cited the November unemployment figure as welcome progress. However, they also noted the economic pain many of their constituents are still feeling in an economy struggling with deep recession.Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, said Americans at all levels, but notably the middle class, continue to struggle. "While parts of our economy are clearly stabilizing, with the Dow Jones over 10,000 again, it is clear that other parts of the economy are still struggling. We need to make sure that all Americans, not just the folks who happen to work on Wall Street, feel that we are digging ourselves out of the hole," she commented.Despite a generally upward trend in recent months on Wall Street, Obama, administration officials, and economists continue to caution that employment will lag behind other indicators of economic recovery.Keith Hall, Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said the November figure, which still represents 15.4 million Americans out of work, is the lowest monthly job loss since the official beginning of the US recession in December 2007, and follows moderating figures in three previous months.But in an economy that has lost jobs for 23 consecutive months, Hall noted that long-term unemployed continued to grow, rising by 293,000 to 5.9 million, with little change in the number of Americans employed part-time but seeking full-time work.Democrat Carolyn Maloney asked him about economist's predictions that it would take 10.7 million jobs created to return the country to full employment. "Well, without offering an opinion on that 10.7 million jobs, at that rate though, it would be about three years," said Mr. Hall.Opposition Republicans responded to the latest figures by focusing on specific sectors that continue to lag and renewing their assertions that steps President Obama has taken since he came to office, such as the $787 billion stimulus, have had little impact on the economy.Kevin Brady is the Republican co-chair of the committee.  He said while the November figures are good news, there is not much more to celebrate."We can't celebrate a 10 percent unemployment rate, especially when the long-term unemployment continues to grow in very troubling numbers."But Maryland Democrat Elijah Cummings noted what he called a major improvement with job losses going from 700,000 per month at the start of the recession to 11,000 in November. "The report we received this morning is a clear indicator that the economy is slowly returning to growth," he said.In an appearance in Allentown, Pennsylvania on Friday, Obama called the jobs figure "modestly encouraging", but noted that he will not be satisfied until there is sustained significant improvement. "We have still got a long way to go.  I consider one job loss one job too many and as I said yesterday at a jobs conference in Washington.  Good trends don't pay the rent. We have got to actually grow jobs and get America back to work as quickly as we can," he said.The president had held a so-called jobs summit at the White House this week seeking support from business and union leaders for his economic recovery efforts.Republicans responded with their own event on Capitol Hill, where economists such as Douglas Holtz Eakin, the former adviser to Senator John McCain who lost the 2008 election to Obama, questioned his approach to recovery. "Job creation in the United States is something that small businesses, entrepreneurs and the private sector will do but they cannot do it if they are burdened by a legacy of debt and the prospect of higher taxes to pay off that debt and that is the most troubling aspect of the policies this administration is pursuing," he said.In testimony to Congress this week, US Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke agreed with economists who caution that despite hopeful predictions of moderately strong economic growth unemployment is likely to remain high well into 2010.The US government has announced that the country's unemployment rate dropped to 9.7% in January, from 10%.A survey of households reported that the number of employed US residents rose by 541,000 last month; at the same time, however, employers cut 20,000 jobs.According to the figures, the retail sector gained 42,100 jobs last month, the largest increase since November 2007; manufacturers' job counts increased by 11,000, the biggest gain since April 2006.Temporary help, meanwhile, gained 52,000 jobs. The Press Association reports that could be an indication more hiring is on the way, saying that employers generally hire temporary staff before more permanent workers.Carl Riccadonna, a senior US economist for Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York, commented: "Companies just can’t meet demand requirements with their existing labor force, so they have to increase the number of workers. This report does seem to indicate the economy is moving in the right direction."Official United States government data revealed on Friday that the jobless rate in the US rose to 9.7% last month, with the economy having shed 216,000 jobs. The unemployment rate is the highest it has been since June 1983.According to revised government statistics, 276,000 jobs were lost in July and a further 463,000 in June. The figures were higher than earlier estimates of 247,000 and 443,000.The economy has lost 6.9 million jobs since the recession officially began in December 2007. The total number of unemployed in the country is now at 14.9 million.Nigel Gault, the chief economist at IHS Global Insight, said that the news was not as bad as it seemed, saying that "the decline last month was too good to be true, really. It's too early for the unemployment rate to be coming down, of course we're still losing jobs.""What I would take encouragement from is the fact is the trend in the rate of decline in jobs is still improving, that private sector jobs were down 198,000, that's 50,000 better than the previous month and it's almost 200,000 better than the month before that," he said.The official unemployment rate in the United States increased to 8.1% (seasonally adjusted), the highest level in over 25 years, after the Labor Department reported that 651,000 jobs were lost in February.  The U-6 unemployment rate, an alternative measure also published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics that includes other categories of unemployed and underemployed  workers, was reported to be 16%.The US economy has now shed 4.4 million jobs since the recession began in December 2007. Half of the job losses have come in the last four months, and the unemployment rate has jumped by 3.3% in the past year.The Federal Reserve says that it doesn't expect the jobless rate to fall below seven percent until 2011.The professional and business service sector lost 180,000 jobs last month, while manufacturing shed 168,000. The construction industry has lost 1.1 million jobs since January 2007 and 104,000 jobs last month.  At the same time, the financial sector lost 44,000 jobs, bringing the total to 448,000 lost jobs since a peak in December 2007."The construction industry is in a near depression," said the General President of LIUNA, Terry O'Sullivan."We are staring into the abyss. The recession is intensifying and the economy is rapidly shrinking," said Steven Wood of Insight Economics.US stock markets opened higher after the report.The United States Bureau of Labor Statistics reported on Friday that the US economy lost 663,000 jobs in March, bringing the unemployment rate up to 8.5%, an increase from last month's jobless rate of 8.1%. The jobless rate is the highest it has been since 1983.Since the start of the recession, 5.1 million jobs have been lost. 13.5 million people are currently unemployed. 3.3 million people have lost their jobs in the last five months."The hemorrhaging of jobs has been so extreme," the deputy director at the National Employment Law Project, Andrew Stettner, said. "Even if the economy picks up or the contraction slows, there's so much slack in the job market, it's going to take a tremendous amount of time for it to recover."The Federal Reserve has stated that it predicts the jobless rate to go up to 8.8%, although many economists forecast that it could go above ten percent and only start coming back down when the broader economy starts to recover.The government said that 16% of all the residents of the US are now in search of work, working part time because they are unable to find a full-time job, or do not have a job and are not searching for one."We're closing in on 25 million people that are underemployed in one way or another. It highlights the incredible breadth of the downturn," said the founder and chief economist of Moody's Economy.com, Mark Zandi.Data from the United States Labor Department says that the unemployment rate in the U.S. has reached its highest level in over 25 years, namely 9.4%.The job loss rate, however, was only 345,000, which is the lowest monthly job loss rate since September of last year. Analysts had predicted that the loss could be as high as 525,000.The news suggests that the US economy may be improving, as the job loss rate, which peaked at 741,000 jobs this January, has started to ease."Even as we see things start to stabilize and hopefully grow again, we do know that unemployment tends to lag, and so that the unemployment rate is going to be high and probably stay high for a while, precisely because that is sort of the normal pattern as we come out of recession," said an economic adviser for the White House, Christina Romer.Since the recession officially started in December 2007, the economy has shed over six million jobs, with 14.5 million residents now unemployed.Companies in the United States are shedding more jobs, pushing the country's unemployment rate to a 26-year high of 9.8%.The US Labor Department said on Friday that employers cut 263,000 jobs in September, with companies in the service industries — including banks, restaurants and retailers — hit especially hard.  This is the 21st consecutive month of job losses in the country.The United States has now lost 7.2 million jobs since the recession officially began in December 2007. The new data has sparked fears that unemployment could threaten an economic recovery. Top US officials have warned that any recovery would be slow and uneven, and some have predicted the unemployment rate will top 10% before the situation improves."Continued household deleveraging and rising unemployment may weigh more on consumption than forecast, and accelerating corporate and commercial property defaults could slow the improvement in financial conditions," read a report by the International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook, predicting that unemployment will average 10.1% by next year and not go back down to five percent until 2014.Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Economy.com, said that “it’s a very fragile and tentative recovery. Policy makers need to do more.”"The number came in weaker than expected. We saw a lot of artificial involvement by the government to prop up the markets, and now that that is starting to end, the private sector isn't yet showing signs of life," said Kevin Caron, a market strategist for Stifel, Nicolaus & Co.Also on Thursday, the US Commerce Department said factory orders fell for the first time in five months, dropping eight-tenths of a percent in August.  Orders for durable goods — items intended to last several years (including everything from appliances to airliners) — fell 2.6%, the largest drop since January of this year. The US government has been spending billions of dollars — part of a $787 billion stimulus package — to help spark economic growth.  There have been some signs the economy is improving.The Commerce Department said on Thursday that spending on home construction jumped in August for its biggest increase in 16 years. A real estate trade group, the National Association of Realtors, said pending sales of previously owned homes rose more than 12 percent in August, compared to August 2008.A separate Commerce Department report said that consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of US economic activity, rose at its fastest pace in nearly eight years, jumping 1.3 percent in August.Other reports have provided cause for concern. A banking industry trade group said Thursday the number of US consumers making late payments, or failing to make payments, on loans and credit cards is on the rise. A survey by a business group, the Institute for Supply Management, Thursday showed US manufacturing grew in September, but at a slower pace than in August when manufacturing increased for the first time in a year and a half.  Stock markets reacted negatively to the reports. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 41 points in early trading, reaching a level of 9467. This follows a drop of 203 points on Thursday, its largest loss in a single day since July. The London FTSE index fell 55 points, or 1.1%, to reach 4993 points by 15.00 local time.The United States unemployment rate remained unchanged at a high 9.5% as employers and companies remained nervous about hiring new workers and the public sector laid off 143,000 temporary 2010 US Census workers during July. State and local governments, facing major budget deficits, also laid off many people. Overall, the 131,000 jobs lost during July far exceeded economist's predictions of 65,000 jobs lost. The private sector added just 71,000 jobs during July, also less than the 90,000 economists predicted. Around 200,000 gains each month are needed just to hold the unemployment rate steady against first time entrants into the job market. Including the Census workers, the government laid off 202,000 people at federal, state, and local levels.Though the unemployment rate remained at 9.5%, many discouraged job-seekers have given up looking for a position. Those who have given up are not counted as unemployed. The workforce participation rate, which counts those people as not participating in the workforce, dropped to 64.6% from 64.7% in June. The underemployment rate, which counts part-time laborers looking for a full-time job and those discouraged workers, was flat at 16.5% from June. The Labor Department also revised their job report for June. The new version now states that 221,000 jobs were lost in June, worse than the previous estimate of 125,000. The previous estimate also said that 83,000 private sector jobs were created, however the new estimate says that just 31,000 private positions were filled. Despite this, most economists were fairly confident that though there would be slower growth in the future, the country wouldn't slip into another recession."Slower growth looks certain, but it's not a double dip," said Wells Fargo economist Mark Vitner. Economists Jim O'Sullivan and Dean Maki say that jobs gains will pick up to 170,000 a month by the fourth quarter. Vitner says that jobs will gain at 87,000 per month for the rest of 2010. The manufacturing industry has added 183,000 jobs this year including 36,000 in July. Some American companies are shifting overseas manufacturing jobs back to the US, primarily citing rising costs of doing business in China and decreased wages in the US, among other considerations such as long supply lines and difficulty protecting intellectual property rights in Asia. GE has relocated production of their new energy efficient water heaters to the US, while Ford Motor has brought 2,000 jobs to the US from suppliers, including those from overseas.The unemployment rate in the United States has surpassed ten percent, according to figures released by the US Department of Labor on Friday.The jobless rate, now at 10.2%, is the highest it has been since April 1983, and was an increase over September's level of 9.8%. 190,000 jobs in total were lost last month, and 8.2 million total people have become unemployed since the recession officially began in December 2007."It's pretty disappointing overall. Job losses are not moderating as quickly as I had hoped despite those earlier indicators on jobs," economic analyst Richard Franulovich at the Westpac financial services company said.Some economists say the jobless rate could reach 10.5% next year because employers are still reluctant to hire. Economist James Shugg predicted the weakness in the US job market is expected to continue."It is a lot easier for firms to make the decision not to lay someone off than it is actually to decide to take someone on," Shugg said. "I think we are still at that point, the firms are getting less aggressive in terms of job cutting. But putting people on is still a little way to come yet."Despite the news, most analysts have said that this is an improvement in a way, as the rate of job losses has slowed in the past year. This January, for instance, saw 741,000 job cuts. The US gross domestic product also grew by 3.5% from July through September. President Barack Obama, however, suggested that the jobless rate may still continue to rise in the immediate future. "We are just not where we need to be yet. We've got a long way to go," he said.Biden said that "I believe you will see a sanction regime coming out by the end of this month, beginning of next month", adding that said that China, which had previously been opposed to sanctions against Iran, would take part in the latest round. UN diplomats are presently engaged in the process of developing the new sanctions, which will be the fourth resolution against Iran's nuclear program.According to Biden, the latest sanctions would mark the first time the world was unified in its opposition to Iran's nuclear program. He noted that "[t]veryone from the Israeli prime minister straight through to the British prime minister to the president of Russia, everyone agrees the next step we should take is the UN sanction route." The Obama administration, leading the effort for further sanctions against Iran, is confident China will be in support of such actions, despite being a close trading partner with Iran.Biden also said that Israel has pledged not to take military action against Iran in the near future, and would instead wait to see what effect sanctions have on Iran. He commented: "They're [Israel] not going to do that." Iran and Israel have long been at odds, and Israel has not ruled out launching a preemptive strike against Iran before it develops nuclear weapons. Numerous Western countries have claimed that developing nuclear weapons is the ultimate goal of Iran's nuclear program, although Tehran claims that the program is for civilian purposes only.U.S. President George W. Bush suspended all sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro by a decree yesterday. Serbia and Montenegro was under various degrees of economic and other sanctions by the United Nations and individual countries since 1992. Serbia and Montenegro will now enjoy the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences which includes allowing duty-free import of more then 4600 products. Economic relations between two countries were stabilized in 2003 when Serbia and Montenegro gained a status of most favoured nation."We did a study and came to a conclusion that free market exists in Serbia, that there are laws to protect American investors, and we based our decision on that," the U.S. ambassador in Belgrade Michael Polt said. The President of Serbia and Montenegro, Svetozar Marović, wrote a letter to Bush thanking him for his move.This Wednesday, the United States Department of Commerce issued a ruling to set tariffs on Chinese-made solar panels ranging from 18% to 250% for different solar panels manufacturers. China protested against the new tariffs on Thursday claiming that they make export of solar panels to the USA unprofitable.A US-German company SolarWorld and a group of other companies complained and initiated the tariffs change. Some manufacturers claimed China's subsidies are an unfair advantage for the Chinese solar panel manufacturers, and challenged whether China's economy is a free market.Wang Shuai, a spokesman for the Yingli solar energy company, commented that 30% tariffs are unprofitable. He claimed that in the solar industry, gross profit margins are about 10 percent. "A tax rate of 30 percent is the same as 200 percent. Both of them mean the door is closed for exporting to the United States. No one does business to lose money."The tariffs would not go into effect until the International Trade Commission confirms the Chinese pricing hurts the U.S. solar industry.The tariffs occur as the Chinese solar panel manufacturers have reported losses this year of hundreds of millions of dollars, according to AP.The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) has confirmed that a case of 'mad cow disease' (BSE) has been found in a dairy cow in central California. The disease is described as "atypical." None of the milk or beef from the cow made it to the consumption level."It (the cow) was never presented for slaughter for human consumption, so at no time presented a risk to the food supply or human health. Additionally, milk does not transmit BSE," said John Clifford, who heads the USDA's veterinary department. Tom Vilsack, the USDA's Agriculture Secretary also said the food supply is safe saying, "The beef and dairy in the American food supply is safe and USDA remains confident in the health of U.S. cattle. The systems and safeguards in place to protect animal and human health worked as planned to identify this case quickly, and will ensure that it presents no risk to the food supply or to human health. USDA has no reason to believe that any other U.S. animals are currently affected, but we will remain vigilant and committed to the safeguards in place." According to reports, the cow was found in a rendering facility where testing turned back a positive match for the disease. Clifford says the cow's carcass will be destroyed. It is currently being held in a rendering facility in California under state authority."As part of our targeted surveillance system, the USDA Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) has confirmed the nation's fourth case of BSE in a dairy cow from central California," said Clifford in a statement to the press. "Samples from the animal in question were tested at USDA's National Veterinary Services Laboratories in Ames, Iowa. Confirmatory results using immunohistochemistry and western blot tests confirmed the animal was positive for atypical BSE, a very rare form of the disease not generally associated with an animal consuming infected feed," he added.This is the fourth cow in the United States to test positive for the disease since December of 2003 when a cow from a Washington State farm, born in Canada, tested positive for the disease. "We are sharing our laboratory results with international animal health reference laboratories in Canada and England, which have official World Animal Health (OIE) reference labs," added Clifford.Rumors of the find began to spread early Tuesday. As a result, cattle trading futures fell nearly US$3.00 per hundredweight for a live cow on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. On Tuesday morning, the price for a live cow was just under US$120.00 "The markets were very vulnerable due to a large ownership of live cattle futures by speculative fund managers, who quickly headed to the sideline with the rumor hit," said Arlan Suderman a market analyst for Farm Futures.According to the USDA statement, mad cow disease "is a progressive neurological disease among cattle that is always fatal. It belongs to a family of diseases known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies. Affected animals may display nervousness or aggression, abnormal posture, difficulty in coordination and rising, decreased milk production, or loss of body weight despite continued appetite."Today, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) issued an office action, which confirmed the patentability of claims 6 to 10 of the Amazon 1-Click patent, US 5,960,411. The patent examiner, however, rejected claims 1 to 5 and 11 to 15.  Amazon now has up to six months to amend the rejected claims to overcome the examiner's rejection, provide arguments to demonstrate that the examiner is in error and/or provide evidence to demonstrate the patentability of their claims.  During this period, the entire patent is still considered valid under US patent law.The USPTO is reconsidering the patentability of the claims due to a request for reexamination filed by New Zealander Peter Calveley. Mr. Calveley used internet archives to show that defunct company Digi Cash used a similar technique prior to Amazon.  Despite costing a substantial sum of cash and requiring donations to prepare and file the request for reexamination, Calveley said he did it as a game and hopes that his success inspires others to play the same game."One Click" shopping is an ecommerce technique, which allows a customer to purchase products via the Internet without repeatedly entering personal information such as name and address.  At the time it was introduced it eased the frustration of on-line shopping.  Amazon filed the patent application for 1-click shopping in early 1997 and was granted the patent in September 1999.  23 days later Amazon sued rival Barnes & Noble for alleged infringement by its "Express Lane" ordering which was introduced in 1998.  In December 1999 Amazon won an interim injunction against Barnes & Noble but the USA Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit lifted this injunction in February 2001.  The parties then settled their dispute for undisclosed terms.  Amazon has since successfully licensed the technique to other e-sellers such as Apple.In Vancouver, a 20-year urban success story may yet have a sad ending. The city's downtown population has doubled to 80,000 in the last 20 years thanks to Vancouver’s “Living First” policy – a planning strategy that favors residential development over commercial. And planners are expecting the population to reach more than 120,000 by 2030. But while downtown booms with people, business is busting. The International Herald Tribune reports that the city’s recently-released jobs and land-use study is estimating that downtown Vancouver may run out of commercial and office space within 5 years. The 'Vancouver problem' is one that many cities in the United States could only hope to have. On the contrary, much effort has been put into bringing residential life back into the city centres. In Los Angeles, San Diego, Miami, and Washington, D.C. there has been a condominium boom in recent years, but these cities are far from the situation Vancouver faces now.To counter the trend in Vancouver, planners are proposing changes to the city’s zoning regulations, including the passage of more lenient building height restrictions. But because residential developments are so much more profitable than commercial and office space, some public officials are proposing offering better incentives to the developers willing to build commercial. Another option is to expand the moratorium that was placed on new housing development in the central business district two years ago. Translink is currently involved in a major expansion of the 49.5 km (30.8 mi) Skytrain system centred on downtown Vancouver. Construction of the Canada and Evergreen lines is underway. The former will be complete in 2009, and the latter in 2011.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:SkyTrain_Future_V2.pngCoke Zero, a product of the Coca-Cola Company has been banned in Venezuela by the government. Jesús Mantilla, the health minister for Venezuela stated the ban is to preserve the health of Venezuelans but did not specify what problems could be caused with consuming Coke Zero. Coca-Cola agreed to abide by the ban but claimed that Coke Zero contained no harmful ingredients."Coca Cola Zero is made under the highest quality standards around the world and meets the sanitary requirements demanded by the laws of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela," said Coca Cola in a statement. Coke Zero, which was first sold in 2005 in the United States, was launched in Venezuela in April and Coca-Cola Femsa, the Mexican company who bottles the drink, hoped to increase the market share for low calorie drinks by up to 200 percent. Coke Zero contains no sugar and was created to be an alternative to Coca-Cola Classic. Venezuela is currently in the process of nationalizing much of its economy. Earlier in the year the government seized a rice mill and a pasta factory owned by American food production company, Cargill. Legal action has also been threatened against pharmaceutical company Pfizer.Venezuela's government has opened a granite processing plant in the state of Bolívar, with the intention of providing about 25% of the granite required nationwide.Ricardo Menéndez, vice president of the Productive Economic Area, said Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez has yearned for the creation of this project to empower Venezuelan construction. Granito Bolívar is reportedly the most modern Venezuelan granite plant, not consuming community water or electricity, and is also the largest, with a daily capacity to supply enough material for use in construction of about 820 houses.Menéndez said, "These granite blocks are the natural resources of our country, are the wealth we have as a country and often [some] simply decided to remove this richness from our country and take them to other countries" ((es))Spanish language: ‍Esos bloques de granito son la riquezas naturales de nuestro país, son las riquezas que tenemos como patria y que muchas veces sencillamente esas riquezas decidieron sacarlas de nuestro territorio nacional y llevarlas a otros países.According to Menéndez, with the help of a state plan, Venezuela intends to exploit its 40,000 million cubic meters or more of granite reserves, generating a set of factories. "[T]he central theme is that these plants, all these factories, are for the construction of socialism; that means using our potential, develop the value chain within the country and of course that yields benefits from the point of view of the production system's organization.... [Granito] Bolívar is not only the vision that historically we had of exposing richness, but the industries, basic industries we have, that level of our workers in the basic industries and in addition the development of the potential we have in the state" ((es))Spanish language: ‍el tema central es que estas plantas todas estas fábricas son para la construcción del socialismo, eso significa utilizar nuestras potencialidades, dessarrollar la cadena de valor dentro del país y por supuesto que eso genere beneficios desde el punto de vista de la organización del sistema productivo ... Bolívar no solamente es la visión que históricamente se tuvo de exponer las riquezas, sino que son las empresas, las empresas básicas que tenemos, ese nivel de nuestros trabajadores de la empresas básicas y adicionalmente el desarrollo del potencial que tenemos en el estado.For the construction of the plant, supplied by 23 quarries, the government of Bolívar provided about 30 million bolívares (US$4.7 million) and the national government €2.3 million (US$3 million). Bolívar reportedly has reserves of about 40,000 million tons of red, black, pink and white granite, sufficient for domestic demand for 200 years.The U.S. Department of State says that the Venezuelan government's measure to restrict flights to the United States violates the agreement of 1953.In a press release the Venezuelan Institute for Aviation (Inac) announced the decision to "reduce" starting on March 1st all operations of American airlines in Venezuela.Later, the official Institution ordered Delta and Continental Airlines the suspension of all of its activities in Venezuelan territory. It also ordered American Airlines to reduce the frequency of its flights to and from the United States.Venezuela argues that the American Aviation Services does not respect the terms of the agreement between both countries that allows the operations of US-based companies and vice versa.According to an original Reuters report, Venezuela's President Hugo Chavez is moving his Bolivarian Revolution forward by nationalizing more private companies and clamping down against his opponents. Some oil service companies were nationalized earlier this month along with other sectors like banking, cement and steel. Cited by Reuters, Chavez said on Saturday "We are proceeding and will continue to proceed with nationalizations of strategic sectors." According to The Financial Post, expropriation of oil service companies follows their dispute with Petróleos de Venezuela (PDVSA), the State-owned oil company. Past election victories since 1997 have strengthened Chavez's control and popularity (with more than 60% approval rating). He won a February referendum amending the constitution and letting him stay in power until he is not re-elected. Chavez, cited by Reuters, told party activists in April "I've said it before and I repeat, we must keep up the offensive, bulldozing the counter-revolution." But the financial crisis, especially the low oil prices for the last months, has crippled his social revolution. During the last years, Chavez relied on high oil prices to push his social agenda. With the shortening of cash, Chavez cannot use oil revenues anymore to finance his budget. This wave of expropriation and the conflicts with oil service companies seems to reflect a desperate move to tackle the crisis, despite Chavez's words that the country is "well-equipped to weather the global recession."According to reports from the Venezuelan central bank, the country's economy contracted by 5.8% in the final quarter of the last fiscal year, the third consecutive quarter of shrinkage. The Venezuelan economy contracted by 3.3% for the whole of 2009.The bank attributed the causes of this lack of growth primarily due to "the weakness of the price of oil and output reductions" from OPEC, as well as the ongoing global economic slowdown.Economic analysts predict Venezuela's economy to post only small growth throughout this year. "Venezuela did better than most countries at the beginning of the global recession, but now it's in greater trouble," commented financial writer Juan Pablo Fuentes of Moody's Economy.com.Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez arrived in the Chinese capital of Beijing, Wednesday, beginning a visit that will see new agreements to increase China's investment in Venezuela's petroleum, telecoms, agriculture and transport. Chavez says that his country intends to boost its oil exports to China to 500,000 barrels a day within five years, quadrupling its current exports, and up to one million barrels a day by 2012. "Within five years we'll arrive at half a million barrels (a day) to China. We are currently exporting close to 150,000 barrels (a day), and next year we will double that," Chavez said."The oil issue is of utmost importance because we are diversifying the petroleum business. We are moving toward a new petroleum model," said Chavez, speaking on Venezuelan state television from China. "It's one step more in a strategic alliance."Chavez met Chinese President Hu Jintao on Thursday,  senior leader Wu Bangguo and Premier Wen Jiabao on Friday. Following Thursday's meeting, Chavez said that Jintao agreed to support Venezuela's bid to join the United Nations Security Council as a non-permanent member. He is also discussing Chinese involvement in developing his countries gold and coal mining industries, according to reports.The countries are also signing agreements for Chinese assistance in building a petrochemical plant within the Amuay oil refinery in western Venezuela. Agreements are expected to be signed with two of China's state owned oil companies to develop and export crude from Venezuela's Orinoco river basin as well as to approve the sale of Chinese oil tankers to Venezuela. While the United States remains the leading importer of Venezuela's oil, Chavez' left wing government has sought to diversify its trading partners in an attempt to reduce its reliance on the United States and promote a "multi-polar" world order.China is the world's second largest consumer of petroleum and is in need of increased oil supplies in order to maintain its rapid pace of economic growth. Chavez told Venezuelan state television that increased trade with China and Russia will help boost Venezuela to medium-power status. He claimed that investment agreements with China will transfer technology to his country and help Venezuela escape dependency.Venture capital investment in Ireland has leaped by 35% in the first quarter of 2005, according to a new report by Ernst & Young. The report found that Europe-wide venture capital investment increased by a healthy 19% on the same period in 2004.Total investment in Ireland was €42.11m (US$52.8m, £28.9m) for the first 3 months compared to €31.23m (US$39.1m, £21.4m) in the first quarter of last year. The report found that 85% of the capital was invested in the information technology sector; largely helped by a successful €15m fundraising by Corvil Networks.€880.3m (US$1.1bn, £605m) was raised throughout Europe in almost 200 separate deals, with €407.3m of that invested in the IT sector.VeriSign Inc. announced Friday it has acquired Weblogs.com. Mountain View, California based VeriSign bought Berkeley based Weblogs.com from Scripting News Inc. for $2.3 million in cash.Weblogs.com offers a ping service that uses RSS to alert people to new content posted on a blog or website.Weblogs.com founder Dave Winer told the Associated Press that Weblogs.com had grown to be too big for him to handle. "Actually, I would have liked to sell sooner. Keeping the site running was a perpetual challenge. We would scale and it would just grow exponentially." said Winer. Weblogs.com sends out nearly 2 million pings per day.“VeriSign has the size and expertise to handle the growth” said Mark McLaughlin, senior VP of naming and directory services at VeriSign. "The Internet has experienced an explosion in both the number of bloggers and the number of daily RSS feeds from bloggers over the past 12 to 24 months, but the infrastructure to support that level of Internet communications has not kept pace," said McLaughlin.VeriSign has said they will continue to operate Weblogs.com as a free service. However they may in the future charge for additional services.America Online also recently acquired a similarly named but unrelated blog publisher, Weblogs Inc.On May 11, 2006, the USA Today published an article claiming that the United States National Security Agency (NSA) collected millions of call logs from telecommunications companies in 2001 under a contract the NSA claims to have had with phone companies.Since the publication, telecommunications giant Verizon has denied that customer phone records where handed over to the NSA in the time frame "from the time of the 9/11 attacks until just four months ago." "Contrary to the media reports, Verizon was not asked by NSA to provide, nor did Verizon provide, customer phone records from any of these businesses, or any call data from those records. None of these companies -- wireless or wireline -- provided customer records or call data," Verizon said in a statement. This does not address the question whether the long-stance carrier MCI, that Verizon bought in January, handed over records to the NSA, and whether they still continue to do so.Verizon also says that records from local calls are not tracked. "Phone companies do not even make records of local calls in most cases because the vast majority of customers are not billed per call for local calls."On Tuesday, BellSouth also denied that it gave their call records to the NSA.However; USA Today said that they are "confident" about their story and "will look closely into the issues raised by the BellSouth and Verizon statements. Sources told us that BellSouth and Verizon records are included in the database," said Steve Anderson, spokesman for USA Today. The paper was using anonymous sources that they claim had "direct knowledge of the arrangement." Anderson also stated that they will not "dismiss" the denials made by Verizon or BellSouth "without taking a closer look"Qwest's former chief executive Joseph P. Nacchio confirmed through his lawyer that the NSA requested Qwest to provide calling data, but that Qwest declined  to do so citing a lack of legal process.On Monday, US telecom giant Verizon announced acquisition of Yahoo! for a reported amount of US$4.83 billion (€4.36 billion). Per the all-cash deal, Verizon would own only the core web business — in particular, Yahoo! Japan and Alibaba would not be acquired by Verizon.Going public in 1996, Yahoo! provided e-mail service a year later. Once having a worth of US$ 125 billion, Yahoo!'s value on Friday's closing was about $37 billion. Eight years ago, Microsoft offered US$44 billion for Yahoo!'s acquisition. The deal is expected to complete next year.Last year, Verizon gained ownership of Huffington Post, TechCrunch, and Engadget as it purchased their owner America Online (AOL) for US$4.4 billion. Acquisition of Yahoo! means Verizon would own micro-blogging website Tumblr which was purchased by Yahoo! under ex-Google employee and Yahoo! CEO Marissa Mayer in 2013. Tumblr was formed by school dropout David Karp in 2007. Verizon would also own photo sharing site Flickr, acquired by Yahoo! in 2005.Yahoo! received bids from the owner of The Daily Mail as well as from AT&T — another American telecom giant. After handing over ownership to Verizon, Yahoo! would be selling about 3,000 patents at auction.Though Mayer has expressed she would like to remain the CEO, CNBC reported Verizon CEO Marni Walden is yet to decide the leadership team. Mayer said it was a big day for Yahoo!.This acquisition would end Yahoo!'s 20 years as an independent company and an early-emerging company in Silicon Valley, California. The company started as "Jerry and David's Guide To The World Wide Web" in 1994, by Jerry Yang and David Filo based at Stanford University.Five activists have installed themselves on the rooftop of Vestas Wind System's Venture Quays factory in Cowes, Isle of Wight, England, in support of the Vestas employees.The five — four of whom are members of the Climate Camp which has set up in the Isle of Wight — scaled the Cowes plant, which is located about five miles (8 kilometres) north of Vestas's main Isle of Wight plant in Newport, on August 4 and have been camping on the rooftop ever since.Martin Shaw, a self-described "environmental anarcho-syndicalist" on the roof of Vestas Venture Quays, spoke with Wikinews. He reports that while none of the five rooftop occupiers are Vestas employees, but instead consist of one RMT member and four Climate Camp members, factory employees "instigated this action" and had intended to occupy the roof themselves, but Shaw and the other four, as experienced climbers, had the technical ability and experience to accomplish the task.While on the roof, the five are living in tents and washing in rainwater heated by the sun in black plastic bags. Food is sent up on ropes from members of the local community; unlike at Vestas Newport, the police and security are not restricting the bringing in of food and drink.While Shaw notes that the stand of the anarcho-syndicalists on the best fate of Vestas does not exactly match that of the workers, who have called for nationalisation of the plant, "whatever their demands are are our demands".The central message of the rooftop protest, Shaw related, is opposition to NIMBYism. "I personally have got some sympathy with Vestas", Shaw noted, accusing the Isle of Wight's MP, Andrew Turner, of on the one hand saying he supported the Vestas workers but on the other hand campaigning against wind farms being built on the island. "Local opposition is stopping wind turbines being built in this country", stated Shaw. The occupiers plan to unveil a banner tonight on the roof of the Vestas plant reading: "Save the environment, scuttle a NIMBY".The problem, he went on to say, is Europe-wide. The upcoming Copenhagen Climate Summit, Shaw accuses, will be a "business summit rather than an environmental summit".The Vestas Cowes occupiers plan to stay on the factory roof "until the workers want us to come down". If the police come to remove them, as happened earlier today at Vestas's Newport plant, the five occupiers say they will resist "determinedly and creatively" but offered no details. Shaw says that while they won't use violence to resist the police, "we will defend ourselves".Vestas Wind Systems, whose closing wind turbine blade manufacturing centre in Newport, Isle of Wight, England remains the site of a occupation now in its 11th day, has suddenly announced that the consultation period preceding the closure of the plant has been extended, and that the plant will remain open until mid-August.The announcement, which was reported not by Vestas but by the RMT, was described by RMT General Secretary Bob Crow as "another significant milestone in the fight to save the factory and 625 skilled manufacturing jobs in green energy." The plant had been due to close today.News of the delay comes hours after confused reports that Vestas was withholding redundancy payment for at least 525 of the workers whose jobs were lost. According to a report by the local newspaper the Isle of Wight County Press, cheques which employees had been expecting today did not arrive; instead, workers who contacted Vestas management were told they would not receive payment until an interview process had been completed, and that if they began new jobs before the interview process was over they would not receive their money. However, according to Ventnorblog, a local Isle of Wight blog which has been following the Vestas closure closely, the layoff process was being delayed because a majority of the Vestas employees were refusing to agree to the management's redundancy plan.The delay of the closure allows more time for the negotiation of potential solutions for the Newport plant to remain open. The Vestas occupiers and labour groups continue to favour nationalisation of the plant, with Socialist Party spokesman Nick Chaffey saying:  In addition to the Vestas occupiers' proposal that the factory be nationalised, Caroline Lucas, the MEP for South East England and a member of the Green Party, has proposed that Vestas employees should form a workers' co-operative with government aid in order to keep the plant running. The Tory-dominated Isle of Wight Council has unanimously endorsed a resolution saying that the plant should stay open, and has called for new investors to take the Vestas plant over, as was done at a smaller Vestas plant in Scotland recently.The news of the delay comes as workers at the plant accused Vestas management of harassing the families of the 24 remaining  occupiers of the plant. Families of some occupiers were served with legal papers at their homes. One of the occupiers, Luke Paxton, left the factory on Thursday night in order to be re-united with his family; Paxton was checked for malnutrition and low blood sugar by paramedics but was not hospitalized, instead opting to go home. Paxton complained that Vestas management, while now providing hot food to the occupiers, were still under-feeding them; the RMT, which is providing legal aid to the Vestas workers, has accused Vestas management of violating the Human Rights Act by attempting to "starve the workers at Vestas into submission".Protesters in fancy dress were successful in sending food into the plant yesterday. Protesters dressed as a fantasy wizard and can-can dancers distracted police and company security guarding the fence which has been erected around the site while other protesters flung a bag of food and an electric kettle onto the balcony outside the office which has served as the occupiers' home base inside the factory. No arrests were made but the protesters were removed from the factory grounds.Requests for comment from Vestas management received no reply.Morale is "fine" inside the Vestas plant in Newport, Isle of Wight, England, as an industrial occupation of the wind turbine factory finished entered its fourth night, says one of the occupiers."Mark," who prefers not to give his last name for fear of management reprisals, spoke to Wikinews and gave an update on the situation inside the plant, where 30 of the 525 workers whose jobs are slated to be lost at the end of July occupied management offices on Monday evening and issued a call for the British government to nationalise the plant.A double fence now rings the plant, surrounded by police in riot gear. Five people have been arrested for attempting to enter the plant grounds. According to Mark, while police are now letting food onto the plant grounds, Vestas' private security have been halting it at the gate; food for the occupiers is now being provided by Vestas management after the occupiers accused Vestas in the press of violating the Human Rights Act; commenting on the quality of the food, Mark said "it's not been that good". According to the BBC, the content has been mostly sausage rolls, pasties and crisps.  The occupiers were informed yesterday that if they did not leave the plant by 10:30 p.m. on July 22, they would be fired. They have since been served with papers charging them with aggravated trespass and are seeking legal representation; the court papers give them until July 29 to vacate, but according to Mark, the occupiers have no plans to leave: "we're going to be in here for a while".Vestas has given no comment to the press about the occupation.Political parties in Britain have begun responding to the Vestas situation, with the Green Party adding its support to the occupation following the early declarations of support, previously reported here, by the Socialist Party and Socialist Workers Party. Green Party Leader Dr Caroline Lucas MEP gave her "full support", and said in an online statement, "We should be seizing the opportunity to create a renewable energy revolution through a favourable policy environment and massive investment in the new technologies that can see us through a transition towards a more environmentally and economically stable economy. The Government can make a genuine start along this road by pledging financial aid to help keep the Isle of Wight's Vestas plant open for business". The Greens held a demonstration in London supporting the Vestas workers on July 22. Environmentalist protesters have established a climate camp with dozens of people outside the perimeter of the fence and a mass demonstration is planned for Friday evening in Newport's St Thomas's Square.In parliament, meanwhile, five MPs of the ruling Labour Party have signed a motion protesting the Vestas plant's closure and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg stated, "This closure exposes the hollow truth of Labour's climate change strategy". Labour Party left-wing veteran Tony Benn is expected to appear with RMT general secretary Bob Crow and address a rally at the factory Thursday night. Opposition leader David Cameron of the Conservative Party has not yet commented on the Vestas situation, but Conservative MP Andrew Turner, who represents the Isle of Wight, held a confidential meeting with Vestas management, after which he said that nationalisation was "not on the table". Earlier in parliament, Turner said that he found Vestas's lack of negotiations with its employees "totally unacceptable".Late on Thursday, Ed Miliband, the Energy and Climate Change Minister, published an editorial in The Guardian, writing:Milliband went on to promise £120 million in government investment in offshore wind power production and £60 million in marine manufacturing.Vestas attributes its pullout from the UK to difficulty in obtaining planning permission for wind farms. The Independent quotes a senior company executive as saying, "We needed a stable long-term market and that was not there in the UK. We have made clear to the Government that we need a market. We do not need money." Vestas's income is up 59% in the last quarter, although its stock has dropped 4.4% on the Copenhagen Stock Exchange since the occupation began.Meanwhile in the United States, Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick cut the ribbon at the opening of a 300-turbine, 800-megawatt capacity wind farm built by Vestas in Holden, Massachusetts. Vestas is a finalist in a multi-million dollar government contract to build a new offshore wind farm to be constructed in Nantucket Sound by 2012.Vestas Wind Systems confirmed yesterday that its plant in Newport, Isle of Wight, England has closed. The workers employed there have received their redundancy notices.425 jobs were lost in the factory closure and that of Vestas's Southampton facility, with a further 40 employees beginning work at Vestas's research & development facility on the island and 57 staying on to help close the factory down. Initial estimates had said that 575 jobs would be lost in the Newport and Southampton facilities' closure, with a further 50 lost in the closure of facilities elsewhere on the Isle of Wight.The Newport plant had originally been planned to close on July 31. From July 20, it was the site of an eighteen-day occupation in which a group of Vestas workers entered the plant and lived in it, refusing to leave until the company offered a better redundancy package or until the government nationalised the plant, which is the only major producer of wind turbines in the United Kingdom. The closure comes shortly after Joan Ruddock, Britain's Minister for Climate Change, stated in an interview that the British government would not pursue nationalisation.Vestas attribute the shutdown of the plant to insufficient demand in the United Kingdom due to difficulties in obtaining planning permission for on-shore wind farms, and closed the plant in part of a 1,900-job closure affecting facilities both in Britain and in the company's home country of Denmark. The president of Vestas's blades division called the closures "absolutely necessary to secure Vestas' competitiveness and create a regional balance between production and the demand for wind turbines". Vestas CEO Ditlev Engel, meanwhile, told The Guardian that he was "not ruling out" restoring the redundancy packages to the 11 occupiers who were terminated while taking part in the occupation. "The last thing that we wanted was to have this confrontation", Engel said.A number of protest camps remain at Vestas facilities across the Isle of Wight, including outside the Newport factory, and seven anarcho-environmentalist protesters are living atop the roof of the Vestas facility at Venture Quays. A number of Vestas employees spent Wednesday speaking at solidarity meetings throughout the United Kingdom arranged by members of the informal coalition of left, environmentalist and trade union groups which sprung up to support the Vestas employees after the closure was announced.Eleven of the 25 workers at the Vestas factory in Newport, Isle of Wight, England who have been carrying out a sit-in since Monday July 20 have been sacked with immediate effect.According to one of the protesters known as "Mike", the occupiers were given their dismissal notices concealed under slices of their evening meal of pizza. The company said that the protesters have had ample opportunity to air their point of view, and had no choice but to sack eleven of the twenty five workers that they had positively identified; and that given that the fact that the action constituted a "fundamental breach" of trust, that the eleven would not be entitled to redundancy packages. A press release from the company said that Vestas "saw no other choice than to dismiss the 11 employees, who the company has positively identified as the employees currently participating in the occupation of the factory." The protesters remained upbeat, vowing to continue their occupation and have called upon the UK government to  save the 625 jobs and to nationalise the Danish owned factory. Occupier Ian Terry told the BBC that if the occupiers are forced out, they plan to leave the building "peacefully".Vestas management were dealt a setback today in ending the occupation as Newport County Court ruled that the papers accusing the occupiers of aggravate trespass and requiring they surrender the office they occupy by July 29 were improperly served. The case has been adjourned until Tuesday August 4. In court, Judge Graham White said he was "distinctly uncomfortable" with what he perceived as Vestas' effort to "get around the rules" in retaking the factory from the occupiers.Legal representation for the Vestas workers had been offered by Bob Crow, secretary of the RMT trade union. Crow has pledged the "full solidarity" of the RMT and seven other unions with the workers occupying the plant.Vestas management has also been providing the occupiers with hot meals in an apparent response to Crow's announcement, made on July 24, that the RMT was planning on airlifting food into the factory by helicopter. Crow is meeting today with Ed Miliband, the Environment Minister.Earlier in the week, Miliband pledged £6 million in funding to an expansion of Vestas' Isle of Wight research and development centre, which currently employs 110 workers and could, said the Minister, be expanded to employ 40 more.Rallies continued throughout the week in support of the Vestas occupiers. Since the occupation began, the Vestas workers have received declarations of support and solidarity from a wide swathe of the British left, including but not limited to: political parties Green Party, Respect, the Socialist Party, the Socialist Workers Party, the Alliance for Workers Liberty, and the Communist Party of Britain; the TUCG group, which brings together the BFAWU, FBU, NAPO, NUJ, PCS, POA, RMT, and URTU; and environmental groups Greenpeace, the Campaign against Climate Change, Climate Camp, and Workers' Climate Action, who claims credit for initiating the campaign to occupy the factory. Attendees of the Big Green Gathering, a large annual environmentalist rally which was due to take place starting today but was suddenly canceled on Sunday, are being encouraged to go to the Isle of Wight and take part in support rallies for Vestas instead.Speaking to Wikinews about the "red-green" coalition supporting the occupation, a spokesman for the Alliance for Workers' Liberty said: "We think this struggle is important on at least three grounds — it is central to the struggle for jobs, it is central to the struggle for the environment, and it is central to the struggle for rebuilding the labour movement."Photographs shared with Wikinews by the occupiers show the occupiers, mostly young men, talking, carrying out everyday tasks, and keeping in touch with the outside world via mobile phones. The use of mobile telephones in the Vestas occupation has given the press remarkable access to the occupiers and provided an effective platform for relaying their demands and feelings to the media. In contrast, Vestas's designated media contact for the United Kingdom is on vacation. Attempts to reach Vestas Newport factory manager Patrick Weir, whom a Vestas representative at the company's Danish headquarters stated was handling press inquiries regarding the occupation, received no reply.Vestas plans to close the factory on July 31, citing the difficulties of obtaining planning permission for wind farms in the United Kingdom. All blades manufactured at Vestas' Newport plant are sent to the United States. 1900 employees of the company in Northern Europe face job losses, 625 of them in Vestas's plants in the south of England.Viacom has announced that they are suing YouTube, and its owner Google, for more than 1 billion dollars. The lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Viacom claims that YouTube has near 160,000 of their videos on their website without their permission, which they say is a "massive intentional copyright infringement."Viacom had negotiations with YouTube for several months, which ended unsuccessfully. The lawsuit was filed after Viacom had asked YouTube to remove 100,000 videos that belonged to them in February. They also claim that YouTube has made profits by "advertising off of unlicensed content." Neither YouTube's nor Google's representatives have yet commented on the situation and lawsuit. Wikinews is one of the media outlets which has placed a request for comment.American corporation DivX, Inc. announced on Monday that it will shut its Stage6 website that hosts videos made by users. The shutdown will take effect on February 28, 2008 and is because the firm no longer have the resources to keep it online."Why are we shutting the service down? Well, the short answer is that the continued operation of Stage6 is a very expensive enterprise that requires an enormous amount of attention and resources that we are not in a position to continue to provide. There are a lot of other details involved, but at the end of the day it’s really as simple as that," said Tom, who is also known as 'Spinner' in the statement on the website and an employee of DivX, Inc. the San Diego, California-based host of the webservice.In October 2007, Universal Music Group filed a federal lawsuit against DivX, Inc. for copyright infringement after users posted hundreds of music videos on Stage6.Chief Executive Kevin Hell said in a statement: "By no longer expending resources on Stage6, we sharpen our focus on creating a global standard for digital video."Videos can no longer be uploaded, but will be able to be watched and downloaded until February 28. Stage6 made its debut in 2006. It hosted movie clips, television shows and music videos along with content made by the site's users in the popular DivX codec.World Trade Organization (WTO) has officially invited Vietnam to become a member of their organization. Vietnam is the 150th nation to join the WTO.Now that the country has joined the WTO, Vietnam will have more access to overseas markets, but will be forced to cut high import tariffs, thus reducing the budget by as much as 21%.Vietnam has proclaimed its intention to leave the ranks of the world's poorest countries by 2010, and will become a WTO member 30 days after official approval from its National Assembly.Joining the WTO will force a reduction in import duties, within five to seven years, from their current average rate of 17.6% to 13.8%.  It will also eliminate any import quotas WTO countries have against Vietnamese textiles, rice and coffee.  Vietnam's banks, insurers and telecommunications companies, however, will have to face competition from foreign interests, and restrictions on foreign ownership of Vietnamese firms will be eliminated."Foreign competition is bitter medicine for Vietnamese enterprises, but it will help them become stronger," said Le Dang Doanh, an economist at the ministry of planning and investment.The Vietnamese government have denied blocking the social networking site Facebook. For several days users of the Vietnamese version of the site have reported problems when trying to access their page. FPT, the state internet provider has said that they are working with several foreign companies to solve a problem blocking connection to US servers. But workers at several web firms have reported that the government has ordered them to block Facebook. In a statement released by Facebook they said they “would be very disappointed if users in any country were to have difficulties accessing its site”. Facebook was launched in 2004 and has over 300 million users. The site has previously been blocked by Syria, China, and Iran.Four people are reported killed in Kampala, Uganda, amidst protest marches organised against a government proposal to cut down 7,000 hectares of forest land to expand a private company's sugarcane plantations. Two men of Asian descent were stoned to death by a mob, and the deaths of two others were under investigation, according to police sources. A witness said that one of the Asians was attacked after he ran his motorcycle into a crowd. BBC News reported that a looter was shot dead and a bystander wounded by security guards. Asian businesses and a Hindu temple were attacked by rioters; in response, police deployed armoured cars, used tear gas, and opened fire to quell the violence. A group of Asians trapped in the temple by a mob were rescued by police. The sugar company is owned by the Mehta Group, established by Indian immigrant Nanji Kalidas Mehta. Asian immigrants formed a prosperous trading community in Uganda before they were expelled by Idi Amin in 1972. Many returned following Amin's downfall, but some Ugandans view their presence and business with suspicion. The Mabira reserve forest in south-east Uganda covers about 30,000 hectares and is home to several rare species; it has been a reserve forest since 1932. A primatologist working in the area announced in February that monkeys in the forest previously thought to be Gray-cheeked Mangabey (Lophocebus albigena) were in fact a new species.  President Yoweri Museveni's government is considering a proposal to de-notify and transfer 7,000 acres of land to the Sugar Corporation of Uganda Limited (Scoul) to expand its sugarcane plantations. A cabinet paper says the plan will generate 3500 jobs and will contribute 11.5 billion shillings to the treasury.Scoul bills itself as the largest employer in East Africa, with 7,300 employees manufacturing sugar and industrial alcohol at its 10,000 hectare Lugazi estate. The Ugandan newspaper Monitor reports that Scoul's plantations have been reduced in acreage after it failed to reach agreement over existing leases with various landlords. Scoul says that plantations at the Mabira forest will help double its annual production to 110 metric tonnes, and in a newspaper advertisement published on Thursday, said that "anti-development lobby groups" were misleading the public about the Mabira plan. In its environment policy, the company says it is committed to a managing land and wetlands resources in an environmentally sensitive manner. The plan is opposed by Ugandan MPs because of its environmental impact. An official from the Ugandan National Forestry Authority told the news agency AFP that the plan will destroy the area's biodiversity and affect locals' livelihood.   Scoul says the forest land is already being encroached upon by subsistence farmers.Meanwhile, the group has been offered land in Mengo and by the Anglican church in Mukono as an alternative to the Mabira plan. Scoul Chief Executive S.C Khanna says that he will consider such an alternative if the land is fertile, free of "squatters" and close enough — within 30 km of the sugar factory — so that the cost of transporting sugarcane is viable. Scoul has increased security after multiple fires destroyed crops at its plantations.Sir Richard Branson, successful British entrepreneur, better known as the founder of the Virgin brand, has made a suggestion to the next British chancellor to both save MG Rover, the largest independent manufacturer of cars in England until it collapsed this spring, and help with rapidly rising oil demand. He wants the British government to give subsidies to the fallen car-maker so that it can be the first European producer of hybrid cars.Virgin Media announced weak results last week, in part due to competition from Sky. Virgin Media lost 47,000 customers from January to March 2007, while Sky gained 51,000 customers in the same time period. Franklin Mutual Advisers, which has 9.4% of the Virgin Media shares (Sir Richard Branson owns 11%) wants to have a meeting with Virgin Media about its "strategic direction, corporate governance and management". Franklin Mutual Advisers is known to take great interest in the companies in which it invests.This has caused many of the other investors of Virgin Media to demanding meetings with the management of the company. The demands are due to confusion among shareholders at the direction in which the company is heading, The Guardian reports. After the attempt to buy ITV was stopped last year, the shareholders think that Virgin Media may lose its battle with Sky and TalkTalk.Another issue causing concerns amongst investors is the £25.2 million pay cheques for the top seven executives of Virgin Media.  Virgin Media reported a £15.3 million loss last year.Virgin Blue has announced that it is to start offering domestic flights within New Zealand starting November. The third commercial flight company in New Zealand will start by focusing on New Zealand's three major cities, Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch.Budget airline, Pacific Blue Airlines, which is run by Virgin Blue, already runs flights in New Zealand to international destinations. And, despite only major cities currently being serviced, smaller cities and towns will be considered on November 15.The service is set to start on November 15, with a special deal currently available of NZ$39 for all services per ticket for one way. This deal will be available until the latest of September 16. The normal online air fares range from $69 for Auckland to Wellington and Christchurch to Wellington. These fares are 22% cheaper than those offered by Air New Zealand. An air fare for Auckland to Christchurch is $10 more expensive at $79.Virgin Blue Chief Executive Officer, Brett Godfrey, said they expect to face a few hard years while the new services are starting. "We expect actually to lose a little bit as we find our feet but our loss will be the travelling public's gain."Sir Richard Branson, Chairman of the Virgin Group, said that he was "absolutely delighted" that Pacific Blue is set to enter the New Zealand domestic market, "bringing its unmistakable fun, flair and affordability to travel within New Zealand." It was first rumoured that when Sir Branson was in New Zealand earlier this year that a domestic service was to begin, "[Sir Richard Branson] promised that domestic services were something of interest to us under the right circumstances and at the right time."Godfrey describes the new services as a major investment and a long term commitment. "The time is right to bring some much needed competition to the existing duopolistic market."Due to Pacific Blue starting a domestic service, New Zealand's flag carrier, Air New Zealand, has lost 8.6% on the share market in total this week. The day before Pacific Blue's announcement, Air New Zealand lost $179 million to due to share value drop. Head of research at Forsyth Barr, Rob Mercer, said, "Air New Zealand has fallen $1 billion in value in the last couple of months, yet their earnings have got stronger."Mercer says, "Call me an optimist but competition can sometimes be a good thing. And if someone really puts in a product that stimulates the market and grows it, it can actually be a good thing, and Air New Zealand being the incumbent can actually be quite a beneficiary out of that environment."The Chief Executive of the Travel Agents Association, Paul Yeo, describes New Zealand's current airfares as too high, due to lack of competition. Yeo now expects this to change with Air New Zealand and Qantas matching Pacific Blues prices.Air New Zealand did in fact drop its cheapest airfares to match those offered by Pacific Blue, effective September 1.For the new flights, Pacific Blue is set to add two new Boeing 737-800 to their existing fleet of 53 Boeing 737s.Australian aviation analyst Peter Harbison said Air New Zealand could come under further pressure on domestic routes with Singapore-based budget airline Tiger Airways expected to cross the Tasman by the middle of next year. Australian aviation analyst, Peter Harbison, expects Singaporean airline, Tiger Airways, to be operating in New Zealand by mid-2008.A Virginia man and Afghan national, Awais Younis, was arrested and charged on December 6 for making threatening communications and is currently being subjected to a mental evaluation which was ordered by a Judge during a hearing on December 9. Younis allegedly revealed his plans on the social networking site Facebook and is scheduled for a second hearing on December 21.  The unsealed court documents came to the attention of news media today.Federal authorities said that Younis told the FBI's witness on Facebook how to construct a pipe bomb and "what type of shrapnel would cause the greatest amount of damage". The FBI arrested Younis after an informant alerted them about his plans. According to an FBI statement Younis said that he could hide a pipe bomb under a sewer head in Georgetown and place pipe bombs under the third and fifth metro cars, which contain "the highest number of commuters on them", without being noticed. However, spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Virginia, Peter Carr, assured the public that there is no danger, "The public should be reassured that activities prior to his [Younis'] arrest were carefully monitored and that there is no threat against Metrorail or the general public in the Washington, D.C., area"Younis is also known as Sundullah Ghilzai and Mohhanmed Khan and is either 25 or 26 years old.The Virginia legislature's House General Laws committee, a subcommittee of the House of Delegates, tabled a Senate-passed bill banning public smoking by not voting on it Thursday last week. By tabling the bill, the proposed legislation banning smoking in restaurants, bars and public establishments cannot move to the lower house of the General Assembly for a vote. The move by the 6-member subcommittee leaves the House of Delegates two-weeks in the current legislative session to work out a compromise between the tabled SB 1161 Senate bill, and compromise proposals, that could form new indoor smoking laws in the state.The dichotomy that exists between Virginia's rural areas and its northern sections plays a part in the legislative proposal by delgate H. Morgan Griffith that would require public places that allow smoking to post signs at the entrance that say something as simple as, "Smoking allowed here". Smaller mom-and-pop businesses could be affected negatively by a state-wide ban sponsored by public health groups that advocate for a smoke free environment. "Think about your small bars, your local bars -- places where everyone has been going for 20 years and everybody in the place smokes," said co-owner of Henrico County's Sharky's Bar & Billiards in January. "The subcommittee's intent was to give SB 1161's sponsor, Sen. Brandon Bell, R-Roanoke County, time to work out a compromise with Del. Morgan Griffith, R-Salem, who sponsored a different smoking bill approved by the subcommittee last month," according to Mason Adams of Roanoke.com. The Virginia Senate voted 23-16 on Monday last week to pass the smoking ban legislation, garnering two additional votes in favor of the measure than in the previous year.VISA has opened a regional office in Bucharest, Romania to represent and co-ordinate the activities of the company in Romania and Bulgaria. The Bucharest bureau is the eighth office in the Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa (CEMEA) region, made up of 84 countries.The use of VISA cards in Romania is currently growing at a fast rate. VISA has 21 member banks in Romania which have issued a total of 2.8 million cards.The general director of VISA Southeastern Europe and North Africa, Tony Brogna, said that VISA cards embedded with chips would soon be launched on the Romanian market. This comes at a time when several Romanian banks have stated that they are planning to start issuing chip-embedded cards from June this year. Additionally, seven of the eight Central European and Baltic states which joined the European Union in 2004 already use VISA cards embedded with chips.Visa, Inc. announced on February 25, 2008 that it would soon go ahead with a much-anticipated initial public offering (IPO) of about half its shares. This would make it the single biggest IPO in United States history, according to the regulatory filing the company made. Visa hopes to raise about US$17-19 billion, emulating its main rival, MasterCard Inc., which successfully put out an IPO in 2006.Shares are expected to range from $37 to $42 each. Visa is banking on a changing global economy which relies less on liquid cash and more on credit. Revenue at both Visa and MasterCard has climbed as consumers pay for more purchases with credit and debit cards, instead of cash. Cards are expected to be used for 55 percent of all U.S. consumer transactions by 2011, up from 40 percent in 2005.Analysts have suggested that current economic conditions, the sub-prime mortgage crisis and the weakening dollar, may leave investors skeptical about Visa's potential earnings. However, as both Visa and MasterCard charge fees for transactions made with their cards and do not actually give credit, they avoid the current credit crunch and possible defaulted loans. Nonetheless, a slowdown in consumer spending would hurt the revenue stream of both Visa and MasterCard.The two other main competitors, American Express and Discover, operate their own credit-lending networks and could therefore be vulnerable to credit risks.Customers of Vodafone Australia in New South Wales, Australia have had issues with their service today as Vodafone activates its 3G network. Customers in NSW have had intermittent issues since 8:00 AM AEDT (2100 UTC). At 7:30 PM, Vodafone was yet to advise an ETA on a resolution.Customers report a range of issues such as intermittent loss of reception, voice calls where no voice can be heard and the inability to access mobile internet and picture messaging.Ahmed Mazloum, a spokesman for Vodafone, told Wikinews that the issues have been caused by the activation of Vodafone's 3G network."We have commenced switching on 3G on the network and this has caused an unforeseen issue with around ninety percent of the network in New South Wales," said Mazloum."We are aware customers may be frustrated with their lack of service, but they can be assured that Vodafone will be working around the clock until services are returned to normal."In December 2007, it was revealed that Vodafone would commence a program to rollout 3G to 95% of the Australian population by December 2008. Vodafone's current 3G network is only active in capital cities and its 2G network covers 93% of the Australian population.Vodafone, the world's largest mobile telephone company, has bought Romanian operator Connex and Czech operator Oskar in a deal worth 2.6 billion euro. Both Connex and Oskar were majortarily owned by Telesystem International Wireless Group, a Canadian corporation. While officials from the companies did not make public the individual value of the two operators, it is expected that most of the 2.6 billion euro was paid for Connex, which has a market value of 1.5 to 2.3 billion euro.The takeover of Connex is said to be the biggest deal in Romania in 15 years. Before the takeover, Vodafone owned 20.1% of the company, while now it owns 99.1%, the remaining 0.9% being owned by a Cypriot company.Arun Sarin, the CEO of Vodafone, said "I am delighted that [Connex] and Oskar, both fast growing mobile operators, will become part of Vodafone."Connex is Romania's second-largest mobile telephony operator, with more than 4.9 million customers at the end of 2004 and nearly 50% market share. It is also one of Romania's most recognised and successful corporations, and one of Europe's fastest growing mobile phone operators. Oskar has 1.83 million customers and is also growing at a fast rate.In an NZ$41 million deal announced Monday night, the New Zealand telecommunications company, Vodafone has bought Internet service provider (ISP) ihug New Zealand Ltd. Ihug will remain a separate company however.Vodafone said that one of the reasons that they bought ihug was because of their strength in fixed line broadband. Vodafone say that this purchase will give them a much better access to broadband technology.However when ihug was put up for sale by Australian owner, iiNet, Vodafone denied in July that they were interested in buying ihug.Paul Budde, telecommunication analyst, said that the buy was excellent. "The unique combination of a mobile and fixed based operator makes sense considering both their futures lie in broadband. The deal is writing new history and will be watched around the world. It really sets the direction Vodafone wants to go for services, new applications and new content."Russell Stanners, CEO for Vodafone, said they are "looking to consolidate their broadband plans as they increase their 3G output. Over the next two years Vodafone is looking to double their 3G output and will double it again. On top of that there is 4G technology and there is growing confidence in the wireless network to deliver real broadband."Stanners is very confident that their company will be able to exceed their customers expectations and needs. And that this purchase is an important step in evolving Vodafone."It's a perfect fit. Right now, we are the leaders in mobile, however we only have 20% share of the telecommunications market. When combined with ihug's strength in fixed line broadband and calling, we can develop and deliver even more compelling propositions for our customers. It's a very exciting time, with two strong challengers coming together to take on the competition," he said.CEO for ihug, Mark Rushworth said: "We're thrilled with this news. A strong and dynamic parent company like Vodafone is just what we need at this stage of our growth."Leading VoIP provider Vonage negotiated access to the Qwest Communications emergency calling infrastructure, allowing Vonage customers in 14 states the ability to connect directly to emergency dispatchers by dialing 911.With the exception of Rhode Island, VoIP's 911 callers were delivered to the administrative offices of a public-safety answering point, instead of connecting directly to a standard 911 dispatcher. The resulting time delay was a consequence of the phone provider's refusal to give VoIP providers access to the 911 infrastructure. Vonage Chairman and CEO Jeffrey Citron in a recent letter to Qwest Chairman and CEO Richard Notebaert, wrote "I applaud you [Qwest] for your willingness to put the health and safety of Americans before short-term competitive considerations."“With the access that Qwest has agreed to provide, Vonage will be able to route emergency service calls placed by its customers directly to public-safety operators, which will help save lives and safeguard property" Citron said.Verizon agreed to begin a trial in New York City soon, and BellSouth also started "making some movement" on the issue, according to Vonage.Vonage claims "that SBC has agreed to begin discussions on working cooperatively to improve 911 offerings available to customers using VoIP." Vonage attorney William Wilhelm, in a letter to the FCC, "noted its concern that SBC has already provided 911 interconnection access to its unregulated VoIP affiliate.”Stocks continued a volatile trading day today as lingering fears over fallout from the troubled U.S. sub-prime mortgage market continued to weigh on investor sentiment. After opening at 13,078.51 points and then dropping below the 13,000 mark, the Dow Jones Industrial Average bounced back in late trading to above 13,100, but on lower volume than the previous trading day in what looked like a cover spike.But woes persisted as flight to quality continued and the yield on the 3-month U.S. Treasury bill dropped below 2.5% -a 20 year low (U.S. Treasury bills are considered risk-free, as investors bid up the price the yield on the T-bill drops).Martin Winterkorn, Volkswagen AG’s CEO, resigned yesterday after it was discovered the German motor vehicle company has been rigging emissions tests for their diesel vehicles. The company has not announced who his successor will be, but plans to discuss the issue tomorrow. Winterkorn has said that he was "shocked" by the rigging of the emissions tests. "Above all, I am stunned that misconduct on such a scale was possible in the Volkswagen Group", Winterkorn said in a statement issued yesterday.This resignation came after he issued an apology on Sunday about the emissions test rigging, which involved installing a program onto the company's diesel vehicles to manipulate test results. The program, referred to as a "defeat device", causes the vehicles to emit less nitrogen dioxide, a pollutant contributing to smog and possibly linked to asthma, during testing. Volkswagen's share value has dropped by one third, The Toronto Star reported. The stock prices of France car manufacturers Citroen, Renault, and Peugeot have also dipped. The Associated Press states that this may be due to concerns other car manufacturers are also engaging in illegal acts.The Volkswagen emissions scandal continued yesterday with the company announcing 800,000 mainly diesel vehicles may also be affected by carbon dioxide emissions problems.The company stated "the safety of the vehicles is in no way compromised". They estimated potentially this could cost them €2bn on top of the €6.7bn set aside to pay for the cost of correcting 11 million cars affected when the scandal broke, in addition to fines by regulators. This follows Monday's revelation that the emissions scandal has affected up to 10,000 vehicles sold in the USA by brands in the Volkswagen group, although the company refutes the allegation. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the regulatory body which has been investigating Volkswagen, claims the company fitted a number of recent Audi, Porsche, and Volkswagen models with technology that initiates secret components during emission tests to ensure the results are favourable.The scandal began with damaging revelations that the car manufacturer has been using illegal software to enable diesel cars to cheat on mandatory emissions tests. This lead to a public apology on September 20 by then-chief executive Martin Winterkorn and the promise of an outside inquiry. He then resigned on September 23, and was replaced by Matthias Müller. The new allegation about Porsche is of particular concern for Müller, because he had previously been in charge of Porsche.The company is expected to foot the bill for the recall of close to 500,000 VW and Audi cars affected at the time. There is also the possibility of Volkswagen having to pay federal fines of up to US$18 billion dollars because the US Clean Air Act sets a maximum fine of US$37,500 for each vehicle that contravenes the requirements of the Act.An investigation into alleged breaches of environmental law was originally initiated on the advice of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a European non-governmental organisation. The EPA requested tests be carried out by West Virginia University, where the secret software was discovered.The software, known as a "defeat device", enabled cars to identify when they were being tested and to switch on the emission control system. The devices may have been adding urea to the car exhaust because that would reduce the amount of nitrogen dioxide. The car would release a fraction of the nitrogen oxide compared to when they were being driven normally. Emissions of nitrogen oxide contribute to smog and are thought to have caused a rise in respiratory illnesses like asthma.Chief Executive of Volkswagen Martin Winterkorn issued on Sunday a public apology and announced an outside inquiry would be carried out, after the company became engulfed in a scandal about diesel emissions tests.Over the weekend there were damaging revelations that the car manufacturer has been using illegal software to enable diesel cars to cheat on mandatory emissions tests. An investigation into alleged breaches of environmental law was originally initiated on the advice of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a European NGO. The United States Environmental Protection Agency requested tests be carried out by West Virginia University, where the secret software was discovered.Volkswagen has suffered a significant drop of almost a fifth in the value of its shares. There have been knock-on effects for other car manufacturers who have also seen their share values fall after suggestions that the scandal could extend much further than just Volkswagen. The company will have to foot the bill for the recall of close to 500,000 VW and Audi cars. There is also the possibility of paying federal fines of up to US$18 billion dollars because the US Clean Air Act sets a maximum fine of US$37,500 for each vehicle that contravenes the requirements of the Act.The software, known as a "defeat device", enabled cars to identify when they were being tested and to switch on the emission control system. The devices may have been adding urea to the car exhaust because that would reduce the amount of nitrogen dioxide. The car would release a fraction of the nitrogen oxide compared to when they were being driven normally. Emissions of nitrogen oxide contribute to smog and are thought to have caused a rise in respiratory illnesses like asthma.A Louisiana representative has proposed a controversial solution to "generational welfare," which would pay women on welfare to get sterilization. Republican John LaBruzzo said he thought of the idea because of his constituents' outrage over paying for welfare. "You have these people who are just fed up with working their buns off to try to provide for their own family and being forced by the government [to] provide for others’ families who just want to have unlimited kids", he commented. He is currently working with Baton Rouge to gather data in support of his proposal.The idea, which LaBruzzo has not finished forming, would award any woman on government assistance a check of $1,000 if she gets a tubal ligation operation. LaBruzzo is also considering rewarding sterilization in poor men and giving tax incentives for higher-income families to have more children. LaBruzzo, who is pro-life, said that the people "on the other side of the political spectrum are pro-choice. Well, let's give these people the ability to choose."While LaBruzzo has stated that he has received an outpouring of support over his idea, the ACLU spoke out against the proposal and called it a "meanspirited attempt to eliminate the poor." Planned Parenthood representative Julie Mickelberry called it a "bribery", suggesting a solution which attacked the root of the problem was needed and that the representative needed to "go back to addressing issues of education about unintended pregnancy and opening healthcare access."On Wednesday, automobile company Volvo announced all of its cars to be released in 2019 onwards are to use some form of battery-powered engine, leaving conventional petrol-only vehicles altogether. The decision comes after Volvo announced in May their intent to cease production of diesel vehicles.The chief executive of Volvo Cars, Håkan Samuelsson, said, "People increasingly demand electrified cars". Volvo aims to release five new electric vehicle models between 2019 and 2021. While little has yet been revealed about them, the company has stated two of them are to be high-performance electric vehicles, branded as Polestars.Other car models from 2019 may be plug-in hybrid or 48-volt "mild hybrid" systems. Audi and Mercedes-Benz are also releasing mild hybrid cars for the European market."This announcement marks the end of the solely combustion engine-powered car. Volvo Cars has stated that it plans to have sold a total of 1m electrified cars by 2025. When we said it we meant it. This is how we are going to do it," Samuelsson said. Volvo is owned by Chinese automotive giant Geely, and China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has said by 2025 they want new vehicle sales to be 20 percent "new energy vehicles".A class-action suit has been filed with the Superior court of the state of California accusing Wal-Mart of failing to ensure their suppliers' employees work in acceptable conditions.The suit, representing workers from six countries across four continents, conceals the identities of 17 workers from China, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Swaziland and Nicaragua in addition to four Californians cited as also representing others from the state.The complaint accuses Wal-Mart of failing to adequately police garment suppliers and ensure that workers are not kept in sweatshop conditions, and that this is in breach of their own Code of Conduct for foreign suppliers.  Wal-Mart counters that they have an extensive programme to ensure suppliers adhere to their Code of Conduct; that 200 full-time inspectors are employed to check supplier factories, and 108 factories have been permanently banned as suppliers.  However, this is mainly for child labor violations.This is part of an ongoing campaign against Wal-Mart by the International Labor Rights Fund [1]; a labor rights group opposed to many of the business practices of Wal-Mart that they claim encourage unacceptable working conditions and salaries in developing countries.The American discount chain, Wal-Mart, closed the doors at one of its two unionized outlets in North America Friday. The closure eliminated 190 jobs in the small town of Jonquière, Quebec.  Wal-Mart Canada spokesman Kevin Groh said the store shut at noon Friday rather than the planned date of May 6 because it no longer had any merchandise.Michael J. Fraser, the union's national director in Canada, said: "Wal-Mart is trying to send a message to the rest of their employees that if they join a union the same thing could happen to them." The union will be filing unfair labor practice charges against Wal-Mart in Quebec.  The United Food and Commercial Workers union has organizing drives in at least 25 Canadian stores.  In August 2004, workers at the Jonquiere store received union certification, and tried to negotiate a contract, which would have been the first for Walmart in North America.  Now St. Hyacinthe, Quebec has the only remaining unionized Wal-Mart in North America; employees of that store have no contract.The consulting firm AT Kearny has stated that above all, low labor costs is a big source of cost advantage for Wal-Mart. Wal-Mart's employees might begin at as little as $8 an hour which is 20-30% less than unionized workers at rival discount stores.In his first interview since the store's closing, Walmart CEO H. Lee Scott, Jr. defended his decision, saying to the Washington Post, "You can't take a store that is a struggling store anyway and add a bunch of people and a bunch of work rules that cause you to even be in worse shape."  The major sticking point according to Scott was the number of full-time employes.  Scott said that it was the union who walked away from negotiations; however, Fraser said that Walmart walked away from the talks, shutting down the store to avoid submitting to arbitration.Wal-Mart severed links with Terry Nelson, a Republican strategist, last night because he had connections to a controversial Republican Party advertisement in Tennessee.  The ad's purpose was to blast Democratic Senate candidate Harold Ford Jr, who is running against Republican Bob Corker.A blonde woman in the ad says, "I met Harold at the Playboy party". As the spot ends, she winks and says breathily: "Harold, call me!".  The ad also "criticised" Canada. "Canada can take care of North Korea," a man in the television ad says. "They're not busy."Nelson and his company, CrossLink Strategy Group, were hired by Wal-Mart last year in an attempt to help the company.Jesse Jackson, an American politician, and other leaders signed a letter distributed by WakeUpWal-Mart.com, asking the company to end its relationship with Nelson.In an interview with the Associated Press Nelson said, "There was no intention to offend anybody and it's unfortunate if people took offense. That was certainly not what people planned for or hoped for."A spokesman for Wal-Mart, David Tovar, issued a statement saying Nelson's company had "sent a letter to Wal-Mart ending its working relationship with our company."According to the state of Wisconsin, Wal-Mart has avoided paying millions of dollars in state taxes by paying rent on 87 Wisconsin properties. The Wisconsin State Department of Revenue call this behavior "abusive and distortion of income."Wal-Mart is doing this by setting up one subsidiary to run all its stores and setting up another subsidiary to own its real estate. The operating subsidiary then pays the rental cost to the real estate subsidiary and takes a tax deduction for the rent. This money will, however, end up in the corporation's own pocket. As a result of Wal-Mart's actions, the state tax auditors say that Wal-Mart owes more than $17.7 million in back corporate income taxes, interest and penalties from 1998-2000. The Wal-Mart corporation claims that they are doing nothing wrong, rather they are taking advantage of an overlap of state and federal tax laws in an effort to reduce their taxes and costs.A federal court has upheld a ruling given in 2004 granting class action status for a suit against the American retail giant Wal-Mart. As many as 1.6 million or more women employees might file civil suits alleging Wal-Mart discriminated against their sex.Six women in 2001 claimed that the company paid them less than men. "It is time for Wal-Mart to face the music," said Brad Seligman, a lawyer representing the female plaintiffs. "Two courts now have ruled that Wal-Mart is going to have to face a jury ... We fully expect Wal-Mart to keep appealing but we're very confident now that two courts have upheld this (class) certification.""Factual evidence, statistical evidence and anecdotal evidence present significant proof of a corporate policy of discrimination and support plaintiff's contention that female employees nationwide were subjected to a common pattern and practice of discrimination," said Judge Martin Jenkins.This lawsuit only counts for female workers that have worked for the company since December 26, 1998.U.S. retail-chain Wal-mart Stores will revise their "everyday low price" strategy at Seiyu supermarket in Japan. Seiyu's year-end loss in 2004 was 12.3 billion yen.  The U.S. style low price selling did not appeal to Japanese consumers. Wal-Mart bought a 6.1% share of the Seiyu company in 2002. At that time, Seiyu had lost money in 3 out of the previous 5 years. Wal-Mart introduced their "everyday low price" selling method to Seiyu, with lineup such as 900 yen fleece wear or jeans imported directly from China. Sales did not grow as expected, since consumers wanted a more varied range of products rather than just cheap prices. "We will adjust our bias to low priced items, and resume selling name-brand goods our customers like to see," says CEO Masao Kiuchi. Seiyu will go back to their previous way of marketing through inserted fliers showing the daily specials, quite the opposite of Wal-Mart way.(The Nikkei)A committee of Welsh Assembly politicians has called for an extensive programme of works to upgrade the railways in Wales, saying that Wales is not being treated fairly in comparison with other parts of the United Kingdom.  However, one academic who gave evidence to the committee says that the proposals, if implemented in full, would cost about £5 billion (more than US$8 billion), and it is unclear whether this level of public finance will be available.The Enterprise and Learning Committee made a number of recommendations to improve the rail service within Wales, and between Wales and England.  It calls for better links between the north and south of Wales, high-speed links from Wales to other parts of the UK, and light rail systems for the southern cities of Cardiff, Swansea and Newport.Other suggestions include upgrading the Severn Tunnel between south Wales and England, electrifying the line along the north Wales coast, and new carriages, especially on routes serving the valleys of south Wales. Improved access for passengers with disability is another area where the committee wants action. It also calls for more decision-making powers about railway matters to be transferred to the devolved government in Wales.The committee, which took two months to look over the report, said that it was concerned that passenger satisfaction with the service was lower in Wales than elsewhere. In addition, investment was needed to meet an anticipated increase in demand for passenger and freight services. It wants the possibility of reopening closed lines, or building new lines, to be examined.Committee chairman Gareth Jones said that the report "examines the long-term future of the rail network in Wales", adding, "The evidence we have gathered indicates that freight and passenger traffic on our network will increase over the coming years. The objective hopefully will be that Wales benefits from this extra traffic so that we are better placed in terms of high speed link connections with the rest of the UK and Europe. It is important that the Welsh government provides for that extra demand."Commenting on the report, Profesor Stuart Cole from the University of Glamorgan said that although the plans were ambitious, the committee had "set out very clearly what is required if you’re going to get a 21st century railway". The 21 recommendations would cost £5bn in total, with the three light rail schemes taking about one-third of that total, in his view.  Other improvements, for example between the north and south of Wales, could be achieved at a lesser price.  Cole, who gave evidence to the committee, says that "for an expenditure of £50m spread over three years we could get the journey time from Llandudno to Cardiff down from four hours to three hours and 20 minutes.”The Welsh Assembly Government will give its full response to the report at a later date. A spokesman said that a modern railway was "crucial" for Wales, and commented that the Assembly Government agreed with many of the recommendations.  Network Rail, which manages railway tracks in Wales and elsewhere in Great Britain, said that it would already be spending more than £1.5bn on infrastructure over the next five years, with improvements to over 120 stations planned.Retail store group Walmart has removed an infant formula from over three thousand of their stores in the United States. The decision was taken in the aftermath of the death of a baby who suffered from Cronobacter sakazakii, an infection which is extremely rare but poses a significant risk to babies born recently and those born prematurely should they contract it. A second newborn baby has also contracted the infection, which is most frequently discovered in plants like rice and wheat.Ongoing tests are now attempting to establish whether or not the powdered infant formula is connected to the bacterial infection the two babies suffered from in the US state of Missouri. A statement from Walmart says that the company is taking the product Enfamil Newborn Formula off their shelves "out of an abundance of caution". Speaking on behalf of Walmart, Dianna Gee stated that the group express their "deepest condolences" to the family of Avery Cornett, who died after removal from life support. Gee informed Agence France-Presse that lot number ZP1K7G had been removed and "Walmart customers who may have purchased the item at our stores can return it for a full refund or exchange it for another brand of formula".The manufacturer of Enfamil Newborn Formula has also stated that tests made before shipment of the product came back as negative. Chris Perille, a spokesperson for Enfamil manufacturer Mead Johnson Nutrition, has said: "The batch of our product used by the child's family tested negative for Cronobacter when it was produced and packaged, and that has been reconfirmed from our batch records following this news". Mead Johnson are "highly confident in the safety and quality of our products — and the rigorous testing we put them through" and is "working with the health authorities to support their efforts to identify the source or cause of this infant's infection," according to Perille. The U.S. government has reportedly made no recall of the product.The Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services has referred the infant formula to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Food and Drug Administration for examination and has advised parents that "powdered infant formulas are not commercially sterile products" and destroying bacteria amongst the production process may not be possible, while "no exclusively breastfed infants have been reported to have" contracted Cronobacter sakazakii. Pending test completion, "it cannot be determined whether the illness is linked to Enfamil Newborn Formula 12.5 oz. cans lot #ZP1K7G or an outside source", according to a statement from the Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services. The department has also suggested that parents observe the World Health Organisation's 'Guidelines for the safe preparation, storage and handling of powdered infant formula', which recommends "washing your hands with soap and water, thoroughly sterilizing all feeding equipment in hot, soapy water and preparing enough formula for only one feeding at a time".Today The Walt Disney Company issued a joint statement with business partners Roy E. Disney and Stanley Gold to the media, as a show of reunion between the two camps after nearly three years of hostility. Roy E. Disney, son of company co-founder Roy O. Disney and nephew of the company namesake Walt Disney, had resigned from his job as chairman of Feature Animation at the company after experiencing difficulty with the company's board of directors, many of whom were biased towards company CEO Michael Eisner's view of what direction the company should take. Eisner is due to retire from the company this September, and the talks with Disney and Gold are believed to have been led by Eisner's successor, Bob Iger, who is currently President and COO of the company. Iger has shown great interest in building relationships back up with many companies who have refused to work with Disney until Eisner leaves, such as Pixar Animation and George Lucas.Large scores of Disney fans had hoped Roy would read the Disneyland Dedication Speech on the theme park's fiftieth birthday next week, which was originally read by Walt on the park's opening day, but Roy had already entered an annual sailing race from Los Angeles to Honolulu.Due to a large amount of unauthorised movie recording in Canada, Warner Brothers Canada has decided to put a ban for movie previews in the country.According to their press release the ban will come into effect on June 8, 2007, when Ocean's Thirteen comes into theaters. It also states that an estimated 70% of their movies have been camcorded in Canada."We regret having to cancel our screenings in Canada but our studio must take steps to protect not only our branded assets but our commitment to our filmmakers and to theaters all over the world,” said Dan Fellman, President of Warner Bros. domestic distribution. "We've been working collaboratively with the exhibitors to encourage the government to put additional measures in place to deter and stop camcording."Warner Bros. isn't the only company concerned about unauthorised movie recording. Twentieth Century Fox, last year, said they would ban film releases in Canada as a threat to consumers.Warner Bros. says the lack of Canadian government legislation to make videotaping directly off theater screens illegal is the main source."Canada is the number one priority in terms of anti-camcording legislation," Darcy Antonellis, Senior Vice President of Warner Bros. Worldwide Anti-Piracy Operations. "Within the first week of a film's release, you can almost be certain that somewhere out there a Canadian copy will show up. Within the last 12 to 18 months we've seen a significant increase in terms of first-source proliferation that shows up on the Internet and subsequently shows up as hard goods elsewhere."The press release said that Warner Bros. along with the Canadian Motion Picture Distributors Association (CMPDA) have teamed up together to make unauthorised movie recording in theaters illegal in all countries, including Canada.This ban does not affect film critics, who have separate screening dates.Warner Music Group first quarter earnings rose sharply mostly from growth in digital music sales offsetting falling CD sales.  Warner Music sells digital music to several online services including Apple's iTunes at wholesale.  The company's first-quarter revenue from digital music sales doubled to US$69 million, accounting for 7% of overall revenue.  Madonna, Green Day, and James Blunt are signed to subsidiary labels of Warner.Warner Music has undergone restructuring after being sold in 2004 by former parent company Time Warner.  Cutting costs, exploiting current assets, and digital music has been the company's focus since going public in May.Warren Buffett, the billionaire investor of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., announced on June 25 to Fortune magazine that he would be donating a total of $37 billion (USD) to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which is already worth over $29 billion, and other charities. Buffett, at 75, is one of the richest people on the planet with a fortune estimated at $44 billion. Buffett previously stated that he would give a mass portion of his wealth away to philanthropic purposes in his will when he died.Billionaire Warren Buffett, Chief Executive of Berkshire Hathaway, auctioned lunch with himself on eBay for US$2.63 million.Bidding, which started on eBay a few weeks ago, attracted nine bidders, offering huge sums for the opportunity to have a steak lunch with the man said to be a "legendary investor". The winning bidder, an anonymous individual, will be parting with $2.63 million for a meal with the world-famed investor and has the opportunity to bring along seven friends for the meal.This, the latest of Buffett's charity auctions, is providing funds to the Glide Foundation, a charity that provides food, health care, housing and job training for San Francisco's homeless.Over the last ten years, Buffett has netted $5.9 million in donations through such auctions.The French web survey provider XiTiMonitor reports that in their study conducted from Monday, July 2 to Sunday, July 8, 2007 on 95,827 websites, web browser Mozilla Firefox reached a 27.8% share in Europe, compared to 21.1% during the same period last year.Firefox has its biggest market share in Slovenia and Finland where it amounts to 47.9% and 45.4%, respectively, while only 14.6% of people from the Netherlands and 15.2% of surfers in Denmark used Firefox in this survey. The share rose most in Ireland: from 24.9% to 38.6% (i.e. +13.7 points).Microsoft's web browser Internet Explorer remains the most used browser in Europe with a market share of 66.5%. Opera and Safari have a 3.5% and 1.7% share respectively, with other browsers at less than 1%.Oceania remains the region with the highest usage of the freely licensed and open source software browser Firefox, with 28.9%. The continent with the strongest relative increase in market share is South America, where there is a 30% increase compared to last March. Numbers from the U.S.-based company Net Applications Inc. last month showed a fall in Firefox's share from 15.42% in April to 14.54%.Within 24-hours of posting a web advertisement for an upcoming hackathon in Boston, Massachusetts, web startup Sqoot has lost four sponsors for the event, in what has been described as the "worst startup PR crisis in recent history." This caused them to postpone the event and apologize in response to thousands of tweets that opposed the advert and found its content sexist. On March 20, Sqoot, an API provider that delivers daily deals like Groupon and Gilt City, posted an online advert for their upcoming Boston API Jam. The advert promoted various perks for the event, including an in-house DJ, cocktails, food trucks and access to women: women specifically there to serve beer to attendees. As soon as the ad was posted to Eventbrite, many on Twitter expressed concern. Over 3,000 tweets later, the advert was deemed sexist by many and Twitter users both condemned Sqoot and contacted the sponsors of the event. The ad, which Alex Williams of SiliconANGLE described as "bizarre" and "misogynist," was quietly changed on Eventbrite by Sqoot, removing the mention of women as beer peddlers. In a matter of hours, four sponsors had pulled out from the Boston event: CloudMine, Apigee, Heroku, and MongoHQ. Shortly thereafter, Sqoot offered two apologies: a brief apology which was then followed by a more detailed apology stating that they desired to have a "good party" that was not a standard hackathon experience of pizza and keynote speakers. Sqoot stated that they "aimed to call attention to the male-dominated tech world through humor and intended to be inclusive, the gravity of our wording was just the opposite. Our words completely undermined our intentions and went further to harm the world we're trying to have a positive impact on." Other sponsors such as Constant Contact and Simple Relevance remained as sponsors. Shanley Kane, director of product management at Basho Technologies, supported the sponsor withdrawal and didn't just consider the advertisement sexist, but also homophobic by ostracizing gay men by promoting a seemingly "straight" agenda for the event. Kane also believed that Sqoot had the "false assumption that women would not attend the event at all," by promoting it with a male targeted spin. In an industry that is dominated by men, it can be assumed that more men would attend the hackathon than women, but, the advertisement ostracized women even more from attending. And this wasn't Sqoot's first foray into straight male targeted marketing. Blog posts like "Sqoot Makes You Yelp!" featuring the Yelp logo on a woman's backside and "Sqoot Goes Topless" featuring an image of a topless woman, are meant to promote the opening of Yelp's API and company transparency. Alex Williams believes that the Sqoot situation shows that sexism within the tech industry is broad and growing. "Women are marginalized and treated more as objects than as colleagues. The trend is a disturbing one and poses a serious threat to the health and diversity of the tech sector." Techli's Kathryn Hough chocked it up to immaturity, "Someone needs to tell young founders that frat house behavior is not acceptable in the business world. If Sqoot’s business collapses for a few sentences of sexist copy, I hope that other young founders get to see the wreckage before following them off the plank."Lukas Blakk, a release engineer and advisory board member for The Ada Initiative, a non-profit that tries to increase female participation in technology and open source, believes that having a code of conduct in place is a necessity for businesses, and for those businesses who don't "you’ve got a ticking time bomb in your organization’s future." Social media is giving businesses a new challenge when it comes to marketing. When it comes to the criticism fielded by the public towards businesses regarding sexist content, fellow Ada Initiative board member and database analyst Selena Deckelmann agrees that businesses need to step up to the challenge and respond appropriately. "...companies need to develop the skills necessary to respond with grace and understanding, even when under intense, negative scrutiny. Silencing, gas-lighting and ignoring the messenger tactics no longer work when a social network quickly spreads information, and occasionally, outrage."Is there a future for Sqoot? Mike Maney believes Sqoot can recover. Maney, head of influencer management for Alcatel-Lucent, acknowledges that Sqoot will have a long way to go to regain their credibility amongst the tech industry and the clientele they serve, "But, the work they'll have to do to undo the self-inflicted damage [...] is going to require a massive effort."Web.com, a web-hosting and online services company, has released its second quarter financial results and associated statements - and it's clear that the company has experienced both the ups and downs of executing on its goals.On the upside, the company achieved an industry-first achievement of securing a non-exclusive license agreement with Hostopia.com Inc. last month. The agreement granted Hostopia rights to two of Web.com's patents over five years on a non-transferable basis. The specific licensed patents were U.S. Patent numbers 5,680,152 and 6,789,103 and broadly cover methods for website building and web hosting control panels. Importantly for revenues, the license agreement states that Hostopia will pay Web.com a royalty equal to 10% of their gross U.S. retail revenues for five years. On the downside, the company failed to deliver on the expected and announced acquisition of Houston-based WebSource Media - a business offering "easy and affordable built-to-order websites". The announced acquisiton was to have added about $9 million in annual revenue to Web.com. However, according to published reports from Web.com, the company filed to rescind its acquisition of WebSource media just about one month after the announcement. This action was taken after the Federal Trade Commission filed a sealed action in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Texas against WebSource Media, L.L.C. and its members - alleging unfair and deceptive acts and business practices prior to the acquisition. In a press release issued by Web.com, President and CEO Jeff Stibel discussed the effects of the rescinded acquisition on the second quarter resutls, "Web.com continued to drive subscriber growth across its core website and web services plans by refining our sales and marketing efforts and working closely with strategic distribution partners. While we had unfortunate news about an acquisition we made during the quarter, the company has moved on and is working on further solidifying its position as a leader in the industry."On the financial side of the report, Web.com reported that total revenues for the quarter were $12.1 million, down from $12.3 million in the first quarter of 2006. The second quarter marked the last quarter of recognizing Verizon revenues (a deal that was initially cancelled in December 2004 and terminated in the second quarter of 2006).On the organic customer acquisition side of the equation, the company reported that net subscribers totaled approximately 148,000 for the quarter, down from approximately 149,000 in the first quarter of 2006. The reduction in the second quarter as compared to the first quarter includes the loss of approximately 3,200 Verizon subscribers. Excluding the loss of Verizon subscribers, the company added approximately 1,600 subscribers in the quarter.Sunday Express, a tabloid newspaper from the UK reported an anonymous source claiming to be an insider to merger talks between Wells Fargo Bank and Barclays Bank. The rumoured merger would be a radical break in the kinds of mergers Wells Fargo has done and has said it will continue to do (it is assumed that Wells with the higher market capitalization would be the buyer). Wells Fargo has previously shown no desire to engage in retail banking outside the United States, and has only expanded internationally in its Consumer Finance business and with certain business services. Wells Fargo currently has a market value of 100 billion, while Barclays is worth 70 billion. The wire services such as Reuters immediately wrote articles about the rumour. Barclays refused to comment on market speculation (it is standard for all corporations to consistently refuse to comment on all merger speculation). No reporters have so far been able to reach Wells Fargo for comment. It is claimed that talks have been ongoing since October, although they are said to have stalled and then resumed.There is however the possibility that Wells Fargo and Barclays could be contemplating a business line sale, instead of a full on merger. One possibility is Barclays selling its "Barclays Global Investor" division back to Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo (under old management prior to the 1998 merger of Wells Fargo and Norwest Bank) previously sold its Asset Management (mutual fund) business to Barclays in 1995. Renamed Barclays Global Investors, this business remains headquartered in San Francisco, and still has some connections to Wells Fargo's new mutual fund business. Wells Fargo has a long term goal of deriving around 25% of its revenue from investments and insurance; currently it derives around 15 percent of its revenue from this. The purchase of Barclays Global Investor would significantly move Wells Fargo toward achieving this goal.Another possibility is Barclays buying the private label (or store branded) credit cards of Wells Fargo Financial. In November, Barclays acquired Juniper, a fast growing player in the US private label credit card business.Highland Airways, which runs flights between Anglesey in north Wales and Cardiff in south Wales, has said today that it is business as usual, despite suspending online booking yesterday.  Meanwhile, Liberal Democrats have called on the Welsh Assembly Government to withdraw the £800,000 annual public subsidy for the route (about US$1.3 million) and use the money on "green public transport" instead.Although flights were continuing and passengers were told to "check in as normal", the company stopped taking bookings for future flights yesterday, blaming "technical difficulties".  However, it also said that trading conditions were "difficult".  The company's commercial director, Basil O'Fee, explained that the company's problems had been "exacerbated by the severe winter and resultant reduced flying and reduced income." He added that the board was in talks with potential new investors, and hoped for a outcome of these discussions to be known "within days rather than weeks"."It is now time to end this costly debacle before even more public money is poured into a service that is both economically and environmentally unsustainable," according to Kirsty Williams, leader of the Welsh Liberal Democrats. She wants the money spent on improving rail transport in Wales.However, Ieuan Wyn Jones, the leader of the Welsh nationalist party Plaid Cymru and the Assembly member for Anglesey, said that the service was an "essential link".  He hoped that the company would be able to keep going, or in a "worse case scenario", that the route would be run by administrators while the Assembly Government looked at other options.The company has carried 37,000 people on its twice-daily service since it started operating.  According to Jones, this showed that that the service "has been a huge success with passenger numbers far exceeding expectations".  Bidding for the next contract with the Assembly Government to provide the route closed last week, with Highland Airways thought to be the only entrant.  The lack of other bids was "particularly worrying", commented Jenny Randerson, Welsh Liberal Democrats transport spokesperson.  "This does suggest that despite huge public subsidy, this service is still not seen as a viable, profitable, and green solution to this key transport need", she said.Highland Airways is based in Inverness, Scotland, where it operates passenger and freight services for island communities. The news that the company was in difficulty was said to come as a surprise to business and transport leaders in Scotland, where it is regarded as a "Highland success story".Adam is a robot developed by Welsh Aberystwyth University researchers which combines artificial intelligence (AI), robotics and automation to independently conduct and analyse biological laboratory research."What's new and exciting about Adam is [it is] the first time we've managed to show that a computer can not only think up new scientific ideas, but experimentally test them and decide whether they're true," said Ross King, a computer science professor and lead researcher at Aberystwyth University, "Adam makes up its own mind what to do.  It decides what experiments to do, what to test." He says that for other lab experiments the hardware is already in place, the only step needed is to change the software.The artificial intelligence alone spans three computers which holds the databases and analytical software to enable Adam to think. For the yeast experiment, Adam was loaded with databases which hold known information relating to yeasts and organisms. Adam compared all fields in the database to find the areas of missing information from which he devised 20 hypotheses.Adam's AI is connected to robotic arms, sensors, incubators and cameras which enable Adam to start over 1,000 individual experiments every day and follow their progress over a week.A part of the process is that Adam's AI can cycle and analyze the results of the experiments as well doing routine repetitious lab work. Following Adam's testing, King's team manually tested three of Adam's hypotheses and found that the robot's conclusions were correct, and each was a breakthrough to the scientific community.Adam has spawned discussion amongst researchers.  William Melek, an assistant professor of mechanical engineering at Ontario's University of Waterloo, has noted that to set up the AI needed for subsequent experiments involving new biological variables and criteria, the human expertise would be time consuming to customize it.  The usefulness would be limited therefore to the allotment of human input needed to set up Adam.David Waltz of Columbia University and Bruce Buchanan of the University of Pittsburgh say that "For the foreseeable future, the prospect of using automated systems as assistants holds vast promise as these assistants are becoming not only faster but much broader in their capabilities -- more knowledgeable, more creative, and more self-reflective," They note the potential of such lab assistants which may more efficiently process the research data.It was reported that Adam cost about $1million in production costs and this was weighed against the costs of hiring lab techs.  King said, We made many mistakes and learned from Adam.  Eve is a much cleaner design."Eve is the second AI computer under development by Professor King's research team.  Eve's artificial intelligence will be enhanced to analyze compounds needed for medicinal drugs which may treat killer diseases such as malaria.Despite having over 1,300 locations more than Wendy's, Burger King bumped down to the number three ranking of United States hamburger chains. In 2011, Wendy's sales came out on top with $8.5 billion with Burger King close behind at $8.4 billion. Wendy's edged Burger King out of the number two spot for the first time since Dave Thomas founded the company in 1969. McDonald's still holds the number one spot, squashing both Wendy's and Burger King with sales of more than $34 billion from 14,098 U.S. locations. Around the globe, Burger King clutches onto the number two ranking among hamburger joints.Since 2006, the restaurant business has had a make-over in the top five competitors. According to Technomic, the top three restaurant chains used to be comprised entirely of hamburger chains: including McDonalds, Burger King and Wendy's, respectively. Today, Subway is ranked second with $11.4 billion — a 48 percent jump, with Starbucks right behind with $9.8 billion — a 39 percent jump. According to Technomic, Five Guys Burgers and Fries is creeping up on the other chains by making the largest leap last year.Las Vegas, Nevada — San Jose police arrested the woman who made the claim she found a human finger in a bowl of Wendy's chili. Police made the arrest of Anna Ayala on Thursday night at or near her Las Vegas home.A sign on the front door of the Ayala residence urged reporters and curious onlookers not to disturb the occupants. The sign reads, "Trust Me Do Not Knock On Door Emotionally Disturbard Thanx".Anna Ayala was arrested on a fugitive warrant so no bail was set. Early this morning, Ayala was still behind bars at the Clark County Detention Center.Police spokesman Enrique Garcia said further details on the 39-year-old Ayala will be released at a news conference scheduled for 1pm Friday.According to the Los Angeles Times, the arrest came hours after Wendy’s concluded its own internal investigation that found no link to the finger in its food distribution chain.Wendy’s offered a $100,000 reward for information leading to the source of the finger.Western Australian Premier Alan Carpenter made a two-minute broadcast on all televisions and radio stations over the gas crisis. The crisis began after a major fire at the Vanarus Island refinery operated by Apache Corporation reduced the available natural gas by 30%.During the broadcast which was recorded earlier in the day Premier Carpenter said, "this is a serious situation which affects us all.""While the state government has the power to guarantee gas supplies to essential services and households, some industries and businesses have been hit hard.""A number of them are being forced to scale back operations and others have temporarily closed."The Western Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry predicts that up to 15% of companies will be forced into temporary shut down. A representative from the Property Council of WA, which represents commercial property owners, has said that "we are going to have to get used to cold offices and dimly lit shopping centres"Western Power today released figures showing that the power consumption has reduced since the crisis started. They said that the daily usage reduction of 40-50 megawatts was a moderate saving, that consumers could do much more.A blast at the Apache Energy plant on Varanus Island on June 3, 2008 cut off one-third of Western Australia's (WA) gas supply, Apache Energy says that it could take up to two months before the supply from Varanus Island gas plant will be partially resumed.The gas crisis in Western Australia is set to worsen this week, "I think the most difficult times are ahead of us. I think this week will be very difficult and I think the following week will be very difficult, and I mean very difficult", The WA Premier Alan Carpenter said.Western Australian Master Builders Association (MBA) yesterday demanded the Carpenter Government call an emergency cabinet meeting to avoid a "state of emergency" over the energy crisis gripping WA. A MBA spokesperson said that hundreds of workers have already been stood down, many without pay, and that the cost of building material is soaring.The Minister for Energy, Fran Logan has admitted that the gas shortage caused by Tuesday's fire is damaging the economy as mining, manufacturing and construction industries wind back operations. Western Australia's two major brick producing companies have shut operations and Wesbeam's $A100 million Neerabup pine production facility has been closed, their 130 employees have been stood down.Wesbeam chief executive James Malone said, "It's an industrial tsunami in my view. It's a little ripple that has very quickly had a huge multiplying effect on the whole community".Michael McLean, Master Building Association director said "It's a worst-nightmare scenario, and not one we could have imagined in our wildest dreams,"  building supplies are expected to start running out by the middle of next week. Premier Carpenter has announced a meeting of ministers and industry representatives to take place on Sunday to discuss solutions to the growing crisis. Tim Wall, managing director of Apache Corporation has said Apache is conducting a worldwide search for the parts need to repair the pipeline.Major mining companies and Apache partners BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto have already reported they are suffering with the loss of gas supply; the Chamber of Minerals and Energy has talked down the effect saying that they don't expect the crisis to take the heat off the booming mining industry.Opposition leader Troy Buswell has describe the performance of Fran Logan as "absolutely dismal" noting that Mr Logan had experienced a similar incident in January this year, when a fire at Woodsides Karratha operations had a similar effect.According to initial estimates by New South Wales police and unions, 30,000 people have rallied at Blacktown Showground in Western Sydney to protest the federal government's Workchoices workplace reforms. Organisers had expected around 15,000 protesters to attend.The rally at Blacktown is one of many to be held around Australia today as part of a "National Day of Action" to "protect worker's rights at work" according to unions.The Blacktown rally saw masses of truck drivers, construction workers, teachers and police officers carrying banners and flags signalling their discontent at the federal government's reforms.Many of the workers were joined by their families, chanting to the federal government "Your workplace changes have to go."Speaking to protesters in Western Sydney, John Robertson, secretary of Unions New South Wales said the federal government had stripped away 100 years of worker's rights."These laws are direct attacks on hard-working Australians who are trying to pay off a home, provide for their kids' futures and have a bit of economic security," Mr Robertson said."It's in the suburbs and regional Australia that the impact of these laws will be felt - stripping away job security, penalty rates, time with family and wage rates." The NSW Premier's department has encouraged state government employees to attend the rallies to show their anger at the workplace reforms. As such, schools are mainly providing supervision today so parents can attend rallies, with many teachers also in attendance.Employees of Australia Post, a company wholly owned by the federal government, have been warned that unauthorised absences will result in disciplinary action being taken.Speaking earlier today, Federal Workplace Relations Minister, Kevin Andrews said he expected most workers would not join the protests. "The reality is that most people are not going to do it because they know that we have delivered, as a government, a period of relative prosperity in Australia," said Mr Andrews."Part of the way we have done that has been to have the courage to engage in the reforms so we can meet the challenges of the future."Calgary, Alberta —WestJet Airlines is taking a CA$47.6 million charge on its books to retire 18 older airplanes. They will be replaced by 16 new 737 planes. Calgary based WestJet announced this Friday amid growing concerns about fuel prices. WestJet expects the new planes will save up to 30% more fuel. The decision is expected to be a major hit to their profits and short-term growth potential. "It looks like the growth curve is going to slow down and fairly substantially through this next year," independent airline analyst Rick Erickson said Friday. "I won't expect that there's going to be very much in the way of new destinations for WestJet to serve." WestJet plans on reporting year end results next Tuesday.After a plan to bail out three large American auto companies failed to pass the Senate this week, the White House has said that it is considering using some of the US$700 billion earmarked to rescue the banking industry to bail out the automakers.The White House says that the collapse of the automakers would be a terrible setback that could destroy the economy."Under normal economic conditions we would prefer that markets determine the ultimate fate of private firms. However, given the current weakened state of the US economy, we will consider other options if necessary - including use of the TARP [Troubled Assets Relief Program] programme - to prevent a collapse of troubled automakers," said Dana Perino, the White House Press Secretary. "A precipitous collapse of this industry would have a severe impact on our economy, and it would be irresponsible to further weaken and destabilize our economy at this time."Earlier this week, the "Big Three" automakers - Ford, Chrysler, and General Motors - had pleaded before Congress to be given $14 billion in funds so as to prevent collapse. Although the House approved the measures, the Senate voted the proposition down with a vote of 52-35. Part of the failure of the bill to pass was due to disagreements over labour cuts, which the Republicans insisted reach parity by next year with those of Japanese carmakers.General Motors  stated that the company would stop 30% of its North American production "in response to rapidly deteriorating market conditions".The United States Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is predicting that the national debt of the US will double in 10 years. Meanwhile, the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has raised its forecast of the 10-year cumulative budget deficit to US$7.137 trillion, due to increased spending. Both offices released reports on Tuesday."Over all, it underscores the dire fiscal situation that we inherited and the need for serious steps to put our nation back on a sustainable fiscal path," wrote Peter R. Orszag, President Barack Obama's budget director."I know that there will be some who say this report proves that we cannot afford health reform. I think that has it backward," Orszag said in a conference call.The CBO report predicts that public debt will exceed 61% of gross domestic product (GDP) by the end of 2010 while continuing to rise to 68% of GDP by the end of 2019."If anyone had any doubts that this burden on future generations is unsustainable, they're gone," said Senator Mitch McConnell, the Senate minority leader."Today's budget numbers send a clear signal that the time for putting off tough choices is over and the time to act is now," said the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, Kent Conrad."While the U.S. health care system does need to be reformed, we cannot ignore the fiscal realities of our situation," said Senator Judd Gregg who is also on the Senate Budget Committee. "We must proceed with extreme caution before putting in place a huge and costly new program that will threaten our economy and the future of our children.""The administration has always said that you have to get deficits under 3 percent of GDP to be safe. They now admit that they will not in the next 10 years," commented Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the CBO. "I'm stunned at how hard they have worked to bury this."The top money grossing entertainers in Australia in 2005 were not Kylie Minogue, Nicole Kidman, or Russell Crowe. In fact, it was four tot-time entertainers, the Wiggles, with their preference for bright colours and sing-along dance numbers.  Their earnings level was estimated at AU$45 million over the last year by Australian publication Business Review Weekly (BRW), in its yearly who's-who ranking of the nation's top 50 entertainment earners."They got into the market early, they took time to understand their audience, not only children but the parents who pay for everything," BRW managing editor Tony Featherstone, said.Though almost doubling her earnings from the previous year, Nicole Kidman only made second place, at AU$40m. And Crowe came in third, at "only" AU$27m. Fourth place was long-time heavy metal favourites, AC/DC, whose estimated income was AU$18m.Another children's entertainment band, Hi-5 came in sixth with $15m, after Naomi Watts.France's two largest trade unions have called for a general strike on Thursday.The Confédération Française Démocratique du Travail (French Democratic Confederation of Labour) and the Confédération générale du travail (General Confederation of Labour), along with six other labour groups, have called upon French workers to stop work on January 29 and take to the streets to protest the handling of the economic downturn by President Nicolas Sarkozy.The strike call is aimed at both the private and the public sectors. It would affect public services like hospitals, schools, mail, Air France, rail company SNCF and national broadcasting, as well as private sectors such as banks, supermarkets and the stock exchange. A poll found 70% of the French public sympathise with or are in support of the action.The unions fear job losses and wage cuts as France tips into recession following the credit crunch. They are against the President's plans to loosen restrictions on the length of the working week, which currently stands at a legal maximum of 35 hours, and on Sunday trading. The unions oppose allowing 30,000 public sector jobs to go by natural wastage. The European Union expects the unemployment rate in France to reach 10.6% next year.In the National Assembly, the opposition Socialists have proposed a vote of no confidence in Sarkozy's right-of-centre government. The Assembly will debate the motion today, however Sarkozy's Union for a Popular Movement party has a majority in the Assembly so he is expected to win.Meanwhile, in neighbouring Germany, the national railway network is expected to be disrupted after the two main rail unions, Transnet and the GDBA, called for strike action against Deutsche Bahn as part of a campaign for greater flexibility in worknig and a 10% pay increase. Deutsche Bahn has offered 1%.In what may be the first wiki sites to do so, two websites have (independently) begun to offer ad revenue sharing to their wiki contributors. Wikitysplit.com began its site on March 15, 2006.1Another website, Allyourideas.com, which had been existence since September 4, 2005, began its ad revenue sharing on March 31, 2006, having started its ad sharing independently and without knowledge of the former site.Both sites allow creators of wiki pages to get a potential share of the site's ad revenue. AllYourIdeas.com also offers editors of others' pages the chance to make money from their edits.The present compensation system listed at these sites is as follows. Wikitysplit states it will add ads 50% of the time to be credited to the original author, whereas AllYourIdeas only offers them 35% of the time. However, AllYourIdeas will credit the remaining 65% of the credit to the most frequent editor of the page (which, of course, in the beginning at least, will be its creator).4 (The site owner of the latter states that he always obtains revenues for one of the other ads on the pages.)Allyourideas.com also offers a means on each relevant page for Paypal donations to be received by the site founder and most frequent editor.Revenue sharing has become a popular means for businesses to gain visitors to their sites. Google is famous for widening this possibility for individual site owners with its Adsense program, and later opening it up to blogs in conjunction with Blogger.com. Later, a number of forums eventually began to offer this chance for revenue to their own contributors, starting with Digitalpoint.4The website wikileaks.org has recently been brought back online following the lifting of a court injunction forcing the site to be taken down. According to a Wikileaks press release from when the site was taken offline, the injunction stated that "Dynadot [Wikileaks host] shall immediately clear and remove all DNS hosting records for the wikileaks.org domain name and prevent the domain name from resolving to the wikileaks.org website or any other website or server other than a blank park page, until further order of this Court."As Wikleaks is a wiki and is therefore not run by anyone, Jonathon Winterview interviewed a spokesperson of Wikileaks, who answered all the below questions.The Wikimedia Board of Trustees recently announced that it would dramatically restructure the makeup of the board. The Board announced that there would now be three seats elected by the Wikimedia community, two seats elected by the Wikimedia chapters, one 'community founder' seat appointed by the Trustees, and four 'specific expertise' seats, also appointed by the Trustees.Jan-Bart Vreede, Vice Chair of the Board of Trustees, gave Wikinews more information about the decision in a short email interview, which was carried out yesterday. Below is the text of the interview:((Wikinews)) How long was this decision process in the works?Jan-Bart: We have known that we need to carefully look at the board as a whole for quite a while. We weren't sure how drastic our steps needed to be. We spend a large amount of time on this during our April board meeting, using the additional insights from our newest board members Michael Snow and Domas Mituzas. It took us a while after that fill in all the details. The election committee has been very patient in waiting for us to complete this process, because they were unable to move forward without us.((WN)) Why did you chose to have a "community foundation person" position, a position not common among other non profits?Jan-Bart: There have been and will always be discussions with regards to the position of Jimmy within the board, does he count as a community member or not. Keeping in mind his special role we thought it was best to take this opportunity to make his position clear as well. He does have a special seat which doesn't go in any of the other categories. His seat is up for re-appointment every year (which Jimmy himself insisted on), the big difference is that if the seat is not taken by him, it is left vacant and the board reverts to 9 members. [Note-Jimmy Wales, Wikimedia Founder, is the person who will have the "community foundation" position]((WN))  How/when will the elections be held for the new open seats?Jan-Bart: This has been announced by the election committee today. Please note that these are only the community elected seats. The chapters are going to formulate their own process for filling the chapter-selected seats, this may or may not involve elections. [Note: Kwan Ting Chan announced on the Wikinews Water Cooler that candidates may nominate themselves for election between May 8 and May 22, and that the voting will occur between 1 June and 21 June. ]Out of a record number of applications and 273 nominees, the World Economic Forum (WEF) has chosen the Wikimedia Foundation as one of the 2008 Pioneers of Technology. 38 other organisations or companies have also been selected for the list of pioneers. "Technology Pioneers are companies that have been identified as developing and applying highly transformational and innovative technologies in the areas of energy, biotechnology and health, and information technology," said a press release issued by the Forum.The Wikimedia Foundation was chosen in part because of the ability to provide free, collaborative knowledge which is distributed by people all over the world and its involvement in "the development of life changing technology innovation" with the "potential for long-term impact on business and society, demonstrating visionary leadership and having a proven technology," referring to Wikipedia, Wikinews, Wikiversity and Wikimedia Commons."We are honored that the Wikimedia Foundation was chosen as a technology pioneer. However, I must point out that the organisation itself is only partly responsible of our amazing success in developing and applying highly transformational and innovative technologies in the area of information. The real recognition goes to the thousands of Wikimedians, editors and developers of MediaWiki, all over the world, who have been the source and the spirit of our projects in the past seven years. The award really goes to them," said Chair of the WMF Board of Trustees, Florence Devouard."The nomination is a reminder of the amazing things humans can accomplish when working collaboratively and positively together. It is also the inspiration we need to continue empowering world citizens to share in the sum of all human knowledge. Allow me to use this opportunity to say to all those who have worked so hard to make Wikipedia and the other Wikimedia projects so valuable: thank you," added Devouard.Among some of the requirements for a company to qualify or be nominated to be a technology pioneer, they must meet a certain criteria such as "innovative technology, potential of impact on society, growth and sustainability, proof of concept, leadership and status meaning the organization cannot already be a member of the Forum or affiliated with it."By partnering with the best brains and the smartest ideas in the world, organizations can deliver innovation at the speed of their customers' lives. The Technology Pioneers 2008 will make great innovation partners for any organization that chooses to do business with them," said technology officer Matt Bross.The winners are chosen by a panel of technology experts for the WEF.Among other organizations or companies to be given the honor includes, 23andMe.com, NuLens Ltd., RainDance Technologies Cima NanoTech Inc. and Silver Spring Networks. The companies come from the United States, Israel, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Switzerland, Canada, France, Germany, India, the Netherlands and Russia. What makes the Wikimedia Foundation unique, is they are apparently the only non-profit organisation on the list.The WEF, founded in 1971, operates on an international and independent level and is "committed to improving the state of the world by engaging leaders in partnerships to shape global, regional and industry agendas."Forty-seven other companies and organisations became pioneers in 2007.The Wikimedia Foundation, the mother organization of the popular Wikipedia encyclopedia, and Answers.com, a search engine company, announced a new partnership. This partnership will lead to the development of a special edition of Answers.com's 1-Click Answers tool, called 1-Click Answers, Wikipedia Edition. The advertising revenues from this software will be split with the Wikimedia Foundation. It will be linked from the English Wikipedia Tools page for a 60 day trial beginning in 2006.Jimmy Wales, president of the Wikimedia Foundation, said he was "pleased to partner with Answers.com, encouraging software that improves access to Wikipedia." Bob Rosenschein, Answers.com's founder and CEO, told the media that Wikipedia is "the most dynamic of over 120 content sources found in Answers.com". The Wikipedia community is actively discussing the partnership. "One of the potential problems with encouraging software-based and third party uses of Wikipedia's content is that it could divert people from the site," one user remarked.File:Paralympics 2014 stamp 30 RUB.jpgOn Thursday, with 110 days until the start of the 2014 Winter Paralympics in Sochi, Russia, Wikinews interviewed Assistant Professor in Educational Leadership, Sport Studies and Educational/Counseling Psychology at Washington State University Simon Ličen about attitudes in United States towards the Paralympics.Licen has recently joined the Sport Management Program at Washington State University to develop its sport media and communication research and teaching contents.   Originally from Slovenia, he served as the Director of Media and Communications of a WTA Tour event and was a member of the UNESCO Slovenian National Commission.  He was also the Team Manager of the Slovenian wheelchair basketball national team.((Wikinews)) : Why do you think the Paralympic movement has so little visibility in the US compared to other countries like Australia, the United Kingdom and even Canada?Simon Ličen: Sports in the United States largely reaffirm existing relations of power in society.  It emphasizes consumerism, the belief that success always goes to people who merit it due to their abilities, dedication and qualifications, and reinforces, rather than changes, existing ideas related to gender, ethnicity and nationality.  Paralympic sport brings attention to athletes who are typically overlooked in American society because the majority of the population does not want to identify with people who are disabled.  Although disability is not contagious, interest in disabled sports might put into question the masculinity of the males following it.  Disabled athletes also challenge existing relations of power by displaying dedication, hard work and perseverance in different contexts than those most sports fans are accustomed to.Other countries, including the ones you mention, have stronger social orientations in all aspects of society.  Even though legislative support may be less strong than the one provided by the Americans with Disabilities Act, many social institutions including the media are more receptive to this form of diversity.((WN)) :  What do you think the impact will be for the Paralympic movement will be with the Games being televised live in the United States for first time?Simon Ličen: The impact depends on a number of aspects.  One of them is the channels that NBC as the broadcasting rights owner for the United States will use to air the Paralympic Games on.  Will they be shown nationally or regionally, on NBC or on any of the company’s multiple cable networks?  A second aspect is the parts or hours of the day the Paralympics will be shown.  Remember that there is a nine-hour difference between Sochi and New York, and a 12-hour difference between Sochi and the US West Coast.  So daytime events will be shown live in the United States in the middle of the night, and evening prime-time events will be shown — indeed live — in the morning U.S. time.  So showing the Paralympics live on United States television might turn out to be less glamorous than it appears.  A third important factor is the way the event will be mediated: will NBC have its best sports broadcasters following the event after having worked the Winter Olympics?  Will they treat and announce the competitions as they do all others — for better and worse?  Will they take it as an opportunity to educate viewers about disability and diversity while showing superb athletic performances without engaging in a discourse of pity?  All in all, I think this is a terrific opportunity to improve sports coverage in a multitude of aspects; but we will have to wait until after the event to assess to what extent the broadcasters will meet these expectations.((WN)) : What role should the media be playing in promoting the Paralympic Games? Why does the US media provide so little coverage of the Paralympics compared to other sports?Simon Ličen: I don’t think the media should be promoting any sports event.  I think the role of the media is to inform about the event and to cover it fairly.  It is not just the Paralympic Games, or disable sports in general that yield very little media coverage; a recent study has shown that women's sports only account for 1.3%–1.6% of televised news media.  The situation improves considerably during the Olympic Games and prime-time Olympic coverage comes close to equal coverage of both men's and women's sport.  Outside of that, however, U.S. media coverage is largely limited to the men's four major leagues, college football and college basketball.   Again, the media decide which sports to cover based on their perceived entertainment value and its potential of generating sponsor revenues.  The Paralympic Games are complex to understand and its participants hard to identify with because there are less instances of dominating performances and long-standing rivalries, which are concepts that are understandable even to the casual fan.((WN)) :  What role does the fact that the Paralympics are about people with disability competing at sport play in the American public's reception of the Paralympics?Simon Ličen: I would speculate that the American public is largely indifferent to the event as it is currently represented in the media.  The majority of people are oblivious of the Paralympic Games.  They might greet an American medal winner as this would reaffirm the success, supremacy and tenacity of an American representative in a global field.  In more general terms, however, the American public chooses to largely overlook disabled sports as the average able-bodied person likely does not want to be represented by, and thus identify with, a disabled person.((WN)) : Is the fact the US Olympic Committee is the national Paralympic Committee a hinderance or help in the development of the Paralympic movement in the US?Simon Ličen: In general terms, this is both an opportunity and a risk: it can activate its sizable financial, promotional and media influence to bring attention to the Paralympic movement, but at the same time might choose to push disabled sports to the side in order to accommodate influential sponsors.  I am not familiar with the specific work done by the US Olympic Committee in terms of supporting, popularizing and expanding the Paralympic movement so I cannot speculate which way the actual work done by the USOC sways.((WN)) : What conditions need to exist in the US for Paralympic athletes to get sponsorship similar to their Olympic counterparts?Simon Ličen: Sport sponsorships are indeed strongly influenced by the media prominence of competing individuals.  Individual disabled athletes have already been able to secure profitable sponsorship and endorsement contracts; perhaps the most notable example is Oscar Pistorius who was in this sense a true groundbreaker before falling off the pedestal due to his pending trial.  This is even more true when one considers that not all Olympic athletes are able to secure profitable or even exaggerated contacts: an Olympic archery champion is less appealing than an Olympic champion javelin thrower, a female javelin thrower is less appealing than a male sprinter, and a Jamaican champion sprinter is less appealing than an American elite basketball player.  Sporadic media appearances, such as those during the Paralympic fortnight, will hardly suffice to land disabled athletes major contracts; an athlete has to be in the constant media and popular spotlights to secure lucrative contracts.  Until Paralympic athletes [...] [are] able to achieve that kind of media presence, high sponsorships are likely to elude them.((WN)) : Many countries provide federal money to support their Olympic and Paralympic athletes.  Should the US consider this as a way of increasing visibility for the Paralympics, supporting increased opportunities for people with disabilities and increasing the US Paralympic medal count?Simon Ličen:  Focusing on the US medal count will successfully keep the Paralympic Games away from mainstream attention!  A focus on the medal count as a means to establish supremacy is typical for American professional sports, and the Paralympics will never be able to beat the Olympic Games or the major leagues at their game.  This is why the Paralympic Games should involve a different narrative.Countries typically allocate governmental support to the more vulnerable groups in society because those who are strong can protect their interests through their vast financial and social means.  In this sense, the United States should support participation in the Paralympic Games to promote adaptive sports in general and thus increase sports participation among people with disabilities.  People with disabilities are among those who most benefit from participating in sports and physical activity due to their health and social advantage; however, they also have much fewer opportunities for sport participation and often require expensive adapted sports equipment.  Public funds should contribute to their sport activity in general, and federal funding of Paralympic athletes could certainly provide an excellent example for local communities.  Unfortunately, I fear that even the most progressive congresswomen and congressmen will be [reluctant] to increase that funding given the current federal budgetary situation.Across Easter weekend Wellington, New Zealand was host to Rock2Wgtn, an international two-day hard rock festival. Large crowds showed up at Westpac Stadium to see the various acts. The world has never seen an event of this kind before, and New Zealand has never had any kind of major rock festival or multi-day music festival.Day one featured three theatrical acts. Finnish band Lordi, known for their monster costumes, opened the night. They were followed by the US shock rocker Alice Cooper, whose themed set included the horror theatrics regularly associated with him and a hanging stunt he recently restarted after a gallows collapse nearly killed him two decades ago. The night was headlined by the distinctively costumed band KISS, complete with their famed black-and-white makeup.The first major act on the stage on day two was the American hard rock/glam metal band Poison. After Poison, British act Whitesnake took to the stage and performed their set to the crowd. British-born American rocker Ozzy Osbourne, who, as well as a solo career, fronts the world-famous Black Sabbath, was the second night's headline act.The festival's entertainment did not stop at the six main acts. There was also support performances from three New Zealand bands - The Symphony of Screams, The Valves and Sonic Altar. Their sets were accompanied by a special effects package from award-winning studio Weta Workshops, who are known for their work on movies such as The Lord of the Rings film trilogy. This came in the form of 'Drusila the Dragon', which rose up to a height of six foot and wigspan and moved for the audience, shining lasers from its eyes and breathing red smoke. Flame Fire Productions were hired to put on a fire show featuring several dancers alongside the performers. Also performing were six local guitarists and a group of 'zombie' cheerleaders.Wikinews was able to secure two exclusive interviews with those responsible behind the scenes for putting on such a show. Weta Workshop's Philip Sharpe, who supervised the project and Milly Bea, current manageress of Flame Fire Productions, discussed their roles. In the first installment, Milly Bea tells us about "a definite highlight" for Flame and lets us know everything from her thoughts on Gene Simmons's tongue to just how much kerosene it takes to put on a fire show at a rock fest.Albuquerque, New Mexico —Online entertainment is a booming market, and plenty of players are making their play; back in March of this year The Walt Disney Company bought the multi-channel network Maker Studios. What is web entertainment, and the arts therein? And, who are the people venturing into this field? Wikinews interviewed Mario Lucero and Isabel Ruiz, the founders of Heaven Sent Gaming, a small entertainment team. This group has been responsible for several publications, within several different media formats; one successful example was aywv, a gaming news website, which was #1 in Gaming on YouTube in 2009, from September to November; Heaven Sent Gaming was also the subject of a referential book, released in 2014, entitled Internet Legends - Heaven Sent Gaming.Across Easter weekend Wellington, New Zealand was host to Rock2Wgtn, an international two-day hard rock festival. Large crowds showed up at Westpac Stadium to see the various acts. The world has never seen an event of this kind before.Day one featured three theatrical acts. Finnish band Lordi, known for their monster costumes, opened the night. They were followed by the US shock rocker Alice Cooper, whose themed set included the horror theatrics regularly associated with him and a hanging stunt he recently restarted after a gallows collapse nearly killed him two decades ago. The night was headlined by the distinctively costumed band KISS, complete with their famed black-and-white makeup.The first major act on the stage on day two was the American hard rock/glam metal band Poison. After Poison, British act Whitesnake took to the stage and performed their set to the crowd. British-born American rocker Ozzy Osbourne, who, as well as a solo career, fronts the world-famous Black Sabbath, was the second night's headline act.The festival's entertainment did not stop at the six main acts. There was also support performances from three New Zealand bands - The Symphony of Screams, The Valves and Sonic Altar. Their sets were accompanied by a special effects package from award-winning studio Weta Workshops, who are known for their work on movies such as The Lord of the Rings film trilogy. This came in the form of 'Drusila the Dragon', which rose up to a height of six foot and wigspan and moved for the audience, shining lasers from its eyes and breathing red smoke. Flame Fire Productions were hired to put on a fire show featuring several dancers alongside the performers. Also performing were six local guitarists and a group of 'zombie' cheerleaders.Despite the crowds that flocked to the event, however, it has recently become apparent that financial trouble has hit the festival. Although figures remain to be confirmed, an estimated NZ$750,000 has been lost.Wikinews secured an exclusive interview with Phil Sprey of Capital C Concerts, who organised the festival. The entire interview is now available below.Wikinews reporter Iain Macdonald today interviewed Petros Tzomakas, a Greek far-left activist and member of Xekinima, which is the Greek division of the Committee for a Workers' International. The party is a member of Coalition of the Radical Left (SYRIZA).Tzomakas also sits on his local 5th Athens Municipal District committee, which is a joint effort by left-wing parties including SYRIZA, the Anticapitalist Left Cooperation for the Overthrow and a number of other political parties to oppose austerity measures proposed by the government. All left-wing parties in the country except the Communist Party of Greece (KKE) are involved. Tzomakas explained that the KKE prefers not to co-operate with other radical left-wing groups.The interview comes amid tensions in cash-strapped Greece, where the government is introducing controversial austerity measures to try to ease the nation's debt-problem. An international rescue package has been prepared by European Union member states and the International Monetary Fund – should Greece require a bailout; protests have been held against government attempts to manage the economic situation.File:R. Lee Wrights LPNC 2012 State Convention.jpgR. Lee Wrights, a candidate for the U.S. Libertarian Party's presidential nomination, took some time to speak with Accredited Wikinews Reporter William Saturn about his presidential campaign and positions on political issues.Wrights, a native of North Carolina, is an activist and lifetime member of the Libertarian Party who currently serves as the editor of several Libertarian publications.  He previously worked as a medical technician in the United States Air Force and earned degrees in History and Journalism at Willmar College.  He is currently being challenged for the nomination by National Guard officer R.J. Harris, radio host Jim Duensing, former Nevada Libertarian Party chair Jim Burns, marketing executive Roger Gary and attorney Carl Person. 2008 Vice presidential nominee Wayne Allyn Root is also expected to make a run.The Internet has already brought great things to the world, but has also brought spam, phishing, scamming, etc.  We all have seen them across the Internet.  They promise money, weight loss, or other things a person may strive for, but they usually amount to only a lighter pocket.  Online advertising has become something that the increasingly Internet-reliant society has become used to, as well as more aware of.  As this is true, online ads have become more intricate and deceptive in recent years.However, a certain type of advertisement has arisen recently, and has become more deceptive than any other Internet ad, and has tricked many users into credit card charges.  These sites claim to be news websites that preach a "miracle product", and they offer a free trial, and then charge the user's credit card a large amount of money without informing them after the trial ends.  These sites appear to be operating under one venture and have caught ad pages of high-traffic websites by storm.  In this report, Wikinews' Tjc6 investigates news advertisement sites.These Internet ads work in different ways:On Thursday, January 3, a special Allegro.pl auction for the benefit of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Charity featured items donated by Stowarzyszenie Wikimedia Polska, the local polish chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation. Among the items were ten DVD's containing the Polish language edition of Wikipedia. Most of the offers in the online auction came from people who actually helped to create the contents of the DVD.One of the discs reached the "Featured Items" status on the same day when the item was offered for sale. Each of the ten DVDs has been autographed by a number of Wikipedians, mainly those who helped in creating the edition, together with Helion Publishing House. The release contains 238,000 articles whose quality had been checked by a panel of editors, complete with illustrations. It is the first stable version of the Polish-language Wikipedia.The decision to offer the ten copies at the auction was taken in September 2007. Since then, the covers of the auction items have been circulating throughout Poland, in order to collect as many Wikimedians' signatures as possible during a number of Wikimedia events. All of the autographs are nicknames that the editors use in their daily work. Among them is e.g. the signature of the founder of Polish Wikipedia. Krzysztof Jasiutowicz, nicknamed Kpjas. Among the people who placed an offer to buy one of the ten copies in the initial 24 hours of the auction were the  Polish Wikipedians known as Zureks, Jersz, Pimke, Vindicator, Rdrozd, Paterm, Bartekbas, Airwolf, Mathel, Nemo5576, Wyksztalcioch, Wpedzich and Kotasik.Earlier, Stowarzyszenie Wikimedia Polska, a local chapter of The Wikimedia Foundation, decided together with Helion for those DVDs which have not been sold yet to be donated to various communities that would find them useful, mainly schools. Although currently Wikipedia contains about twice as many articles as the DVD version and it is freely available online, the income from the auction will add to the budget of a much older organisation, which is one of Poland's charity NGOs.Stowarzyszenie Wikimedia Polska will prepare a special website for those people who offer the highest bids for the ten Wikipedia DVD copies, where they will be able to put their photos (together with the discs they have acquired), if they wish.The auctions will end on the day of the Grand Finalé of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Charity, January 13th, at 20:00 CET.On Thursday, William Salice, credited with creating Kinder Surprise eggs, died at age 83 in Pavia, Italy because of a stroke, according to his foundation "Color Your Life Campus". Salice had worked with the businessman Michele Ferrero in the 1960s, the creator of the Nutella cream and owner of Ferrero Rocher. Ferrero died in 2015.In 1974, Kinder Surprise was launched with plastic toys, which are sold within the eggs to surprise children. Due to this, the sale of Kinder eggs is prohibited in the US. A 1938 US law prohibits the sale of food containing objects in its interior. It is also prohibited in Chile, due to an obesity-reduction law brought in last year. Last year a three-year-old girl died in France, swallowing the plastic toy.In 2007, after his retirement, Salice founded Color Your Life Campus from his retirement bonus of €400,000 in Italy. It aims to help young people between the ages of thirteen and eighteen discover and develop their own talents. Salice's career spanned 46 years.Since 2013, the Kinder Surprise Company has been taking care of continuing the manufacture and processing of chocolate eggs. According to the company, the chocolate egg has 32% milk and 15% cocoa in its composition.With WiMAX Forum Member Conference and professional exposition and seminars in Taiwan, the "2007 WiMAX Forum Taipei Showcase & Conference", supervised by Ministry of Economic Affairs, R.O.C. Taiwan and Science & Technology Advisory Group of Executive Yuan of R.O.C. Taiwan, organized by Industrial Technology Research Institute, WiMAX Forum, Taipei Computer Association, and Taiwan Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers' Association, started on October 22 & 23 at Taipei International Convention Center (TICC) and Grand Hyatt Taipei.This 2-in-1 activity invited not only governmental and industry people sharing the experiences with some applications of WiMAX infrastructure but also hardware companies to expand opportunity between Taiwan and global WiMAX players. On the conference, organizers also invited conference participants joining General Assembly Keynote focused on the development and supply chains of WiMAX infrastructure at WiMAX Forum Member Conference today.In the showcase area, 76 companies exhibited WiMAX systems, components, applications, testings, and certifications. Organizers also set M-Taiwan and WiMAX Forum Members pavilions with different solutions and topics. On the other hand, Far Eastone Telecommunications Inc., and Tatung Co., Ltd. rented tour buses for the mobile WiMAX tour, and China Television Co., Ltd. set eSNG car in front of TICC main entrance.During the 2007 WiMAX Forum Taipei Showcase and Conference, WiMAX Forum announced the highlights from WiMAX Forum PlugFest in Grand Hyatt Taipei last week and announced that WiMAX Forum will endorse the M-Taiwan WiMAX Application Lab (MTWAL) in Hsinchu Science Park at the Press Conference yesterday and the General Assembly of the WiMAX Forum Taipei Member Conference today. With this laboratory located in Hsinchu, the WiMAX infrastructure in Taiwan will be enhanced more with the cooperation between academics (especially National Tsing Hua University and National Chiao Tung University in Taiwan), governmental organization, and companies in networking industry.This laboratory provided an open environment where world-wide innovators can experiment and test WiMAX-related products and the stability of application solutions at Hsinchu Science Park. Currently, equipment and application developers will have the 1st priority in testing for the quality evaluation and knowing the sanctification of consumers before bringing them to market."Members of WiMAX shows the latest innovations at this showcase (WiMAX Forum Taipei Showcase), I believed that MTWAL will provide a complete product testing environment and applications in the WiMAX access area with the support from governmental and industrial organizations in Taiwan.""WiMAX is a brand new wireless network different from other similar industries, this service must be dominated with lots of different operators to maintain the basic infrastructure of WiMAX." Ron Resnick (Chairman of WiMAX Forum) remarked at the Press Conference."WiMAX Forum chose Hsinchu Science Park as the development basis of WiMAX with a unique characteristic in networking industry in Taiwan. We held a PlugFest last week for brand new WiMAX products with 200 engineers participating this test to evaluate the performance and test the quality. With this PlugFest, participants experienced rich services and good quality of new products. The PlugFest also had numbers of milestones including testing the leading advanced antenna technologies delivering the fastest speeds and broadest coverage.""MIMO setups aren't achieved until mid-week historically, but in this PlugFest, lots of vendors completed this high-risk testing and demonstrated the data flow ability between different matrices, as well as several beam-forming IOP set ups." Ed Agis (Chairman of the WiMAX Forum Certification Working Group) said.According to WiMAX Forum, lots of vendors also participated the exhibition of 2007 WiMAX Forum Taipei Showcase and demonstrated WiMAX technology solutions. Ron Resnick also remarked this information at the 2nd day Keynote of 2007 WiMAX Forum Taipei Conference. Mei-yueh Ho (Chairman of Council for Economic Planning and Development, Executive Yuan, R.O.C. Taiwan) also looked this MTWAL set up as a bright idea, and Steve Ruey-long Chen (Minister of Economic Affairs, R.O.C. Taiwan) praised this set up as a boost of WiMAX infrastructure in Taiwan.In the opening day of 2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei (June 2), WiMAX Forum and Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) held the "WiMAX Forum Operator Summit" for global WiMAX operators at Far Eastern Plaza Hotel to examine and forecast the opportunity of WiMAX. In addition, WiMAX Forum released the "Executive Summary of the WiMAX Forum Global WiMAX Subscriber & User Forecast" during a press conference at Taipei Show Hall 2.Besides of the announcements and M-Taiwan Pavilion showcase, the WiMAX Forum Taiwan Chapter also held the "Open House of M-Taiwan WiMAX Application Lab" to demonstrate the R&D achievements in Hsinchu on June 3 - 4, driving more discussions between industrial businesspeople especially in Taiwan.Microsoft plans to delay the consumer versions of its next operating system, Windows Vista. Originally due out by the end of 2006, Windows Vista Home Basic, Home Premium, and Ultimate editions now have a release target of January 2007. Business editions will continue to be released in November 2006. Two different reasons for this have been given in interviews; the first reason being a six-week delay in completing security related work on the operating system and the second reason is that, as a result of this delay, computer hardware manufacturers and resellers will generally not have enough time to prepare for a holiday 2006 launch.  Analysts have said this could put some computer manufacturers into turmoil, though a number of the largest resellers of Windows XP have made public statements supporting Microsoft's decision to delay the consumer release of Vista to January.Currently, Windows XP has been the longest-current operating system from Microsoft, debuting in 2001.Microsoft, the world's largest software company, announced the name of its forthcoming version of the Windows operating system from its headquarters in Redmond, Washington Friday. But in choosing the name "Vista," Microsoft may find itself in a legal fight.Microsoft has made a name for itself in legal circles as a company that fiercely defends its trademarks and other intellectual property. With the choice of "Vista," the tables may turn as it may face allegations of swiping another company's trademark.It appears the Vista name has already been taken by another high-tech company, coincidentally also based in Redmond. A few miles from the sprawling Microsoft campus is Vista Incorporated, which has operated a small business internet interchange since it was founded by Wall Data founder, John Wall in 2000. He was surprised by his larger neighbor's move."We are going to consider our options and talk to Microsoft," Wall said in an interview with the Seattle Times.  Wall reportedly has not yet filed suit against Microsoft to stop it from using the "Vista" name. An investor in SCO, he does have other legal options aside from law suits. Instead, he may offer to sell the rights to the "Vista" name.However, John Wall's company is not the only business with claims on the name "Vista." Many other tech companies use "Vista" as product names. Additionally, a wide-range of non-computer businesses have the name reserved, including branded products for sewing machines, elevators and the dairy industry.With this year's November midterm elections fast approaching, three prominent United States Democrats announced their plans for retirement from public service on Wednesday. Powerful and influential—yet controversial for his alleged close ties to the financial sector and his handling of last year's bailout—Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut announced that he would not be seeking a sixth term this year. In a speech to his supporters in East Haddam, Connecticut, the sixty-five-year-old senior senator—with his family at his side—said, "I have been a Connecticut senator for thirty years. I'm very proud of the job I've done and the results delivered. But none of us is irreplaceable. None of us is indispensable."He then went on to say, "Over the past twelve months, I've managed four major pieces of legislation through the United States Congress, served as chair and acting chair of two major Senate committees, placing me at the center of the two most important issues of our time—health care and reform of financial services." In addition to highlighting some personal travails, Dodd alluded to his precarious political situation, "I lost a beloved sister in July, and in August, Ted Kennedy. I battled cancer over the summer, and in the midst of all of this, found myself in the toughest political shape of my career." Despite this, Dodd adamantly maintained that none of the above reasons were the causes for his retirement. He said that his reasons were more "personal," and that his retirement would hopefully give him a much-wanted opportunity to spend more time with his family.Senator Byron Dorgan of North Dakota announced that he would not run for re-election this year either. "Although I still have a passion for public service and enjoy my work in the Senate, I have other interests and I have other things I would like to pursue outside of public life," said the sixty-seven-year-old, three-term senator who said he came to this decision after discussing his future with his immediate family over Christmas.Governor of Colorado, Bill Ritter announced that he too would not seek a second term. The fifty-three-year-old freshman governor said that although he felt his race was "absolutely winnable," after some deep "soul searching," he realized that he truly wanted to retire from politics nonetheless. This due to the fact that he felt his main priority should be to be a better husband to his wife as well as a better father to their four children. When asked to comment on Senator Dodd's retirement on behalf of the Administration, Vice President Joseph Biden said Dodd would "be long recognized as one of the most significant senators of my generation." He furthermore stated, "I believe the nation will miss his wisdom, wit and compassion. I count myself lucky because I know he's not going too far and will always be a source of advice and counsel." Biden gave similar comments and expressed like sentiments about the retirement of his other two Democratic colleagues as well.The White House announced the selection of Paul Wolfowitz to head the World Bank, replacing John Wolfensohn who retires as acting president after 10 years. The switch is expected to occur sometime in June.The choice of Wolfowitz is raising controversy in Europe and developing nations.  Known as hawkish and outspoken, Wolfowitz was a pro-Iraqi war neo-conservative in his role as deputy Secretary of Defense, and a chief architect in the build up to war with Iraq. Some question whether Wolfowitz, who was criticized for brushing aside European and NATO calls for caution before the Iraq war, would use the International Monetary Fund (IMF) as tool to extend U.S. foreign policy interests. Historically, it has been the White House’s prerogative to name the candidate because the U.S. holds a majority on the 24 member board, but board members from nations other than the U.S. are seeking their own interviews to qualify the candidate before a change is made. "The executive directors have agreed to conduct informal meetings over the coming days with the US nominee as part of the consultative process." the IMF said in a statement. "Thereafter, the executive directors will meet in a formal session to select the president at which time an official announcement of the outcome will be made," it said. The vote is set for March 31, the same day Wolfensohn retires.Rob Nichols, the US Treasury spokesperson, said Wolfowitz has begun scheduling meetings with board members and that, "Our nominee… looks forward to meeting with and listening to members of the World Bank board." Reuters reported. In the meantime, Wolfowitz has worked to assure those with concerns of him, saying he would come with an open mind and no political program.The Executive Directors of the World Bank have issued a statement to the effect that Paul Wolfowitz is to resign as President of the World Bank Group effective 30th June 2007, and that further meetings will take place tomorrow to deal with arrangements for the interim period.Wolfowitz has faced a number of calls for his resignation in recent weeks after accusations that he had behaved improperly and overlooked a conflict of interest with regard to the pay rise given to his partner, Shaha Riza, an employee of the Bank at the time of his appointment as President, who was subsequently re-assigned to the US State Department.In their statement, the Executive Directors indicate that having carefully considered the report of a board-member committee which had investigated Wolfowitz's actions, they accepted that all parties had acted ethically, in good faith, and in what were believed to be the best interests of the institution. However the conclusion had to be drawn that there is a need to review the governance framework of the World Bank Group and in particular procedural and other aspects of the Ethics Committee.The Directors pay tribute to the service that Wolfowitz has given to the World Bank, citing a number of achievements, particularly a number of initiatives involving countries and relief programmes in Africa. They also added regret that the recent events had overshadowed his achievements at the Bank.In a separate and lengthy statement, Wolfowitz outlined many of the achievements of the Bank during his time as President, and acknowledged the contribution of those working for the Bank in the delivery of its programmes and support for a wide range of organisations throughout the world. He considered however that his resignation was in the best interests of the Bank.Wolfowitz had enjoyed considerable support from the US Administration, and particular endorsement from President Bush and Vice-President Cheney. However he had been less popular with other governments around the world, particularly in Europe.A jury awarded Julie Miller of Marion County, Oregon $18.6 million last Friday in a federal lawsuit against Equifax. The lawsuit claimed she spent two years trying to get Equifax Information Services to fix major mistakes on her credit report which cost her the opportunities to get new credit.Miller said she had contacted Equifax several times to dispute the incorrect information in her credit report such as incorrect SSN, date of birth, and account information. She was not aware of these problems until December 2009 when a bank denied her credit. She said other credit bureaus corrected errors when she contacted them, but Equifax didn't.Portland attorney Justin Baxter, involved in Miller's case, said, "There was damage to her reputation, a breach of her privacy and the lost opportunity to seek credit. [...] She has a brother who is disabled and who can't get credit on his own, and she wasn't able to help him."   To ABC News he said, "She did what you're supposed to do. She didn't go running straight to the courthouse. [...] We found that when complaints would come in, they'd run them through a scanner and then send them overseas."Equifax declined to comment on this lawsuit to ABC News or Associated Press.After deliberating for 11 hours a jury found Joya Williams, now former Executive Administrative Assistant for Coca-Cola Inc., guilty of plotting to steal Coke's secrets to sell them to Pepsi Inc.Williams, 41, took confidential documents and unreleased samples of products to Ibrahim Dimson and Edmund Duhaney in an attempt to sell the items to Pepsi for about US$1.5 million. Dimson and Duhaney also pleaded guilty.Williams claimed in court that even though she brought the documents and unreleased samples to her home, Dimson and Duhaney went into her home and took them. Duhaney denied the statement and said Williams gave the documents and unreleased samples to them.In May 2006, Coca-Cola received a letter from the Purchase, New York based company Pepsi stating that a person had offered to sell samples and other confidential information regarding Coke products to Pepsi.The former secretary could face up to 10 years in prison.Work began today on what will be the world's longest underwater pipeline. The pipeline, which is being built for Norsk Hydro ASA, will bring Norwegian natural gas to the UK.Stretching 1,200 km from Nyhamna, Norway to Easington, Britain, the pipeline will eventually carry 70 million cubic metres per day. That equates to some 20% of Britain's gas supply. The construction of the pipeline will consume over 1 million tonnes of concrete and about the same amount of steel. Called the Langeled pipeline, it is due to open in 2007.Professor Ian Harper the government appointed Fair Pay Chief has come under heavy criticism this week from the Labour groups and the federal opposition. Professor Harper was a non-executive director of the Australian Derivatives Exchange (ADX) when it was put under administration in March 28, 2001. The company went broke owing workers more than $700,000. In the process ADX  breached the corporations law by failing to maintain required cash reserves , although the company eventually gave workers their w:entitlements.Workplace Relations Minister Kevin Andrews appointed Professor Harper in October, Mr Andrews spokesman Defended the appointment saying the government was aware of the economist's history with the company and said in relation Professor Harper role in ADX ’s demise: "There has been absolutely no wrongdoing," "The government was made aware by Prof Harper, and also by doing a check ourselves, of the company going into administration.”"We believe that Prof Harper is an eminently qualified person to head up the Australian Fair Pay Commission."Wayne Swan the Oppositions treasury, who has attacked the government over the Robert Gerards appointment to the reserve bank affair,spokesman has said there were serious questions to answer about Prof Harper's appointment."There is a pattern of behaviour here and a stench that surrounds the Howard government,"."This is a government whose actions and appointments are blinded by extreme ideology." Mr Swan said commenting on the recent history of important government appointments. Sharan Burrow the president of the ACTU has told ABC radio that the government must better scrutinize Mr Harper’s business behaviour. "How on earth can they expect Australians to have any faith in their so-called Fair Pay Commission if the very head they've appointed, another government mate, is under a cloud,"Lehman Brothers, a major American investment firm, is spending the weekend trying to find an investor that would save the firm from complete collapse. The company has lost 80 percent of its stock value since Monday, when it announced that it had not secured a deal with the Korea Development Bank, which was widely expected to occur. On Wednesday, Lehman published their biggest loss in the 158 years of their existence. According to the Financial Times, Bank of America is trying to create a joint takeover bid with JC Flowers and the China Investment Corporation (CIC), which is a Sovereign Wealth Fund. The CIC invested $5 billion in  Morgan Stanley when that bank needed a cash infusion in December 2007. It is unclear if the CIC will act as lead investor or act through JC Flowers, with which the CIC has established a fund. The Federal Reserve and Treasury Department are working with Lehman to find a suitable bidder. Hank Paulson, Treasury secretary, promised that no government money will be given to Lehman, unlike the takeover of Bear Stearns in March of this year. Paulson has also met with several executives of Wall Street firms to discuss the crisis and try and find possible investors. In a meeting initiated by Timothy Geithner, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, it was pressed upon the banking industry that it needed to handle the crisis. The Wall Street executives included John Mack, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley; John Thain, chief executive of Merrill Lynch; Jamie Dimon, chief executive of J.P. Morgan Chase; Lloyd Blankfein, chief executive of the Goldman Sachs; Vikram Pandit, chief executive of Citigroup; and representatives from the Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation. Christopher Cox, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission was also present. The firm, which has over 25,000 staffers, has suffered bad results due to the subprime mortgage crisis.About 30 workers at the Vestas wind turbine plant in Newport, Isle of Wight, England have occupied their factory in protest against the upcoming closure of the plant. The factory, the main site for the manufacture of turbines for wind power in the United Kingdom, is scheduled to close at the end of July, bringing with it the loss of 625 jobs; Vestas is a major employer on the Isle of Wight, which has a population of around 140,000.The workers, most of whom are not affiliated with any union, began their occupation around 7pm.Speaking via mobile phone from the factory, "Mark", a worker in Vestas's finishing shop who prefers not to give any last name for fear of management reprisals, called the atmosphere "really good." "It's all right, we're getting a lot of support", he said. Calling Vestas the "world leader" in the manufacture of wind turbines, Mark stated that the goal of the occupation as "asking the government to nationalise us" as "Vestas aren't willing to keep our factory open". The plant is being closed despite rising profits at the company, which is focusing on sales in China in response to lower demand in Northern Europe. According to a report by the Guardian, the low demand in the United Kingdom is the result of the long and unpredictable planning process associated with constructing wind farms in Britain.Mark told Wikinews that the workers at Vestas have received messages of support from members of the SWP, the TUC, and Unite. Members of the Socialist Party are also taking part in the industrial action and the party has announced its support for the occupation. According to Mark, the Vestas workers were "inspired" to occupy the factory through contacts with occupation organisers from the Visteon plant in Belfast, where workers staged a weeks-long sit-in in April of this year. Mark said that the Visteon workers told the Vestas workers that an occupation "is something we should do to stand up for ourselves."Mark closed by thanking the public for its support, saying "we've got to keep on doing this sort of work — it's for all our futures"Workers at the Linamar automobile parts factory in Swansea, Wales voted by a wide margin today to strike, after an dispute over the firing of one of the worker's union organisers remained unresolved.An 88% turnout resulted in a vote of 139 in favor of striking to 19 against.Canada-based Linamar took over the plant from Visteon in July 2008. Shortly after the takeover, Linamar offered 208 of the plant's 360 workers voluntary redundancy, hoping to transfer work to Mexico; 140 accepted. Linamar claims to have no long-term plans to close the plant. On April 28, however, Linamar fired political activist and union convener Rob Williams. Upon Williams' firing, he refused to leave the Visteon plant. The police escorted him from the building as the day shift workers at the plant staged a spontaneous walkout. Williams was temporarily reinstated after emergency negotiations between Unite and Visteon management, but his dismissal was made permanent a week later.Unite, Williams's trade union, describe Williams's firing as an "illegal" "attack on the union" and has brought the matter to the attention of UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown. Williams himself told left-wing newspaper Socialist Worker: "They have sacked me because they want to weaken the union and intimidate the shop floor."Workers at the plant also say Linamar is breaking a promise made to the union when the plant was taken over to keep Visteon's terms and conditions, particularly to establish a final pension scheme for workers who were part of the company before its 2000 spin-off from Ford.Linamar has not given comment to the press on the dispute as of this writing.Rallies in support of Williams, who is also running for European Parliament on the No2EU ticket, and of the union have drawn sizeable crowds, with about 90 at the most recent rally include three Members of the Welsh Assembly representing the ruling coalition of the Labour Party and Plaid Cymru as well as the Liberal Democrats, on May 17 outside the Visteon plant in Swansea.Linamar Swansea has close ties with Visteon factories in Enfield, Belfast and Basildon. Workers at those three factories recently won a victory against Visteon by occupying their plants and locking management out when redundancies were announced in April.At least 24 states across the United States are reporting that honeybees are disappearing and the reason is not known, but scientists have an idea of what might be causing the disappearance."Every day, you hear of another operator. It's just causing so much death so quickly that it's startling," said acting state apiarist, Dennis vanEngelsdorp who works for the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture.At least 30 to 60 percent of the bees on the west coast of the U.S. have died or disappeared. The east coast and the state of Texas have reported a nearly 70 percent loss of bees. A 20 percent drop in bee population is expected each winter and is considered normal."Anything above [a] 30 percent [loss] is concerning," added vanEngelsdorp."It’s as high as 100 percent in Texas and one guy in Virginia has 27 hives left out of 1,400 hives. It’s to the point now where we’re starting to contact some crisis management people," said David Hackenberg who is one of the largest beekeepers in Pennsylvania."I’ve never seen anything like it. My hives are just getting emptied. There’s nobody home," said beekeeper, David Bradshaw.The bees are reportedly leaving their hives to search for flowers to pollinate, and then never return home. The queen bee, nurse bee and baby bees remain in the hives only to die. Some call it a "colony collapse disorder.""We see dead bee hives with no dead bees and nothing will live in the hive. If I had to guess, 40 percent of the bees along the East Coast are dead since September of last year. In the West Coast, it’s 25 percent and almost everybody is on either coast," said a beekeeper in Columbus, Montana, Lance Sundberg who runs the Sunshine Apiary bee hives. Sundberg has said that his bee count went from 5,600 in June of 2006 to less than 3,800 in February of 2007. He says mites might have caused at least half of the loss with the other half unexplainable.Scientists say that the cause of the deaths and disappearances could be natural causes. Some also say that some bees  became disoriented or could have been infected with mites, which could cause a lethal virus to overcome the bees. Other theories include the spread of a bee virus or a possible fungus which could cause them to die, poor nutrition and inbreeding. Scientists say that cell phone towers and crops that have been genetically engineered are not suspected of being a cause.The disappearances could be more serious than they sound-without bees to pollinate crops, in a few years time there could be a dramatic drop in the harvests in the affected states.Tracheal mites were the cause of a drop in bee population in 1985. After two years passed, the Varroa jacobson mite, which sucks the blood out of the bees, killed nearly 80% of bees in Montana.Pesticides may also be to blame which could cause the bees to literally get lost on their journey back home."One-third of the food you eat is dependent upon honeybee pollination. If that one-third doesn’t happen, I don’t know what will occur at the grocery store," added Sundberg.Montana is the U.S.'s 5th largest producer of honey and exports hundreds of thousands of bees to California to help with the pollination of almond plants.Other countries reporting bee disappearances are:CanadaSpainPolandGreeceCroatiaSwitzerlandItalyPortugalGermanyEnglandThe World Bank approved a US$9.8 million Competitiveness Enhancement Project (CEP) for the Republic of Moldova Thursday. The approved amount represents a US$4.90 million credit and a US$4.90 million grant. The credit is offered under IDA terms, the World Bank Moldova Country Office has reported.The overall objective of the Competitiveness Enhancement Project is to assist Moldova in enhancing the competitiveness of enterprises through improvements in the business environment and making adequate standards, testing and quality improvement services available to enterprises."The project will help the Government of Moldova to implement the business regulatory reform that had been started earlier," said Irina Astrakhan, World Bank Task Manager for the Project. "It will also assist the government to begin modernization of the national standards and quality system, leading to improved competitiveness of the Moldovan economy in domestic and international markets and more attractiveness for foreign direct investment."The CEP Project has four components -- business environment improvement; modernization of measurements, standards, testing and quality (MSTQ) system; facilitation of enterprise access to MSTQ services; and facilitation of access to finance."The Project will bring about unquestionable benefits to the economic environment in Moldova by focusing on stability within the framework of business regulation, the promotion of adequate legislation, access to product certification services in line with the standards set by the European Union, encouragement of an innovative potential for enterprises, and facilitation of access to funding by means of various up-to-date mechanisms", said Mr. Valeriu Lazar, the Moldovan Minister of Economy and Trade.The enterprise sector, especially SMEs, will be the primary beneficiaries of this project. The Ministry of Economy and Trade Business Regulatory Reform Commission and Secretariat, the Service for Standardization and Metrology, the National Institute for Standardization and Metrology, the Accreditation Center for Conformity Assessment of Products and other institutions of the MSTQ infrastructure will also be helped by the project.The total cost of the CEP Project is US$14.3 million. In addition to the World Bank credit and grant, the project will also be financed by the Government of Japan in the form of grant amounting to US$4.5 million. The Project implementation period is 4 years, from January 2006 to December 31, 2009.Since Moldova joined the World Bank in 1992, Bank commitments to the country total approximately US$592 million for 29 operations.Kiribati, one of the world's most isolated nations, has received US$2 million in emergency food aid from the World Bank. Lying on the equator, the South Pacific country hosts some of the least developed communities in the world, with few natural resources and relying heavily on imports.As the global food crisis pushes food prices through the roof, the people of this isolated region are struggling to cope, spending half of their income on food. The World Bank grant will provide emergency aid to 60,000 people, approximately 60 percent of the population.Little skilled workforce and being so geographically isolated has hindered the country's exports, with foreign aid and tourism each contributing one fifth of the area's finances. Kiribati's government and the World Bank struck the deal at the annual Asian Development Bank meeting in Hanoi, securing emergency food grants and developing programmes in environmental sustainability. This is the second recent grant to Kiribati from the World Bank following a US$20 million allowance given in March to devise applications to deal with the effects of climate change.Robert B. Zoellick, the president of the World Bank, is to begin an eight-day, three-nation tour of Africa starting next Tuesday. He will take part in the African Union summit scheduled to be held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.The World Bank boss would first travel to Sierra Leone, then Cote d'Ivoire, and finally heading to Ethiopia for the AU summit. According to a statement from the World Bank, Zoellick is to meet with leaders, donors, investors, and representatives of the civil society, to discuss the ongoing food crisis on the continent and possibilities for economic growth."I am visiting Africa to learn about how its people have coped with the global economic crisis and to see how the World Bank Group can work with them to improve prospects for economic growth and expanded opportunity. Much of Africa has a solid record of economic growth, including in some of Africa's fragile states, and it has the potential to be another pole of growth for the world economy," Zoellick said, as quoted by the institution's statement.According to a new study released by the World Bank, more people than thought are considered to be poor in the developing world but the percentage of people in extreme poverty have decreased. The study finds that as of 2005, there are 1.4 billion people who are living for less than US$1.25 per day. This is down from 1.9 billion in 1981, which equals half of the population in the developing world. However, the new numbers have vastly increased from previous estimates. According to last estimate based on data from 1994, it was believed that there were only 985 million people in poverty in 2004 and 1.5 billion in 1981.  According to one of the report's authors Martin Ravallion, Director of the Development Research Group at the World Bank, "The new estimates are a major advance in poverty measurement because they are based on far better price data for assuring that the poverty lines are comparable across countries. Data from household surveys have also improved in terms of country coverage, data access, and timeliness."The report concludes that the developing world is on track to meet its goal to cut poverty in half by 2015. However, drops in poverty will not be consistent worldwide. East Asia has seen the biggest drop in poverty since 1981 when 80% of the population was poor. Currently, it's just 18%. South Asia has seen a drop of 20%, however the number of people in poverty has stayed the same due to an increase in population. In India, for example, poverty at $1.25 a day increased from 420 million people in 1981 to 455 million in 2005. However, due to population growth, the poverty rate as a share of the total population dropped to 42% in 2005 from 60% in 1981.The only region that has not seen any significant decrease in poverty is Sub-Saharan Africa where the percentage of people in poverty has stayed the same at 50%. Due to population increase, the number of people have nearly doubled to 380 million. "The new data confirm that the world will likely reach the first Millennium Development Goal of halving the 1990 level of poverty by 2015 and that poverty has fallen by about one percentage point a year since 1981," said Justin Lin, Chief Economist and Senior Vice President, Development Economics at the World Bank."However, the sobering news that poverty is more pervasive than we thought means we must redouble our efforts, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa," added Lin.The report, The Developing World Is Poorer Than We Thought, But No Less Successful in the Fight against Poverty by Shaohua Chen and Martin Ravallion, is based on data from 2005.Despite controversy ignited by the White House nomination of Paul Wolfowitz to head the World Bank (WB), the 24-member board of directors voted unanimously on Thursday to accept his confirmation. A whirlwind tour by Wolfowitz, who traveled to many capital cities of the bank’s major shareholders and met with voting board members, quieted misgivings over his succession to the incumbent president John Wolfensohn.Widespread criticism of the Wolfowitz role in the US build-up to war in Iraq heightened levels of security concerns within the bank as they anticipate his arrival. The WB, from the executive level down to memos circulated among departments, express concern for it becoming the target of terrorist attack. The level of seriousness being taken by WB led it to set up cost estimates for improving security.Wolfowitz will assume leadership in June this year. Despite a belief by some that he acts unilaterally and lacks development experience, a European Commission spokeswoman, speaking for Commissioner Olli Rehn, told a news conference that[Rehn] "was satisfied with everything he heard from Mr Wolfowitz concerning free trade and also on poverty reduction and development policy."The Associated Press quotes the Belgian Development Aid minister saying, "There are no objections of EU countries."The public display of support belies dissention underneath. Reuters reportedly received a confidential email that provided details of a comment line on an internal website for the WB staff who use it from their far flung locations. The feelings about the Wolfowitz nomination received 1,300 responses, mostly about the bank’s reputation and effectiveness under the new leadership.In the United Kingdom, the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) began a work stoppage at 19:00 BST (18:00 GMT) today after last-minute talks over pay, jobs and disciplinary issues broke down. The stoppage is expected to last 48 hours and could leave millions of travelers without transportation.Sky News says that there are fears that the strike may affect fan transportation for the England national football team's 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifier match against Andorra at Wembley Stadium tomorrow. Football Association (FA) chief executive Ian Watmore announced that the game would continue as planned at 20:15 BST (19:15 GMT) and encouraged spectators to arrive at the stadium early. The stadium gates will now open at 17:45 BST (16:45 GMT).No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground. Fears of lack of transportation raised the possibility that the game would be forced to play behind closed doors without the team's supporters.Watmore said that refunds will be available for supporters that do not attend the game. Last week, the FA decided to halt ticket sales at 70,000 in anticipation of a possible strike. Wembley Stadium can accommodate 90,000 fans for football matches.In years past, the RMT has been known to clash with the London Underground and its privatised contractors Metronet and Tubelines.On June 5, London Underground offered staff a four-year pay deal or a two-year deal which they called an "above inflation pay rise". However, the RMT is seeking a 5% pay raise and a commitment to no compulsory redundancies.The English national football team currently leads their group in the World Cup qualifying with 18 points and a 6–0–0 record. Andorra currently has no points and has lost all six of their matches. Although Andorra has been eliminated from competing in the 2010 World Cup, England is still competing for better placement.File:CTSRW01.JPGFollowing a labour dispute involving soccer match stewards, South African police have taken over security duties for World Cup games in Cape Town and Durban.  Security personnel staged a sit-down protest in the Durban stadium on Sunday, and walked off the job before yesterday's match in Cape Town.The security workers are in a contract dispute with their employer, Stallion Security Consortium Pty (Ltd).  Workers claim they were promised as much as seven times as much pay for a shift than what they are currently receiving.  Following the 2010 FIFA World Cup match between Germany and Australia on Sunday, workers staged a sit-in on the grounds of the Durban stadium and were attacked by police with tear gas and rubber bullets.  The 2010 organizing committee claims they are working on resolving this dispute.Some South African unions have threatened to severely disrupt the country during the World Cup if labour demands are not met.  South Africa currently has one of the largest income disparities in the world.The head of security for the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos, Switzerland, has been found dead in his hotel room on Tuesday morning, a day before the international summit gets underway. A government spokesman refused to comment on the cause, but in a statement local police said that "all signs point to suicide."Markus Reinhardt, 61, was head of police for the canton of Graubünden (also known as Grison). He had held the position since 1984, and has been responsible for security at the annual WEF summit for several years. He had previously been a prosecutor for the canton.In a statement the WEF expressed its "great sadness and regret" at the news:"During the many years during which we co-operated with him over security for our annual meeting at Davos, we appreciated his professionalism and his kindness. Our thoughts are with his loved ones and his colleagues. The security forces continue to have our full confidence and trust in their work."Marcel Suter will replace Reinhardt as head of WEF security, and Robert Willi will temporarily head the Graubünden police.Speaking to Dow Jones Newswires, an unnamed spokeswoman claimed that the death had "nothing to do with" the summit, but some have raised concerns about security.Robert Seiden of Confidential Security and Investigations, a New York firm, said: "There will have to be a full risk assessment to determine if there is an ongoing threat especially in view of the high level of attendees at the conference."Over 2,500 politicians and business leaders from 90 countries are expected to attend. The conference will run from Wednesday to Sunday.The United Nations health agency the World Health Organization (WHO) has called for a ban on tobacco advertising and promotion in order to protect the world's children. The news release from the WHO came on Friday, one day before the annual World No Tobacco Day held each year on May 31.This year's World No Tobacco Day focuses on highlighting the practices of tobacco companies in their efforts to promote their products to young people. According to a WHO press release, studies show that young people are more likely to start smoking if exposed to tobacco advertising. The WHO notes that only five percent of the world population "is covered by comprehensive bans on tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship". "The WHO appeals to member states and policy-makers to require by law a comprehensive ban on all forms of advertising, promotion, and sponsorship of tobacco products," said WHO Regional Director for Africa Luis Sambo, in a statement released Saturday in Kampala, Uganda."In order to survive, the tobacco industry needs to replace those who quit or die with new young consumers," said WHO Director-General Dr. Margaret Chan. "A ban on all tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship is a powerful tool we can use to protect the world’s youth."The WHO said that tobacco companies are specifically targeting the half billion youth in the Asia Pacific region by tying smoking to the idea of a flashy lifestyle. The agency said the tobacco industry attempts to take advantage of children's susceptibility to advertising and marketing.According to the WHO most people take up smoking before they reach age 18, and almost twenty-five percent of smokers worldwide are under the age of 10. The agency said that a survey of 13 to 15 year-olds found that fifty-five percent had seen cigarette ads on billboards in the prior month, and twenty-percent owned something with a cigarette company's logo.According to BBC News, in the last ten years female and adolescent smoking in Russia has tripled. Russia does not have many anti-smoking laws. BBC News compared this to Canada, where smoking levels are at their lowest in 40 years and the country has very restrictive laws on smoking advertising."The tobacco industry employs predatory marketing strategies to get young people hooked to their addictive drug. But comprehensive advertising bans do work, reducing tobacco consumption by up to 16% in countries that have already taken this legislative step," said Dr. Douglas Bettcher, Director of WHO's Tobacco Free Initiative. A report by the WHO on tobacco use stated that approximately two thirds of the planet's smokers reside in 10 countries including China, India, Indonesia, Russia, the United States, Japan, Bangladesh, Germany, and Turkey. Reuters reported that companies Philip Morris, Imperial Tobacco, British American Tobacco and Japan Tobacco are among the world's largest producers of cigarettes.Stock prices dropped sharply in Europe and Asia Monday, with fears of economic problems in the United States causing some of the biggest single-day losses in recent years.In Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index fell 5.5 percent - its biggest fall since the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Losses of between three and seven percent were recorded in India, China, Britain, France, Germany and Canada.While there are many factors linking national economies, analysts blame recent losses on fears of a recession in the United States.The United States is the main export market for many overseas businesses. Foreign investors also have bought large stakes in U.S. companies.When American home loan companies began reporting large numbers of defaulting loans in late 2007, the losses spread to other financial institutions, tightening credit markets and sparking worries about Americans' high levels of debt.Last week, President Bush proposed a $145 billion stimulus plan to encourage more consumer spending. But analysts say the measure may not be able to prevent a recession - defined as a broad decline in a nation's economy over a period of at least six months.U.S. markets are closed on Monday for Martin Luther King Jr. Day, a national holiday, but stock futures trading indicates further losses are expected when markets reopen Tuesday.Arbitrators at the World Trade Organization (WTO) have granted the Caribbean country of Antigua and Barbuda a special dispensation to ignore United States copyright law.In their report, the WTO panel stated that Antigua possessed "no effective trade sanctions against the USA" and agreed to allow the country to ignore up to US$21 million worth of US copyrights a year.  While this amount falls significantly short of the US$3.4 billion per year dispensation that Antigua was seeking, it is far higher than the US$500,000 per year allocation that US negotiators were pushing for.  The ruling comes at the end of a five year legal contest between Antigua and the USA regarding the USA's blocking of offshore online gambling sites.  Because many of these sites were located in Antigua, the Antiguan government filed a complaint with the WTO saying that the US prohibition constituted unlawful restriction of trade.  When the WTO agreed, Antigua pressed for US$3.4 billion in punitive damages.  They asked to have this penalty assessed as permission to copy US intellectual property, since there was no trade embargo that Antigua could impose on the US to collect the amount for itself.  The panel agreed that Antigua had no way to collect punitive damages through trade sanctions.  However, they lowered the amount of damages to US$21 million per year.APEC, the Asian Pacific Economic Conference, whose membership includes about 47 percent of global trade and 57 percent of the world's GDP plans to meet in Busan, South Korea.  The meeting will include US president George W. Bush, China's Hu Jintao and Japanese Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi as well as 18 other heads of Asian governments.WTO negotiations have met much resistance on reducing farm subsidies of some of the wealthier nations.  Two previous talks have failed to break the stalemate  "Support for the WTO negotiations is the No. 1 issue and the leaders will make a standalone statement on this," Choi Seok-Young, executive director of the APEC Secretariat said.  Officials have drafted a statement backing the WTO's agenda.  Officials are expected to sign the statement during the conference.  Many leaders hope to end the stalemate over agricultural subsidies currently plaguing the WTO.   "It's very important that they seek a breakthrough in this current deadlocked situation" South Korea's senior official and chairman of the meeting Kim Jong-hoon said."APEC would like to change this message of crisis into a message of hope.""Bird flu will be one of the most important issues to be discussed because it could harm our people through illness, death and through loss of business and jobs."  Choi-Young also said that leaders in Busan this week may suggest ways to end the deadlock in agriculture and to move forward on industrial goods and services.  Protesters have other plans for the conference. Sunday, protesters peacefully demonstrated in Seoul in advance of the conference in a rally organized by Korean Confederation of Trade Unions.  Organizers say thousands more will be in Busan during the meeting.  Approximately 18,000 to more than 20,000 participated in Sunday's rally.  Protesters wearing red headbands caring signs saying "No Bush visit" and "No APEC."  Demands also included better conditions for temporary workers and better social security for all workers.Predicted heir to World Wrestling Entertainment Shane McMahon has announced he will leave the company on January 1, 2010. McMahon is the son of current owner Vincent K. McMahon and the current Executive Vice President of Global Media for the company. With the departure of Shane, it will be the first time that a male heir will not take over the company when Vince retires. Shane announced his resignation on WWE.com earlier today saying, "It is with great sadness that I announce my resignation from the WWE, effective January 1, 2010." He mentioned how he "never even considered a future outside the walls of the WWE." He continued to thank his father and superstars of today and the past. According to Shane, he resigned because it was his "to pursue outside ventures."World Wrestling Entertainment released an official statement responding to Shane’s announcement. Current owner and Shane’s father Vince McMahon said, "Even though I am personally saddened by Shane’s decision to leave the company, I am proud of the enormous contributions he has made. He will unquestionably bring passion, commitment and extensive business experience to any endeavour he pursues."Shane was the fourth generation to World Wrestling Entertainment. He is the son of Vincent K. McMahon, the grandson of Vincent J. McMahon and the great-grandson of Jess McMahon. He has two sons who are considered the fifth generation.The world's least expensive car, the Tata Nano, has been launched in India. It will go on sale in April, and will start delivery in July. The automobile costs only 100,000 Indian rupees, or just under US$2,000."We are at the gates offering a new form of transportation to the people of India, and later I hope other markets as well," said the chairman of the auto firm, Ratan Tata, calling the vehicle a "milestone.""From the drawing board to its commercial launch, the car has overcome several challenges," Tata said. "I hope it will provide safe, affordable four-wheel transportation to families who till now have not been able to own a car."This was never conceived as the cheapest car, but as providing transport to those people who never owned a car," Tata said. "Driven mainly by the change in demand that we see elsewhere in the world, we suddenly felt we had a product that could be of considerable interest as a low-cost product in western Europe, eastern Europe, the UK and even the U.S."The Tata Nano is a four-door vehicle, and is 3 metres long, 1.5 m wide, and 1.5 m tall. It is equipped with a 33 bhp, 624 cc engine at the rear. No radio, airbags, power steering, or air conditioning are available in the basic model, although upgrades are available. The Nano Europa, a slightly larger European version of the car, is expected in 2011.According to Ravi Kant, the managing director at Tata Motors, the first 100,000 people to receive a Nano would be chosen from the initial orders by a ballot.An auto analyst for Bombay's Angel Broking, Vaishali Jajoo, predicted that the Nano will add only three percent to Tata's revenues even if it can sell a quarter of a million such cars per annum. "That doesn't make a significant difference to the top line," Jajoo said. "And for the bottom line, it will take five to six years to break even."Environmentalists say that the car will exacerbate traffic problems already rife in India, and help increase pollution levels. Tata, however, stated that its vehicle is the least polluting car in the country.United Parcel Service (UPS), the world's largest package delivery service, has announced that it will cut 1,800 administrative and managerial jobs.The firm, based in Atlanta, Georgia, is to reorganise its five regions into three, and slash the number of districts to twenty from 46, in addition to the job cuts. The company currently has 340,000 people in its employ.Economic analysts are paying considerable attention to the financial status of UPS, as many see a large connection between the overall state of the US economy and the amount of parcels shipped."They're not cutting sales jobs, they're cutting back office jobs. They take out back office, they take out cost," commented Helane Becker, an analyst for Jesup & Lamont Securities.The world's most expensive hotel-casino ever has opened in Las Vegas, Nevada. The casino, which was designed and built over a period of five years, cost US$2.7 billion to construct. The hotel stands nearly fifty stories above the Las Vegas valley, with a 180-foot tall mountain in front of the main entrance.Numerous lavish touches contributed to the high expense of the development. The sign in front of the Wynn property has an unusual mechanical design, with a large piece containing the Wynn logo, which can move vertically up or down as different announcements are presented."I think it's going to start a shift of power. It's been the south for a long time. Things will start moving to the north because of Wynn Las Vegas, Sheldon Adelson with the expansion of the Venetian, the New Frontier -- that whole area will become the new hot area of Las Vegas for the next decade or so," gaming expert Anthony Curtis told Las Vegas KLAS TV.As the property opened to the public, developer Steve Wynn greeted visitors at the front entrance."It's always fascinating to watch people enter the thing and get their first moment after we open the doors," Wynn told the Las Vegas Review-Journal.The Peel P50, a single door, three wheel microcar went on display at New York's Ripley's Believe It or Not! Museum on Monday.The Peel Engineering Company manufactured 50 to 100 of the one-seater vehicles which weighed 130 lb (59 kg), and are 52.8 in (134 cm) in length, 47 in (120 cm) in height and 39 in (99 cm) in width.The little car can travel as fast as 38 mph (61 kph), and comes equipped with a handle on the car so the driver can pull the car to back up.Only twenty of the vehicles have survived since 1963, and the original price of £199 has soared to approximately £40,000 (US$ 65,000) today.Stock markets around the world have fallen dramatically today. This is following the ongoing events in the financial world, including the US Government's $700 billion bail out of the financial sector.As of 14:48 UTC, the primary UK index, the FTSE 100, dropped in value by 6.50% (323.65 points) to a point even further below the 5000 mark at 4656.60. The Dow Jones, was down 3.76% at 16:08 UTC, a slight increase from earlier today. The Dow Jones currently has a value of 9936.94 points, below the ten thousand mark. The Nasdaq index has fallen by 100.12 points to 1847.27, while the DAX was 6.62% lower than the start of the day as of 16:08 UTC. The Dow Jones index was one that fared particularly poorly today, as not one of its companies increased its share price. The same is true for the 	CAC 40 index. The Merval index is another one that fared badly today. It dropped in value by 10.12%, while the affiliated Merval 25 index dropped by nearly as much, 10.03%. One of the worst faring indexes of the day was the Brazilian Bovespa index. It has already fallen by 14.45% today, despite the fact that it is not even half way through the trading day.The final round of the ELSA Moot Court Competition on WTO Law is taking place in Geneva this week. Eighteen teams from Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia-Pacific have made it to the finals to contest one of the key issues underpinning WTO trade negotiations – commitment to public health. The 2001 WTO Doha Declaration on TRIPS and Public Health was a vital step in increasing access to medicines in health emergencies. It permits governments to temporarily set aside patents on specific medicines to protect the health of their people.Many of the key arguments of the WTO negotiations on this matter as well as the issues surrounding free trade agreements (FTAs) between WTO members will be used by the students as they debate the issues at hand. Students will play out a dispute between two WTO members – one setting aside a pharmaceutical patent, the other challenging this on behalf of its industry – in front of a distinguished panel of judges, including many WTO luminaries.Giorgio Sacerdoti, Chairman, WTO Appellate Body, said: "The WTO dispute settlement system fulfills at least two important systemic functions in today world society: (1) "ensure the respect of treaty based rights and obligations in a multilateral setting by providing the speedy resolution of disputes in an impartial way, based on the rule of law", (2) "by collective monitoring ensure implementation of those decisions". Lawyers are called to play an increasing role in this mechanism. ELSA has to be commended for preparing students to this challenge and opportunity on a worldwide basis."The wreckage of an aircraft carrying eleven mining executives from Australia has been found in Cameroon, according to the country's information minister.According to the official, Issa Tchiroma Bakary, either nine or ten bodies have been recovered from the aircraft, which was reported missing on Saturday and apparently crashed in the Congo.  Bakary said that "[t]he wreckage has been found in Congo. Unfortunately there were no survivors."The plane, a Casa C212, was traveling from Cameroon to Congo, where Sundance Resources, an Australian mining company whose entire board of directors was on the plane, is trying to develop an iron ore mine. Contact with the plane was lost around an hour after it took off.In addition to six Australians, including one of the country's richest men, Ken Talbot, there were two British, two French, and one US citizen on board the plane. The search for the downed plane had involved Cameroon, Australia, the United States, and Canada, and had included four aircraft, although operations had been disrupted by fog.Sundance said that they had halted all African operations in the wake of the crash, which led to the cessation of trading the company's shares and the appointment of an acting CEO, the firm's Chief Financial Officer Peter Canterbury.  Another Sundance official said that although significant, the crash would not "mortally wound" the company.According to the Brazilian air force, Brazilian military aircraft have found wreckage of an airplane in the Atlantic Ocean, about 650 kilometres off the northern coast of Brazil.The wreckage is suspected to have come from Air France Flight 447, a passenger jet that went missing over the Atlantic Ocean on June 1.The debris includes airplane seats and metallic objects. Pilots from TAM, a Brazilian airline had earlier said they saw what they perceived to be a fire in the Atlantic, but French officials say that no sign of wreckage had been found.Brazilian airplanes with sensors are currently scanning the area of the ocean where the debris was found."A TAM airlines plane from Brazil supposedly saw something on fire in the Atlantic Ocean. This was an aeroplane that landed today," said Jose Alencar, the Brazilian vice president.Air France Flight AF447 was an Airbus A330 carrying 216 passengers and 12 crew members that disappeared after it went into a severe thunderstorm. Authorities are not yet certain what caused the incident, but are pessimistic as to whether any survivors will be found.After an exhaustive two year, 20 million euro ($28 million) search, the final resting spot of Air France Flight 447 has been located. The location of the wreckage is six miles north of the plane's last reported position off the coast of Brazil at a depth of 3,800 and 4,000 meters (2,070 to 2,190 fathoms or 12,467 feet and 13,123 feet).The wreckage of the Airbus A330-200, was found Sunday by a team from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, using a Remus robotic submarine and its side-scan sonar. After the wreckage was found, another Remus robot submarine with cameras was sent down to the site, where it filmed bodies in the wreckage.Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, France's Ministry of Ecology, Energy, Sustainable Development and Sea, confirmed to reporters: "Bodies were found. They will be recovered and identified.""We weren’t prepared for that. We are now confronted with another trauma," Robert Soulas, vice president of Entraide et Solidarité AF447, a support group for families of victims of the crash, said. Soulas lost his daughter and son-in-law, who were on board the flight when it crashed. "For me, personally I would like to leave the bodies of my children, my two children, on the seabed."The remains of the plane, which were concentrated in a 600 metres by 200 metres (1,968 feet by 656 feet) area, appear to be relatively intact which leads investigators to believe that the plane hit the water intact and did not explode mid-air. Around 50 bodies of the 228 passengers and crew on board and parts of the plane were found shortly after the crash in 2009.According to Jean-Paul Troadec, the head of France's Bureau of Enquiry and Analysis for Civil Aviation Safety (BEA), the accident investigation body for aircraft overseeing the operation and investigation, the wreckage and bodies will be bought to surface and then sent to France for investigation. The salvage operation, which will cost around 5 million euros ($7.1 million) according to estimates, will be financed by the French government. Three salvage companies who are bidding to recover the wreck have until afternoon on Thursday to submit proposals. The operation should take between three weeks to a month.On raising the remains of the plane Troadec said: "We want to know what happened in this accident, most particularly so it never happens again." Some family members agreed saying such as Michael Gaignard, whose sister was on board the plane said, "We want to know what happened in that plane." An attorney for several families said some had yet to come to terms with loss of loved ones, saying "There's been no burial, no goodbye ... just lots and lots of suffering."Soulas of Entraide et Solidarité AF447 disagreed. "There's a very traumatic side to this and it causes problems of identification. We don't know what state they are in." He added, "And it risks causing a dispute between families who want to leave the bodies at the bottom of the Atlantic and those who want them brought to the surface."However, despite the discovery of the wreckage, the plane's two flight recorders, the flight data recorder (FDR) and the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) have yet to be found at the crash site.Alain Bouillard, who is in charge of BEA's recovery effort said, "It's still a jigsaw puzzle. We do not know where the recorders might be."There are concerns that the two-year length the recorders have been submerged in seawater along with enormous pressure located at the depth of the wreck, that the data on the recorders might be unreadable. Bouillard said it is possible the recorders were damaged, but had "great confidence" in their robustness.Without the recovery of the recorders, investigators may be unable to determine the cause of the crash. The leading theory at the moment is that the crew received incorrect air speed readings from the aircraft's pitot tubes, devices which measure how fast the aircraft is travelling. Experts say the tubes may have become iced over, causing the crash.The plane's Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) sent out 24 messages over a four-minute long period stating numerous problems and warnings, including incorrect air speed warnings occurring aboard the aircraft, just prior to it going down.Hollywood writers have voted to end a three-month strike that crippled film and television production. Yesterday, Patric Verrone, president of the Writers Guild of America West, said they will end the 100-day strike. "The membership has voted. Writers can go back to work," Verrone said.Nearly 3800 members of the guild, both the east and west coast unions cast their ballots in New York City and Los Angeles, with more than 92 percent voting to end the strike. The writers will be back to work today and new episodes of televisions series should come as early as four to six weeks.The strike occurred over the streaming of television, movies and other creative work over the Internet and how writers should be paid for that content. Under a tentative agreement, the writers would get a maximum flat fee of $1,200 per program in the first two years, then two percent of a distributor's gross revenue in the third year.The strike ended after entertainment company heads including, Leslie Moonves, the CEO of CBS, Peter Chernin, the president of News Corporation and Robert A. Iger, the CEO of The Walt Disney Company and union officials such as Verrone and executive director David Young worked out a deal.Moonves said the deal was a fair one, according to the Associated Press. When speaking to the entertainment publication Variety, he said, "I think there was some miscommunication early on. It was important that we started speaking eye to eye. Ultimately, getting the percentage of streaming revenue was important to (WGA), and I understand it."The end to the strike means Hollywood's annual celebration, the Academy Awards, can go ahead as scheduled, February 24. The threat of picketing writers had reduced the Golden Globes last month to a news conference. Sid Ganis, the president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and the executive producer of this year's 80th Academy Awards, Gil Cates, will hold a news conference today to reveal their plans for the award show since there will not a be picket line in front of the Kodak Theatre where the award show will be held.The strike stopped production of dozens of television shows and slowed production on movies. One Los Angeles economist says it cost the local economy at least $3 billion. However, the city of Los Angeles believed losses to only be around $380 million.Barry Diller's InterActiveCorp (IAC) is near a US$2 billion deal to buy search engine Ask Jeeves, according to a report in Monday's Wall Street Journal. The corporate boards from  both companies were in talks all weekend negotiating what appears to be an all-stock deal. If approved, the price tag would be a substantial premium over Ask Jeeves valuation of $1.4 billion as of Friday's stock market close.The acquisition of Oakland, California-based Ask Jeeves by IAC would mean they own a known brand name and get a foothold in revenues from search engine advertising. The company also would become a direct competitor with companies such as Google, Yahoo!, Amazon.com and Microsoft who also have launched their own high-profile internet search engines. Ask Jeeves also owns other brands, including Excite.com and iWon.com.Diller has built InterActiveCorp on the backbone of the cash generated by Home Shopping Network, a company he used to bankroll the purchases of a large portfolio of internet and electronic commerce companies. These include Expedia, Ticketmaster, Match.com, CitySearch and the LendingTree. He also bought and grew cable networks USA Network and Sci Fi Channel before selling them off to NBC Universal, of which he is the largest individual shareholder.The head of the World Trade Organization, Pascal Lamy, has called for a meeting to assess the trade finance situation, including the impact on developing countries. The meeting, which is schedule for November 12, will allow credit institutes and government officials to review the current trade credit situation."A number of WTO members, in particular developing countries, have flagged the problems they are facing in arranging trade financing," wrote WTO Director-General Lamy."The purpose of our next meeting will be to review how the international market for trade-financing is faring in view of the current very difficult conditions on international financial markets," he continued.Credit is vital to trade with around 90 percent of the US$14 trillion in world trade financed by credit. While this market has done well compared to other credit markets, bankers are suggesting that problems might occur shortly. Rates on these trade loans have increased by 3 percent. Developing countries have seen several recent years of positive growth but the effects of the global financial crisis on these countries have pushed growth levels down. Lamy has asked that the heads of the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, and other regional development banks to attend. He also invited the five leading commercial banks in trade finance: Citigroup, Commerzbank, Royal Bank of Scotland, JPMorgan Chase, and HSBC.Lamy also said that work on the Doha Development Round of trade is continuing but did not say if it would be finished this year.The latest console data from the NPD Group shows that Microsoft's Xbox 360 console outsold Sony's PlayStation 3 by a ratio of 2 to 1. Earlier in August, Microsoft reduced the price of their console to try and compete with their other main competitor, Nintendo with their Wii console. However, the Nintendo platform is still selling strong with the Wii and the DS taking the top 2 spots once again.Sales are also expected to increase for Microsoft in the month of September due to the release of Halo 3, the final game in the Halo trilogy. Michael Patcher, an analyst for Wedbush Morgan Securities, has predicted that the game will sell three million copies in the first 12 days of release.The big surge in software sales lead to almost US$1 billion spent in the gaming industry in America for the month of August. Even with the software surge, all consoles had fewer sales than the previous month apart from Microsoft.Below are the full results provided by NPD:Microsoft has launched its much-hyped Xbox 360 console into Japan, but unlike the European and American markets the Japanese are not rushing out to buy them.When launched in the American and European markets, stores sold out early. In Japan, sales are much lower. One store-owner says that fewer than 50 units were sold in the first 2 hours of its release.Many believe that in Japan it is difficult for any games console to be successful that isn't from a Japanese company, such as Sony or Nintendo.  The first generation of Xbox consoles performed similarly possibly due to being released two years after the PlayStation 2. The large size of the console and the differing style of games was also said to have contributed.There is still some hope for the Xbox 360, Takeshi Tajima, a BNP Paribas analyst, told Reuters news agency: "most people are going to wait and see."On 19 February 2007, XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio announced a move that will change the face of satellite radio in the United States and Canada: XM and Sirius will be merging, creating a single satellite radio provider.Multi-million dollar losses, combined with increasing competition from internet radio, downloadable music, and HD radio were factors in this merger. Mel Karmazin, CEO of Sirius Satellite Radio, described the problem: "We don't want to take subscribers from XM. We won't make money that way. We need new subscribers." Likewise, XM executives say they can't succeed by stealing Sirius subscribers. This leaves both companies with the problem of attracting new customers and distinguishing their brand, while at the same time trying to convince potential customers to pay $12.95 a month for radio, something that people are used to getting for free. Even if one company were to force the other out of the marketplace, the remaining company would have won a Pyrrhic victory, without enough capital remaining to take advantage of the situation.The solution: make a deal now, while both companies are both strong and in a position to expand their technologies and services. That's exactly what they plan to do: In press releases and news postings on both of their web sites, both companies have pledged to make the combined company better than either service by itself. "You've heard of 1+1=3," Karmazin said during an invester conference call, "that's what this is."Pending approval of the deal, each share of XM stock will be replaced with 4.6 shares of Sirius. Each company's stockholders will retain approximately 50% of the joined company. Sirius CEO Mel Karmazin will retain his CEO title in the new company, and XM chairman Gary Parsons will retain his. XM CEO Hugh Panero will retain his position until the merger is complete, which should happen near the end of 2007.Today, the satellite radio providers XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio submitted a joint application to transfer control of their ground and space-based transmitters to the new, merged company. This is a major step for the XM/Sirius merger deal, as FCC approval represents a major hurdle for the merger. This document also answers some questions that have plagued subscribers of both services.While there is not much information for the casual listener, two of the most frequently asked questions have been addressed, at least in part:Pricing has been clarified, to some exeent. From the FCC filing: "After the merger, customers may elect to receive fewer channels at a monthly price lower than $12.95;substantially similar programming at the existing $12.95 price; or more channels, including someof the 'best of both' networks, at a modest premium to the cost of one service, and considerablyless than the cost of subscribing to both services." The document goes on to explain that channel blocking will be available, and that credit will be given for blocked channels.The filing also addresses the potential need for new receivers. "Subscribers could continue to use their existing radios or eventually purchase new radios capable of receiving all of the content of both services when they become available." Apparently, some programming will be available on both networks, but this will be limited. To get the full range of programming, subscribers will need new equipment.Another major stumbling block for the merger deal is the potential for monopoly. To counter the arguments that the merged company will become a monopoly, the document goes on to describe the nature of satellite radio's competition: HD radio, Internet radio, AM and FM radio, portable media players, mobile phones, and even CD players. "It is clear that all of the above providers view themselves as being in direct competitionwith each other," the document alleges, and then goes on to quote statements by the National Association of Broadcasters in support of this assertion. "local radio stations compete for listeners with other forms of audio delivery offering an almost unlimited array of content. IPods and other MP3 players, music [subscription] services, podcasting and the Internet streaming of U.S. and foreign radio stations literally provide content from around the world to listeners in each local radio market in America."As this is only the first step in the FCC process, and the FCC is only one of three major steps in the merger process, the deal is far from over. However, convincing the FCC that the merger should happen will remove a major barrier in the companies' efforts.Yahoo!'sNASDAQ: YHOO Briefcase service is to be closed after ten years.The directory-cum-internet portal's Briefcase, which offers 30mb of online storage of files up to 5mb, is to be shut down on March 30. Data not retrieved before then will be deleted.Usage of the service has declined in recent years and has been superseded by other companies' offers. Google has plans for a GDrive service, whilst Microsoft's Live Mesh is now in beta. Yahoo! Mail now has unlimited storage, as do paid accounts with the Yahoo!-owned photo- and video-sharing site Flickr. A spokesperson for Yahoo! said that "[d]iscontinuing the service will allow us to focus our efforts on more broadly used products".Yahoo has been losing market value since Microsoft's deal to buy the company fell through in May 2008 and the company has reduced staff. Yahoo! still dominates the market for display adverts but this market is shrinking against targeted search adverts, where Google dominates.Dublin — Yahoo!, the internet portal, today announced it has chosen Dublin, Ireland as the location of its European Headquarters. Ireland beat off stiff competition from other European countries to win the investment. The move is expected to create over 400 jobs - two thirds of which are expected to be for graduates with skills in information technology, financial services, customer support and website editorial. Earlier in the month, Ireland lost a potentially multi-billion euro investment by Dell for a new manufacturing facility to Scotland. This was a huge disappointment for IDA Ireland - the countries main development agency - which had offered heavy incentives to the US computer maker. This brought about fears that Ireland had lost its ability to attract high-value investments from foreign multinationals - the driving force of Ireland's Celtic Tiger economy.Speaking about the investment, the Irish Minister for Enterprise, Trade and Employment, Micheál Martin, said winning the Yahoo project was a "truly outstanding achievement for Ireland". Yahoo's Senior Vice President International, John Marcom, said the decision to locate its European operations headquarters in Ireland was influenced by a "number of factors" which included "the calibre and volume of graduates available in Ireland, the up to date cost competitive telecommunications and data centre infrastructure, and the assistance of IDA Ireland." Yahoo is one of the world's largest internet companies. Its decision to locate in Ireland confirms Dublin's continued attractiveness to internet and technology companies - Google, Bell Labs, eBay, Microsoft, Amazon and Oracle all have significant Irish operations.Yahoo! announced in its blog Sunday the beginning of a public beta test of its new Podcast search service. The new service makes it easier for people to find and listen to podcasts.Podcasts are short downloadable audio shows, very similar to  a radio show. Podcasts are most commonly downloaded to portable mp3 players such as the iPod for which they are named, but they can be listened to on a computer or burned to a CD as well.“Yahoo Podcasts offers a comprehensive directory of podcast series and individual shows from across the web, complete with detailed search results, most popular and highest-rated lists, editorial picks, and a full collection of tools you can use. These community tools include ratings, reviews, and the ability to tag audio content, or view the tags that other people add,” Lee Ott wrote in  the Yahoo blog. Yahoo! is the first the large web company to offer a podcast search services. Podcast search is currently offered by several smaller websites including Podcast.net, Blinkx, and Odeo. “This is something we’ve been working on for a while, it’s a great way for people to find, listen to, and consume podcasts as they grow more popular.” said Yahoo! spokesperson Meagan Busath.On Monday the second largest Internet search engine Yahoo introduced its new service called oneSearch. The service represents a search system that delivers locally relevant answers for mobile phone users. The company will first launch its service in the United States and then make it international. OneSearch is to push aside Yahoo's main competitor Google in the field of mobile Web search.Marco Boerries, who works as a senior vice president of Yahoo's Connected Life business unit, said that the company is now working on putting search on every phone that includes a browser.OneSearch provides several services including: news headlines, images from Yahoo's Flickr photos site, business listings, local weather and links to other Web sites. Yahoo's officials said that the company has already begun offering OneSearch on 85% of existing mobile phones that include Web browsers.The search results are delivered on a single page and are set in categories. The results are prioritized according to the calculation that Yahoo computers make about a specific information that the customer is trying to make.The company signed deals with several major mobile phone manufacturers, including: Samsung Electronics Inc., Nokia, Motorola Inc. and LG Electronics Inc.Yahoo also promised to help advertisers gain phone customers. Because users make their searches on their phones, they can directly reach the advertiser by clicking on a link.Yahoo's new service, oneSearch runs sponsored ad which is being linked to Web search results and display advertisements. OneSearch may also run mini-banner ads developed for mobile phone screens.It might take some time before Yahoo could actually see positive financial results of its product. Nevertheless its developers are quite happy with the result of their work.Yahoo!, the world's favorite Internet destination, reported $373 million in net income for the three month period ended December 31. Revenues were $1,078 million for the fourth quarter of 2004, a 62 percent increase compared to $664 million for the same period of 2003. “We are attracting more and more users to Yahoo!’s network of services and driving their usage deeper with more relevant products and services. This deeper usage is the real magic behind the surpassing of our financial objectives,” explained Susan Decker, the company's chief financial officer.Portal and search company Yahoo! has purchased Ludicorp Research and Development Ltd., the private corporation which owns the photo sharing site Flickr.The news was officially disclosed in a Sunday posting to the corporation's staff blog and is credited to Caterina Fake, Flickr's vice president of marketing and community. The posting announced the sale, but did not disclose details of the deal. In a report by Silicon.Com, Yahoo! spokeswoman Joanna Stevens confirmed the deal on Sunday but also did not disclose the terms. Both Fake and Stevens said Flickr will remain independent. Stevens added that Flickr's employees will relocate to the Yahoo! headquarters in Sunnyvale, California later this year.Rumors of the sale have been circulating amongst bloggers for some time, though neither company would confirm or deny the rumored sale. Other rumors had Google or AOL as Flickr's probable suitor.Flickr allows users to upload pictures from their computers, digital cameras, or camera phones to a personal website where they can display them, engage in photo blogging and create photo albums. The graphics may be licensed under a variety copyright license schemes including public domain, and photo owners can be easily contacted through the website.Yahoo! had earlier announced Yahoo! 360°, a blogging service with sharing privileges and integration with other Yahoo! services such as internet broadcasting and instant messaging.The partnership between New Zealand's monopolistic ISP, Xtra and Microsoft New Zealand, XtraMSN has expired today and has been replaced with a partnership between Xtra and Yahoo!7, YahooXtra. Yahoo!7 is also a partnership, between Yahoo! and the 7 television station in Australia.The partnership's website was launched today, as well as a new MSN New Zealand homepage.Yahoo!Xtra are trying to become the homepage of all New Zealanders with the claim the partnership will beef up content, as well as being the biggest website in New Zealand in terms of revenue. Kevin Kenrick, Telecom's consumer products chief operating officer, who own Xtra, said the aim of Yahoo!Xtra was to, "Yahoo!Xtra aimed to bring the best available international content and technology into a New Zealand context." "We do think Yahoo!Xtra will become an extension of New Zealanders living rooms."Chief executive of Yahoo!7, Ian Smith, said that two to three percent of all the advertising market was from online advertising. In Australia, that number is around eight percent, which Mr Smith expects to become the number for New Zealand.Mr. Smith said: "Yahoo!Xtra will be the best of New Zealand linked to the best the rest of the world has to offer, and puts us in a prime position to capitalize on changing trends in media consumption and media usage."Yahoo!7 will own 51% of the partnership, with Xtra owning the other 49%. Mr Smith will chair the board that will be created.The partnership also means that current Xtra subscribers will receive a new e-mail messaging platform, but current e-mail addresses will remain the same. This will mainly happen because of the mail technology currently offered by Yahoo!Other services owned by Yahoo!, such as Flickr and Answers, will also be brought into the new portal.Mr. Kenrick and Mr. Smith both denied to disclose how much money from either sides has been invested, but do say that it will be profitable in the near future.Other ventures between Yahoo! and telecommunication ISP's have occurred internationally as well.Xtra, owned by New Zealand telecommunication monopoly company Telecom, has created a joint venture between themselves and Yahoo!7, creating Yahoo Xtra. Yahoo!7 is the joint venture between Yahoo! and Australian network, Seven.The join venture replaces the current and long-lasting partnership between Microsoft and Xtra, called XtraMSN. The current partnership's contract will expire at the end of this year. Telecom chose to change the partnership because Yahoo! has worked together with BT Group, Verizon and Rogers Communications.The new site, along with new online content will go online on around March 1, 2007.The partnership will result in Yahoo!7 taking 51% control of the partnership and Xtra taking the remaining 49%.Kevin Kenrick, chief operating officer of Telecom, said that they will now be able to target the underdeveloped online advertising community. "We see there is a fantastic opportunity to grow online advertising and the share of the online market. Online advertising in New Zealand is getting to a tipping point of growth where there is a critical mass of online connections, broadband connections and an increase in the amount of time people are spending online."When the new site is launched, it will include a range of news, sport, weather, enhanced e-mail spam and virus protection, photo sharing, and internet radio.Theresa Gattung, chief executive of Telecom, said: "The Yahoo Xtra joint venture will provide New Zealanders with access to the world's best online services in a localised way."Ian Smith, chief executive of Yahoo!7, said: "The company was achieving market growth of online advertising of between 50 and 60 per cent a year in Australia and believed it could do the same in New Zealand." He said that the partnership will give them a great opportunity to showcase its tools, technology and platforms in New Zealand.Mr Kenrick said that the reason they had gotten a partnership with Yahoo!7 was that it is very difficult for a small player to develop its services in a New Zealand size market.One other online company Xtra had considered for the partnership was Google, among others. The reason they chose Yahoo!7 over other companies was because Yahoo!7 has the top position in big fields such as TV and video. Mr Kenrick said: "The whole area of content management is one we thought would benefit from others with greater expertise and more scope."Telecom manages 80% of the telecommunication market.The introduction by Yahoo Inc. of its new Internet ad sales system was successful. The company's new feature may turn out to be very useful for Yahoo's shares, since investors are betting on rapid growth of the company's revenue. When Yahoo stated that it will launch on February 5 a full version of its new system, entitled Panama, the company's shares rose by 8 percent on Wednesday. The system, being introduced in the United States, will be launched a month earlier than Wall Street expected.The ad system is to bring the company in closer league with the number one search engine Google Inc. Yahoo's technology will permit various advertisers to pay for specific search terms, which are based on their popularity.Panama will also help advertisers in targeting ads that are sent to a specific audience on the Internet. The system will allow rotating ads in accordance with their effectiveness. Google have been offering these features for several years. Martin Pyykkonen, who is the analyst at Global Crown Capital, said that Yahoo was not as successful as Google but it still continues to strengthen its position as number 2. Although Google had a stronger software platform, Yahoo continues to register good results, which is worth something.Pyykkonen also mentioned that he is not forecasting any shifting in wholesales, and especially a sudden fall of Google, but he is sure that Yahoo will not be far behind Google; in fact the company is to shorten the gap between the two. The ability of Yahoo's new system, to draw more ad dollars from customers, should boost the company's growth in this year's second half. Yahoo is also dealing with a potential drop in prices regarding its key branded advertising sales. This is due to the competition provided by MySpace.com and YouTube.Russian liberal economist and politician Yegor Gaidar died on Wednesday at the age of 53. He was the son of the famous Russian journalist Timur Gaidar.Born in Moscow in 1956, he graduated in economics from Moscow State University in 1978. In January 1992 in the position of Russia's first finance minister he dropped state control over prices, making Russia a capitalist country with a market economy. While working as an acting Prime Minister of Russia, Gaidar provided the so-called "shock therapy" treatment of the Russian economy, a set of liberal economic reforms.His health was declining after he was allegedly poisoned in Ireland in 2006, collapsing soon after eating breakfast. This episode led to comparisons to Alexander Litvenenko, killed with radioactive polonium in November 2006.Yegor Gaidar died of a blood clot at his home in the Moscow region. He is survived by his wife, three sons and daughter. His funeral is scheduled to take place on Saturday, the burial place is yet to be decided.Yell accused Yellowikis co-founders Paul Youlten and his 15 year-old daughter Rosa Blaus of "misrepresentation", "passing off" and suggested that using the name Yellowikis could "constitute an 'instrument of fraud'." Passing off is defined as misrepresenting a product and passing it off as one's own. Passing off is a form of trademark infringement.Yell is demanding that Paul and Rosa close down the website, transfer the domain names to Yell and agree to pay damages to Yell for loss of profits. Yell made $2.4bn in 2005, whereas Yellowikis had a loss of $500. The $500 was used to print T-shirts promoting Yellowikis at the Wikimania conference in Frankfurt.Paul Youlten said: "This threat from Yell to shut us down looks like a sign of desperation. The whole yellow pages industry is in crisis. Use of the paper directories is collapsing as people get broadband Internet connections in their homes. Small and medium sized businesses are beginning to notice that their customers are ringing them up and saying 'I found you on Google' and not 'I found you in the yellow pages'."Rosa Blaus said: "Maybe they are a bit jealous of Yellowikis because we allow companies to add videos, skype IDs, email addresses, instant messaging, in as many categories and languages as they like for free." Blaus suggested to her father that they set up Yellowikis after she noticed small businesses were deleted from Wikipedia for not being "encyclopaedic".Yellowikis has been growing at 8.7% month-on-month and has 494 editors and about 5,000 articles listed.The threat of legal action came after an article published in The Independent newspaper mentioned Yellowikis.Yesterday, YouTube was told by Viacom Inc. to remove over 100,000 video clips thought to possibly feature content produced by Viacom owned companies after the two failed to reach an agreement for revenue sharing. Viacom said its content posted without permission on YouTube generate about 1.2 billion video streams, based on a study from an outside consultant.Viacom owns popular American companies such as MTV, Black Entertainment Television (BET) and Nickelodeon.Many users on YouTube upload copyrighted videos without permission everyday, sometimes unknowingly."YouTube and Google retain all of the revenue generated from this practice, without extending fair compensation to the people who have expended all of the effort and cost to create it," said Viacom in a statement."It's unfortunate that Viacom will no longer be able to benefit from YouTube's passionate audience which has helped to promote many of Viacom's shows," a YouTube spokesperson said. "We will continue to work with content partners large and small to provide them with a platform to promote their content and engage and grow their audiences."Companies such as CBS have reached deals with YouTube over using their content.YouTube has announced it will share the revenue, yielded due to video clips placed at the site, with their copyright owners. At present day YouTube  represents the most popular site sharing on-line video. In 2006 it was acquired  by Google Inc. As it was mentioned by Chad Hurley, YouTube's co-founder, at the World Economic Forum, held in Davos, Switzerland, the idea of paying amateur videographers was suggested by the desire to motivate and reward creativity. The revenue-sharing naturally implies the site's administrators will have to prescreen the video clips before presenting them at the site to guarantee their authenticity. The task is a complicated one, as about 100 million videos are submitted by 70 million users to YouTube every day. It also implies the clips taken by the users from movies, music videos and TV shows will not be accepted as they used to be up to the current time.It is quite a turn for the company as its initial success was built upon placing all the clips without prescreening them. However, it enables YouTube to avoid confrontation with videos' copyright holders. To fulfill the task of video prescreening, YouTube will have to apply the image-identifying technology elaborated by Google's best specialists. It is difficult to forecast whether the overall plan will bring further success to YouTube. Consider the competing site Revver that still has considerably less users is found among the first who shared its ads revenue, and GUBA, the site provided with  image-recognition screening technology, also does not reach the popularity enjoyed by YouTube.Electronic Gaming Monthly is now dead. EGM was one issue away from its 20th anniversary in February 2009. An internal email leaked to industry website Gamasutra on Tuesday revealed that EGM was to be closed following the acquisition of the online element of the 1UP network by competitor Hearst Corporation's UGO Entertainment and that the January 2009 issue (with Wolverine on the cover) would be the final printed issue of the iconic magazine. Ziff Davis's sale, brokered by GCA Savvian Advisors also includes Mycheats.com, Gametab.com, and GameVideos.com. Hearst Interactive is the owner and operator of UGO Entertainment. According to CEO Jason Young, the court proceedings help Ziff Davis “pay down debt and shift our full focus to our core PCMag Digital Network Business.” Davis had been focusing on PCMag Digital Network. As a result, around 30 employees of Ziff Davis' Game Group, including EGM Magazine's staff, 1UP Network's web staff, podcast and video producers lost their jobs. A UGO spokesman explained that "the reality is that UGO Entertainment is saving over 25 jobs, the company is retaining a core group of editorial all-star performers." Ziff Davis Holdings Inc (ZFDH.PK), which publishes EGM and about 15 Web sites, obtained Manhattan, New York Court Judge Burton Lifland's approval of a reorganization plan under Chapter 11, Title 11, United States Code. It was able, therefore, to emerge from its duly filed March bankruptcy protection petition.UGO Entertainment CEO J Moses left a note on EGM's gaming legacy, saying, "since we started UGO 11 years ago, we have served the gamer community and built a world-class online publishing platform." Ziff Davis Media CEO Jason Young further noted: "We believe this is a smart transaction for Ziff Davis Media that places these market leading assets and teams in a great environment poised for further success. The transaction allows us to pay down debt and shift our full focus to our core PCMag Digital Network business. We thank our 1UP team members for their contributions and wish them the best of success into the future." In July 2007, Hearst acquired the 11-year-old UGO Networks (Hearst Interactive) for an estimated price of $100 million. Established in 1998 by CEO J Moses, UGO is an online site targeting men aged 18 to 34. J Moses stated categorically that his company just saved 1UP and UGO never tried to acquire EGM. “Closing EGM has absolutely nothing to do with UGO. We have just hired 24 people and have expanded UGO by 33 percent, because our business is robust and growing. We only wanted to buy 1UP and related sites. That was our interest as a dot-com company and that’s all we’ve ever been for 11 years." Sam Kennedy, editorial director of 1UP, further explained that Ziff Davis was insolvent and 1UP was not financially healthy. "The reality of the market was that no company, including UGO, was willing to sustain 1UP as it was so the cuts were very painful but necessary to the survival of 1UP," he added.Electronic Gaming Monthly, which has been synonymous to video games for generations of gamers, was an American consumer video game magazine mainstay. It was published by Ziff Davis as part of the 1UP Network and released 12 issues a year (and an occasional extra "13th" issue for the Christmas season, also known as the "Smarch" issue, a reference to an episode of The Simpsons). As ZD's sole print magazine, EGM, a stalwart of the videogame industry and dubbed the New York Times of games journalism, has been losing money. The 20-year-old publication had 236 issues total, since its debut in 1989. In 2008, the company closed 27-year Games for Windows Magazine, or Computer Gaming World. In late 2006, Ziff-Davis also shuttered its Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine, while its  Xbox-focused XBN and Electronics Boutique in-store mag GMR were terminated in 2004. EGM's February issue, which is completed, will only be available digitally. Print publications have been suffering for years now, due to the global economic meltdown.Zimbabwe's 4.5 million students will not receive what was once the golden standard of education in Africa—or any education at all this school year. Political violence during the country's recent presidential elections hit schools hard with strikes, murder and violence against teachers, and looting. Some schools were turned into places of torture after teachers were driven out. The country's educators were targeted by Zimbabwe's ZANU-PF party, for alleged support of the opposition.Now the country faces a second crisis due to economic troubles and an inflation rate of two trillion percent. The few teachers still around have seen their salaries made worthless and are unable to acquire teaching supplies. "We don't even have chalk, or red pens, never mind books," says Amos Musoni, one of the few teachers still working. Schools like the one where Musoni works have given up educating and simply entertain the children before sending them off for lack of equipment.  Not even Zimbabwe's four top universities have been spared. The universities have been unable to open without funds, water, or electricity, like many public schools. College students, unable to register, are left waiting for more information.Pass rates in the nation went from 72 to eleven percent, with many schools not seeing even one pass. Schools in the countries have not been able to prepare students for tests without timetables or even the results from last year.The Zimbabwean government has allocated US$10 million worth of funds for the relocation of thousands of families living near the Chiadzwa diamond fields in the Manicaland province.Murisi Zwizwai, the Deputy Mines Minister, said that the funds would be used to build houses for the residents in the area, and for developments in . “I can confirm that US$10 million has been set aside for the relocation. The relocation may take place after they have harvested their crops,” he said in an interview, as quoted by the New Zimbabwe news agency.Zwizwai also added that “the money would be used to build new houses, clinics among others.” According to him, the residents would not be relocated until the 2009–10 agricultural season.In a 100-day plan, the Zimbabwean coalition government noted that diamonds in the area might be a large source of funds and finance for the country, and could help revive the economy.Economic Development Minister Elton Mangoma of Zimbabwe today unveiled a mid-range plan to relaunch and transform the Zimbabwean economy over the next five years, envisioning a 15% average rate of growth.Mangoma told reporters in the capital of Harare that he looked for 12.5% growth in gross domestic product in 2010 over the nearer term, after a projected 3.7% expansion this year.Mangoma said the country would not reintroduce the Zimbabwean dollar over the period but would stick with the multi-hard currency regimen adopted by the country's national unity government with transactions primarily in the US dollar and South African rand.He called for a market-driven economy, but said the country would review mining agreements where resources were not being tapped or where royalties had been set too low. He noted that mining operations should deliver clear benefits to surrounding communities."During the period [till 2015], the economy is expected to grow by an average growth rate of 15 percent from a level of 3.7 percent in 2009. This will be achieved through the restoration of productive capacity and creation of new capacities, aggressive infrastructure rehabilitation and development," he said.Zimbabwe's economy has been largely devastated after political upheaval in 2000, and extreme hyperinflation several months ago. The unity government formed earlier this year, however, has sparked some hope that the economy can rebound.Zimbabwe has decided to abandon its currency, the Zimbabwean dollar, in favour of other currencies.Acting Finance Minister Patrick Chinamasa announced today that Zimbabweans will be allowed to make transactions in other currencies along with the local currency. "In line with the prevailing practices by the general public, [the] government is therefore allowing the use of multiple foreign currencies for business transactions alongside the Zimbabwean dollar," he said, adding that the Zimbabwean dollar will not be removed from circulation and would be used alongside other currencies.This decision comes during the current period of hyperinflation, which has massively devalued the Zimbabwean dollar. Banknotes up to $100 trillion have been printed, despite the removal of ten zeroes from the currency last summer to try to make transactions easier. The official inflation rate, last updated in July 2008, was 231,000,000% a year, although independent estimates place the number as high as 6.5x10108, or 6.5 quindecillion novemdecillion, percent.Up to now, only vendors with licenses were legally able to accept foreign currencies, although the practice was widespread — private businesses altogether refuse to accept the unstable Zimbabwean dollar.Large sections of the workforce, including teachers and doctors, have gone on strike because hyperinflation rapidly renders their wages worthless. Representative groups said salaries, now measured in trillions of dollars, are insufficient to pay for even the bus fare to work.Zimbabwe also faces other crises, including a cholera epidemic that has claimed the lives of over 3,000 people, according to statistics from the World Health Organisation.The government of Ireland plans to inject €4 billion each into the Bank of Ireland and the Allied Irish Bank.An insurance scheme to underwrite bad debts would also be created and the banks will attempt to raise €1 billion from shareholders. The two banks have been in need of recapitalization for several weeks. The government had previously offered €2 billion. The deal will see the government take on up to €24 billion of risk from speculative property loans by the banks.The government has already moved to nationalize the country's third largest bank, Anglo Irish.