A retired biologist from Florida State University has captured photos of a rodent in Laos which scientists thought was extinct for 11 million years. Science education professor emeritus, David Redfield and bird watcher, Uthai Treesucon, were able to catch the rodent, but only after failing to do so four times. They returned it to the wild after they took photos and a video of the rodent."We went to Laos specifically to find this animal. We were extremely fortunate in so many ways to be able to do this. We photographed it with stills and a movie camera. Then we took it back to its habitat and released it. It's easily one of the most gratifying experiences of my life, and I hope these pictures will help in some way to prevent the loss of this marvellous animal," said Redfield.The rodent, whose scientific name is Laonastes aenigmamus, is called Laotian rock rat and known to local villagers as 'kha-nyou'. It belongs to the family Diatomyidae. It was photographed in Laos near the village of Doy, in May 2006. The rodent resembles a tree shrew or a squirrel. It walks like a duck and has angled feet that allow it to climb trees. These are the first live photos of the rodent to be taken, but last year, researchers found bodies of the dead animal being sold at local meat markets. The rodent has since been named as a new species."These images are extremely important scientifically, showing as they do an animal (with) such markedly distinctive anatomical and functional attributes. This is a truly exciting discovery," said Mary Dawson , the curator at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh, who confirmed the findings.The rodent was able to be officially named after researchers compared bones from fossils of the rodent found in Asia, to bones of a recently found Laotian rock rat. Last summer, a fossil of the same rodent was found in China."Dr Redfield's sighting of the living animal is the first to be recorded scientifically. These are the first photographic images of the recently discovered 'living fossil' Laonastes aenigmamus," said Dawson.During a press conference in Palo Alto, California, hunters of the mythical creature Bigfoot claimed to have found a corpse of the creature. Matt Whitton and Rick Dyer say that they were hunting for the creature in the forests of Northeastern Georgia in the United States when they came across the corpse of one of the alleged animals.After finding the body, Whitton and Dyer allegedly took it home, where it is currently being stored in a freezer. Despite the possibility of the historic find, they will not say where they found the body."We have no intentions of revealing the location. We want to protect this [creature]," stated Whitton during the press conference. He also mentioned that an autopsy is going to be conducted on the body.The two men had earlier claimed that DNA evidence, photos and video would be presented during the conference, but only one photo was shown. Whitton states that all evidence will be provided once the autopsy, scheduled for next week, is completed.The single photo shown at the conference portrays a blurred black figure in the distance. Whitton claims the creature was walking "parallel" to them as they hauled out the corpse. Another photo on Whitton's website www.searchingforbigfoot.com shows what is allegedly the corpse, decapitated and stuffed into a freezer.Tom Biscardi, founder of the Great American Bigfoot Research Organization, joined Whitton and Dyer at the press conference. Biscardi has previously been caught in a hoax. In 2005, his organization claimed to have caught a live male Bigfoot.Science website LiveScience, run by Imaginova, openly speculates that this is a hoax because of the involvement of Biscardi. It theorizes that this may be a marketing scheme to promote an upcoming film by Biscardi, entitled Bigfoot Lives.At least one other person states that the group's pronouncement is a hoax. Jerry Parrino, owner of TheHorrorDome.com, a website that sells Halloween costumes, was quoted as saying to Fox News that the photo appeared to resemble a costume that is being sold on his site."It definitely looks like our costume. This body has little to do with Bigfoot and everything to do with a Sasquatch costume that someone developed," stated Parrino.Despite the claim, the Fish and Wildlife Reserve refuses to investigate the alleged discovery because it does not appear on an endangered species list in either the state of Georgia or the U.S..A 70 centimeter (27.6 in) zander on Lake Maggiore, Switzerland was killed by police divers after it attacked several swimmers over the weekend. The fish weighed eight kilograms, or 17.5 pounds.The fish bit six bathers, two of whom required emergency medical treatment for bite wounds up to 10 centimeters (3.9 in) long. Fish warden Fabio Croci said, "It is quite unusual for Zanders to bite humans". It is suspected the fish's aggression could have been a result of a hormonal imbalance.After attempts to capture the Zander with a net failed, police divers resorted to harpooning it. Meat from the fish was later served to tourists around the lake.The fossilised skull of a Cretaceous crocodile has been unearthed from the coast of Dorset, United Kingdom.The 58 cm skull, which belongs to an animal called a Goniopholis, was discovered by Richard Edmonds, earth science manager for the Jurassic Coast World Heritage Site team. "It's only the second crocodile skull to be found in the area in the last 30 years. It was obviously a real piece of luck to find something like that. The crocodile skull really is the find of a lifetime." he said. Describing how he located the skull, he said “A part of my job is to monitor the condition of the rocks and fossils along the World Heritage Site but you don't expect to find something this spectacular without spending a lot more time on the coast. The back of the skull was lying in the rubble on the beach and the rest was trapped in the cliff fall.”The skull was discovered in April, but because the site is a Site of Special Scientific Interest it took two weeks to receive permission to dig it out, which had to be obtained from Natural England and the landowner. It was located after a small section was exposed by a cliff fall.The skull is now on display in the Swanage Museum and Heritage Centre where it is to remain until September, at which point it will be examined by experts from the Bristol University and the Natural History Museum. If these experts deem the skull to be of scientific significance it will be donated to a registered museum.Much discussion has been garnered over a massive 200 yard spider web discovered in Lake Tawakoni State Park, Eastern Texas, United States.The web is stretched across a 200 yard section of a nature trail in the park, covering the ground, bushes and even seven sizeable trees. Donna Garde, superintendent at the park, described the web and its effectiveness: "At first, it was so white it looked like fairyland. Now it's filled with so many mosquitos that it's turned a little brown. There are times you can literally hear the screech of millions of mosquitoes caught in those webs."Mike Quinn, an invertebrate biologist with the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, described a high level of interest in the web: "I've been hearing from entomologists [sic] from Ohio, Kansas, British Columbia, all over the place." It was Quinn who originally posted images of the web on the internet, sparking the intense interest.There is much debate amongst experts over the reasons for the web's construction, with some believing it was created by social spiders living as a colony, and others suggesting it is possibly a system of mass dispersal, with the spiders building webs in order to spread out. There is also uncertainty over the species of spider responsible, although it is known that smaller webs of an otherwise similar nature have been discovered elsewhere in the park, on another trail. It is thought that the species is likely a member of the genus Tetragnatha.John Jackman, a professor and extension entomologist for Texas A&M University and author of A Field Guide to the Spiders and Scorpions of Texas, said that the phenomenon is not particularly unusual and that reports are submitted to him every few years detailing similar webs. "There are a lot of folks that don't realize spiders do that," Jackman said. "Until we get some samples sent to us, we really won't know what species of spider we're talking about."However, other experts disagree over the unusual nature of the discovery. "From what I'm hearing, it could be a once-in-a-lifetime event," said Herbert "Joe" Pase, a Texas Forest Service entomologist. "It's very, very unusual."The web is expected to begin to disintegrate soon, as the spiders die out over Autumn. "It would make a good Halloween set, wouldn't it?" said park ranger Freddie Gowin, who found the giant web while mowing last month. However, it is not anticipated to survive until October 31st.Roger D. Kornberg of Stanford University won the 2006 Nobel Prize for chemistry "for his studies of the molecular basis of eukaryotic transcription". Kornberg's prize-winning work explains how information encoded in genes is used to produce the proteins that keep cells functioning.Eucaryotes are a multi-celled organisms, such as animals, plants and fungi, which have their genetic material stored in nuclei within their cells. In order to use their genetic information, eukaryotes must extract bits of the coded information. This occurs via the formation of messenger RNA, which consists of copies of a particular gene within the DNA strand. Protein biosynthesis takes place when proteins are built from the information transcribed with the messenger RNA. Eucaryotic transcription is vital for life. If the transcription is interrupted, as can happen when cells are exposed to certain toxins, the cells will die. Kornberg documented eukaryotic transcription with snapshots of the process in action. He created the snapshots by crystallizing cellular material partway through transcription, and exposing them to x-rays that produced patterns revealing the intermediate structures. Kornberg's work is vital for our understanding of life at the molecular level, and may lead to novel drugs and medical treatments. Kornberg's father Arthur Kornberg won the Nobel Prize in physiology and medicine in 1959 for explaining how organisms make DNA from amino acids.Two fossilized trees with their roots, trunks and heads still attached, and are said to be over 380 million years old, have been found in the state of New York inside a rock quarry near Gilboa, New York in the USA.Researchers call the extinct tree a Wattieza and this particular tree stood over 30 feet tall and used spores to reproduce rather than seeds. It may have even looked like many palms trees that exist today, but did not have any leaves. Instead they had fronds much like a fern."These were very big trees. Our reconstruction shows them to be a lot longer and much more treelike than any of the reconstructions before. I don’t think any of us dared think of them being quite that big," said paleobotanist at the State University of New York at Binghamton, and one of the researchers who studied the tree, William Stein.Over 130 years ago in 1870, the same kind of trees, but only the stumps, were also found in Gilboa after flood waters caused the stumps to be exposed. A few decades later in the 1920s, another set of stumps were found in the same area.In 2004, the researchers found a top to one of the trees that weighed almost 400 pounds not too far from Gilboa.Researchers say that these trees likely shaped the forests of Earth as we see them today, and that the trees existed long before dinosaurs were roaming the planet."In forming the first forests, they must have really changed the Earth system as a whole, creating new types of micro-environments for smaller plants and insects, storing large amounts of carbon and binding the soil together. The rise of forests removed a lot of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. This caused temperatures to drop and the planet became very similar to its present-day conditions," said the leader of the research team, Christopher Berry.Wattiezas were most common during the Devonian period and existed on the planet before fish evolved sufficiently to leave the seas.Philippine fishermen, volunteers and authorities with dozens of fishing boats have joined hands in guiding back to sea about 500 disorientated melon-headed whales that were stranded in the shallow waters near the mouth of Manila Bay delta in the Bataan Peninsula.The gentle mammals were first spotted swimming back and forth and straying very dangerously close (about a mile or 1.6 kilometers) to the shores of the coastal towns of Pilar, Orion and Abucay 135 kilometers northwest of Manila at around at around 4:00 am on Tuesday, said Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) Commodore Luis Tuazon and Bataan Governor Enrique Garcia Jr.The Philippines Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (BFAR) said its has responded to the reported mass "stranding" of whales off Pilar coastal waters in the province of Bataan where the famous and historic Corregidor Island is located. Using dozens of fishing boats with machines shut down and bare hands, more than 100 village fishermen and volunteers along with BFAR, local police and Philippine Coast Guard personnel have joined the massive rescue. With great difficulty, the emergency team has waded into the chest-deep water, clapping their hands and hitting the surface to guide and drive the whales farther away from the coastal shore to deeper waters."The mammals were at first thought to have been dolphins, but experts then identified them as melon-headed whales," local veterinarian Mariel Flores said. "This type of whale can be easily mistaken for dolphins because of their size and their teeth, which resemble those of dolphins. The mammals have ears that are sensitive to large changes in pressure underwater," she added."It looked like they never wanted to leave. They looked sad,” said Rodolfo Joson, a village councilor. Joson and his son, Joey, a fisherman like him, have rushed home at about 4 a.m. to report the pod sighting. “It was still dark when we waded into the water. The whales were about 200 meters from the shore. The water was up to my neck. We first checked their conditions by playing with them. They did not repel us or leave. They were making hooting sounds,” Joson explained the mass beaching. “It seemed they were running away from waters that they didn’t like. Dolphins are happy and strong creatures. They raced with ships,” he added.A post-mortem examination has revealed that four dead whales found beached farther up north in Abucay, Bataan, include two adult females, one of which was pregnant, while the other gave birth to a calf that also died, said Dr. Lemnuel Aragones of Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport who did the necropsy at the Bataan fisheries office in Balanga City.This is the first time that such large numbers of dolphins had been stranded in the Philippines. "We are trying to come up with a possible explanation to this unusual occurrence. It could be that the dolphins had lost their bearings and inadvertently ended up on the shallow portion of the coast unable to extricate themselves," said Dr Lemuel Aragones, Associate Professor at the UP Institute of Environmental Science and Meteorology. Dr Aragones, who holds a PhD on Tropical Environmental Studies (Marine Ecology) from Australia's James Cook University, explained that "the melon-headed whales of the dolphin family have sophisticated navigation systems that operate on a principle similar to sonar instruments used in submarines. Like humans, dolphins also follow a 'leader' of their pod. It is possible that the leader of this dolphin [pod] had somehow lost its way. In turn, the leader’s acoustic system, which serves as its guidance system, might have been impaired," the marine expert elaborated.Dr Aragones said "BFAR, UPIESM, and the Ocean Adventure Marine Park in Subic started the Philippine Marine Mammals Stranding Network (PMMSN) in 2005 as a response to cetacean strandings or beachings." She cited the PMMSN training received by BFAR officers in Bataan during Tuesday's mass beaching. She has asked the government to release funds for marine mammal studies.The two adults had damaged eardrums, Alberto Venturina, the provincial veterinarian, said. "Dolphins with injured eardrums become disoriented, cannot dive for food and are too weak to swim and just flow with the current. If it's a sick leader, the animal needs to be identified and taken out of sight of the rest of the pod so the healthy dolphins could be prodded back to sea," he added."The two animals were identified as melon-headed dolphins, weighing about 250 to 300 kilograms (550 to 660 pounds)," explained Venturina, adding "the third dolphin was only a month old and measured barely a meter long. Its gender had not yet been determined."According to Nelson Bien, head of the Fisheries Resource and Management Division of BFAR Region III, a necropsy by BFAR, the provincial veterinarian, and veterinarians from the Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport has traced the cause of their death to drowning. The marine doctors have determined that the marine mammals might have drowned after failing to extricate themselves from the fishing nets or "baklad," explained Dr. Mundita Lim, director of the Protected Areas and Wildlife Bureau (PAWB) of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR). “There were no injuries to their ears, like visible lesions, but the possibility of an acoustic problem or trauma is still there,” Dr Lim explained, saying, "more tests, like analysis of tissue samples and MRI tests will have to be done to see if there were other injuries to the animals not visible externally."They are sending tissue samples to the University of Philippines in Los Baños, Laguna for analysis. “If it was something like climate change, then it would be a bigger environmental problem,” Lim added.A fourth and pregnant one was also found dead in the village of Tortugas in the town of Balanga, Bataan, said Bien, saying they were investigating the incident and would conduct a “water quality and water parameter test” to determine why the dolphins beached to shallow waters. The condition of melon-headed whale found at Talisay River and taken to Ocean Adventure in Subic Freeport has improved amid forced feeding and treatment of its 2 wounds, said Nilo Ramoso, Biologist III, Pawikan Conservation Project.Dr. Westly Rosario, BFAR Center chief in Dagupan City, has reported that BFAR personnel were also investigating a “problem in the water, probably chemical pollution,” to explain why the dolphins beached and sought shelter in the shallow waters. The dolphins have faced the same direction and their blowholes above water, they seemed to be avoiding something. “The dolphins were behaving in the same way, they have the same action. People were trying to drive them back into the sea but they refused. There could be chemical pollution somewhere which they were avoiding,” Rosario explained.Dolphins' disorientation is sometimes caused by the changes in earth's magnetic field “that cause the dolphins’ navigational mechanisms to go haywire,” Dr. Edgardo Gomez, professor emeritus of the University of the Philippines Marine Science Institute, said, adding that "it could also be chemicals in the water that affected the dolphins, although this should be proven by water tests." Philippine marine biologist Rizza Salinas said a possible cause for the stranding of large pods of distressed whales is that there could have been illegal dynamite fishing in the area.“This is very strange. What is also unusual is they appeared disoriented. I am on my way to Bataan on board BFAR’s patrol vessel. We will look into the situation. Our patrol boats are also on their way to the area. We are also getting experts on stranding," said BFAR director Malcolm Sarmiento Jr. Sarmiento, explaining that the highest number of stranded dolphins recorded by the BFAR was only 20 to 30. "It's something unusual. It's the first time that such a large pod has entered Manila Bay, and is acting strangely," Sarmiento added."Most strandings are caused by seaquakes, heat wave or disturbances at sea. Such disturbances affect the pressure underwater, which subsequently affects the dolphins’ eardrums and sense of balance, leading to their "disorientation." The creatures then will avoid diving in deeper parts of the ocean and will swim to shallow areas. They came from the north and were headed towards the South China Sea," Sarmiento explained, adding that the unusual occurrence may have also been caused when the pod could have been following a sick or injured leader.Sarmiento has appealed to the public not to inflict harm on the dolphins, which are considered threatened species. "Please do not harm the dolphins because they are already endangered. The authorities should also prevent the people who want to inflict harm on the creatures. They should be arrested, if needed." Melon-head dolphins are considered threatened species — meaning they are likely to become endangered in the future. "At around 12 noon, the dolphins were finally guided to the open seas, but residents in Hermosa near Mariveles were surprised to see the dolphins near their shoreline, but around 4:30 pm, all the dolphins have left the shoreline and swam towards into deeper waters," said Governor Garcia."The dolphins swam parallel back to Abucay, Hermosa, and Manila Bay before they were eventually herded farther offshore. There are theories that this phenomenon was a result of the Monday night lunar eclipse. The Fisheries Bureau will know after their tests,” Garcia added. Having suspected the dolphins’ habitat must have been disrupted, forcing them to flee and seek refuge in shallow waters, Senate of the Philippines Majority Leader, Juan Miguel Zubiri on Tuesday asked experts to probe the cause of the sudden appearance of more than 300 electra dolphins near the shores of Pilar town in Bataan province Tuesday morning.Senator Zubiri wanted the experts to examine the possibility that an earthquake study, involving an undersea experiment using blasting in the South China Sea by the Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory (L-DEO) - a collaborator of Columbia University - caused the abnormal behavior of the small whales.Citing an International Union for Conservation of Nature research concluding that the melon-headed whales may have been distracted by the South China Sea study, forcing the dolphins to wander in the shallow waters, Senator Zubiri said that “the earthquake study is a sea floor investigation project in the exclusive economic zone that includes Taiwan, China, Japan and the Philippines for its earthquake research. On top of saving stranded dolphins, we should find the cause for the tragedy in order to avoid them in the future and to be prepared when it occurs again," he explained.But according to Erlinton Olavare, Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS) science research specialist, “no significant event was recorded by their stations in Bolinao, Sta. Cruz and Lubag, near Pilar at the time the dolphins were stranded Tuesday."Department of Environment and Natural Resources Secretary Jose L. Atienza, Jr. said Bataan Gov. Enrique “Tet” Garcia on Wednesday confirmed there was dynamite fishing in his province. “I asked him [Garcia] and he confirmed it. He also said he was battling this illegal activity,” said Atienza. “The causes of the acoustic trauma could have been sound waves caused by dynamite fishing or sounds emitted by passing ships or seaquakes,” Gov. Garcia said. "Dolphins are a 'cohesive' group and that they follow where their leader takes them. If the leader of the dolphins was sick, then the animal could have committed a “navigational error” and led the rest of the group to shore," said the Whale and Dolphin Conservation Society (WDCS)."The pod of melon-headed whales (dolphins) on Manila Bay were injured by a rather nasty group of more than 120 undersea earthquakes. The swarm started with a small magnitude-4.5 event on December 21, 2008. Things got red-hot on January 3, 2009 when a magnitude-7.6 event erupted near the water’s edge on Papua Island in Indonesia, 700 miles southeast of Davao City in Mindanao. The 7.6 magnitude quake was followed by more than 120 major aftershocks each one capable by itself of inflicting injury on a pod of dolphins," said Capt. David Williams, a retired marine mammal researcher, a commercial sea captain for 40 years and active whale conservationist. Capt. Williams explained that whales and dolphins have small air sacs (pterygoid sinuses) that surround each inner ear and help then sense sound direction underwater. A damaged pterygoid air sac results in the loosing of echonavigation and echolocation. "In summary, my Seaquake Theory indicates that barotrauma, as a result of exposure to potent earthquake-induced changes in ambient pressure, solves the centuries-old mystery of why whales and dolphins mass-strand on beaches around the world," Capt. Williams concluded.An explosive blast and explosive decompression create a pressure wave that can induce barotrauma. The difference in pressure between internal organs and the outer surface of the body causes injuries to internal organs that contain gas, such as the lungs, gastrointestinal tract, and ear.According to the Natural History Museum experts, whale and dolphins can become confused, mis-read the Earth's magnetic fields, fear certain sounds and get lost. Since 1913, it has investigated all strandings, more than 11,000 so far, and it runs the UK Whale and Dolphin Stranding Scheme. New Zealand's Project Jonah has claimed that the largest recorded beach stranding was in 1918 when 1,000 pilot whales were stranded on New Zealand's Chatham Islands. The last mass beaching in the Philippines was in 1956 when around 12 sperm whales were stranded in a coastal area in Capiz, amid at least 10 yearly strandings that happened in the country involving only one or two animals that were either sick or dying.Last January this year, Filipino fishermen have also rescued an endangered sea cow. The fishermen aided the beached sea cow to the deep sea, according to the Worldwide Fund for Nature.The Melon-headed whale (Peponocephala electra; many-toothed blackfish and electra dolphin) is a cetacean of the oceanic dolphin family (Delphinidae). As small members of the dolphingroup, it is closely related to the Pygmy Killer Whale and Pilot Whale, and collectively these dolphin species are known by the common name blackfish.The tender mammal can grow up to 2.7 meters (9 feet) and weigh as much as 210 kilograms (460pounds). With black triangular “mask” on its face, it appears dark gray to black in color, has no discernible beak and its head is shaped like a rounded melon, thus the name. Its primary diet is squid and fish. The Melon-headed whale lives well off-shore in all the world's tropical and sub-tropical oceans. At the northern fringes of its range it may also be found in the warm currents of temperate waters. Ordinarily, however, it is found beyond the continental shelf between 20° S and 20° N. The Melon-headed whale is widespread throughout the world's tropical waters, although not often seen by humans on account of its preference for deep water. It has been found in Ireland, Hawaii and Cebu, in the Philippines.As social species, they are covered by the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 in the United States. In July 2004, between 150 and 200 melon-headed whales occupied the shallow waters of Kauai island in Hawaii for over 28 hours, after which, they were rescued and guided to deeper water. This incident may have been related to nearby United States Navy sonar exercise. The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) which includes the melon-headed whales in its Red List of threatened species said that the number of whales involved in mass stranding had increased in the last 30 years."The melon-headed whales are likely to be “vulnerable” to loud sounds, such as those generated by navy sonar and seismic exploration. Evidence from stranded whales also has indicated that they may have died after swallowing plastic items. It has been predicted that the whales will be affected by global climate change, but the impact is still unclear," the IUCN explained.At first glance, the Weddell Sea in northwest Antarctica may not appear to be teeming with life. Far below the surface there, though, an international team of scientists together with the British Antarctic Survey (BAS) reported finding at least 700 new species.The new species identified include carnivorous sponges, free-swimming worms, and 674 species of isopod crustaceans and molluscs. The species were found at depths between 2,500 feet to 20,000 feet (750–6,350 meters). Isopods, one of the most diverse orders of crustaceans, accounts for 585 of the new species discovered."The Antarctic deep sea is potentially the cradle of life of the global marine species. Our research results challenge suggestions that the deep sea diversity in the Southern Ocean is poor. We now have a better understanding in the evolution of the marine species and how they can adapt to changes in climate and environments," said Angelika Brandt, a professor at the Zoological Institute and Zoological Museum, University of Hamburg and head researcher of the team who made the discovery.The international team discovered the new species through three expeditions, between 2002 and 2005, with the research vessel Polarstern. The project was called the Antarctic benthic (the lowest level of the ocean) deep-sea biodiversity project (ANDEEP). At least 14 research groups joined the effort to map the biodiversity of the sea-floor landscape, the continental slope and at different water depths."The isopods, ostracods (seed shrimp) and nematodes, which are poor dispersers, include many species currently known only from the Southern Ocean," the report says. The team's findings were published yesterday in the leading scientific journal Nature. The contributors were from the United Kingdom, Germany, Belgium, the United States, Russia and Switzerland.Scientists have discovered a place on the outside part of AIDS virus that might be vulnerable to antibodies blocking the virus from infecting human cells. This could mean that an anti-HIV vaccine is possible in the future. According to Peter Kwong, researcher at U.S National Institute of Health (NIH), this study is likely to contribute to finding HIV's "site of vulnerability" which could then be targeted with a vaccine that prevents the initial infection. The team of researchers have made atomic-level images of HIV and revealed the structure of a protein on the surface of the virus. This protein, called gp120, binds to an infection-fighting antibody and seems to be susceptible to attacks by this antibody called 'b12'. B12 can broadly neutralize the virus. Researchers detailed the precise interaction as the virus tries to hook on to and infect cells sent to protect the body. They have captured an image of how the virus of human immunodeficiency attacks the human cells. Dr. Gary Nabel, an NIH vaccine expert and a co-author of the research, describes this first contact between the virus and the cells as a 'cautious handshake' which then becomes a 'hearty bear hug'. The virus grabs and infects the cells that are aimed at protecting the body. Then the virus mutates quickly to fight the immune system's attacks as well as to counter the effect of antibodies that block the proteins with help of which HIV binds to a cell to infect it.Scientists agree that a vaccine against AIDS would be an ideal way to stop the pandemic of this disease, but, with all importance of these findings, much work and studies are still needed. This implies that any vaccine against AIDS is probably still many years away. The AIDS virus has killed more than 25 million people since it was first detected in 1981. Sub-Saharan Africa is the most severely affected by the epidemic. Approximately 40 million people live with HIV.About a dozen potential vaccines are currently under development. Two products, one by Merck and one by Sanofi-Aventis, are now in advanced human trials.University of Chicago, Illinois biologists Dr. Benjamin Voight, Dr. Sridhar Kudaravalli, Dr. Xiaoquan Wen and Dr. Jonathan Pritchard have identified regions of human DNA showing the strongest marks of natural selection within the last 5,000 to 15,000 years.They found that many recent genetic changes are related to the development of agriculture.  In particular, the genes for digestion of milk into adulthood occurred only after some level of domestication of animals.  Most mammals drink milk only in infancy.The work may shed light on the genetic factors involved in various human medical conditions, including high blood pressure and alcoholism.The Chicago finding also contradicts the tacit assumption of much social science that human evolution "ground to a halt" in the distant past.  Even evolutionary psychologists have tempered their claims based upon this assumption.The study is based upon DNA changes found in three populations examined by the HapMap project: Africans, East Asians and Europeans.The study has been published in PLOS-Biology.New York — A drug-resistant and quick-acting form of HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, has been detected in New York City, according to officials.Although diagnosed in only one man so far, this mutated version of the virus progresses to AIDS faster than other forms of HIV, officials said. Diagnosed with HIV in mid-October, the unnamed New York City man developed the full-blown form AIDS by mid-January. Normally HIV infection can take up to 10 years to develop into AIDS. Dr. Ronald O. Valdiserri, the director of HIV/AIDS prevention at the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC), told the New York Times this new strain of virus is unique because of the rapid progression of the disease and its resistance to multiple AIDS drug regimens. Although the New York case appears to be isolated at this time, the CDC has sent a nation-wide alert to health departments in every state."It appears this individual has contracted a new, particularly virulent strain of HIV that swiftly advanced to AIDS in just a few short months," Charles Farthing, MD, AIDS Healthcare Foundation's Chief of Medicine said in a press release. "Unfortunately, it also seems that few of the AIDS treatments currently available today can be used in his case, as this particular strain of infection appears to be resistant to most known AIDS drugs."Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, commissioner of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, urged all newly-diagnosed HIV patients to get tested to see if they have this new form of the virus. He also said all sexually active people should be tested for the HI virus.New York health officials said they estimate that about 88,000 New Yorkers have HIV infection or AIDS and that an additional 20,000 are infected but unaware of their condition.Honey-bee decline has accelerated in North America beyond the steady attrition of the past 25 years according to scientists and farmers.  A relatively new term - "Colony Collapse Disorder" is being used to describe this poorly understood phenomenon. Colony Collapse Disorder (or CCD) is a syndrome evidenced by massive die-off affecting an entire insect population.  The cause of the syndrome is not yet well understood. CCD may be caused by mites or associated diseases or unknown pathogens. CCD is possibly linked to pesticide use though several studies have found no common environmental factors between unrelated outbreaks studied. According to Dennis vanEngelsdorp, a bee specialist with the Pennsylvania State Department of Agriculture, "We are pretty sure, but not certain, that it is a contagious disease."Honey-bees are responsible for approximately one third of the United States crop pollination including such species as: peaches, soybeans, apples, pears, pumpkins, cucumbers, cherries, raspberries, blackberries and strawberries.From 1971 to 2006, approximately one half of the U.S. honey-bee colonies vanished. The rate of attrition reached new proportions in the year 2006, which were alarming to many farmers and honey-bee scientists.At least eleven different states as well as portions of Canada are known to have been affected by colony collapse disorder.  The disorder has been identified in a geographically diverse group of states including Georgia, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and California.  In some states the loss of honey-bee colonies is estimated as high as 75 percent of the population.  The phenomenon is particularly important for crops such as almond growing in California, where honey-bees are the predominant pollinator and the crop value is $US 1.5 billion.  Total U.S. crops that are wholly dependent on the honey-bee are known to exceed $US 15 billion. In a related development on January 17, 2007, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has drastically tightened use rules on some of the chief pesticides used on apples, blueberries, grapes, peaches, pears and other fruits pollenized by honey-bees.  Citing general environmental protection and farmworker safety, the EPA recently announced the tightening of use or phaseout of the highly toxic pesticides phosmet and Azinphos methyl.  Under these rule changes the use of these organophosphate pesticide would be allowed continued use for five years but have somewhat reduced dosage limits. Azinphos methyl is a dangerous neurotoxin derived from nerve agents used during World War II.At UCLA, a team of researchers has developed a harmless version of HIV that is designed to seek out, and potentially destroy, cancer cells. In a laboratory-mouse experiment, the treated cells headed directly for melonoma and lung cancer cells, clustering around them with a surprising level of intuitiveness. Gene therapy for cancer has been at an impasse for the last 20 years, said the team, but now an effective carrier has been found in the most unlikely of sources. Essentially, one of the world’s largest health threats is now being considered to fight another.Says Dr. Irvin Chen, from UCLA's AIDS Institute, "The disarmed AIDS virus acts like a Trojan horse, transporting therapeutic agents to a targeted part of the body, such as the lungs, where tumors often spread." First the virus's coating is removed and the virus is reprogrammed so that it recognizes and attaches to the p-lipoproteins of a cancer cell, one of cancer's primary defenses. The retro-virus was also altered with a fluorescent protein for easy tracking within the lab mice. The next step will be to graft a cancer-killing gene onto the modified AIDS virus's genetic structure. Currently, a case of melanoma skin cancer spreading to the lungs is a confirmed death sentence. Should this method of treatment improve into a workable treatment, both life-threatening cancers and the AIDS retro-virus could be effectively neutered.  But the team cautions that the treatment is in the very early stages and will take several more years to develop.Two studies published in the July 2009 issue of the Journal of Alzheimer's Disease point to caffeine as reducing beta amyloid, a protein that in sticky clumps called senile plaque is a sign of Alzheimer's disease.Researchers had 55 mice who were genetically altered and exhibited memory loss at age 18 to 19 months (close to about age 70 in a human). Half the mice received the equivalent of five 8 ounce cups of regular coffee a day or 500 milligrams, about the same as in two cups of specialty coffees like Starbucks, in their drinking water. This half of the mice recovered and had memories as sharp as older mice who did not have dementia."The new findings provide evidence that caffeine could be a viable 'treatment' for established Alzheimer's disease, and not simply a protective strategy," said Gary Arendash, PhD, a University of South Florida neuroscientist with the Florida Alzheimer's Disease Research Center and a lead author of a study. "That's important because caffeine is a safe drug for most people, it easily enters the brain, and it appears to directly affect the disease process."The researchers hope to begin human trials based on their two months work in mice. Neil Hunt, CEO of the Alzheimer's Society said, "[M]uch more research is needed to determine whether drinking coffee has the same impact in people. It is too soon to say whether a cup of coffee is anything more than a pleasant pick me up."Researchers say that ambidextrous children are at greater risk of difficulties at school, language problems, and disorders such as attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) than those who are left-handed or right-handed.  Dr Alina Rodriguez, from the School of Public Health at Imperial College, London, and a team of researchers from various European universities studied nearly 8,000 children from the north of Finland; 87 of these were ambidextrous (mixed-handed).  Parents, teachers and the children themselves assessed language skills, academic achievement and behaviour.  At ages 7 and 8, the ambidextrous children had double the rate of language problems and were twice as likely to have problems at school.  At age 15 and 16, the proportion of those with ADHD symptoms was twice as many in the ambidextrous group, and their ADHD symptoms tended to be worse.  Ambidextrous children in the study also had a higher rate of language problems.The number of people who are ambidextrous is unclear, with estimates ranging from 1% to 5%. Scientists do not know why some people use both hands when the majority of people prefer to use one predominantly. The theory is that there is something different in the brains of ambidextrous people, although Rodriguez says that more work in the area is needed. A person who prefers using their right hand will have a more dominant left hemisphere of the brain, which is the part of the brain for language skills. Rodriguez and her researchers have suggested that the right hemisphere of the brain of an ambidextrous child is weaker compared to that of a right-handed child, increasing their susceptible to problems with attention.  Previous suggestions about the causes of ADHD include the possibility that a person's right hemisphere has weaker function. Earlier studies have drawn links between dyslexia and being ambidextrous, and other studies are looking at the part that differences between the two sides of the brain play in language skills and psychosis.Rodriguez emphasised that the research, published in the journal Pediatrics in the United States, did not show that all ambidextrous children would have such problems, pointing out that most of the children in the survey did not develop them.  "Our study suggests that handedness is really a marker for atypical foetal brain development — showing that the brain is working in a different way to the norm", she said, adding that other studies have shown atypical brain development to be associated with extraordinary creativeness. She also suggested that the results may assist schools and health care workers in targeting children at risk of problems.American botanist Lou Jost, one of the world's leading orchid hunters, has discovered the smallest orchid in the world among the roots of a larger plant in a nature reserve in Bolivia, South America. The 2.1mm wide flowers have transparent petals, which are only one cell thick. The finding tops the previous record of Platystele jungermannioides with 2.5mm flowers.Lou Jost discovered the new species accidentally, looking at a bigger plant from the Cerro Candelaria reserve in the eastern Andes. The reserve was created by a British organisation World Land Trust in partnership with Fundacion EcoMinga, for which the discoverer works. In fact, Ecuador is the place of discovery of more than 1,000 new species of orchids in the past century."I found it among the roots of another plant that I had collected, another small orchid which I took back to grow in my greenhouse to get it to flower. A few months later I saw that down among the roots was a tiny little plant that I realised was more interesting than the bigger orchid. Looking at the flower is often the best way to be able to identify which species of orchid you've got hold of – and can tell you whether you're looking at an unknown species or not." he said.The finding was identified as belonging to genus Platystele, like the previous record holder, and is the 60th new species of orchid that Dr Jost had discovered in the past decade.Scientists from the United Kingdom who spent one year watching orangutans have revealed in a study that humans may have learned to walk while still living in the trees, and that humans may not be that closely related to chimpanzees."An increasing number of people have been questioning this old 'up from the apes' idea" of how bipedalism evolved. As the forests became sparse, the strategy of our human ancestors was more or less to abandon the canopies and come down to the ground, where they could use this bipedalism immediately to get around," said one University of Liverpool scientist who headed the study, Robin Crompton.Museums and schools across the world have been teaching that humans evolved from an animal much like that of a chimpanzee and that humans started to walk along the forest floors, with their arms hanging, and knuckles scraping across the ground. It is also taught that those animals then began to walk upright once they adapted to living on the ground.Orangutans were observed by researcher Susannah Thorpe of the University of Birmingham in Sumatra, Indonesia for one year. She documented that the orangutans would generally walk on their hands and feet, but when food was at a height that they could not reach, the orangutans would stand on their feet, extend upright, and grab the fruit or food item they want. This movement also allowed them to swing from the branches of trees more efficiently, without having to touch the forest floor."When they move to the skinniest branches, where the tastiest fruit grows, they stand stiffly straight-legged, like a person. It's energetically quite economical for orangutans to feed and move on these bendy branches using bipedalism," said Thorpe who also has over 3,000 different movements on film that show orangutans standing on their own 2 feet, upright, and reaching for objects."Our conclusion is that arboreal bipedalism had very strong adaptive benefits. So, we don't need to explain how our ancestors could have gone from being quadrupedal to being bipedal," added Thorpe.The researchers also compared evidence from the remains of Lucy, past climate conditions on the planet and fossils to the workings of orangutans, and all suggest that humans were living and swinging in the trees for a much longer period of time than previously thought. The study shows that humans may have learned to walk at least 24 million years ago, rather than 6 million years ago.Some experts disagree with the study."The main evidence is that our closest living relatives are not orangutans, they're chimps and gorillas, and since both climb trees and walk on their knuckles, it's most likely our ancestors did that too. One of the only anatomical features we share explicitly with chimps and gorillas is that we only have eight wrists bones, while almost all other primates have nine. In humans, chimps and gorillas, two bones have fused into one to stabilise the wrist, making it stronger for knuckle-walking. It's not a smoking gun, but it's the best evidence we have," said anthropologist at George Washington University, Brian Richmond.In findings published on Wednesday in the journal PLOS ONE, an international team of scientists report ancient Egyptians captured sacred ibises (Threskiornis aethiopicus) from the wild for use in ritual sacrifice rather than domesticating the birds.Millions of mummified ibis birds have been found in Egyptian tombs and catacombs in Saqqara and Tuna el-Gebel, and Egyptologists have reported they were sacrificed to the god Thoth, who is often depicted with the head of an ibis, the way Horus is shown with the head of a falcon and Bast with the head of a cat.Lead author Sally Wasef of Australia's Griffith University explained to the press, "The ibis was considered [to represent] the god Thoth, the god of wisdom, the god of magic, the god of judgment, writing all sorts of things [...] If you had a boss that annoys you and you don't feel like you are getting a good judgment from him or you want fairness and justice, you go and ask Thoth to interfere and in return you promise to offer him an ibis, a mummified ibis, in his annual feast."Some scholars have suggested Egyptians raised or farmed the birds to make them available in the necessary numbers.  While some ancient Egyptian writers made passing mention of feeding bread and plants to ibises, according to Wasef archaeologists have not yet turned up any hatchery structures.The team collected DNA samples from mummified birds collected from six separate catacombs including sites at Abydos, Saqqara, and Tuna el-Gebel with permission from the Egyptian Ministry of State for Antiquity, and several museums offered to send tissue samples from the mummified ibises in their collections.  They were able to extract complete mitochondrial DNA sequences from fourteen.  These they compared to those of 26 modern ibises from different parts of Africa — ibises of this species disappeared from Egypt itself during modern times.  They found the DNA sequences from the ancient birds to be relatively diverse.  If the birds had been domesticated or even heavily farmed, they reasoned, the Egyptian specimens would have shown only a little genetic diversity.Wasif suggested, in likelihood, "next to each temple there was like a lake or a wetland — it is a natural habitat for the ibis to live in and if you are giving them food they will keep coming[.]"According to the researchers, sacrifice and mummification of sacred ibises was common in Egypt from about 664 b.c.e. to 250 c.e., from the twenty-sixth dynasty into the early period of Roman Egypt.An international team has extracted and sequenced a protein from a 75,000-year-old Neanderthal fossil in research that demonstrates a new method of comparing genetic relationships between organisms."This research opens up the possibility of getting detailed protein information from past human populations, to make inferences about the evolution of human diet and physiology," says Erik Trinkaus of Washington University in St. Louis.The research was led by Trinkaus and colleagues from Washington University in St. Louis and the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany. The oldest fossil human protein ever sequenced, the protein came from a Neanderthal discovered in Shanidar Cave, Iraq.Protein sequences can be used in a similar way to DNA to provide information on genetic relationships between extinct and living species. Since ancient DNA rarely survives, protein sequencing could be used to determine such relationships for very old fossils that no longer contain DNA. For their study, Trinkaus and colleagues sequenced the bone protein osteocalcin from a Neanderthal and found that it is the same as that in modern humans. The researchers also found big differences in the sequences of Neanderthals, humans, chimpanzees and orangutans from that of gorillas and most other mammals. They suggest that this is a dietary response related to an abundance of vitamin C in the diets of herbivores such as gorillas that is absent from the diets of omnivorous primates such as humans and Neanderthals. The research is reported in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.According to psychologists in Leipzig, Germany, apes and some birds are able to plan their actions ahead of time.Psychologists Nicholas Mulcahy and Josep Call at Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology say that apes are able to save tools to use at a later time, that will assist them in retrieving food. The results of the testing are "groundbreaking" and is "a starting point from which we can begin to reconstruct the evolution of the human mind. Apes and jays can also anticipate future needs by remembering past events, contradicting the notion that such cognitive behavior only emerged in hominids," said Thomas Suddendorf, a psychologist at the University of Queensland Brisbane, Australia.One aspect of the study is that "our extraordinary abilities of planning for the future did not evolve entirely de novo. Planning for future needs is not uniquely human," added Suddendorf.An experiment was performed using bonobos and orangutans. The psychologists placed the apes alone in a room for five minutes. Each of them had a choice of two tools that would allow them to retrieve food and six that would not. The apes were allowed to look at and observe the tools; however, they were not allowed to handle them. The apes were then taken to a room next door, allowed to take whatever tools they chose, and left alone in the room for at least one hour, while a researcher removed all other tools from the first room. The apes then returned to the first room (where the food was), but the food was not accessible unless they had the right tool to retrieve it. After repeating the same test several times with each ape, researchers began to see that most apes would begin to use the right tool for the job. Researchers also received similar results even when the apes were left alone in a room overnight where they would sleep.To make sure that the apes were not associating the tools with the food, they removed the food from the room, but would still give it to the apes if they used the right tool to retrieve it. After this change, most of them did not bring the proper tools, which researchers say confirm that the retrieval is a way of planning for the job.In experiments using scrub jays (found mostly in the western United States), at the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom, psychologists have shown that the birds, who usually hide their food to eat later, will hide it again if an enemy bird saw them do it the first time, unless the bird is dominant. The subordinate jay could however, fight the other for the food."These results suggest scrub jays remember who observed them make specific caches," said Joanna Dally who was involved in the study with the scrub jays."Together with recent evidence from scrub jays, our results suggest that future planning is not a uniquely human ability, thus contradicting the notion that it emerged in hominids only with the past 2.5 to 1.6 million years," said Mulcahy and Call in the study.Archaeologist Julio Mercader at the University of Calgary has discovered hammer-like tools dating back 4300 years.  The tools are thought to have been used by non-human primates to crack nuts.The large size of the stones are of too great a weight to have been favoured as tools by humans.  Further, humans are not believed to have been in that area at that time for the primates to have learned from them by observation.Mercader suggests that this implies the primates learned to use the tools either independently of humans or else by a common ancestor (of common descent). Further evidence supporting the hypothesis that the hammers were not used by humans includes that the nut residue on the tools are of nuts which were not regularly a part of a human diet.Mercader elaborates in a prepared statement: “Some of the nuts require a compression force of more than a thousand kilograms to crack. And the idea is to crack the shell but not smash it — it’s not a simple technique.”  [Editorial correction: force is a vector while mass is a scalar. By context, the force is approximately 10KN (10 KiloNewtons).]Social and Political implications follow from the findings also.  Anthropologist Agustín Fuentes (at Indiana’s University of Notre Dame) said, “It puts the nail in the coffin on those who say chimp tool use is atypical.”This parallel of human evolution may also lead to further debate on the legal rights of primates.According to a study published on Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus), is down to 7,100 individuals remaining worldwide, most of them in Africa and, rarely, in Asia. The number establishes cheetahs as much less commonplace than just over one hundred years ago. There are now scientists calling for the largest cheetah subspecies to receive "endangered" status on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)'s Red List of Threatened Species.The US National Wildlife Federation reports an estimated worldwide population of 100,000 cheetahs in the late 19th century. The new study, led by Zoological Society of London (ZSL) researcher Sarah Durant, with contributors including the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) and Panthera Corporation, indicates a decline of more than 91%. Most of the remaining cheetahs live in most of Africa, more than half in southern Africa, while a subspecies is found in Asia, including a small part of Iran, though these are seen much more rarely.According to the study's authors, the habitat preservation strategy that can be so effective in other species does not work on cheetahs because of their wide range. About 77% of wild cheetah's ranges are outside protected areas. According to Cheetah Conservation Project Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe's cheetah population dwindled from an estimated 1,500 in 1999 to 150–170 in 2013–2015, a roughly 85% decline. The group based its survey on such resources as photographs, tourist sightings, safari guides, cattle herders, and village chiefs.The Asiatic cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus venaticus) has been nearly eliminated in Asia; under 50 Iranian cheetahs remain. The cheetah subspecies went extinct in India more than fifty years ago, says International Business Times.The new study asks the IUCN to change the status of cheetah from "vulnerable" to "endangered" in an effort to protect cheetahs. The IUCN lists both the Northwest African cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus hecki) and the Asiatic cheetah as "critically endangered" in their Red List.Causes of cheetah decline have been mostly habitat loss, killings of cheetahs by humans, human hunting of cheetah's resources such as antelope, illegal fur trade, illegal cub trafficking, and roadkill. According to the Cheetah Conservation Fund, about 85% of an estimated 1,200 trafficked cheetah cubs have died within the past ten years, perishing en route.Their exotic aesthetic renders cheetah very valuable. A trafficked cub can fetch $10,000, according to the BBC. According to DW, cheetah skin and meat are valuable as well.Complicating conservation efforts, cheetahs are carnivores and difficult to maintain in captivity. According to one report, the 77% of wild cheetah habitat is outside the range of protected wildlife areas and reserves.  The cheetahs' secretive nature makes finding conclusive evidence on cheetahs difficult, says Durant.Cheetah is the world's fastest springing species and predator. One cheetah was recorded sprinting at 29 meters (95.1 ft) per second. They slow down if needed to hunt, and can maintain high speeds for hundred of metres. The running speed of cheetahs has not prevented their decline.Research published in Proceedings of the Royal Society B on Wednesday by Albert Le Floch and Guy Ropars  of French University of Rennes claims dyslexia may be caused by the way the photoreceptors in dyslexic individuals' eyes are arranged. Co-author Ropars said, "Our observations lead us to believe that we indeed found a potential cause of dyslexia".In dyslexic individuals, the pattern of photoreceptors in the right eye is similar to that on the left and produces a "mirror image", while in non-dyslexic individuals, there are two different patterns in the two eyes, researchers found in their study. Individuals with dyslexia have difficulty reading, especially distinguishing between letters that are mirror images of each other, like the characters 'b' and 'd' or 'p' and 'q'.In the back of the eye, there is a site called the fovea which contains cone cells, of three kinds responding either to red, green, or blue light.  In one patch within the fovea, there are cone cells for red and green but none for blue.  In the dominant eye, with greater connectivity to the brain, this spot was found to be round while in the other eye, it was asymmetrical.  This, researchers speculate, allows the brain to choose just one of the two images to work with.  The researchers observed the dyslexic individuals have round spots in both eyes, which produces mirror images, and the brain can not decide which one to consider."For dyslexic students their two eyes are equivalent and their brain has to successively rely on the two slightly different versions of a given visual scene," the researchers said. According to Ropars, this may also serve as a means of diagnosing dyslexia.Using an LED lamp, researchers observed images from the two eyes do not reach the hemispheres of the brain at the same time, with there being a delay of about ten thousandths of a second. The researchers were able to use a flashing LED light, which was flashed at high frequency that it became invisible to the observer's eye to allow the study participants to process only one image by "cancelling" one of the two produced in each eye.Research participants called this LED light the "magic lamp." Ropars said more testing is to be done to confirm this technique's efficacy in treating dyslexia.A gathering of more than a thousand medical researchers in Sydney, Australia, has been told that arsenic and Thalidomide — banned in the 1960s after being linked to gross birth abnormalities — held hope as a basis for new treatments, extending the lives of patients with an so-far incurable bone marrow cancer, multiple myeloma.Diagnosis of the disease has increased by 45% in Australia since 1992. It is the most lethal form of cancer, and the topic of discussion, at the 10th International Myeloma Workshop, continuing until the 16th of April.The two treatments had advantages over existing chemotherapy treatments, including lessened side-effects, and reducing the need for chemo- and radiotherapy. They may also be usable to treat other illnesses. Both were still under test."The development of arsenic dates back many years when it was used for lowering the blood counts in patients, even at the turn of the century," Professor Miles Prince, of the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre, told Australian Associated Press for the 10th International Myeloma Workshop."Subsequently [arsenic] was used in China since the 1960s for treating certain forms of Leukaemia," he said.It could be used to induce the cell to "commit suicide"."The side effects with Thalidomide are much less than with chemotherapy because it's not damaging innocent bystander cells - so you don't get low blood counts, you don't lose your hair, you don't get a sore mouth," he said."It was originally thought to work because [Thalidomide] blocks the blood vessel growth in tumours, and that is still true, but the research that we've done has shown that one of its major causes of action is to stimulate [ immune system ] T-cells which are directly against the tumour, and these T-cells help patients with myeloma fight their disease," Professor Douglas Joshua, head of Haemotology at Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney, told Australian radio."There's no doubt that with the new combinations of drugs - we've got Thalidomide, the sons of Thalidomide, Velcade and arsenic - we're adding years onto patient's lives and certainly it could add up to five years or more," according to Prof. Prince.According to research undertaken at the University of Texas at Austin (and recently published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B Journal), a species of ant (Mycocepurus smithii) found in the Amazon reproduces asexually.  The species is thought to be the first such species discovered.The possibility that Mycocepurus smithii reproduces asexually had previously been suggested by Hermógenes Fernandez-Marin, "The possibility that females reproduce parthenogenetically is suggested by the conspicuous lack of males in reproductive colonies."Molecular genetic results reported in the Royal Society Proceedings indicate that members of Mycocepurus smithii colonies are genetically identical, consistent with asexual reproduction. Anna Himler, the biologist leading the research commented that "In social insects there are a number of different types of reproduction," but continued that "... this species has evolved its own unusual mode."Further research into when the species became asexual and why this change occurred is being undertaken.Wednesday, March 23, 2005 Australian magazine The Bulletin has offered a reward of AU$1.25 million for conclusive proof that the legendary Tasmanian Tiger, or Thylacine, is still alive.Says The Bulletin, "A live, uninjured animal must be produced. All government regulations and provisions must be adhered to. A panel of eminent experts chosen by us will have the final say - along with conclusive DNA testing."Although the last confirmed wild Thylacine sighting was in 1932, and the last captive, named Benjamin, died in the Beaumaris Zoo in Hobart on September 6, 1936, the legend has lived on, with occasional claimed sightings both in Tasmania, and on mainland Australia.As recently as February of this year, a German tourist claimed to have taken photographs of the creature near Lake St Clair in Tasmania. According to The Bulletin, over the past 70 years there have been more than 4000 claimed sightings, but not a single verifiable artifact of hard evidence.Appearing like a large, striped dog, the thylacine was in fact a marsupial, with a pouch like a kangaroo or koala. Present on the Australian continent for tens of thousands of years, persecution by farmers, government-funded bounty hunters and, in the final years, collectors for overseas museums saw the remnant Tasmanian population wiped out.Nick Mooney, a wildlife biologist with the Department of Primary Industries, Water and Environment, investigates 150 claims of sightings each year. He told The Bulletin he was open-minded to the possibility of the thylacine's survival, "But if I had to make a call, I'd put money on them not being out there."The reward offer marks the 125th year of publication of The Bulletin magazine.A species of treefrog that was three years from being declared extinct was found in July in the tropical northeast of Australia. A local university Ph.D. candidate, Robert Puschendorf, along with volunteer researchers stumbled upon the armoured mistfrog (Litoria lorica) while surveying a related species near Mareeba, Queensland. The researchers thought they were catching a similar torrent treefrog (Litoria nannotis), until they examined a specimen more closely.The Associated Press reported that PCR lab results showed that the mistfrogs were not unaffected by the devastating chytridiomycosis, a pandemic disease affecting almost all frog species. Remarkably, they may actually be immune to fatal effects of the fungal infection. Puschendorf plans to publish a paper on the new findings of this Lazarus species.Australian researchers say they have scientifically proven that stress causes sickness. The Garvan Institute in Sydney has discovered that a hormone, known as neuropeptide Y, (NPY) is released into the body during times of stress. Their findings show the hormone can stop the immune system from functioning properly. "Neuropeptide Y is one of those hormones that gets unregulated or released from neurones when stressful situations occur...it's known for example that it regulates blood pressure and heart rates so your heart rate goes up but it hasn't been known that it actually can affect immune cells as well," said Professor Herbert Herzog, one of the researchers.Herzog feels it is good to finally have proof of something people have suspected for so long. "Now we have proven without doubt that there is a direct link and that stress can weaken the immune system and that makes you more vulnerable when you for example have a cold or flu and even in the more serious situations such as cancer can be enhanced in these situations," said Herzog.The Garvan Institute study centres on two key events that enable the human body to recognise foreign substances and control invaders. When our body encounters a pathogen (bacteria and viruses), the immune cells retain and interrogate suspects. Their activation is made possible by NPY. These cells then return to the lymph nodes, which are found all over the body, with information about the foreign invaders. The lymph nodes are where decisions about defence are made."Most of us expect to come down with a cold or other illness when we are under pressure, but until now we have mostly had circumstantial evidence for a link between the brain and the immune system," said lead Garvan researcher, associate Professor Fabienne Mackay. "During periods of stress, nerves release a lot of NPY and it gets into the bloodstream, where it directly impacts on the cells in the immune system that look out for and destroy pathogens (bacteria and viruses) in the body."In the case of bacteria and viruses, TH1 cells are part of the attack team that is sent out on the ‘search and destroy' mission. But when their job is done they need to be turned ‘off' and the immune system reset. The same hormone, NPY, that activates the sentry cells now prompts the TH1 cells to slow down and die."Under normal conditions, circulating immune cells produce small amounts of NPY, which enables the immune cells on sentry duty and the TH1 immune cells to operate - it's a yin and yang kind of situation. But too much NPY means that the TH1 attack is prevented despite the foreign invaders being identified - and this is what happens during stress,” added McKay.The impact of stress on the body has been observed in athletes. Ph. D researcher at the University of Queensland, Luke Spence, together with the Australian Institute of Sport, studied elite and recreational athletes over five months.They found elite athletes were more susceptible to respiratory diseases under stress. "A lot of elite athletes put themselves through vast amounts of physical stress in their training, but also their emotional, psychological stress of feeling the pressure of Australia on their shoulders, wanting to compete and wanting to do their best," said Spence.It's not just athletes who are prone to stress. Pressures at work and at home may cause emotional and mental stress that can be equally damaging. Almost a third of all work absenteeism in Australia is due to illness, costing employers over $10 billion a year."I think it has a huge impact for the work force and also for employers - if their employees are constantly stressed, constantly under pressure, they are more likely to get sick," Spence said.Further research could lead to the development of new drugs which may inhibit the action of the neuropeptide Y hormone. Herzog warns people to minimise stress before it becomes a problem. "Relaxation methods like yoga will help you to prevent that but there will still be people out there that are not responding to that and treatment by interfering with the system will be important," he said. "There's obviously some time until such a treatment will be available but this is something we will definitely work towards."The Garvan research will be published in the Journal of Experimental Medicine, Volume 202, No. 11.The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) has discontinued research into a type of Genetically Modified (GM) field pea that had been shown to be 100% protected against attack by pea weevils, a type of insect. The genetically modified field pea's protein was found to have a slightly altered structure which caused an allergic-style reaction in the lungs of mice and led scientists to believe it could have similar effects on human lungs."That was enough to alert me to say this research should come to an end," CSIRO Plant Industry Deputy Director TJ Higgins said.An earlier example of a problem with a GM food was a protein-enhanced soy product that was abandoned because the Brazil nut gene transferred to the soy produced a protein that could cause allergic reactions in some people. That 1996 study was conducted and funded by the University of Nebraska and Pioneer Hi-Bred International. Environmental activism organizations like Greenpeace were spawned by the negative effects of the Petrochemical era. They are now campaigning against GM research. Greenpeace members have observed that not all reports of possible complications from GM foods found during product development have resulted in a quick end to further  research. Rootworm-resistant GM corn caused "serious organ damage" to rats in Germany, but the corn developed by Monsanto was approved for consumption in Australia by Food Standards Australia New Zealand said Greenpeace GM spokesman Jeremy Tager.   A scientific review panel of the European Food Safety Authority reviewed the results of a 13-week rat feeding study on rootworm-resistant corn that had been submitted by German authorities. Although the study found some differences in the kidneys of rats fed the GM corn, the scientists concluded that these results were "not considered to pose concerns over the safety of MON 863 maize". Many published studies performed with rats and other test animals have found no danger from the Monsanto rootworm-resistant corn. Within science, it is desirable that all research reports be reproduced and confirmed.Australia has a $100 million field pea industry, so substantial amounts of chemicals are used to protect the industry's crops against the pea weevil Bruchus pisorum, though some crops use organic control options. The pea weevil can cause yield losses of up to 30 per cent a year if left uncontrolled. So the CSIRO is in search of an alternative to using genetic modification. The CSIRO are not alone in the GM industry. Bayer and Monsanto are both privately owned corporations who also operate outside Australia's strict regulatory system. A spokeswoman for Bayer Crop Sciences said the CSIRO's decision had no impact on the firm's GM work. Monsanto has not responded to media inquiries.Dr Higgins said the findings proved the safety of Australia's strict research regulatory framework."I think that this shows that the regulatory system works," he said."The regulations are stringent, they are difficult, but on balance I'm very pleased as a consumer of food myself that these regulations are in place."The genetically modified pea plants were produced by transfer of the amylase inhibitor-1 gene from a species of bean. The structure of the alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 protein produced by the pea plants is slightly different from the structure of the same protein when made by bean plants. This structural modification may be due to differences in posttranslational modification of the protein. The altered protein from peas was found to predispose mice to a form of food antigen-stimulated inflammation response that is mediated by  CD4-positive T helper cells.Following a study linking poisonous crown-of-thorns starfish to 42 percent of Australia's Great Barrier Reef destruction in recent decades, James Cook University Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies in Queensland has developed a culture to destroy the reef-killing starfish, announced yesterday. The researchers have carried out successful trials of the culture against the starfish.The culture is a beef extract similar to Bovril, the ABC (Australian Broadcasting Corporation) reported.The culture is expected to replace a manual treatment of the problem, involving a poison injection delivered by a diver to each starfish. One of the researchers, Jairo Rivera Posada, stressed urgency and scale of the threat: "In the current outbreak in the Philippines they removed as many as 87,000 starfish from a single beach".The researchers said the culture infects a starfish with bacteria that kill it within just 24 hours and spread by contact with other individuals of the species. This means divers would need to inject just one starfish to infect and destroy many individuals living close to each other.The researchers recommended addressing the problems behind starfish outbreaks: "Any attempts to control these outbreaks will be futile without also addressing the root cause of outbreaks, including loss of starfish predators as well as increased nutrients that provide food for larval starfishes" referring to the agricultural run-off along the reef coast.The researchers concluded the culture works and needs testing of its impact on other sea species.Authorities announced yesterday that last month approximately 687 endangered pig-nosed turtles were seized at the Sorkarno-Hatta International Airport in the Indonesian capital city of Jakarta. The turtles were reportedly destined for the city of Hong Kong, China.Teguh Samudro the head of BKIMP, the Indonesian quarantine said yesterday: "The packages were broken when they arrived at the airport, so we could tell what was inside"; "We don't know where they were being sent as the address on the package does not exist". He noted the turtles are to be returned shortly to their native Papua habitat.He went on to say that, "Violators of the 1992 law on animal, fish and plant quarantines or the 1990 law on biodiversity and ecosystem conservation face up to three years’ imprisonment and fines of up to Rp 150 million (US$15,400)." The person who sent the endangered turtles has not yet been identified.The Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora aims to ensure that international trade of animals and plants a risk of extinction are restricted, the pig-nosed turtle species are listed. They are at risk of extinction after having been smuggled for many years and the The Jakarta Post reports that 15 centimeter long adult pig-nosed turtles can get up to US$2,000 on the black market.A six-pound infant born in San Francisco, California has six perfectly formed and functional fingers and toes on his hands and feet, so that it isn't considered a disability or deformity, say doctors at Saint Luke's Hospital who were amazed by the oddity.In a medical rarity, super baby Kamani Hubbard was born two weeks ago with 24 working digits.  He is healthy and home with his parents in Daly City, California. Polydactyly, a congenital disorder is not uncommon in humans and animals, including cats, but to happen on both hands and feet is a rare hereditary condition.  "Nurses and doctors, looked so normal they couldn't tell, they told me he was six pounds in good health, that was all they said," said Miryoki Gross, Hubbard’s mother. Her baby's specialness didn't even show up on prenatal ultrasounds. "I heard nothing before I gave birth so I'm still in shock, kinda," Gross added. Despite the mother's shock, Kamani's father, Kris, was the first to notice the condition.Polydactyly (from Ancient Greek means 'πολύς' (polus)  or "many" + 'δάκτυλος' (daktulos)  "finger[s]"), also known as polydactylism, sexdactyly, hexadactyly, or hexadactylism, is a congenital physical disorder consisting of supernumerary fingers or toes.In Kamani's case, however, all of the digits are perfectly formed and function or work normally. "I was in amazement, it took a little time for me to take it all in," said Kris, a postal worker, who has a family history of polydactylism, but none of his relatives can remember it happening on both hands and feet. Mostly, cases of polydactyly are surgically corrected. Kris himself had nubs of sixth digits, which were removed during his early childhood, for having been non-functional. "My son has six fingers then I saw toes, and I thought, this is quite unique. Some family members have had six fingers, not completely developed. But not the toes," Kris noted."I would be tempted to leave those fingers in place. I realize children would tease each other over the slightest things, and having extra digits on each hand is more than slight. But imagine what sort of a pianist a 12-fingered person would be imagine what sort of a flamenco guitarist, if nothing else think of their typing skills," Dr. Treece remarked."I just want him to see what greatness will be in store for him," said Kris. Fully developed and functional extra digits on both hands and feet are considered very rare as a genetic trait in medical history, amid some partial development of an extra digit occurs about twice in every 1,000 white male births. Ordinarily, polydactylism appears as an extra piece of non-functional tissue, typically occurring as an extra finger, sometimes with a bone, but no joint."It's merely an interesting and beautiful variation rather than a worrisome thing," said Dr. Michael Treece, a St. Luke's Hospital pediatrician, and the OBGYN who delivered Kamani. He has postaxial polydactyly, which is 10 times more likely to occur in black children, and also more likely to appear in boys.Goliath, a figure in Old Testament, was depicted as having had six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot. Blues guitarist Hound Dog Taylor, Get Carter, Little Tich, Toyotomi Hideyoshi and several other figures in history have had polydactyly. Sid Wilson, a turntablist of Slipknot, had been born with an extra finger and toe on his hands and feet which were removed shortly after his birth as doctors considered them to be dead.Analysis of sediments taken from hundreds of metres beneath the ocean floorhas shown them to contain living microbes. According to a study producedby a team of researchers supported by the International Ocean DrillingProgram, this is the first time that microbes have been found in abundance at such depths.Scientists have long speculated about how much of the bacterial content ofthe sediments is biologically active. Techniques used to stain the bacteria andidentify them could not previously discriminate between live and deadcells. For this study a new technique that could distinguish between aliveand dead cells was used.The results were surprising. The sediments, some of which had beencollected from up to 800 metres from beneath the sea floor andare said to be up to 16 million years old, contained between 10-30% livingbacteria. Scientists estimate that between 60-70% of all bacteria areliving deep beneath the surface, far from any sunlight."We didn't have clear evidence that bacteria there were alive until now,"said ecologist and team member Lev Neretin of the Max Planck Institute for Marine Biologyin Bremen, Germany. According to calculations,the populations of bacteria multiply at the same rate as their surfacecousins and contribute significantly to the balance of greenhouse gases,consuming and producing CO2. They also contribute methane via a metabolicprocess that does not require oxygen."Because they play such a major role in the biochemical processes in thesubsurface, clearly they are driving lots of reactions that produce thechemical steady state on Earth," said Dr John Parkes, one of the originalco-authors of the paper which appeared in Nature magazine, "possibly wemight not have oil and gas formations without them."How could these bacteria get so deep beneath the ocean floor? "The onlyreasonable way is for them to be buried there," says Bo Thamdrup, amicrobiologist from the University of Southern Denmark, Odense. Theextremes of temperature and pressures tolerated by these bacteria addweight to the assertion that microbes may flourish in the extremeconditions of other planets."It is well known that bacteria living in deep oceans have specialadaptations to help them survive," says Thamdrup. "I'm sure these bacteriahave special adaptations too." A full genetic analysis may soon revealthem.According to recent investigations by the Associated Press and Congressional investigations, the United States federal government is not properly handling serious biohazards such as Ebola in labs. Since the September 11, 2001 attacks the United States has increased by a factor of over 40 the funding for research related to potential biological weapons as well as other virulent infectious diseases, such as Anthrax, Ebola and Smallpox. Since 2003, there have been at least 100 incidents involving United States laboratories. These incidents have ranged from missing shipments of deadly viruses and bacteria to accidents in which lab workers have become infected. According to the Congressional panel even where research is going on is not precisely known. The recent investigations were prompted in part by the suspension of research at Texas A&M University after repeated laboratory accidents and failure to report serious breaches to the Center for Disease Control including an incident in which someone was infected with brucellosis, a disease which can infect humans and a variety of domesticated animals and is generally not fatal in humans. Concern about safety and security procedures focus primarily on two risks: terrorists obtaining biological agents from laboratories or labs accidentally releasing infectious agents into the general population.Critics have questioned the influx of new research as being unnecessary, unguided and dangerous both to workers and to the people around them and have pointed to the case of Janet Parker who was the last recorded case of someone dying from smallpox and had contracted the disease by working in a building with poor containment systems.While it has taken almost a year, the non-profit Encyclopedia of Life project launched yesterday. It gained so much attention, that the site quickly crashed. It went back online Tuesday afternoon (EST), but went down again the next morning.During five-and-a-half hours, the site logged 11.5 million hits, including visitors who reached the "503 error".EOL is estimated to have cost US$110.5 million so far.The site has limited information on 30,000 species, and full profiles of 25 species. These fleshed-out profiles include an article with scientific references, maps of where the species are found, and are illustrated with photos and video. One million placeholder pages have been set up so far, and the plan is to eventually catalog all 1.8 million species.The Wikimedia Foundation launched a similar project in August 2004, Wikispecies. Perhaps the least known of Wikimedia projects, it "was created to provide an open source forum for taxonomic and biological information." It has logged 120,247 species, under a free license. The US government runs an Integrated Taxonomic Information System, with 464,081 scientific names. It is created in partnership with similar Canadian and Mexican databases.There is also a Tree of Life Web Project, and a Catalogue of Life, the latter being the most successful; it is a compilation of 1,008,965 species, from 47 taxonomical databases. ZipcodeZoo offers descriptions of over 3 million species of plants and animals, with 250,000 photos, maps, pronunciations, and definitions in 13 languages. ARKive collects media of species, and the All Species Foundation was a failed early attempt at a web catalog.Nick Bos, of the University of Helsinki, studies "the amazing adaptations social insects have evolved in order to fight the extreme parasite pressure they experience". In a recently-accepted Evolution paper Bos and colleagues describe ants appearing to self-medicate.The team used Formica fusca, an ant species that can form thousand-strong colonies. This common black ant eats other insects, and also aphid honeydew. It often nests in tree stumps or under rocks and foraging workers can sometimes be spotted climbing trees.Some ants were infected with Beauveria bassiana, a fungus. Infected ants chose food laced with toxic hydrogen peroxide, whereas healthy ants avoided it. Hydrogen peroxide reduced infected ant fatalities by 15%, and the ants varied their intake depending upon how high the peroxide concentration was.In the wild, Formica fusca can encounter similar chemicals in aphids and dead ants. The Independent reported self-medicating ants a first among insects. Bos obtained his doctorate from the University of Copenhagen. He began postdoctoral research at Helsinki in 2012. He also runs the AntyScience blog. The blog aims to help address "a gap between scientists and 'the general public'." The name is a pun referencing ants, its primary topic, science, and "non-scientific" jargon-free communication. He now discusses his work with Wikinews.((Wikinews))  What first attracted you to researching ants?Nick Bos Me and a studymate were keeping a lot of animals during our studies, from beetles, to butterflies and mantids, to ants. We had the ants in  an observation nest, and I could just look at them for hours, watching  them go about. This was in my third year of Biology study I think. After a while I needed to start thinking about an internship for my M.Sc. studies, and decided to write a couple of professors. I ended up going  to the Centre for Social Evolution at the University of Copenhagen where I did a project on learning in Ants under supervision of Prof. Patrizia d'Ettorre. I liked it so much there I ended up doing a PhD and I've been working on social insects ever since.((Wikinews))  What methods and equipment were used for this investigation?NB This is a fun one. I try to work on a very low budget, and like to  build most of the experimental setups myself (we actually have equipment in the lab nicknamed the 'Nickinator', 'i-Nick' and the 'Nicktendo64'). There's not that much money in fundamental science at the moment, so I try to cut the costs wherever possible. We collected  wild colonies of Formica fusca by searching through old tree-trunks in old logging sites in southern Finland. We then housed the ants in nests I made using Y-tong [aerated concrete]. It's  very soft stone that you can easily carve. We carved out little  squares for the ants to live in (covered with old CD covers to prevent  them escaping!). We then drilled a tunnel to a pot (the foraging  arena), where the ants got the choice between the food with medicine  and the food without.We infected the ants by preparing a solution of the fungus Beauveria bassiana. Afterwards, each ant was dipped in the solution for a couple  of seconds, dried on a cloth and put in the nest. After exposing the  ants to the fungus, we took pictures of each foraging arena three times per day, and counted how many ants were present on each food-source.This gave us the data that ants choose more medicine after they have  been infected.The result that healthy ants die sooner when ingesting ROS [Reactive Oxygen Species, the group of chemicals that includes hydrogen peroxide] but infected ants die less was obtained in another way (as you have to 'force feed' the ROS, as healthy ants, when given the choice, ignore  that food-source.)For this we basically put colonies on a diet of either food with medicine or without for a while. And afterwards either infected them  or not. Then for about two weeks we count every day how many ants  died. This gives us the data to do a so-called survival analysis.We measured the ROS-concentration in the bodies of ants after they ingested the food with the medicine using a spectrophotometer. By  adding certain chemicals, the ROS can be measured using the emission of light of a certain wave-length.The detrimental effect of ROS on spores was easy to measure. We mixed  different concentrations of ROS with the spores, plated them out on petridishes with an agar-solution where fungus can grow on. A day after, we counted how many spores were still alive.((Wikinews))  How reliable do you consider your results to be?NB The results we got are very reliable. We had a lot of colonies containing a lot of ants, and wherever possible we conducted the experiment blind. This means the experimenter doesn't know which ants belong to which treatment, so it's impossible to influence the results  with 'observer bias'. However, of course this is proof in just one  species. It is hard to extrapolate to other ants, as different species  lead very different lives.((Wikinews))  Where did the ants and fungus you used come from? How common are they in the wild?NB For ants, see above about the collection.This species of fungus does appear in Finland, but we chose to use a  different strain from Denmark (with thanks to Prof. J. Eilenberg and  the laboratory technician Louise Lee Munch Larsen from the University  of Copenhagen). Animals can adapt to local strains ('local  adaptation'), and just to make sure we thought it would be good to use  a strain of fungus that the ants definitely did not evolve specific resistances against. This means that the reaction of the ants (to self-medicate) is very likely to be a general response, and not just  against their local fungal enemies.((Wikinews))  Are there any ethical considerations around exposing ants to toxins and parasites?NB Legally, no. Insects do not have any 'rights' as such regarding  ethics. That said, we do take measures to not make them 'suffer  unnecessarily'. For example, dissections are done when the ants are anesthetized (either by CO2 or Ice), and when ants need to be killed,  we do it in alcohol, which kills the ants in a matter of seconds. So while the ants do not have 'rights' as such, we still try to handle them with as much respect as possible (even though the experiment  involves infecting them with a deadly fungus).But even though the 12,000 ants in our study sounds like a lot (and it is), this is negligible in the 'grand scheme of things'. It has been  calculated that in the Netherlands alone, nearly a trillion insects die against just the licence-plates of cars every six months. I don't own a car, so that means I'm excused right? ;)((Wikinews))  This is the first evidence for self-medicating insects. How widespread do you think this phenomenon could be in reality?NB It's not actually the first evidence for self-medication in insects. Moths and fruit flies definitely do it, and there's evidence in honey bees and bumble-bees as well. So it seems to be quite wide-spread in  the insect world. I have no doubt that as time goes on, there will be  more and more cases documented. Insects (and animals in general) seem  to be quite good at taking care of themselves.((Wikinews))  How might ants locate healing substances in the wild?NB Very good question. This is something that's important to know. If they would only do it in the lab, the behaviour wouldn't be very interesting. We have some guesses where they might get it from, but at the moment we don't know yet. That said, I plan to investigate this  question (among others) further [in] the next couple of years.((Wikinews))  For your PhD you researched ants' scent-based communications. Could healthy ants perhaps tell other ants are infected and encourage this behaviour?NB There's not much known about this. There's conflicting evidence about whether sick ants actually smell different from healthy ones or not. At the moment it seems that sick ants mostly take care of the problem themselves. Sick ants stop most interaction with nestmates and especially brood, and leave the nest to die in isolation. This is probably for reducing chance of infecting nestmates, but of course it  also reduces the work load of their nest-mates, as their corpse  doesn't have to be dragged out etc.So as an answer to the question, I would find it unlikely that such a  behaviour would evolve, but it's not known yet.((Wikinews))  Ants generally avoided the peroxide if they were healthy, but in some circumstances might they try to build resistance against infection in advance?NB Who knows? Also not known yet unfortunately. That said, there is a very interesting study about resin collection in ants. Wood ants collect tree-resin, which has anti-microbial properties. They collect this even if not infected, and when you infect them, they don't collect more of the resin than normal. So basically it seems like they  collect it in order to keep diseases out of the nest, so they stop the disease before it can actually infect them.((Wikinews))  Are there plans to follow this research up? Might you research other species? Other substances? NB I first want to find out where they get it from in nature. There might  be many sources of medicine (recent evidence suggests that tobacco  plays a similar role for bumble bees). Dalial Freitak, who is also on this paper is currently running tests with Ph.D. student Siiri Fuchs (who is also on the paper) with other substances to see if any have the same effect as H2O2 [hydrogen peroxide].Once the behaviour has been well described in this species of ant, I might do a comparison with other species. For example, once we find the source of the medicine in nature... would species without access to this source also have evolved the same behaviour in the lab? And if so... where would they get it from?Also... can ants medicate their friends? :)((Wikinews))  What other research are you working on right now?NB Phew...lots! :)I still have some questions left unanswered from my Ph.D. work related to how ants recognize who is a friend and who isn't. I also started  collaborating with Prof. Michael Poulsen from the University of  Copenhagen on immunity in fungus-growing termites, as well as their  chemical recognition abilities. Furthermore we're working on social parasitism in wood-ants (ants have lots of animals exploiting the nest for shelter and resources, which all somehow have to get in to the fortress without getting killed).A 'giant black mystery blob' in the Chukchi Sea off the coast of Alaska has been identified as marine algae. Initially speculated to be an oil spill, the mass was discovered by a group of hunters earlier this month near Wainwright. The blob is reported to be stringy and hairy, and is tangled with jellyfish, among other debris. The "thick, dark gunk" stretches for as much as 15 miles, and is moving at a slow drift. Upon being first sighted, the U.S. Coast Guard flew out to investigate the mass, and local officials collected samples for testing. Coast Guard Petty Officer Terry Hasenauer reported that "We responded as if it were an oil product. It was described to us as an oil-like substance, thick and lingering below the surface of the water. Those characteristics can indicate heavy, degraded oil, maybe crude oil, or possibly an intermediate fuel oil." Test results subsequently revealed that the blob is some sort of unusually extensive algae bloom. "It's definitely, by the smell and the makeup of it [...] some sort of naturally occurring organic or otherwise marine organism", Hasenauer said. The substance has remained entirely offshore.However, there is still great uncertainty among local residents and officials alike: "We've observed large blooms in the past off Barrow although none of them at all like this", said Barry Sherr, an oceanography professor. "The fact that the locals say they've never seen anything like it suggests that it might represent some exotic species which has drifted into the region, perhaps as a result of global change. For the moment that's just a guess."Another population of small humans has been reported, this time in caves in Micronesia. Lee Berger, Steven Churchill, Bonita De Klerk and Rhonda Quinn, a team of paleontologists and anthropologists from South Africa and the United States  document a group of "small-bodied humans" found in the " in limestone caves in the rock islands of Palau, Micronesia." The report, in a recent edition of the open access journal, PLoS ONE (2008 3:3) argues that these small people may "represent a congenitally abnormal individual drawn from a small-bodied island population of Homo Sapiens." The term for this condition is Insular Dwarfism described in Foster's Rule.  Different radio carbon samples at the site date between 3000 and 4500 calendar years before the present, with the 3000 year old dates being judged the most reliable.The authors argue, "Based on the evidence from Palau, we [Berger et al] hypothesize that reduction in the size of the face and chin, large dental size and other features noted here may in some cases be correlates of extreme body size reduction in H. sapiens."Unlike the 2004 find of the Flores dwarf human population (dated from 95,000 to 13,000 years ago), known as Homo floresienses and nicknamed hobbits, researchers do not consider this population to be a separate hominid population.  They also suggest that this more recent population casts some doubt on H. floresienses being a separate species, and that,"These features when seen in Flores may be best explained as correlates of small body size in an island adaptation, regardless of taxonomic affinity...[This] Palauan sample supports at least the possibility that the Flores hominins are simply an island adapted population of H. sapiens, perhaps with some individuals expressing congenital abnormalities."In support of this, Berger et al also argued that although the dwarf humans appeared to have many features in commons with Homo sapiens, there seems to be many features that are not usually associated with Homo sapiens.The Congo's population of Bonobo, or Pygmy, Chimpanzee (Pan paniscus) is dwindling, according to researchers.Dr. Ino Guabini, a primatologist with the World Wildlife Fund reports that only about 5,000 remain in Congo.  In 1984, their numbers were estimated at 100,000.It is illegal to hunt Bonobos, but their meat is considered tasty; and is a traditional food in the Congo.  The meat is often sent to expensive & secretive restaurants in Congolese cities.The Bonobo is best-known for resolving squabbles through sex rather than violence.  Rivals are greeted with genital handshakes and sensual body rubs.  Fights are often settled with a "French kiss" and sex, either heterosexual or homosexual.  Bonobo's communication is primarily vocal.DNA evidence suggests that the Bonobo and Common Chimpanzee separated just 500,000 years after they diverged from the last common ancestor with humans, between four to seven million years ago.  Chimpanzees are the closest living relatives to humans, and are an important research model in both biology and psychology.The usually inhibited desert locust Schistocerca gregaria, which wiles away the months as a solitary, insignificant grasshopper can shift into horrifying swarms due to a chemical commonly found in people’s brain, a research showed. The solitary and gregarious phases of locusts are so different that they were considered distinct species until 1921.  Scientists have known for several years that touching a solitary desert locust on the hind legs, or allowing it to see or smell other locusts, is enough to transform it into the gregarious phase. This week, Science magazine published strong scientific evidence that the behavioural and physical makeover is effected by serotonin, a carrier of nerve signals in virtually all animals.Researchers from the University of Sydney, University of Oxford, and University of Cambridge have pinpointed a single neurochemical - serotonin - as the cause of an instinctive behavioural change from the locusts' solitarious phase to become gregarious and form disastrous swarms of millions. Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) is a monoamine neurotransmitter synthesized in serotonergic neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) and enterochromaffin cells in the gastrointestinal tract of animals including humans. Serotonin is also found in many mushrooms and plants, including fruits and vegetables.In the central nervous system, serotonin plays an important role as a neurotransmitter in the modulation of anger, aggression, body temperature, mood, sleep, human sexuality, appetite, metabolism, as well as stimulating vomiting. Keeping serotonin levels high is the aim of many anti-depressant drugs. "Serotonin profoundly influences how we humans behave and interact," said co-author Dr Swidbert Ott, from Cambridge University. "So to find that the same chemical is what causes a normally shy, antisocial insect to gang up in huge groups is amazing," he explained.Prior to swarming, the locusts undergo a series of physical changes - their body colour darkens and their muscles grow stronger. The 'Phase change' is at the heart of the locust pest problem, for locusts are one of the world's most destructive insect pests, affecting the livelihoods of 1 in 10 people on the planet. "To effectively control locust swarms, we must first understand exactly how it is that a single shy locust becomes a highly social animal that swarms," said University of Sydney Professor Steve Simpson who led the research for almost 20 years.The 'phase change' was caused by stimulation of sensory hairs on the hind leg of locusts. Professor Simpson's team began to investigate the neurological and neurochemical basis of this effect. Dr Michael L. Anstey, of the University of Oxford, supervised by Professor Simpson, and Dr Stephen M. Rogers, part of Professor Malcolm Burrows' team at Cambridge, led the research investigating this novel field. "Here we have a solitary and lonely creature, the desert locust. But just give them a little serotonin, and they go and join a gang," said Malcolm Burrows.Of 13 neurochemicals in locusts that were gregarious (swarming form) and solitarious (non-swarming), the only neurochemical that showed a relationship with social behaviour was serotonin. "It was clear that as locusts switched from solitarious to gregarious, the amount of serotonin in their central nervous systems also increased," explained Professor Simpson. "The next step was to determine if this relationship actually meant that serotonin was the cause of gregarious, and thus swarming, behaviour in locusts," he added.To do this, the researchers either added serotonin or prevented the production of serotonin in locusts. The results show unequivocally that serotonin is responsible for the behavioural transformation of locusts from solitarious to gregarious. Serotonin was also found to be involved in social behaviour of species across the animal kingdom, including crustaceans, rats, and humans. The team has found that swarm-mode locusts had approximately three times more serotonin in their thoracic ganglia, part of the central nervous system, than their calm, solitary peers. "The question of how locusts transform their behaviour in this way has puzzled scientists for almost 90 years," said co-author Dr Michael L. Anstey, from Oxford University. "We knew the [physical] stimuli that cause locusts' amazing Jekyll and Hyde-style transformation. But nobody had been able to identify the changes in the nervous system that turn antisocial locusts into monstrous swarms. Now we finally have the evidence to provide an answer," he added. "The fact that serotonin causes the transition from a shy, antisocial animal into a party animal means that pharmacologically, gregarious locusts are on Ecstasy or Prozac," said Professor Simpson, who also explained that "(whilst a very good idea, in reality) it would be difficult to create a locust control agent that interferes with serotonin."Professor Simpson's team has significantly discovered that "locusts offer an exemplar of the how to span molecules to ecosystems - one of the greatest challenges in modern science." He also offered an explanation on the problem of using a locust control agent: "Because social behaviour in so many animals depends on serotonin, if we used unspecific serotonin antagonists in the environment, we run the risk of affecting other processes in locusts, as well as severely impacting animals other than locusts. We would need to be sure that locusts have a unique serotonin receptor that causes phase change, which we haven't identified yet. Any locust control agent would have to be specific for this serotonin receptor in locusts."This study, which was sponsored by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council of England, England's Royal Society, the Australian Research Council Federation, and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. The scientists that the conclusions of the study will provide a hint as to how to solve the problem of locust infestations, which affect China, Africa, and Australia. Dr. Rogers said the landmark discovery has opened a new area of study into ways of blocking specific serotonin receptors, “something that would allow us to break apart these swarms before they develop.”Charles Valentine Riley, Norman Criddle, and Sir Boris Petrovich Uvarov were also involved in the understanding and destructive control of the locust. Research at Oxford University has earlier identified that swarming behaviour is a response to overcrowding. Increased tactile stimulation of the hind legs causes an increase in levels of serotonin. This causes the locust to change color, eat much more, and breed much more easily. Green locusts turn bright yellow and gain large muscles. The transformation of the locust to the swarming variety is induced by several contacts per minute over a four-hour period. It is estimated that the largest swarms have covered hundreds of square miles and consisted of many billions of locusts."Locust" is the swarming phase of short-horned grasshoppers of the family Acrididae. The origin and apparent extinction of certain species of locust—some of which reached 6 inches (15 cm) in length—are unclear. These are species that can breed rapidly under suitable conditions and subsequently become gregarious and migratory. They form bands as nymphs and swarms as adults — both of which can travel great distances, rapidly stripping fields and greatly damaging crops. Though there are about 8,000 currently known species of grasshoppers, only 12 form locust swarms. In the history of the insect Desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria) is probably the most important because of its wide distribution (North Africa, Middle East, and Indian subcontinent) and its ability to migrate widely. Adult Desert Locusts grow to between 2-2.5 inches in length, can weigh 0.05-0.07 oz, and are excellent fliers. In religious mythology, the eighth Plague of Egypt in the Bible and Torah, a swarm of locusts ate all the crops of Egypt. "The gregarious phase is a strategy born of desperation and driven by hunger, and swarming is a response to find pastures new," Steve Rogers from Cambridge University emphasises.The extinction of the Rocky Mountain locust (Melanoplus spretus) in the late 19th century has been a source of puzzlement. Recent research suggests that the breeding grounds of this insect in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains came under sustained agricultural development during the large influx of gold miners, destroying the underground eggs of the locust. That species of locust had some of the largest recorded swarms.In the 1915 locust plague, which lasted from March to October 1915, locusts stripped areas in and around Palestine of almost all vegetation. This invasion of awesome proportions seriously compromised the already-depleted food supply of the region and sharpened the misery of all Jerusalemites. The plague resulted in several increases to the price of food. On April 25, 1915, the New York Times described the price increases: "Flour costs $15 a sack. Potatoes are six times the ordinary price. Sugar and petroleum are unprocurable and money has ceased to circulate."In the 2004 locust outbreak, the largest infestation of Desert Locust happened in Western and Northern Africa, affected a number of countries in the fertile northern regions of Africa. These infestations covered hundreds of square miles and involve billions of vegetation-munching insects, which repeatedly devastated agriculture, and cost huge amounts of money to control.In November, a locusts swarm 3.7 miles (6km) long devastated parts of Australia. Along the process of their active phases, these insects can eat their own bodyweight daily, and can fly swiftly, in swarms of billions covering 60 miles in five to eight hours in search of food. Researchers are now considering the development of sprays that convert swarming locusts back into solitary insects. “We hope that this greater understanding of the mechanisms causing such a big change in behaviour will help in the control of this pest, and more broadly help in understanding the widespread changes in behavioural traits of animals.” Malcolm Burrows said. However, according to Paul Anthony Stevenson of Germany's University of Leipzig, the discovery will not likely to a short-term pest control solution. "To be effective, antiserotonin-like chemicals would need to be applied when the animals are solitary locusts and scarce targets in vast expanses of desert -- about three locusts per 100 square meters (1,076 sq ft)," Stevenson explained. "Current serotonergic drugs are not designed for passing through the insect cuticle and sheath encasing the nervous system, nor are they insect-selective, hence their use is ecologically unjustifiable," he added.In findings published Sunday in Environmental International, a team from Britain's University of Exeter reports that surfers and bodyboarders are roughly three times as likely to house antibiotic-resistant Escherichia coli and other bacteria that could easily become resistant, than other people who recreate in the coastal waters of the United Kingdom.The epidemiological study was nicknamed the "Beach Bum Survey". The project was performed on 143 regular surfers, body surfers and bodyboarders from around the United Kingdom. Each surfgoing participant was asked to recruit a non-surfing friend of the same sex and approximate age and who lived in the same part of the country to serve as a control, which resulted in a control group of 130.All participants mailed in rectal swabs, and the researchers cultured the E. coli from those samples with a common antibiotic called cefotaxime.  The antibiotic failed to kill the bacteria in about 9% (13 out of 143) of surfer and bodyboarder samples and 3% of the samples from the control group (4 out of 130).  A deeper look into the genomes of the specific strains of bacteria found in the study volunteers showed that bacteria from surfers were four times as likely to possess genes that can be transferred from one bacterial strain to another, which can help antibiotic-susceptible bacteria become resistant.  The study also involved examination of water samples from the coasts of England and Wales to estimate the risk of surfers and other beachgoers ingesting E. coli.E. coli is a regular resident in the guts of humans and other animals. Most strains are harmless but others can cause serious disease.  Like other bacteria, E. coli can undergo horizontal gene transfer, swapping genes from one bacterium to another. This can give the altered strain the ability to cause disease, survive in the presence of antibiotics or both.Although the researchers expressed concern surfers might spread dangerous bacteria, Dr. Will Gaze, the University of Exeter Medical School professional who supervised the project, urged people not to avoid the beach: "We are not seeking to discourage people from spending time in the sea, an activity which has a lot of benefits in terms of exercise, well-being and connecting with nature", he said. "It is important that people understand the risks involved so that they can make informed decisions about their bathing and sporting habits. We now hope that our results will help policy-makers, beach managers, and water companies to make evidence-based decisions to improve water quality even further for the benefit of public health."David Smith, science and policy officer of Surfers Against Sewage, which helped organise the volunteers, agreed the study was not meant to discourage surfing: "Water quality in the UK has improved vastly in the past 30 years and is some of the cleanest in Europe.  Recognising coastal waters as a pathway for antibiotic resistance can allow policy makers to make changes to protect water users and the wider public from the threat of antibiotic resistance."One of the principal findings of this work was that existing methods may have been underestimating the prevalence of these bacteria in seawater. Previous studies have shown that even designated swimming beaches can be affected by runoff from farms or even sewage, and surfers swallow roughly ten times as much seawater as swimmers.  Professor Colin Gardner of the charity Antibiotic Research UK says, these forms of runoff can have even higher concentrations of antibiotics than patients undergoing antibiotic treatment. "Research into new medicines to replace our archaic antibiotics has stagnated and unless new treatments are found, this could be potentially devastating for human health", he warns.The World Health Organization has reported that because so many kinds of bacteria are gaining resistance to common medicines, conditions such as pneumonia and gonnorhea may become more difficult to treat and have higher rates of sickness and death. Doctors often prescribe preventative antibiotics to patients undergoing surgery or radiation therapy, and this may also be impacted. Professor Sally Davies, England's chief medical officer, has described a "post-antibiotic apocalypse" scenario The European Regional Development Fund and Natural Environment Research Council provided funding for the study.Researchers with the University of Calgary in Canada have found that prolactin, a hormone produced during pregnancy, may reverse the progression of multiple sclerosis (MS), according to a paper published this week in The Journal of Neuroscience.The study, led by Drs. Samuel Weiss and V. Wee Yong of the Hotchkiss Brain Institute, compared virgin and pregnant mice with MS-like lesions introduced by lysolecithin, a chemical which destroys the myelin sheaths around neurons.  They found the pregnant mice developed smaller lesions and fewer damaged neurons, and showed signs of repaired neurons.  They also found the pregnant mice had higher levels of cells called oligodendrocytes, which create myelin and are able to repair some damaged neurons through remyelination. Because prolactin regulates the levels of precursors of oligodendrocytes, the scientists hypothesized that prolactin levels were responsible for the differences in damage.  They also tested virgin mice given additional prolactin, and found results similar to pregnant mice.File:Monthly multiple sclerosis MRI.gifPrevious studies have shown that other hormones could reduce myelin damage, but this is the first study to show a mechanism to reverse myelin damage, and establish an empirical connection between that mechanism and pregnancy.  Dr. Weiss says, “It is thought that during pregnancy, women’s immune systems no longer destroyed the myelin.  However, no previous study has tested whether pregnancy actually results in the production of new myelin, which may lead to improvement of symptoms. "We're excited about this result because it suggests to us that prolactin has the potential to be used to enhance the production of new myelin.”Dr. William McIlroy, national medical advisor for the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Canada, explains the significance of this study:  “The results of this study should be well received by people living with MS today.  It represents a new insight of how we might be able to reverse some of the effects of the disease and improve the quality of life for those who live under its influence.”File:Prolactin.pngDr. Luanne Metz, director of the Calgary MS Clinic in the Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary and Calgary Health Region, adds, “This discovery has the potential to take MS therapy a step further than current treatments that stabilize the disease in its early stages. By promoting repair, which is the goal of prolactin therapy, we have hope of actually improving symptoms in people with MS.”Further animal studies need to be done to examine the possibility of side effects, such as lactation in men and non-pregnant women, as well as increased inflammation which could worsen the MS. Researchers believe human trials may begin within a few years.Funding and support were provided by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Canada, the Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research and the Stem Cell Network.MS is an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system where the body attacks the fatty myelin which helps nerves carry electrical signals, causing muscle weakness and spasming which may lead to disability. MS affects approximately one of every 1000 people in North America, northern Europe and Australasia.Ângelo A. Chora et. al. are reporting in the Journal of Clinical Investigation this week that carbon monoxide (CO) and the heme oxygenase-1 protein protect against the symptoms of multiple sclerosis (MS) in the related mouse model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE).Multiple sclerosis is a chronic, inflammatory disease that affects the central nervous system (CNS). Although many patients are largely unaffected by their disease, MS can cause impaired mobility and disability in more severe cases.The research group from the Gulbenkian Institute in Portugal used the EAE mouse model of MS to study the effects of the Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protein encoded by the HMOX1 gene.HO-1 knockout mice, lacking both copies of the gene (not producing the protein), showed a more severe progression of the disease compared to wild-type mice, having normal levels of the protein. The symptoms of the disease were reversed when the HO-1 protein expression was induced using cobalt protoporphyrin IX.During MS attacks the body's own immune system destroys the myelin sheath surrounding nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. Pathogenic T helper cells are triggered by Antigen-presenting cell (APCs) within the brain stem. The disease can cycle between attacks (relapses) followed by remission, suggesting that there is an underlying regulatory system. The HO-1 protein had been identified previously as a possible candidate for a protective gene.HO-1 degrades excess heme within the body acting as the rate controlling step when under inflammatory conditions. The HO-1 heme degradation pathway produces as products equal amounts of free heme, carbon monoxide and biliverdin.Carbon monoxide was also shown to limit the effects of the disease. Mice were exposed to a high concentration of CO for 20 days within a chamber. Mice exposed to CO had limp tails, but were more mobile than the mice in the control experiment which displayed hind limb paralysis.It is still unknown exactly how carbon monoxide slows down the symptoms of EAE, possibly through the mopping up of free radicals, or through promoting the binding of iron to heme (decreasing radical production).The experiments found that HO-1 did not affect the development or function of regulatory T cells. For a beneficial effect HO-1 needed to be expressed in dendritic cells, causing inhibition of MHC-II proteins, involved in presenting antigens, and inflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ).These experiments open up new possibilities for MS therapies, involving the expression of HO-1 in suppressing the development of MS.The article went online on the 25th January 2007 and will be printed in the Journal of Clinical Investigation in February.According to Dutch researchers, tests performed on cats at Rotterdam's Erasmus Medical Center by Dutch show that cats could play a key role in transmitting bird flu to humans.Reports have noted that there are increased deaths in Europe and Asia involving cats that are carrying the deadly disease and also say that cats could play a key role in allowing mutation of bird flu so it can be transmitted between humans."Apart from the role that cats may play in H5N1 virus transmission to other species, they may be involved in helping the virus to adapt to efficient human-to-human transmission," said researchers.The experiments were performed on eight cats, all of which were exposed to the H5N1 virus in three different ways. In all three cases, the cats became infected. The researchers said that most domestic cats became infected with the H5N1 virus when they came in contact with wild and or domestic birds. In some cases, those cats transmitted the virus to other cats.However, researchers said that their research was performed experimentally with infected cats and that those experiments did not show a mutation in the virus but did say that "such mutations cannot be ruled out."Researchers have strongly suggested that cats be kept indoors, but also said that this measure would be "impossible" in some parts of the world.Researchers also say that cats need to be included in any precautionary measures against the virus."We have to take a number of precautionary measures. We need to keep in mind that mammals can be infected and that they can spread the disease, in principle. The potential role of cats should be considered in official guidelines for controlling the spread of H5N1 virus," said Dr. Albert Osterhaus, of Erasmus University in Rotterdam in the Netherlands.Scientists from the United States and Germany have discovered a new species of snake capable of changing it's colours, in the Betung Kerihun National Park on the island of Borneo.Researchers Mark Auliya from the Zoologisches Forschungsmuseum Alexander Koenig in Bonn and a consultant for the World Wildlife Federation(WWF), and John Murphy and Harold Voris from the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago were collecting specimens from the wetlands of the Kapuas river when they stumbled upon the snake's colour changing ability."I put the reddish-brown snake in a dark bucket," Auliya explained. "When I retrieved it a few minutes later, it was almost entirely white."The ability to change colour is known from some reptiles, famously the chameleon, but scientists have seen it very rarely with snakes and are yet to understand the phenomenon. In chameleons, colour change is an expression of it's physiological condition. Skin color is also influenced by light and temperature.The two snakes, initially brown with an iridescent sheen, are about a half metre long and venomous. The scientists named them the 'Kapus-Mud-Snake'. They are believed to belong to the Enhydris genus, which is composed of 22 species of rear-fanged water snakes, only two of which are widespread. The scientists believe this newly discovered snake might only occur in the Kapuas river drainage system."The discovery of the "chameleon" snake exposes one of nature's best kept secrets deep in the Heart of Borneo." Said Stuart Chapman, WWF's international coordinator of the Heart of Borneo Programme. "Its ability to change colour has kept it hidden from science until now." In the last ten years 361 new animal and plants species have been discovered on the island of Borneo, however, WWF says wildlife in the region is threatened by deforestation. Today, only half of Borneo's forest cover remains, down from 75 per cent in the mid 1980s.There is hope, however, that this trend can be halted. Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia and Malaysia - the three governments which hold jurisdiction over Borneo - recently launched the Heart of Borneo initiative. This aims to preserve approximately 220,000km2 of equatorial forests and numerous wildlife species.The Chimpanzee Sequencing and Analysis Consortium, made up of 67 scientists from the United States, Israel, Italy, Germany, and Spain, has released a draft version of its report on the chimpanzee genome in the September 1 edition of the scientific journal Nature.  The researchers mapped 94% of the genome.  The report centers on comparisons between chimpanzee and human DNA.Authorities in the People's Republic of China today questioned the integrity of tests conducted  by Greenpeace, the environmental awareness organisation, purporting to show that genetically engineered (GE) rice has been illegally farmed and sold, in the largest rice-producing country.Greenpeace alleges through a press release that "it appears GE Rice is being sold, planted, consumed, and possibly exported", with the Chinese government not having approved the crop. Local farmers in Hubei Province where the GE crops were allegedly found, had tipped the organisation off.Greenpeace says it tested rice bought there during February and April, and 19 of the 25 samples taken returned positive results for transgenic DNA, with two containing an alteration that means the rice incorporates genes from a bacteria, Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), used to produce a toxin that kills pests. (see tests results summary)"We've asked the agricultural department in Hubei Province to conduct on-the-spot examination on this issue," an unidentified official with the Office of Genetically Modified Organism Safety under the ministry of Agriculture was reported as saying, by China Daily."We have not seen the concrete testing reports. Moreover, the testing of GM (Genetically Modified) rice seeds should be based on China's technical standards," he said.Programme director for Greenpeace in Beijing, Liu Haiying, told by the newspaper that samples collected in Hubei Province were sent to a gene testing laboratory in Germany.Zhu Xinquan, chairman of the Chinese Society of Agro-Biotechnology, said to China Daily: "I cannot agree with the findings of the report by Greenpeace and I am wondering if the tests conducted by the organization are scientific or not.""Regulations on GM food have been in force for several years in China and the nation is doing more research before approving the commercialization of GM rice. A cautious attitude must be taken on the safety of GM rice since it is a highly important food for Chinese people," said Zhu to China Daily.Scientists at Huazhong Agriculture University in Wuhan, capital of Hubei, have been conducting tests with the engineered strain of rice. [1]The area is geographically close to an area diverse in rice strains, where Greenpeace says that natural evolution of rice is threatened by the potential of escaped GM rice genes. This is centered in the nearby provinces of Guizhou, Guangxi and Yunnan. [2]Greenpeace says, "No country in the world has commercially released GE rice."Chemicals that leach from cigarette butts into water can kill fish, according to Professors Tom Novotny and Rick Gersberg of San Diego State University.  They have conducted the first scientific study of the effects of cigarette butts on fish and will present his research today at the American Public Health Association annual meeting in Philadelphia.  The SDSU researchers are calling for cigarette butts to be officially reclassified as toxic waste.  Professor Novotny explained, "It’s another way of looking at cigarettes as a societal hazard.  If we reframe the butts as toxic hazardous waste, that adds another opportunity to change the social acceptability of smoking."Cigarettes are the most frequently littered item in the world.  More than 1 million cigarette butts are collected annually in cleanups at United States beaches.  Worldwide, several trillion cigarettes get smoked each year.Professors Gersberg and Novotny allowed smoked cigarette filters to soak in water for 24 hours, then added fish to the tanks.  Within five days half the fish had died.  They obtained the same results with fresh water and with salt water at a concentration of roughly 1 butt per liter.  Their research was funded by the Cigarette Butt Pollution Project of the California Tobacco Related Disease Research Program.The regional director of a smokers' rights group is dismissive of their work.  Robert Best of Citizens Freedom Alliance told the press "This is just another attack on smokers and an attack on the entire tobacco industry, including farmers and distributors, in the midst of an economic crisis.  We already have littering laws in the state of California that say you cannot throw any trash out on the ground or in the waterways.”Coastal states in the United States have been enacting bans on smoking at beaches.  California and New Jersey have enacted bans to reduce secondhand smoke exposure and reduce litter.  The city of San Francisco has added a 20 cent surcharge to each pack of cigarettes sold to cover costs of butt cleanup.  A San Francisco litter audit led to an economic study that found the annual cost of cigarette butt disposal was $6 million.  Oxford Outcomes spokesman Dr. John Schneider told the press the San Francisco cigarette surcharge was justified.Robert Barnes of UC San Francisco endorses tobacco surcharges to pay for cleanup.  He also supports steeper fines for cigarette litter and advocates lawsuits against the tobacco industry to compensate for cleanup costs.  The Surfrider Foundation takes a milder approach.  It has run a "Hold Onto Your Butt" litter awareness program for six years.  Bill Hickman of the Surfrider Foundation was glad to see scientific validation for the awareness campaign. "We have thought for a while that toxic chemicals leach from discarded butts when submerged in water, so it’s good in some ways to see confirmation."Gersberg and Novotny want to perform followup studies to determine which cigarette butt chemicals are most harmful to fish.Researchers say that two men claiming to be 'Bigfoot' hunters in Georgia in the United States and who claimed to have found the remains of the mythical creature earlier this month, are part of an elaborate hoax.Bigfoot hunters Matt Whitton and Rick Dyer stated on August 15, 2008 that they were hunting for the creature in the forests of northeastern Georgia when they came across the supposed corpse of one of the legendary cryptids. After finding the body, they claimed to have taken it home where they stored it in a freezer.A group called Searching For Bigfoot Inc. stated that they paid the hunters "an undisclosed sum" of money for all publicity related to the alleged carcass, but when researchers Tom Biscardi and Robert Schmalzbach went to examine the remains of the thawing body, they began to discover that it was nothing more than a plastic Halloween costume."[Within the first hour of thawing] a break appeared up near the feet area. ... I observed the foot which looked unnatural, reached in and confirmed it was a rubber foot," said one of the researchers for Searching For Bigfoot Inc., Steve Kull, who also examined the alleged corpse.The researchers then attempted to reclaim their money and went to the hotel Whitton and Dyer were staying in, only to find the rooms empty, and the two men nowhere to be found."[We are a] victim of this series of deceptions," added Kell who also said the group is "seeking justice".Whitton and Dyer claimed they had photos, video and DNA evidence to support their claim, but only one photo portraying a blurred black figure in the distance in the forest was provided. The TimesOnline reports that the joke fell flat with Jeffrey Turner, who as Chief of Police in Clayton County, Georgia, put Mr Whitton on medical leave when he was shot in the wrist as he tried to foil a robbery earlier this summer. "As soon as we saw it was a hoax, I filed the paperwork to terminate his employment," said Chief Turner.  “He’s disgraced himself, he’s an embarrassment to the Clayton County Police Department, his credibility and integrity as an officer is gone, and I have no use for him,” he declared.A large clinical trial found that grass pollen tablets under the tongue (sublingual) are an effective treatment option for hay fever sufferers. The results have been published in this month's edition of the Journal of Allergy and Clinical Immunology.Tablets with grass pollen that dissolve quickly under the tongue may provide doctors with a better tool to fight the illness. The patient could take the pills at his own home, and after a while the symptoms may disappear completely and treatment can be ceased. Contrary to the current standard treatment, this therapy targets the immune system in such a way that it treats the cause and not just the symptoms.634 patients from 8 countries participated in the trial. Half received Grazax® tablets (a product of ALK-Abello, Hørsholm, Denmark), the other half placebo pills. The group receiving treatment showed fewer symptoms during hay fever season and consequently cut down on their medication use. Grazax® also caused few and tolerable side effects such as itching and swelling in the mouth.Combined with several earlier papers, these results provide a basis for ALK-Abello to apply for European approval of their drug. It has already been approved in Sweden, and the company will follow a Mutual Recognition Procedure hoping to get their product in European pharmacies by the end of 2006. The company will continue to fund further inquiries into Grazax® and will keep collaborating with scientists from several European countries.During hay fever season, patients develop a runny nose, swelling of the mucous membranes of the nose, sneezing and teary eyes, a condition doctors call allergic rhinoconjunctivitis. The condition seems to be increasingly frequent, with approximately 10% of the population suffering from grass pollen allergy. First-line treatment includes antihistaminics (like cetirizine or Zyrtec®/Zyrlex®) and steroid sprays, but results are often disappointing.Long term results have been demonstrated for weekly shots with pollen extracts (a procedure called desensitization), but too many visits to the doctor make the process troublesome. Also, the patient has to wait some time before leaving the doctor's office, due to the risk of developing a kind of shock state termed anaphylactic shock.A National Academy of Sciences report (.pdf) last year said that while the milk and meat from cloned animals would not likely make anyone sick, more research should be performed. Now, a new US-Japan study published in the April 11 online issue of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences says that milk and meat from cloned cattle does indeed appear to meet industry standards and appears to be safe for human consumption.As BBC News reports, the scientists, led by Professor Jerry Yang from the University of Connecticut, compared the produce from two beef and four dairy clones, all derived from a single Holstein dairy cow and a single Japanese black bull, with the produce from normal animals of similar age and breed.The meat was analysed against more than 100 physiological, tissue and cellular components, while the milk was analysed for protein, fat and other variables. No significant differences between the produce of cloned and normal cattle were found. Higher levels of fat and fatty acids were found in the cloned cow meat, but they still fell within beef industry standards.While the study showed the cloned produce to be within the range approved for human consumption, the scientists stressed that the research was still in its early stages. Their findings, they said, provide "guidelines" for further research with larger numbers of clones from different genetic backgrounds.Cloning livestock may one day increase yields by copying those animals that are especially productive and especially resistant to disease."The milking production levels in the US are three to four times higher than levels in China; maybe even five times or more compared to cows in India and some other countries," Professor Jerry Yang told BBC News. "Therefore cloning could offer technology for duplicating superior farm animals. However, all the products from these cloned animals must be safe for human consumption. ...and it is a major issue for scientists to provide a scientific basis for the data and information to address this question."As USA Today reports, there is currently no law governing the sale of meat or milk from the estimated 1,000 to 2,000 cloned farm animals in the USA. But since 2003, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has asked producers to voluntarily keep the meat and milk of these animals, and that of their offspring, out of the food supply.Wired News reports that companies like ViaGen and Cyagra, which offer livestock-cloning services, have also been waiting for several years for a final say from the FDA."For the United States agricultural industry, (cloning) can reduce the number of cows necessary for milking," said Jerry Yang "They can have a pleasant environment and produce even more milk." He also said that cloning cattle from the United States, where genetic breeding is more advanced, could save developing countries 50 years of breeding.The idea of cloning animals for human consumption is not without its critics. First, there are the welfare concerns, as most cloned animals do not make it to term before being born, and many of those that do are born deformed or prone to illness. The Humane Society of the United States has asked for a ban on milk and meat from clones for just this reason. Second, there is still the concern that healthy clones may have subtle defects that could make their food products unsafe to eat.As the Washington Post reports, some critics are asking why it is necessary to clone cows that produce huge amounts of milk when surpluses, rather than shortages, are the main problem facing the U.S. dairy industry today.In late 2010 a geological expedition to Antarctica drilled through the Ross Ice Shelf so they could send an ROV under it. What they found was unexpected: Sea anemones. In their thousands they were doing what no other species of sea anemone is known to do — they were living in the ice itself.Discovered by the ANDRILL [Antarctic Drilling] project, the team was so unprepared for biological discoveries they did not have suitable preservatives and the only chemicals available obliterated the creature's DNA. Nonetheless Marymegan Daly of Ohio State University confirmed the animals were a new species. Named Edwardsiella andrillae after the drilling project that found it, the anemone was finally described in a PLOS ONE paper last month.ANDRILL lowered their cylindrical camera ROV down a freshly-bored 270m (890ft) hole, enabling it to reach seawater below the ice. The device was merely being tested ahead of its planned mission retrieving data on ocean currents and the sub-ice environment. Instead it found what ANDRILL director Frank Rack of the University of Nebraska–Lincoln, a co-author of the paper describing the find, called the "total serendipity" of "a whole new ecosystem that no one had ever seen before".The discovery raises many questions. Burrowing sea anemones worm their way into substrates or use their tentacles to dig, but it's unclear how E. andrillae enters the hard ice. With only their tentacles protruding into the water from the underneath of the ice shelf questions also revolve around how the animals avoid freezing, how they reproduce, and how they cope with the continuously melting nature of their home. Their diet is also a mystery.E. andrillae is an opaque white, with an inner ring of eight tentacles and twelve-to-sixteen tentacles in an outer ring. The ROV's lights produced an orange glow from the creatures, although this may be produced by their food. It measures 16–20mm (0.6–0.8in) but when fully relaxed can extend to triple that. Genetic analysis being impossible, Daly turned to dissection of the specimens but could find nothing out of the ordinary. Scientists hope to send a biological mission to explore the area under the massive ice sheet, which is in excess of 600 miles (970km) wide. The cameras also observed worms, fish that swim inverted as if the icy roof was the sea floor, crustaceans and a cylindrical creature that used appendages on its ends to move and to grab hold of the anemones.NASA is providing funding to aid further research, owing to possible similarities between this icy realm and Europa, a moon of Jupiter. Biological research is planned for 2015. An application for funding to the U.S. National Science Foundation, which funds ANDRILL, is also pending.The ANDRILL team almost failed to get any samples at all. Designed to examine the seafloor, the ROV had to be inverted to examine the roof of ice. Weather conditions prevented biological sampling equipment being delivered from McMurdo Station, but the scientists retrieved 20–30 anemones by using hot water to stun them before sucking them from their burrows with an improvised device fashioned from a coffee filter and a spare ROV thruster. Preserved on-site in ethanol, they were taken to McMurdo station where some were further preserved with formaldehyde. ((Wikinews))  How did you come to be involved with this discovery?Marymegan Daly: Frank Rack got in touch after they returned from Antarctica in hopes that I could help with an identification on the anemone.((Wikinews))  What was your first reaction upon learning there was an undiscovered ecosystem under the ice in the Ross Sea?MD I was amazed and really excited.  I think to say it was unexpected is inaccurate, because it implies that there was a well-founded expectation of something.  The  technology that Frank and his colleagues are using to explore the ice is so important because, given our lack of data, we have no reasonable expectation of what it should be like, or what it shouldn't be like.((Wikinews))  There's a return trip planned hopefully for 2015, with both biologists and ANDRILL geologists. Are you intending to go there yourself?MD I would love to. But I am also happy to not go, as long as someone collects more animals on my behalf!  What I want to do with the animals requires new material preserved in diverse ways, but it doesn't require me to be there. Although I am sure that being there would enhance my understanding of the animals and the system in which they live, and would help me formulate more and better questions about the anemones, ship time is expensive, especially in Antarctica, and if there are biologists whose contribution is predicated on being there, they should have priority to be there.((Wikinews))  These animals are shrouded in mystery. Some of the most intriguing questions are chemical; do they produce some kind of antifreeze, and is that orange glow in the ROV lights their own? Talk us through the difficulties encountered when trying to find answers with the specimens on hand.MD The samples we have are small in terms of numbers and they are all preserved in formalin (a kind of formaldehyde solution).  The formalin is great for preserving structures, but for anemones, it prevents study of DNA or of the chemistry of the body. This means we can't look at the issue you raise with these animals.  What we could do, however, was to study anatomy and figure out what it is, so that when we have samples preserved for studying e.g., the genome, transcriptome, or metabolome, or conduct tests of the fluid in the burrows or in the animals themselves, we can make precise comparisons, and figure out what these animals have or do (metabolically or chemically) that lets them live where they live.Just knowing a whole lot about a single species isn't very useful, even if that animal is as special as these clearly are — we need to know what about them is different and thus related to living in this strange way. The only way to get at what's different is to make comparisons with close relatives.  We can start that side of the work now, anticipating having more beasts in the future.In terms of their glow, I suspect that it's not theirs — although luminescence is common in anemone relatives, they don't usually make light themselves.  They do make a host of florescent proteins, and these may interact with the light of the ROV to give that gorgeous glow.((Wikinews))  What analysis did you perform on the specimens and what equipment was used?MD I used a dissecting scope to look at the animal's external anatomy and overall body organization (magnification of 60X).  I embedded a few of the animals in wax and then cut them into very thin slices using a microtome, mounted the slices on microscope slides, stained the slices to enhance contrast, and then looked at those slides under a compound microscope (that's how I got the pictures of the muscles etc in the paper).  I used that same compound scope to look at squashed bits of tissue to see the stinging capsules (=nematocysts).I compared the things I saw under the 'scopes to what had been published on other species in this group.  This step seems trivial, but it is really the most important part!  By comparing my observations to what my colleagues and predecessors had found, I  figured out what group it belongs to, and was able to determine that within that group, it was a new species.((Wikinews))  It was three years between recovery of specimens and final publication, why did it take so long?MD You mean, how did we manage to make it all happen so quickly, right? :) It was about two years from when Frank sent me specimens to when we got the paper out.  Some of that time was just lost time — I had other projects in the queue that I needed to finish. Once we figured out what it was, we played a lot of manuscript email tag, which can be challenging and time consuming given the differing schedules that folks keep in terms of travel, field work, etc. Manuscript review and processing took about four months.((Wikinews))  What sort of difficulties were posed by the unorthodox preservatives used, and what additional work might be possible on a specimen with intact DNA?MD The preservation was not unorthodox — they followed best practices for anatomical preservation.  Having DNA-suitable material will let us see whether there are new genes, or genes turned on in different ways and at different times that help explain how these animals burrow into hard ice and then survive in the cold. I am curious about the population structure of the "fields" of anemones — the group to which Edwardsiella andrillae belongs includes many species that reproduce asexually, and it's possible that the fields are "clones" produced asexually rather than the result of sexual reproduction. DNA is the only way to test this.((Wikinews))  Do you have any theories about the strategies employed to cope with the harsh environment of burrowing inside an ice shelf?MD I think there must be some kind of antifreeze produced — the cells in contact with ice would otherwise freeze.((Wikinews))  How has such an apparently large population of clearly unusual sea anemones, not to mention the other creatures caught on camera, gone undetected for so long?MD I think this reflects how difficult it is to get under the ice and to collect specimens.  That being said, since the paper came out, I have been pointed towards two other reports that are probably records of these species: one from Japanese scientists who looked at footage from cameras attached to seals and one from Americans who dove under ice. In both of these cases, the anemone (if that's what they saw) was seen at a distance, and no specimens were collected. Without the animals in hand, or the capability of a ROV to get close up for pictures, it is hard to know what has been seen, and lacking a definitive ID, hard to have the finding appropriately indexed or contextualized.((Wikinews))  Would it be fair to say this suggests there may be other undiscovered species of sea anemone that burrow into hard substrates such as ice?MD I hope so!  What fascinates me about sea anemones is that they're able to do things that seem impossible given their seemingly limited toolkit. This finding certainly expands the realm of possible.The Young Earth Creationist who sent threatening emails and letters tobiologists at the University of Colorado at Boulder also sent threatening letters to the University chancellor G.P.Peterson as well as the vice-chancellor of undergraduate education and others.The man who had sent the threats has been identified as Menachem "Michael" Korn, a former Orthodox Jew who converted to Messianic Judaism (no longer affiliated with either) and who now self-identifies as"Christian".  Claimed excerpts of the threats were posted on The Panda's Thumb, a biology blog that focuses on "the claims of the anti-evolution movement." Among other statements, Korn compared evolutionary biologists to child molesters and discussed killing the "enemies of Christian society" who are "terrorists against America". A spokesperson for Colorado University said that the excerpts were "consistent" with the threats but refused to confirm if they were actual excerpts. Korn had apparently distributed fliers on campus before and harassed professors but over the last few days the threats had become more extreme.A team of researchers from China, Canada, the United States, and Australia published on Wednesday their discovery of an early fossilized baby snake, reportedly the oldest ever found, in a piece of amber in the middle of a sandstone deposit in Myanmar.  The findings appeared in the journal Science Advances.The specimen, a piece of amber, was found in a sandstone deposit by fossil hunters who contacted scientists in 2016, and later donated it to the Dexu Institute of Paleontology in Chaozhou, China, where scientists were able to examine it closely.  The snake skeleton itself, though missing a head, is about 1.9 inches long (47.5 mm). The scientists said a scrap of skin also found suggests another snake, and bits of plant and insect matter indicate the area may have been forest at the time the snake was preserved.  They dated the fossil to the Cretaceous period, roughly 99 million years ago, the same period as Tyrannosaurus rex, Triceratops, and early mammals, sharks, and flowering plants.  The specimen represents a previously undiscovered species, which the scientists named Xiaophis myanmarensis, or "dawn-snake of Myanmar."Co-author Michael Caldwell of the University of Alberta noted, "It's spectacular to have a baby snake in the fossil record because, of course, they'd be such tiny, delicate things."  The researchers concluded it was in fact a snake and not a mere legless lizard by studying the vertebrae, which were found with their ribs intact, in each part of the snake's body.The findings, said scientists, indicate fauna from the prehistoric megacontinent Gondwanaland migrated to Laurasia.  This is also the earliest snake to be found in a forest environment, suggesting that snakes had become reasonably biodiverse by the Cretaceous.In an analysis published on Friday in Science, scientists announced data collected from the Curiosity Rover show that Mars's Gale Crater was once a chemically stratified lake, meaning the aquatic environment differed markedly between deep and shallow water. According to the report, "all of the physical, chemical, and energetic conditions necessary to establish a habitable environment were present on Mars between ~3.8 billion and 3.1 billion years ago."Analysis shows the chemical index of alteration fluctuated over time in a way that suggested the lake varied between hot, wet periods and colder, drier periods.  The shallow water would have been rich in oxidants brought in from the atmosphere and groundwater, and the deeper water would have been oxidant poor.  Phosphates, carbon, nitrogen, iron and sulfur, indicating chemistry suitable for life, have also been found there in a variety of compounds.Lead author Joel Hurowitz of Stony Brook University explained, "These were very different, co-existing environments in the same lake[...] This type of oxidant stratification is a common feature of lakes on Earth, and now we've found it on Mars. The diversity of environments in this Martian lake would have provided multiple opportunities for different types of microbes to survive."The scientists also evaluated the fineness of the sediment, meaning the sizes of individual particles of dirt, dust and sand.  Curiosity found larger grains near the edges of the lake where sediments from incoming rivers and streams would have fed it, and smaller ones in what would have been the deep lakebed, which is consistent with particles dropping out of the water as the current slows down. "We could tell something was going on," Hurowitz said in a statement. "What was causing iron minerals to be one flavor in one part of the lake and another flavor in another part of the lake? We had an 'Aha!' moment when we realized that the mineral information and the bedding-thickness information mapped perfectly onto each other in a way you would expect from a stratified lake with a chemical boundary between shallow water and deeper water."India's Western Ghat mountains have been found to be home to a species of purple cave frog that, unlike other burrowing amphibians, spends almost its entire adult life underground.  The frog's discoverers, scientists from Hyderabad's Center for Cellular and Molecular Biology, named the species, Nasikabatrachus bhupathi, with the commmon name Bhupathy's purple frog, after their fellow herpetologist, Dr. Subramaniam Bhupathy, who died in these mountains three years ago while conducting his own research.  N. bhupathi is described in the latest issue of Alytes, the official publication of the International Society for the Study and Conservation of Amphibians.  The discovery of this frog adds to the body of evidence supporting the Gondwanaland continental drift scenario."This frog lineage is very ancient, and has a very low diversity, so this finding is very special and unusual," says Elizabeth Prendini of the American Museum of Natural History and co-author of the paper describing the frogs. The frog has one close relative, N. sahyadrensis, which was discovered in the Western Ghats in 2003, but Bhupathy's purple frog has light purple skin, a pale blue ring around its eye, and audibly different calls. These two species are also related to other frogs that live in the Seychelles, which are closer to Africa than to India.  This supports the idea that Africa and India were once part of the same ancient supercontinent, called Gondwanaland, which eventually became part of the later supercontinent, Pangaea.Scientists located N. bhupathi by listening for mating calls coming up from underground, where the frogs had burrowed near a temporary stream.  While many species of frog can burrow temporarily, Bhupathy's purple's bodies are built for long-term life underground: they have spadelike forelimbs for digging and long snouts that they use to send their tongues aboveground to sweep the surface for ants and other prey, rather than the snap-and-recoil motion stereotypical of other frogs.  The only time the adult frogs come aboveground is when the rain falls at the beginning of the northeast monsoon season, at which time they use the opportunity to mate.  The tadpoles, rather than swimming freely, attach themselves to the stony walls behind waterfalls, where they spend six months feeding on rock-dwelling algae. The young frogs, called imagos, have mottled brown skin, only turning purple during full adulthood.This discovery was part of an effort sponsored by the Indian government to sample the DNA of every frog species possible.  Scientists declined to say exactly where they collected their sample frogs because the site was on private property.In findings published earlier this month in Zootaxa, scientists report the discovery of new toad species in Nevada's Great Basin.  It is unusual to discover even one previously unknown species of amphibian in the United States.  This report names three, the the Dixie Valley toad, the Hot Creek toad, and the Railroad Valley toad. The Dixie Valley toad has already become the subject of some controversy and a 1000-note letter-writing campaign about the construction of a new power plant.The toads were found in Nevada's Great Basin, a large stretch of arid environment that was once full of lakes and marshes. "We've found the toads in small, wet habitats surrounded by high-desert completely cut off from other populations," said University of Nevada professor and lead scientist Dick Tracy. "These are absolutely new, true species that have been separated from other populations for 650,000 years."This type of speciation scenario, in which a sub-population of one species becomes separated from the main population and eventually becomes a separate species, is called adaptive radiation.  The classic example is Darwin's finches, in which different groups of birds found themselves on different islands and developed distinct beak shapes to eat whatever food was available to them, eventually becoming visibly different species. The three toad species described in Tracy's study appear to be related to the common western toad, but an analysis of over 30 metrics showed visible differences between all three and their presumed ancestor species: "The Dixie Valley toad is a pretty toad, with flecks of gold on an olive background," said Tracy. The toad also has unusually large glands on its legs and very small overall body size."The toads are perfectly concealed in the dense vegetation of their habitat," said lead author Michelle Gordon. "You could easily miss seeing them during the day, making accurate counts difficult. But, during one trip at dusk, toads were everywhere, giving the impression that toads were locally abundant. And, without the water in this habitat, this toad species would completely disappear."The Dixie Valley toad is named for the small marsh, under four square miles (X square km), where it lives.  All three toads live in wet areas completely surrounded by desert.  Plans for a nearby geothermal power plant are on hold while the Bureau of Land Management determines whether it will pose a threat to the Dixie Valley toad population.  The environmental group Center for Biological Diversity arranged a letter-writing campaign asking the Bureau to dismiss plans for the Dixie Valley geothermal plant.EurekalertThe last toad species to be discovered in the United States was the now-extinct Wyoming toad in 1968.The World Health Organisation (WHO), in a statement issued Tuesday, urged scientists to destroy samples of a deadly flu virus that could potentially cause a global pandemic.Shipments of the influenza virus sent to Mexico and Lebanon are unaccounted for. The U.N. health organization said 10 countries receiving samples already destroyed them, while 5 more countries are in the process of doing so.The virus, A/H2N2, was detected by a Canadian lab which contacted the Public Health Agency of Canada, who in turn warned the WHO and other national health agencies on March 26.Meridian Bioscience sent routine testing kits infected with the virus to almost 5,000 laboratories, of which 3747 in 18 countries have so far been identified as having the virus, most of them in North America.The virus is a variant of the H2N2 virus which caused the 1957 Asian Flu Pandemic, but which was displaced by the H3N2 variant.  People born after 1959 are unlikely to be immune to the virus.After the death of the Cincinnati Zoo's female Sumatran rhinoceros last Sunday, Dr. Terri Roth, the director of the zoo's research facility specializing in propagation, told Wikinews her organization remains committed to the Sumatran rhinos, an animal that is currently listed by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature as critically endangered.Suci (pictured left with Roth), the last female in captivity in the United States, died and was one of only two Sumatran rhinos in captivity in the United States.The number of Sumatran rhinos worldwide is now around 100, according to Roth, who is the vice president of Conservation and Science and the director of Conservation and Research of Endangered Wildlife (CREW) at Cincinnati Zoo & Botanical Garden in Ohio. She told Wikinews her research facility will continue to work with its partners abroad and focus on genetic diversity. "Realistically, the odds are against us. This is going to be a tough one to save. It's been a roller coaster experience and it’s been a challenge," said Roth.In the 1980s, Indonesia and the United States entered into a pact to save the animal. According to the plan, Indonesia would enclose captured rhinos in a secure wildlife habitat and provide United States zoos with additional captured rhinos, with the two working together to rebuild the population using the wildlife and captivity. The US program experienced a set back when four out of its seven rhinos died, while zoos were learning to feed them ficus rather than hay. Roth is an expert on the propagation of the Sumatran rhino. Since the late 1990s, when the Cincinnati Zoo received the last three surviving captive rhinos in the United States, she has studied their mating and pregnancy. This led to the ability to detect pregnancy within sixteen days of conception by ultrasound. After five failed pregnancies, Roth tried hormone treatments of progesterone with success. In 2001, CREW and the Cincinnati Zoo celebrated the first rhino birth in captivity in 112 years, a male named Andalas. The previous Sumatran rhino birth in captivity occurred in 1889 in a zoo in Calcutta, India.Roth's work with Emi also produced Suci, a female born in 2004; and Harapan, a male born in 2007. Andalas was returned to Indonesia to sire Andatu, another success in the joint Indonesia-US project. Back in the US, the CREW facility would have to partner Suci with her brother Harapan once he reached sexual maturity between six to seven years age. Suci's death on Sunday ended that plan."We were hoping to produce another calf, for a number of different reasons. One is that the females do lose fertility over time if they don't get pregnant. So we thought even though were not doing a good genetic match, at least getting her pregnant would preserve her fertility. Although, we never got the opportunity to do that." Roth said.Indonesia will not be sending the US zoos any more Sumatran rhinos, Roth said, and for Indonesia it is a matter of national pride to rescue the Sumatran rhino.A new study that was recently carried by the online publication PLoS ONE describes the finding of dinosaur tracks on the Arabian Peninsula. The first of the discoveries was of a two-footed tridactyl. These tracks showed that the animal had taken steps with an average length of just over a metre. The tracks were pointing in the SSW direction.The study noted that "west of the tridactyl trackway, 11 subparallel quadrupedal trackways preserve evidence of large and small quadrupedal animals traveling together in a herd." The study also noted that there may have been additional tracks that were not discovered.The report described the method of finding the tracks: "Trackways were exposed by clearing away sand, small rocks and debris." The tracks were found in Madar, 47 km north of the Yemeni capital.  Mohammed Al-Daheri, a journalist from the area of the discovery, was the first person to discover the existence of these tracks in the area. Anne S. Schulp, Mohammed Al-Wosabi and Nancy J. Stevens were subsequently contacted and asked to carry out the study.The Discworld author Sir Terry Pratchett is to appear in a BBC documentary covering a year of his struggle with the brain disorder Alzheimer's disease.Pratchett, 60, asked the BBC to spend a year documenting any decline in his condition and seeing him experiment with various supposed cures. One alleged cure involved firing infrared light at his brain via a helmet invented by a general practitioner doctor. Pratchett also examines the serious research into dementia and its cure.The author has donated £500,000 to the Alzheimer's Research Trust and his campaigning has raised another £200,000. Pratchett has posterior cortical atrophy, a rare form of the disease which affects vision, causes him to forget words and makes dressing confusing. He has written 36 Discworld novels amongst other works and was knighted in the 2009 New Years Honours.Posterior cortical atrophy is also known as Benson's syndrome. It is the progressive shrinking of the back of the brain. It is a form of Alzheimer's disease, and the wider disease affects some 26.6 million people worldwide.The documentary - Terry Pratchett: Living with Alzheimer's - will air on BBC Two on February 4 at 21:00.Dogs are normally resistant to most flu strains. Since about 2000, a new strain of dog flu has been spreading in America, and there's no vaccine to prevent it. To limit exposure to the flu, some dog owners are avoiding public places like dog shows and parks. Since the flu can spread where groups of dogs are housed, some dog owners are nervous about the practice of putting their pets in kennels. According to Edward Dubovil, director of the animal virology lab at Cornell University, 100% of dogs appear to be susceptible to infection by this new flu strain. It is estimated that 1-5% of infected dogs are dying from this flu strain. The symptoms of dog flu are akin to those of kennel cough, a more common and less serious illness.Starting in 2004 there have been many outbreaks of flu at dog race tracks. Since early in 2004, researchers have been working to characterize the type of flu that is infecting dogs. In September of 2005 it was reported that this dog flu strain had crossed over from horses to dogs. This type of flu virus has been infecting horses for at least 40 years. It is expected that existing flu vaccines for horses can soon be adapted for use in dogs.The spread of a horse flu virus to dogs is an example of what could happen with bird flu. Currently the bird flu is transmitted from birds to humans but does not spread easily from person to person. The new strain of dog flu shows signs of having been genetically modified from the original horse-preferring virus strain making it easy to transmit from dog to dog. Future genetic modifications of bird flu could better adapt it to humans and allow it to spread from person to person. The chance of such viral evolution can be reduced by limiting exposure of humans to bird flu. At this time, the new dog flu virus strain does not seem to be a danger for humans. However, humans will be monitored for signs of infection by new genetic variants of the dog flu. Due to the close physical association between pet dogs and humans, a flu strain that could jump from dogs to humans would be of great concern. Recently evolved virus strains that jump from one species to another are often particularly lethal because the newly infected species may have little or no immunity to the new virus strain.In findings announced yesterday, scientists from Johns Hopkins University took ordinary commercial drones, swapped out their cameras for coolers and packed them with human plasma, platelets and blood cells. The drones were found to deliver their cargo in usable condition after flights lasting almost half an hour, at distances of up to 12 miles."For rural areas that lack access to nearby clinics, or that may lack the infrastructure for collecting blood products or transporting them on their own, drones can provide that access," says pathologist and lead author of the paper Dr. Timothy Amukele.Although earlier studies have confirmed that drone flights do not affect the useful properties or microbe populations of human blood products, those experiments were performed on small, vial-sized samples.  Here, the drones carried much larger quantities of blood, in the proportions and packaging that doctors and medical technicians would actually use on patients, with units purchased directly from the American Red Cross.  Unlike Rwanda's medical delivery drones, which were custom-made for blood product delivery by Zipline, these experiments were completed with regular, commercially available S900-model machines with minimal modification.Post-flight, the samples were tested for cell rupture, changes in pH, air bubbles and other damage that might indicate that the packages had thawed out or otherwise become unsuitable for use in transfusions.  The samples were found to have arrived intact.Although the test was performed in an unpopulated area, it is speculated that drones might be useful not only for delivery of blood products to rural medical facilities but also for distributing blood resources through urban areas.  John's Hopkins pathologist and research team leader Dr. Timothy Armukele speculates that emergency medical teams may one day be able to transfuse patients on the spot by calling for a drone to bring blood of the appropriate type.The details of the experiment have been published in the latest issue of Transfusion.Reuters reports that nine people have died from Ebola in the Republic of Congo this month. The outbreak is in the Cuvette-Ouest region near the Gabon border, where a previous outbreak occurred in 2003.The government of Congo and the United Nations World Health Organization have announced a quarantine of the Etoumbi and Mbomo districts. They are monitoring 84 suspected cases in the two regions. Jean-Vivien Mombouli, adviser to the Congolese Ministry of Health, pointed out the individuals may not actually have the virus; only one confirmed case of Ebola has been diagnosed thus far."We will wait for 21 days just to be sure then after that, if the person does not get sick, he is out of danger," Mr. Mombouli said of the patients. Ebola has a five to ten day incubation period.Neighbouring Uganda has stepped up its surveillance in response to the outbreak.No cure exists for Ebola, and between 50-90% of those who contract it die. Zaire/Congo has sustained the largest number, and most severe, outbreaks of the Ebola virus. Although no cure exists, work continues on a vaccine and it is in the human trial stages, as well as research into pharmaceutical treatments.If you put an elephant in front of a mirror, it will be able to recognize itself, according to a study performed by scientists on three female elephants at the Bronx Zoo located in New York City, New York.During a test on the elephants named Happy, Maxine and Patty, a mirror was placed in their habitat and all three of the animals went over to the mirrors when they were released back into their habitats."Maxine, Patty and Happy immediately went over to the mirror when they were let out, which was really a surprise to us because most animals, when exposed to a mirror, act immediately as if it were another animal," said a student who took place in the experiment and studies at Emory University located in Atlanta, Georgia, Josh Plotnik.The mirrors were initially covered and when the elephants went to examine the new item, the cover was removed. Another elephant also began to play with a painted "white 'X'" on its head when it walked in front of the mirror."They would go over smell it and then leave. They went straight for it — there was a lot of smelling the very first day. Both Maxine and Patty tried to climb the mirror wall and look over it," added Plotnik.Despite the activity, the elephants Plotnik says, who are usually very vocal to each other were silent during their examination of the mirrors."I was really surprised that there was no audible vocalization. These elephants are extremely vocal," Plotnik said.Until this study had been performed, only two other animals were known to be able to recognize themselves in mirrors - Dolphins and chimpanzees."This ability to recognize themselves in a mirror suggests a higher level of self-awareness," said a senior scientist who was a co-publisher of the study, which was reported in the National Academy of Sciences, Diana Reiss.The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation, Embrapa, which is linked to the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Supply, has created two  clones from a Junqueira cow. The Junqueira is an endangered species.  It is estimated that there are less than 100 of them on Brazilian territory.The cloned calves were created using cells from the ear of a nine year old cow. The first clone, called "Porã" was born on April 10, weighing 55 lbs. (25 kg), after 292 days of gestation.  "Potira", the second cloned calf was born, weighing 64 lbs. (29 kg), on April 24, after a 290-day gestation period. The clones are healthy, and are being monitored by Embrapa researchers.The breed Junqueira is popular for meat and milk production. In addition, they are used as work animals. The first cows were brought to Brazil by Spanish and Portuguese settlers. The breed developed inside São Paulo, during the 18th and 19th centuries. The cows' long horns are their most prominent identifying characteristic. The horns were originally used to make "berrante", a Brazilian instrument used by cowboys to call cattle.The Embrapa researcher, Arthur da Silva Mariante said that the research will continue and that other wild animals threatened by extinction may also be cloned.The clones are part of the doctorate thesis of Lílian Iguma, a member of the research team.According to ornithologists, a rare Philippines buttonquail feared to have gone extinct was recently documented alive by a cameraman inadvertently filming a local market, right before it was sold and headed for the cooking pot. Scientists had suspected the species—listed as "data deficient" on the 2008 International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List Category—was extinct. Last month, native bird trappers snared and successfully caught the Luzon Buttonquail (Turnix worcesteri or Worcester's buttonquail) in Dalton Pass, a cold and wind-swept bird passageway in the Caraballo Mountains, in Nueva Vizcaya, located between Cordillera Central and Sierra Madre mountain ranges, in Northern Luzon. The rare species, previously known to birders only through drawings based on dead museum specimens collected several decades ago, was identified in a documentary filmed in the Philippines called Bye-Bye Birdie.British birder and WBCP member Desmond Allen was watching a January 26 DVD-video of  a documentary, Bye-Bye Birdie, when he recognized the bird in a still image of the credits that lasted less than a second. Allen created a screenshot, which was photographed by their birder-companion, Arnel Telesforo, also a WBCP member,in Nueva Vizcaya's poultry market, before it was cooked and eaten.i-Witness: The GMA Documentaries, a Philippine documentary news and public affairs television show aired by GMA Network, had incorporated Telesforo's photographs and video footage of the live bird in the documentary, that was created by the TV crew led by Mr Howie Severino. The Philippine Network had not realized what they filmed until Allen had informed the crew of interesting discovery.Mr Severino and the crew were at that time, in Dalton Pass to film "akik", the traditional practice of trapping wild birds with nets by first attracting them with bright lights on moonless nights. "I'm shocked. I don't know of any other photos of this. No bird watchers have ever given convincing reports that they have seen it at all... This is an exciting discovery," said Allen. The Luzon Buttonquail was only known through an illustration in the authoritative book by Robert S. Kennedy, et al, A Guide to the Birds of the Philippines. This birders "bible" includes a drawing based on the skins of dead specimens collected a century ago, whereas the otherwise comprehensive image bank of the Oriental Bird Club does not contain a single image of the Worcester's Buttonquail.“With the photograph and the promise of more sightings in the wild, we can see the living bill, the eye color, the feathers, rather than just the mushed-up museum skin,” exclaimed Allen, who has been birdwatching for fifty years, fifteen in the Philippines, and has an extensive collection of bird calls on his ipod. He has also spotted the Oriental (or Manchurian) Bush Warbler, another rare bird which he has not seen in the Philippines. “We are ecstatic that this rarely seen species was photographed by accident. It may be the only photo of this poorly known bird. But I also feel sad that the locals do not value the biodiversity around them and that this bird was sold for only P10 and headed for the cooking pot,” Wild Bird Club of the Philippines (WBCP) president Mike Lu said. “Much more has to be done in creating conservation awareness and local consciousness about our unique threatened bird fauna. This should be an easy task for the local governments assisted by the DENR. What if this was the last of its species?” Lu added.“This is a very important finding. Once you don’t see a bird species in a generation, you start to wonder if it’s extinct, and for this bird species we simply do not know its status at all," said Arne Jensen, a Danish ornithologist and biodiversity expert, and WBCP Records Committee head.According to the WBCP, the Worcester’s buttonquail was first described based on specimens bought in Quinta Market in Quiapo, Manila in 1902, and was named after Dean Conant Worcester.Since then just a few single specimens have been photographed and filmed from Nueva Vizcaya and Benguet, and lately, in 2007, from Mountain Province by the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, Illinois.Dean Conant Worcester, D.Sc., F.R.G.S. was an American zoologist, public official, and authority on the Philippines, born at Thetford, Vermont, and educated at the University of Michigan (A.B., 1889).  From 1899 to 1901 he was a member of the  United States Philippine Commission; thenceforth until 1913 he served as secretary of the interior for the Philippine Insular Government. In 1910, he founded the Philippine General Hospital, which has become the hospital for the poor and the sick.In October, 2004, at the request of Mr Moises Butic, Lamut CENR Officer, Mr Jon Hornbuckle, of Grove Road, Sheffield, has conducted a short investigation into bird-trapping in Ifugao, Mountain Province, Banaue Mount Polis, Sagada and Dalton Pass, in Nueva Vizcaya."Prices ranged from 100 pesos for a Fruit-Dove to 300 pesos for a Metallic Pigeon. Other species that are caught from time to time include Flame-breasted Fruit-Dove and Luzon Bleeding-heart; on one occasion, around 50 of the latter were trapped! All other trapped birds are eaten," said Hornbuckle. "The main trapping season is November to February. Birds are caught at the lights using butterfly-catching type nets. Quails and Buttonquails were more often shot in the fields at this time, rather than caught, and occasionally included the rare Luzon (Worcester’s) Buttonquail, which is only known from dead specimens, and is a threatened bird species reported from Dalton Pass," he added.In August, 1929, Richard C. McGregor and Leon L. Gardner of the Cooper Ornithological Society compiled a book entitled Philippine Bird Traps. The authors described the Luzon Buttonquail as "very rare," having only encountered it twice, once in August and once in September. "They are caught with a scoop net from the back of a carabao. Filipino hunters snared them, baiting with branches of artificial red peppers made of sealing wax," wrote McGregor and Leon L. Gardner. "The various ingenious and effectual devices used by Filipinos for bird-trapping include [the] 'Teepee Trap' which consists of a conical tepee, woven of split bamboo and rattan about 3 feet high and 3 feet across at the base, with a fairly narrow entrance. 'Spring Snares' were also used, where a slip noose fastened to a strongly bent bamboo or other elastic branch, which is released by a trigger, which is usually the perch of the trap," their book explained.A passage from the bird-trap book, which explains why Filipinos had eaten these endangered bird species, goes as follows:A global review of threatened species by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) indicates drastic decline of animal and plant life. This includes a quarter of all mammals, one out of eight birds, one out of three amphibians and 70 percent of plants.The report, Red List of Threatened Species, is published by IUCN every year. Additionally, a global assessment of the health of the world's species is released once in four years. The data is compiled by 1,700 experts from 130 countries. The key findings of the report were announced at the World Conservation Congress held in Barcelona, Spain. The survey includes 44,838 species of wild fauna and flora, out of which 16,928 species are threatened with extinction. Among the threatened, 3,246 are tagged critically endangered, the highest category of threat. Another 4,770 species are endangered and 8,912 vulnerable to extinction. Environmental scientists say they have concrete evidence that the planet is undergoing the "largest mass extinction in 65 million years". Leading environmental scientist Professor Norman Myers says the Earth is experiencing its "Sixth Extinction."Scientists forecast that up to five million species will be lost this century. "We are well into the opening phase of a mass extinction of species. There are about 10 million species on earth. If we carry on as we are, we could lose half of all those 10 million species," Myers said.Scientists are warning that by the end of this century, the planet could lose up to half its species, and that these extinctions will alter not only biological diversity but also the evolutionary processes itself. They state that human activities have brought our planet to the point of biotic crisis.In 1993, Harvard biologist E.O. Wilson estimated that the planet is losing 30,000 species per year - around three species per hour. Some biologists have begun to feel that the biodiversity crisis dubbed the "Sixth Extinction" is even more severe, and more imminent, than Wilson had expected.The Luzon Buttonquail (Turnix worcesteri) is a species of bird in the Turnicidae family. It is endemic to the island of Luzon in the Philippines, where it is known from just six localities thereof. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical high-altitude grassland, in the highlands of the Cordillera Central, although records are from 150-1,250 m, and the possibility that it frequents forested (non-grassland) habitats cannot be discounted.The buttonquails or hemipodes are a small family of  birds which resemble, but are unrelated to, the true quails. They inhabit warm grasslands in Asia, Africa, and Australia. They are assumed to be intra-island migrants, and  breed somewhere in northern Luzon in April-June and that at least some birds disperse southwards in the period July-March. These Turnicidae are small, drab, running birds, which avoid flying. The female is the more brightly coloured of the sexes, and initiates courtship. Unusually, the buttonquails are polyandrous, with the females circulating among several males and expelling rival females from her territory. Both sexes cooperate in building a nest in the earth, but only the male incubates the eggs and tends the young.Called "Pugo" (quail) by natives, these birds inhabit rice paddies and scrub lands near farm areas because of the abundance of seeds and insects that they feed on regularly. These birds are characterized by their black heads with white spots, a brown or fawn colored body and yellow legs on males and the females are brown with white and black spots. These birds are very secretive, choosing to make small path ways through the rice fields, which unfortunately leads to their deaths as well, they are hunted by children and young men by means of setting spring traps along their usual path ways.Buttonquails are a notoriously cryptic and unobtrusive family of birds, and the species could conceivably occur in reasonable numbers somewhere. They are included in the 2008 IUCN Red List Category (as evaluated by BirdLife International IUCN Red List of Threatened Species). They are also considered as Vulnerable species by IUCN and BirdLife International, since these species is judged to have a ten percent chance of going extinct in the next one hundred years.A 300 million-year-old fossilized rain forest has been found, in its entirety, outside Georgetown, Illinois, United States. Coal miners called in scientists to look at a vast and dense seam of fossils they found in a mine. It is the largest fossilized forest ever to be found. It is about the size of San Francisco, California or 10,000 hectares [10 km by 10 km] and is said to be the first rain forest ever to exist on Earth."The forest is composed of a bizarre mixture of extinct plants: abundant club mosses, more than 40 metres high, towering over a sub-canopy of tree ferns, intermixed with shrubs and tree-sized horsetails. Nowhere elsewhere on the planet is it possible to (literally) walk through such an extensive swathe of Carboniferous rainforest," said a press release by the University of Bristol in the United Kingdom.In forests, over time, the leaves, branches and other material will build up, layer after layer with the oldest layer on the bottom, and the youngest layer at the top. The scientists observed the layers on the top of the mine shaft."It was an amazing experience. We drove down the mine in an armored vehicle, until we were a hundred meters below the surface. The fossil forest was rooted on top of the coal seam, so where the coal had been mined away the fossilized forest was visible in the ceiling of the mine. The fossilized forest was preserved following a major earthquake 300 million years ago," said Howard Falcon-Lang, paleobotanist with the University of Bristol, who observed the fossil.The forest was estimated to contain trees that were more than 130 feet high. It also contained a variety of smaller trees, shrubs and ferns. One fossil was shaped like an asparagus stalk, but was the size of a small tree.It is believed that the forest was buried in nearly a flash after the land was pushed downward, below sea level, after a massive earthquake burying the forest "forever.""The fossilized forest was preserved following a major earthquake 300 million years ago. The quake caused the whole region to drop below sea level whereupon the forest became buried in mud, preserving it forever," added the press release.The forest is dated to have been alive in the Carboniferous period.Two graduate students at Harvard University claim to have shown that evolution can happen much faster than previously thought.  Physics student Peter Lu and his former roommate, economist Motohiro Yogo, decided to apply an economics model to a well-known marine fossil record in order to predict how fast life can adapt to changes in the environment.  The technique, vector autoregression, is used to predict the stock market based on its historical behavior.Initially their model confirmed previous analysis that life was slow to adapt.  However, fossil-preserving rocks from some periods are more commonly found than from others.  When they compensated for this, the lag disappeared.  So far as could be seen from the geological record, the biosphere seemed to respond immediately to changes.  This would mean that life could rapidly recover from large extinctions; it was previously thought such recovery would take millions of years.On Friday, anonymous threats were sent to the evolutionary biology labs at the University of Colorado at Boulder by email and workers returned to their labs Monday morning to find threatening messages slipped under their doors. The threats mention a group affiliated with creationism, but police did not release the name of the group as it is still investigating if the threats were sent by them.Currently, the University of Colorado police are not providing further details as they investigate the threats. Police have in the meantime increased patrols around the campus and threatened buildings. Although the United States has had vigorous debate over the Creation-evolution controversy to date there have been no serious violent incidents, aside from an attack on Paul Mirecki, a professor at the University of Kansas, in 2005.According to Japanese and American scientists, healthy offspring have resulted from the injection of sperm into female mice from male mice that have been in a deep freeze for 15 years. The mice, as a whole, were kept frozen in temperatures of -20 degrees celsius. Scientists at the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research Bioresource Center which is located in Tsukuba, Japan, say that cryogenic techniques were not used and that the mice were kept in a freezer.Scientists also say that the sperm was not alive when it was thawed out. At least one out of every five females that were injected with the sperm, gave birth to healthy offspring which are also fertile."Obviously, those frozen [sperm] were all dead in the conventional sense. Motionless sperm had no chance whatsoever of fertilising in vivo or in vitro. Nevertheless, some of these, if not all, were ... genomically intact, because they were able to produce apparently normal offspring," said the researchers.The idea behind the experiment is that scientists say that the results now make it possible to bring back prehistoric animals or extinct animals such as the woolly mammoth, but because any fully intact body found would have been frozen for over 10,000 years and would likely be too damaged organisms and bacterias. Endangered species such as elephants could also be reproduced, but scientists also say that the chances of an experiment like that of being successful are still "slim.""Restoration of extinct species could be possible if male individuals are found in permafrost. If sperm of extinct mammalian species, for example the woolly mammoth, can be retrieved from animal bodies that were kept frozen for millions of years in permanent frost, live animals might be restored by injecting them into oocytes [eggs] from females of closely related species," said Dr. Narumi Ogonuki, head of the team who made the discovery.Following fears earlier this month that, in Britain, flu vaccine would not be available for all those due to be vaccinated this autumn, a contributor to the British Medical Journal now wants resources diverted from vaccination towards research to establish the efficacy of vaccination.There have been warnings that production problems have delayed delivery of sufficient vaccine to complete the programme on time. The Department of Health had said there should be enough doses in the long-term but some patients would have to wait. This is the third year in which this problem has arisen. Now writing in the British Medical Journal, Tom Jefferson, a coordinator at Cochrane Vaccines Field, Rome, calls for resources to be diverted from vaccinating people to research into the value of vaccination. Criticising the present policy, calling it "availability creep", Mr. Jefferson says that "it uses up resources that could be invested in a proper evaluation of influenza vaccines or on other health interventions of proven effectiveness". Another paper, of which T. Jefferson is a co-author, accepts that vaccinating the elderly in institutions reduces the complications of influenza and vaccinating healthy persons under 60 reduces cases of influenza.Scientists in Hamburg, Germany are baffled by what appears to be a widespread case of "Exploding toads". In a local pond, more than 1,000 toads have expanded and then exploded. In addition, it has been reported that thousands more are exploding in central Denmark, in a town called Låsby located in Mid-Jutland.The water in the pond has been checked, but does not indicate anything out of the ordinary. Neither do the toad's corpses. They have been checked for bacteria and viruses, but none have been found.One German scientist is theorizing that the toads are being terrorized by crows who attempt to peck at the toads' livers. When the crows go for the livers, the toads puff up as a defense mechanism. Since there is a hole in the toad's body caused by the pecking crow, the entrails and blood explode out of the hole.German tabloids have taken to calling the pond, "the death pool" and "the pond of death".Scientists reported that they had documented very fast evolution in the butterfly species Hypolimnas bolina. After infection by Wolbachia, the fraction of the population that was male dropped drastically to about one percent of the total population. However, after approximately ten generations (about a year) the male population had rebounded to about 39 percent of the overall population. In the case of H. bolina, infected females were unable to have male offspring since the male embryos died early on. However, a gene arose which suppressed Wolbachia's ability to kill the male offspring, and this gene spread rapidly through the natural H. bolina population.At this time, it is unknown if the novel gene was a mutation or a pre-existing gene. However, researchers said that regardless, the findings constituted strong evidence that parasites can drive and substantially alter evolution. The research was performed by scientists at the University of Berkeley lead by Sylvain Charlat, a post-doc at Berkeley.Wolbachia is a bacterium that is very effective at jumping from species to species, generally infecting arthropods such as insects. Since the bacterium resides in the cytoplasm of cells, males cannot pass Wolbachia onto their offspring because sperms only pass on their nucleus with the DNA, but females can. Wolbachia has thus adapted a number of strategies, such as killing male embryos of infected females or preventing infected males from reproducing with uninfected females.Wolbachia is dangerous to hosts because it is able to easily jump species barriers and so has little reason to restrain itself -if an infectious organism kills its host, it generally dies along with it. The bacterium is believed to be responsible for some extinction events as well as some speciation events.A compound in the common daisy-like plant feverfew kills human leukemia stem cells and could form the basis for newer, more effective drugs for the disease.American researchers at the University of Rochester Medical Center in New York say that it could take months to develop a useable drug from the compound, parthenolide. However, they are working to do so with chemists at the University of Kentucky who have identified a water-soluble molecule with the same properties. The US National Cancer Institute has also accepted the work into its rapid access program, which aims to speed experimental drugs into human clinical trials. "This research is a very important step in setting the stage for future development of a new therapy for leukemia," says Rochester researcher Craig Jordan. "We have proof that we can kill leukemia stem cells with this type of agent, and that is good news."Parthenolide appears to target the roots of myeloid leukemia, stem cells, while current treatments including the relatively new drug Gleevec don't. So, "You're pulling the weed without getting to the root," says Jordan. Used for centuries to fight fevers, inflammation and arthritis, feverfew earned interest from the Rochester researchers after other scientists showed that it could prevent skin cancer in animal models. So the researchers investigated how a concentrated form of the plant component parthenolide would affect leukemia cells and normal cells. Comparing the impact of parthenolide to the common chemotherapy drug cytarabine, they found that parthenolide selectively killed leukemia cells while sparing normal cells better. While the findings suggest that parthenolide is a good starting point for new drugs, people with leukemia aren't being encouraged to take high doses of feverfew as they could not take enough of the remedy to halt the disease. The research is reported in the journal Blood.The Virology Institute of the Slovak Academy of Sciences (SAS) in Bratislava was severely damaged by fire. The flames reportedly reached as high as one hundred meters. The fire most likely started from the gas tank used for oxy-fuel welding during the building's restoration process, SAS speaker Viera Rosová said.Firefighters from all Bratislava fire-stations took part in the fire-fighting operation. The situation was complicated by dense smoke, necessitating the use of gas masks.Thanks to a quick evacuation of SAS employees and construction workers, none were injured. However, some equipment of the top-level scientific facility was damaged and various research projects will be affected as well, Rosová admitted. The "software unit containing information of incalculable value" was rescued in time, reports say.There is no danger of toxic spills or leak of viruses. The micro-biotic organisms studied in the institute are safely stored and infected animals were not held in this building. The institute owns about two thousand animals. The virology samples will be destroyed as the coolers went out of service after the power supply was cut for security reasons during fire-fighting. The SAS vice-chairman Albert Beier estimated the value of the cooler boxes to be close to two million Euros. "They often contain a life-long work of our researchers," he added.A 375 million-year old fossilised umbilical cord indicates that placoderm, thought to be ancestors of modern fish, are actually closer to sharks and rays.  This requires changes to current theories of the evolution of vertebrate sexual reproduction. The placoderm, a class of prehistoric fish known as the "dinosaur of the seas", dates back to the Devonian period, making the fossil the earliest known case of a vertebrate that gave birth to live young. It is also the only fossilised umbilical cord ever to be found.Dr. John Long, Museum Victoria's head of sciences and the leader of the team examining the fossils, says the find "changes our understanding of the evolution of vertebrates".He and Dr. Kate Trinajstic from the University of Western Australia were writing a paper on the fossil that was found during an Australian Research Council-funded expedition to the Gogo Formation, near the town of Fitzroy Crossing in Western Australia. They decided to give the fossil one last inspection, at which point they discovered the embryo. According to the research team, this discovery pushes the known development of viviparity (animals giving birth to live young) back 200 million years, and also marks the earliest known development of internal fertilisation, a feature now found in sharks and rays.Dr. Long gave the species the Latin name Materpiscis attenboroughi. Materpiscis derives from the Latin words meaning "mother fish", and attenboroughi was chosen in honour of Sir David Attenborough, who first drew attention to the Gogo region's possible fossils in a 1970s TV documentary.The team's findings were published in the science journal Nature, and the fossil specimen will be on display at the Melbourne Museum.Two weeks after Chinese surgeons successfully transplanted a donated penis onto an unidentified 44-year-old man, they were requested to remove it. Despite functioning perfectly and having been physically accepted by the body, the patient and his wife asked for the penis to be amputated, due to the severe psychological trauma they had both suffered.A team of surgeons led by Dr Hu Weilie took 15 hours to attach the penis, which was donated by the family of a 22-year-old brain-dead patient. Doctors have successfully re-attached patients' own severed members in the past, but this was the first use of a second-party penis.The psychological rejection of the penis is not unusual from a medical point of view; in 2001 surgeons removed the world's first transplanted hand from donee Clint Hallam, who wanted the "hideous and withered" hand to be removed because he had become "mentally detached" from it. The team that led the transplant have since performed the world's first double arm transplant.In Siberia, fishermen made what experts are calling a "very rare" discovery. A complete and nearly intact skeleton of a mammoth has been found in Krasnoyarsk, Russia off the shores of a small lake. The skeleton became visible when waters from a recent flood receded."It happens very rarely. I've been in the area 14 years and this is the first time. The bones are usually spread around over a wide area. The find has retained a backbone, a skull with teeth and a tusk and other anatomic details," said Alexander Kerzhayev, deputy director of the museum and archeologist in Novoselovo, Russia.Kerzhayev also said that the mammoth appeared to have lived until about 50-years old. "It was an adult mammoth, judging by the size of bones it was at least 50 years old," he added also saying the mammoth appeared to have died from being sick.However, Kerzhayev also says that the museum does not have the resources to retrieve the remains and that "no one seems to care" about the discovery adding that small portions of the animal could be retrieved.Mid-Atlantic Coastal Region,USAWhile residents of the northeast U,S, may doubt that Spring is really here judging from the recent cool, damp and rainy weather March has afforded the region, local flora are now springing forth from the winter chill. Throughout the region, outdoor life has begun to burst forth with buds on trees and shrubs alike.Area forsythia are in full bloom. This common and sturdy shrub can be found all around the region and is used as a source for seasonal flower cuttings suitable for various floral arrangements. The dormant stems of forsythia may be cut and brought inside before they bloom, where they will later flower when placed in a vase filled with water. Once spent, the yellow pedals fall off fairly quickly, usually within a few days.After months of wintry nakedness, Bradford pears also are entering their blooming season. In summer months while in full foliage, the trees are used as shade trees along city streets. But during spring bloom the resulting mess of dropping flower petals coupled with a spring rain can cover cars parked under such a tree with a sticky mess.Regional rain fall accumulations for 2005 for January and February were 2 inches less than normal. That deficit was made up during March as the region was repeatedly soaked by rain. As a result, the total accumulation of rainfall for the year now is an inch above normal.The Unites States Fish and Wildlife Service or USFWS has announced that the Florida and Puerto Rican manatee will most likely be removed from the Endangered Species List and have their status upgraded to "threatened."The announcement was made in the USFWS's 5-year review of the manatee. In the review, the manatees were found to have "increased in numbers" over the last 40 years and that there were no new threats posed to the mammals.In the section of the report that is called the 1996 Distinct Population Segment or [DPS], the review states "the species under review" is "not listed as a DPS" and that "there [is no] relevant new information that would lead us to consider listing manatees in Florida as a DPS in accordance with the 1996 policy.""If there isn't any other message in this report, it's that recovery is attainable. We just believe it fits the definition of threatened better than it fits the definition of endangered," said the Fish and Wildlife Service's supervisor for the field, Dave Hankla."Based on the science, it is clear that manatees are no longer facing extinction in all or a significant portion of its range," added Hankla.An endangered species is usually considered a species which are very likely to become extinct immediately. Threatened species can usually be saved if large measures to protect them are immediately taken.Scientists were also able to get a close count to the exact numbers of manatees that are currently living off Florida's coast and in the waterways of Florida to 2,812. Only 1,267 were found to be living in Florida's waters in 1991.A team of scientists has announced remains of a human girl from about 50 thousand years ago had one Neanderthal parent and one Denisovan parent, two different species of humans, both species now extinct. The results, from genomic tests in Leipzig, Germany of fossil bone from Siberia, Russia, were published on Wednesday in scientific journal Nature.  The researchers said this is the first discovery of a child with parents of different human species.The single fossilized bone fragment, about two centimetres (less than an inch) long, which researchers said was from a girl at least 13 years old, was found in 2012 in the Denisova Cave in Siberia.  The Denisovan species of humans is only directly known from the same cave, where it was discovered in 2011; the cave is also the only site where both Nenderthal and Denisovan remains have been found.  Neanderthals have been found in Europe and Asia.  Traces of genes from both species occur in some modern humans.  Researchers found the nuclear DNA in this bone fragment was split fairly evenly between both species, while the mitochondrial DNA was Neanderthal; nuclear DNA comes from both parents, while mitochondrial DNA comes only from the mother, so they concluded the girl's mother was Neanderthal and her father Denisovan.Lead author on the study Viviane Slon, of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology (MPI-EVA) in Leipzig, said "We knew from previous studies that Neanderthals and Denisovans must have occasionally had children together [...] But I never thought we would be so lucky as to find an actual offspring of the two groups."  The team rechecked the findings several times.  Scientist Johannes Krause, of the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena, called the finding "sensational".  Study coauthor Svante Pääbo, of MPI-EVA, remarked on the improbability of discovering such a hybrid when only two dozen human genomes over 40 thousand years old — when the other species of humans were still around — have been done: "The fact that we stumbled across this makes you wonder if the mixing wasn't quite frequent [...] Had it happened frequently, we would not have such divergence between the Denisovans and Neanderthal genomes."  The researchers also noted the girl's father, though Denisovan, had a trace of Neanderthal DNA, from perhaps as much as several hundred generations earlier. They also reported the mother's DNA was not closely related to that of other Neanderthals found in the cave, suggesting multiple migrations of Neanderthals between Siberia and Europe.The remains of a fossilized "burrowing" dinosaur have been found in Lima, Montana and scientists say that the dinosaur may have been forced to dig in an effort to survive the asteroid impact that wiped out the dinosaurs nearly 65 million years ago.One full grown dinosaur and two young ones are the first evidence of any burrowing dinosaur to be discovered by scientists and is also the first evidence that a dinosaur cared for their offspring in dens."Burrowing behaviour allows vertebrates to escape harsh environmental conditions. Small dinosaurs could potentially have withstood severe conditions, such as drought or ... temperature extremes. Survival of terrestrial vertebrates at the end-Cretaceous event has been attributed to sheltering behaviour, with the extinction of non-avian dinosaurs resulting from their inability to find an appropriate cover," said Montana State University's chief researcher, David Varricchio.The new dinosaur has been called "Oryctodromeus cubicularis" which is being defined as the "digging runner of the lair.""Here we have the burrow, den, an adult with traits for digging, and two juveniles, all in the same place. It doesn't get much better than that," said researcher at Emory University, Anthony Martin.The remains were found in an area that was once covered by an ancient flood, but Varricchio states that the flood was not the cause of the dinosaurs death."The bones are disarticulated; they are not in life position. It's not like they were sitting in the burrow and a flooding event filled the chamber with sediment and they were entombed. They must have died, undergone decay and then the burrow was filled," added Varricchio.The fully grown dinosaur is at least 2.1 meters long and weighed nearly 22 to 32 kilograms. Scientists say that the dinosaurs are nearly 95 million years old and are from the Cretaceous period of dinosaurs. In evolutionary terms, the dinosaur lived just before the asteroid impact that made dinosaurs extinct.Scientists in China have unearthed the fossilized remains of a bird like dinosaur in the Erlian Basin that was as big as the Tyrannosaurus Rex. The measurements put the fossil, now named Gigantoraptor elrianensis, at 16 feet tall and 26 feet (8 meters) long, weighing in at an estimated over 3,000 pounds (1,400 kilograms) when it was alive. It is said to have had a beak, feathers and its closest relative would have been the Caudiperyx, which is 35 times smaller than the newly discovered fossil. It is estimated to have roamed Earth during the Cretaceous Period about 70 million years ago."We think it's the largest feathered animal ever to have been discovered. This is like having a mouse that is the size of a horse or cow. It is very important information for us in our efforts to trace the evolution process of dinosaurs to birds. It’s more complicated than we imagined," said one of the paleontologists who made the discovery, Xu Xing from the Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology & Paleoanthropology.Previous theories about dinosaurs were that they got smaller before they evolved into birds. But the new discovery could mean the exact opposite, that dinosaurs got larger before becoming smaller."Almost every group [of dinosaurs] that has evolved has tended to evolve giant forms,"said University of Alberta paleontologist, Philip Currie.Scientists are not sure whether the dinosaur was a herbivore or a carnivore, because it has both claws, and a long neck with a small head. The scientists also originally thought the remains were of a T. Rex.Scientists in Alberta, Canada have discovered a new species of dinosaur in remains left untouched for 25 years. The find has been published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.The measurements put the fossil, the smallest discovered in North America, at one and a half feet (50 centimetres) tall, weighing in at an estimated 4 to 5 pounds (1.8-2.2 kilograms) when it was alive, about the size of today's modern domesticated cat. Scientists believe it ate things like insects and other smaller dinosaurs. It is estimated to have roamed earth during the late Cretaceous Period about 75 million years ago in what is known as present day Alberta. The fossil was discovered in 1982 by Elizabeth "Betsy" Nicholls, a Canadian paleontologist who died in 2004. The fossils went largely unstudied since their discovery in the 80's and were later located in 2007 at an archive in the University of Alberta."Hesperonychus is currently the smallest dinosaur known from North America. [This] raises the possibility that there are even smaller ones [dinosaurs] out there waiting to be found," said Nick Longrich, paleontology research associate with the University of Calgary's Department of Biological Sciences, and one of the scientists publishing the report. He added that the creature spent most of its time on the ground. Hesperonychus elizabethae is a species of the family Dromaeosauridae and is a cousin of Velociraptor . This fully feathered, warm blooded bird of prey was believed to have walked upright on two legs with claws like the Velociraptor. Its second claw was larger, giving rise to the name Hesperonychus which means "western claw." elizabethae was chosen in honor of Nicholls.Japanese multinational company Fujitsu launched a website for a dog pedometer which allows customers to monitor their dog's health online. The device measures data while attached to the dog's collar. Customers are also able to add more data to the website manually, then it displays the complete set of data graphically. Fujitsu launched the website today (Tuesday) and plans to start the sales in Japan tomorrow (Wednesday).The pedometer is called "Wandant", from Japanese "Wan" equivalent to "woof", and the "dant" of "pendant". The latter refers to the pedometer, because it is attached to a dog collar. The users can transfer data to an Android phone using a touch-card to make it available online.Fujitsu said Wandant would be the first cloud-based dog health-care service.The data include walking, temperature, and shaking motion statistics. The users can manually enter additional data such as food quantities, weight, custom notes, and photos.Fujitsu said, "The data are presented graphically on a custom website that makes trends in the dog's activities easy to understand at a glance. This helps owners get a stronger sense of their dog's health, while enabling communication with the dog."A gene has been discovered that turns stem cells into cancer killers, promising new treatments that boost the body's ability to destroy tumors.South Korean scientists from the Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology in Daejeon say that the gene, Vitamin D3 Upregulated Protein 1 (VDUP1), spurs stem cells to become natural killer cells.These components of the immune system can eliminate virus-infected and cancerous cells.  Research leader Inpyo Choi says the team observed that VDUP1 plays a decisive role in causing stem cells to become natural killers. The discovery was made by examining mice bred to lack the gene. The mice had a dramatic reduction in the number and activity of natural killer cells. Besides determining the gene's importance to the immune system, Choi and colleagues have developed technology needed to spur the creation of natural killers from a person's own bone marrow stem cells. Choi calls this "the first step toward developing new treatments using our own immune system to fight cancers and other serious diseases." The research is reported in the journal Immunity.Researchers at Case Western University in Cleveland, Ohio have announced the creation of transgenic mice with substantially improved athletic endurance, which live and breed longer and are more aggressive than genetically unmodified siblings, and are leaner despite consuming 60% more food. The mice have been dubbed "mighty mice" or "supermice" by the popular press and have been compared to cyclist Lance Armstrong.The changes were created by adding an extra copy of a single gene, PEPCK-C.  This gene is already present in the mouse genome, but the modified gene is designed to be strongly active (transcribed) in skeletal muscle.  (The natural copy of the gene, most active in the liver, continues to function normally).  The gene mediates a crucial rate controlling step of gluconeogenesis and glyceroneogenesis, and its activity helps to allow energy production by the mitochondrial citric acid cycle.  In the transgenics, more energy is available to muscle through the burning of fatty acids, with much less production of lactate (a chemical that leads to sore muscles when one exercises).   This is not as major a change to the mouse genome as it might seem to the layperson. The PEPCK-C gene is already present in the mouse and a variety of natural mutations could likely cause similar results.  The study appears today in the Journal of Biological Chemistry in a paper with lead author Parvin Hakimi from the laboratory of Richard W. Hanson.The altered mice can run at 20 meters per minute (0.75 miles per hour or 1.2 kilometers per hour) for up to six kilometers (nearly four miles) without stopping.  The average treadmill time for strenuous exercise on a 25-degree incline is 31.9 minutes, well in excess of the 19 minute average of unmodified mice.  Females can breed at two and a half years of age, whereas most female mice cannot breed after the first year.  A colony of 500 mice has been bred, starting from six independent germline transformations ("founder" mice).  The level of PEPCK-C in muscle is 9 units per gram of muscle as opposed to only 0.08 in normal mice.  Levels of triglycerides and the number of mitochondria are also increased.Hanson said that he did not expect that the results would be applicable to humans due to both practical and ethical considerations in addition to the fact that the genes might not function the same way in humans. This is not the first time that the press has dubbed a genetically modified mouse a "mighty mouse". Earlier scientists at John Hopkins University announced that they had made mice with massively increased muscle mass that were larger and stronger than their normal cousins.  These alterations increased strength rather than endurance through the genetic modification of myostatin and follistatin, or by injection of a soluble form of ACVR2B to block myostatin activity in normal mice.A team from the China Agricultural University is reporting success after transferring human genes into a herd of 300 dairy cows. The cows now produce milk containing proteins associated with human breast milk.Human milk is beneficial to infants due to its high nutrient concentration. Formula milk offers an alternative to breastfeeding, but critics feel it is inferior and the research team hopes genetically modified cows could provide a solution. "Within 10 years, people will be able to pick up these products at the supermarket," claims Professor Ning Li, research leader and head of the university's State Key Laboratory for AgroBiotechnology. "We aim to commercialize some research in this area in coming three years."The new research, published in the journal Public Library of Science One, named three human proteins present in the cows' milk. Lysozyme protects babies from bacteria, lactoferrin boosts the cells in an infant's immune system and alpha-lactalbumin was also present. All are found in human breast milk."Our study describes transgenic cattle whose milk offers the similar nutritional benefits as human milk," Li wrote in the journal. "The modified bovine milk is a possible substitute for human milk. It fulfilled the conception of humanising the bovine milk." The cows are otherwise identical to normal cows and were produced by introducing the genes to cloned embryos, which were then reared by surrogate mothers.The laws surrounding genetically modified food research are tighter in Europe than China, but similar products have been sold legally in the United States for years. European consumers often avoid genetically modified foods, and therefore some supermarkets avoid stocking them.European campaigners are concerned about food safety and animal welfare; the Chinese team performed two studies on a total of 42 transgenic calves. Ten died soon after birth and six more did not survive beyond six months. It is not fully understood why survival and development is affected by cloning, which is used in the genetic modification process, but researchers concede it does happen.The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, a UK organisation, said it is "extremely concerned" by the development. A spokesperson for the organisation said: "Offspring of cloned animals often suffer health and welfare problems, so this would be a grave concern. Why do we need this milk — what is it giving us that we haven't already got?" A University of Nottingham professor specializing in genetic modification, Keith Campbell, rejected food safety concerns. "Genetically modified animals and plants are not going to be harmful unless you deliberately put in a gene that is going to be poisonous," he said. "Why would anyone do that in a food?" The Chinese team says cow welfare will be improved as they will be better able to fight udder infection with human proteins.The New Zealand Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) is investigating how genetically modified (gm) seeds of sweet corn was knowingly cleared to enter New Zealand in October 2006.The two consignments totaling 1,800 kilogram of gm sweetcorn originating from the United States was cleared by the quarantine service run by MAF. Each consignment had a certificate that showed that the seeds had not been gm but there was documentation available that showed that the two consignments had a presence of gm. Jeanette Fitzsimons, spokesperson for genetic engineering and the leader of the Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand, said: "I am absolutely shocked and angered that 1.8 tonnes of sweet corn seeds crossed our border, even though the accompanying testing documentation showed that it was contaminated with GE."MAF said that the presence of any GM seeds is extremely low because of the combination of the two results.The amount of seeds of sweetcorn that entered New Zealand could amount of 400 hectares of sweetcorn.MAF is checking where the seeds were planted and will contact the affected parties. Conclusions from the discussions will determine the outcome of the seeds and or the plants.Ms Fitzsimons said: "This is an indication that too many people in MAF still don't take the issue seriously. There needs to be a major shake up among the people who constitute our first line of defence."MAF is also conducting an investigation on how they can increase border security so it never happens again. Ms Fitzsimons said: "It is extremely disturbing to learn that our border is still not secure against GE contaminated seeds. It is even worse that it has taken two months to discover that.""Our markets still show no sign of accepting GE foods or GE contamination and it would be suicidal not to listen to them. Nor do New Zealanders want to eat GE foods," Ms Fitzsimons said.In research released on Thursday in Cell, scientists from Yale University report they managed to trigger instinctive hunting behavior in mice using optogenetics, a manner of priming cells within an organism's brain to switch on when exposed to a laser.The research team used an engineered virus to target and alter specific sets of neurons. Then they fitted the mice with intracranial optical fibers so they could expose their brains to blue light at will. The system excited two different sets of neurons, both located in the amygdala, which is the part of the brain associated with emotion and aggression. One set stimulated prey pursuit behavior, such as stalking, and the other stimulated the animal to use its jaw and neck muscles. When exposed to the laser, the primed mice would first stalk and then pounce on and bite any object in their enclosure, even objects without any food scent or prey value, like sticks and bottle caps."We'd turn the laser on and they'd jump on an object, hold it with their paws and intensively bite it as if they were trying to capture and kill it," says lead investigator and Yale Associated Professor of Psychiatry Ivan de Araujo. The mice behaved normally at all other times.The work was inspired by Araujo's desire to study natural feeding behavior, as opposed to animals passively munching on food pellets. The study covered many parts of the brain already known to be associated with feeding, and the results suggested some areas are associated with both hunting and feeding and others only with just one behavior. Stimulation of the periaqueductal gray (PAG) portion of the brain controlled stalking and stimulation of the reticular formation controlled biting. The researchers say this shows the amygdala is likely to control hunting and biting behavior across many or all jawed vertebrates. The experiments were funded by national research organizations in the United States and China and the government of Brazil.The findings inspired comparisons by the research team and the press to zombies from The Walking Dead, especially since the behavior was more pronounced when the animals were hungry. Researchers noted the subjects did not attack any of the other mice. The scientists say this shows they were stimulating predatory behavior specifically and not making the animals generally more angry or aggressive.However, the study did not state whether the laser resembled the light of a full moon.Do you own a cat? Do you ever wonder what it's up to when you are not around? Well German-American Jürgen Perthold, an inventor, has created the "cat cam.""I wanted to find out what he gets up to, where he spends his days. He goes out the whole day, sometimes he returns hungry sometimes not, sometimes with traces of fights, sometimes he also stays out all night. It gave me the idea to equip the cat with a camera," said Perthold.The camera, which is operated by batteries and weighs 70 grams (including the batteries), is hooked onto the cat's collar and records their journeys. Operating for a maximum of two days, the camera takes a picture every minute. Perthold used his cat as a test subject and discovered his cat was visiting the neighbor's female cat on a regular basis. Perthold even wrote his own program to operate and control the camera.The product currently ships worldwide from the United States for about US$30.00 plus shipping charges.Knut, Germany's famous polar bear, turned one at the Berlin Zoo yesterday. For the celebration he had a healthy cake with fruits and vegetables, fish and rice on lettuce topped with a candle-shaped rolling pin.The director of the zoo, Bernhard Blaszkiewitz, said: "I wish Knut that he will get as old as polar bears are supposed to get. So minimum 30 to 40 years, and that he finds a partner." The way he looks and because he comes from Berlin, he will reproduce well, Blaszkiewitz said. Along with this, he referred to the high birth rate in Berlin.When Knut was born a year ago, he was rejected by his mother Tosca. Keeper Thomas Dörflein took a parental role and reared Knut by hand. After a few months, Knut grew big and Thomas Dörflein could no longer play with him because he received bad bruises. At birth, Knut weighed 1.8 pounds, today, he weighs 220 pounds. Adult male polar bears can weigh up to 800 pounds.Knut was the first polar bear born at the Berlin Zoo in 30 years. Millions of people came to see him from all over the world and the event which was dubbed "Knutmania" spawned a CD, a book and hour-long queues at the zoo.NASA has announced that the Cassini spacecraft has found what seem to be geysers spewing water on the moon Enceladus. The find raises the possibility of life on other planets, as liquid water is believed to be a requirement for life. "This marks the first time that scientists have seen evidence of water in liquid form so close to the surface on another body beyond Earth," said Cassini scientist Torrence Johnson. Although life may be found on the moon, most scientists concede that if Enceladus does harbor life, it probably consists of microbes or other robust organisms capable of living in extreme conditions. This latest discovery shows that life in other parts of the universe may be more probable than previously thought."We realize that this is a radical conclusion — that we may have evidence for liquid water within a body so small and so cold," said Dr. Carolyn Porco, Cassini imaging team leader at the Space Science Institute, Boulder, Colorado. "However, if we are right, we have significantly broadened the diversity of solar system environments where we might possibly have conditions suitable for living organisms."The skeletal remains of a giant camel were discovered in a Syrian desert. The fossils are estimated to have come from a camel that died about 100,000 years ago.The bones were unearthed at al-Hemel, Syria, about 155 miles northeast of Damascus, by an archaeological team made up of both Swiss and Syrian people.Apparently the Palmyra region of the Syrian desert "is the first origin of the camel," said Bassam Jammous, director general of the Antiquities and Museum Department.A scientific name has not yet been agreed upon, but the joint Swiss-Syrian team has dubbed it the "Syrian Camel".Jammous stated that the animal is thought to have been around 13 feet tall, twice that of an average-size modern day camel.Some human bones were discovered nearby in 2005, while stone tools were found along with the camel bones recently.Evidence from the fossils make it appear that they were not bred by humans, but this cannot be certain.For the first time in history, the Siemens Competition, formerly the Siemens-Westinghouse Competition, was won by two females. The competition, which along with the Intel Competition are one of the two most prestigious competitions for high school science research in the United States. The Siemens Competition has two competitions, one for individual research and the other for team research. For the first time in history both the individual and team awards were won by women. Janelle Schlossberger and Amanda Marinoff, students at Plainview-Old Bethpage John F. Kennedy High School in Plainview, New York won the team section of the competition for their work developing a drug that blocks reproduction of tuberculosis bacteria. Meanwhile, Isha Himani Jain from Freedom High School in Pennsylvania won the individual competition for work involving the bone growth in Zebra fish. Schlossberger and Marinoff will split a $100,000 prize and Himani Jain will also receive a $100,000 prize. Various other students will also receive smaller awards. Many of the other higher-level awards also went to women this year. The success of the young ladies was of particular note because historically women have been underrepresented in math and science. The lack of representation has been a matter of heavy political dispute and figured into the departure of Larry Summers as president of Harvard after he speculated that the lack of representation might be due to innate biological differences. The proportion of scientists who are female has been steadily increasing over the last 50 years. According to James Whaley, the president of the Siemens Foundation, there has been a steady increase in the proportion of students entering the competition who are female and this year 48% of the students entering were female. Many commentators have called the results a sign that the gap between males and females in the sciences is closing or has closed. However, other commentators have said that females will only have reached equality with males in science was when triumphs such as this one are so routine as to not merit headlines.The Siemens-Westinghouse Competition, now known as the Siemens Competition, was founded in 1998 after Siemens acquired Westinghouse but failed to acquire the rights to the Westinghouse competition which instead went to Intel and was renamed the Intel Science Talent Search.A farming town in California claims that it may disappear due to the United States federal government shutting off water pumps, though the government states the actions are necessary to save several marine species.In July 2009, action by the Federal Bureau of Reclamation to protect threatened fish stopped irrigation pumping to parts of the California Central Valley causing canals leading into Huron, California and the surrounding areas and the farms that rely on them to lose their primary irrigation source. Unemployment has reached 40% in some areas as the farms have dried up.California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger stated the action is putting the fish "above the needs of millions of Californians."Highlighting the city's plight, Huron Police Chief Frank Steenport stated, "A year from now, [Huron] may not be here."In an interview in Huron on Tuesday, comedian Paul Rodriguez, whose mother owns a farm in the area, criticized the actions of the government and called for President Barack Obama to review the decision. "This used to be an almond orchard. Now all that is left is firewood."Laura King Moon, assistant general manager of the State Water Contractors, a nonprofit association of 27 public agencies from across California that purchase water from the government under contract, said "these cuts are crippling on our people and businesses — especially in the Central Valley where farmers are being forced to fallow their land and workers are being laid off. Rather than piecemeal restrictions, we need to balance the needs of the environment and the needs of people with a collective plan for the Delta."The National Marine Fisheries Service, an agency within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, states the water pumping inside central California threatens several species, including Chinook salmon, Central Valley steelhead, North American green sturgeon, and Southern Resident killer whales, which rely on Chinook salmon runs for food. In the Huron area, the delta smelt is specifically targeted.In defense of the actions, Rod McInnis, the southwest regional director for NOAA's Fisheries Service stated, "What is at stake here is not just the survival of species but the health of entire ecosystems and the economies that depend on them. We are ready to work with our federal and state partners, farmers and residents to find solutions that benefit the economy, environment and Central Valley families."The environmental activist group Greenpeace has attempted to disrupt Japan's Southern Ocean "scientific" whaling fleet. After searching for the whaling fleet for nearly a month, the Greenpeace ships, MY Esperanza and MY Arctic Sunrise, are floating alongside the Japanese mothership in Australia's Antarctic territorial waters, directly south of Tasmania.The Japanese whaling fleet has an expected catch of over 900 minke whales – more than double its previous catch. The fleet - owned by Kyodo Senpaku and part-owned by Nissui, Japan's second-largest marine products firm - is also targeting endangered fin whales for what they claim is a scientific program. Fin whales are the second largest creatures on earth.Greenpeace say they have asked the whalers to stop whaling immediately and return to Japan, but have received no response from the vessels. In inflatables carrying banners which read "defend the whales" and "stop the whaling," crew from the two ships declared their intention to stop the hunt. Leader of the Greenpeace expedition, Shane Rattenbury said their eight small boats have begun to "interfere" with the whaling process. "We positioned our two ships to the stern of the Japanese mother ship in order to prevent the whale being transferred on to the ship and we were successful in stopping that process for about 45-minutes," said Mr Rattenbury, describing a capture boat ramming the Greenpeace ship in an attempt to push it clear. He said the Japanese boat fought back with water cannons and one of several Greenpeace inflatables capsized in the wash. All crew were retrieved without injury. "We're going to do everything we can over the coming weeks to interfere with the whaling process, and stop the whales being killed," he said, "our small boats will be putting themselves between the harpoon and the whale. In a radio call to the whaling vessels, from the bridge of the Arctic Sunrise, Yuko Hirono, of Greenpeace Japan called upon the whalers to stop killing whales "and leave the internationally recognised Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary." Japan's scientific whaling has been the subject of repeated criticism by the International Whaling Commission. The Japanese Institute of Cetacean Research, claim the amount of scientific data gathered by Japan's research program (JARPAII) is extensive and that Japan's whale research programs are conducted in accordance with the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. The Institute of Cetacean Research say their research does not involve illegal whaling.Greenpeace say over the next 2 years, 40 more fin whales will be added to the annual kill, along with 50 humpback whales. "This whale hunt is unnecessary, unjustified, and unwanted," said Rattenbury. "Once the whales have been measured and weighed by the 'scientists' the butchers get to work and the whales are cut up and boxed for market. This is all about money and not science."The area in which the Japanese fleet is hunting has been designated as the Antarctic Whale Sanctuary, in an effort to allow whale populations to recover after stocks were depleted during the commercial whaling of the last century. Seventy crew and campaigners from 19 countries are on board the two Greenpeace vessels, including the UK, Netherlands, Canada, Australia, Ghana, Russia, Norway, Denmark, USA, France, Italy, Japan, Ireland, India, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, Austria and Argentina.Japan's whaling program is expected to kill nearly one thousand whales this season.In a "fireside chat" at Yale University on Wednesday, prominent naturalists Edward O. Wilson and Peter H. Raven predicted dire consequences for the planet's biodiversity and habitability unless current trends in consumption and environmental degradation are reversed.  The two scientists were awarded the Addison Emery Verrill Medal by the Peabody Museum of Natural History for their contributions to natural science before a capacity crowd at Yale's Sprague Hall.  Both are known for their environmental activism as well as extensive research and popular writing.Wilson, known for his contributions to island biogeography as well as the controversial field of sociobiology, said that humans—like all earth species—are adapted to this world.  But most people have the dangerous attitude that this world is "a waystation for a better world", warned Wilson.  Humans could cause the extinction of half of all species by the end of the next century, he stated.The event was billed as a debate between the two scientists, but they found little to disagree about.  (Raven quipped that he did not care for Wilson's tie, the extent of their disagreement for the evening.)  Raven pointed to unsustainably high levels of consumption, especially in the United States, that will lead to ecological disaster if left unchecked.  Levels of consumption have to be cut drastically, he argued.  But Wilson claimed that it would be possible to maintain and even improve quality of life even while significantly reducing the population's ecological footprint.  Current models, he said, predict that human population will peak at around 9 billion, and that "if we use what we have" intelligently, the world could be a sustainable paradise by the 22nd century.Raven and Wilson both argued for the compatibility of Christian and environmentalist viewpoints. According to the second chapter of Genesis, said Raven, man was put on the earth in order to preserve it.  Wilson said that we need to "form an alliance" to save life on earth—an alliance including both religious and non-religious people—and that one can be a "conservative right-wing Christian" and an environmentalist.  His recent work, including the Encyclopedia of Life, has focused on creating such an alliance.The most important thing, Raven said, is to expose children to nature.  Invoking the argument of Rachel Carson's 1965 A Sense of Wonder, Raven said that children between the ages of four and ten are extremely impressionable, and that teaching them to appreciate the natural world will be the most effective way to ensure environmental consciousness in the next generation.  But although Raven was a naturalist from a young age, he said that he "didn't give a thought to conservation" while in graduate school in the 1950s.  Carson's 1962 book on the dangers of pesticides, Silent Spring, was Raven's introduction to dangers of environmental degradation.  Wilson also emphasized Carson's legacy for the environmental movement; he proudly noted that Carson biographer Linda Lear had recently called him the "only surviving person who actually helped Rachel Carson" put together Silent Spring.Raven and Wilson were only the 16th and 17th, respectively, to receive the Verrill Medal, which is the highest honor awarded by the Peabody Museum.  Before a sympathetic crowd, Wilson tactfully avoided any mention of his own institution, Yale's rival Harvard University.According to marine biologists participating in a study between the United States and Ireland, DNA samples taken from a hammerhead shark, born in 2001, located in Omaha Nebraska at the Henry Doorly Zoo, show that the shark's mother performed a "virgin birth," giving birth without mating.The mother shark was in a tank with three other hammerheads, all female, and the baby shark was also born in the same tank. Tests on the DNA from the baby shark show that there was no "chromosomal contribution" of a male shark present in the blood, something that is required in order for mating to have taken place."The findings were really surprising because as far as anyone knew, all sharks reproduced only sexually by a male and female mating, requiring the embryo to get DNA from both parents for full development, just like in mammals," said one author of the study from Queen's University located in Belfast, Ireland, Paulo Prodahl.It was previously thought by researchers that shark had stored sperm to later use as a reproduction procedure, but researchers said that it would have been incredible for the shark to store it for three years. Six months of storage is what researchers would call normal."We didn't have a male and had never had a male, and of course, the question was, how did this happen? There were really only two possibilities. One was virgin birth, and the other one was a delayed insemination," said director of the zoo, Lee Simmons.Researchers say that the study could answer the mystery of why many zoos have said that sharks were giving birth with no males present, but that the event is not necessarily a good thing."[This study] may have solved a general mystery about shark reproduction. [The study says sharks can] switch from a sexual to a non-sexual mode of reproduction. [This may not be a good thing because] reduced genetic diversity may occur in the sharks," said another author of the study, Mahmood Shivji, who is located in Dania Beach, Florida at the Guy Harvey Research Institute.Employees who work at the zoo along with Simmons are glad the mystery is solved saying, "one of the good things about good science is that your skeptics have to eat crow."The Hawaii state legislature has appropriated US$4.9 million to fight the coqui frog and other invasive species.About $2.9 million will be used to hire 58 additional inspectors at Hawaii's airports to improve detection of invasive species, an increase of 75% over the current level.  The remaining $2 million will be used specifically for coqui frog eradication using citric acid and hydrated lime.Much of the money will go to the Big Island of Hawaii, where the coqui frog infestation is most serious.  About $1.8 million will go to the Big Island, with $150,000 going to Maui and $50,000 each going to Oahu and Kauai.Native to the Caribbean, the coqui frog is believed to have entered on plants shipped from Florida or Puerto Rico.  Without natural predators, the frogs' population density has grown to the point where it has become a nuisance.  It is best known for its loud chirping, which keeps some residents on the Big Island and Maui awake at night.Ecologists also fear that the coquis could threaten native bird species by eating the insects the birds rely on for food.In findings published Wednesday in the scientific journal Cell, a team of scientists from the Chinese Academy of Sciences in Shanghai, China have announced the first-ever cloning of a primate from post-embryonic cells, namely two macaque monkeys. They used somatic cell nuclear transfer, the same method that was used to create Dolly the sheep in 1996.In somatic cell nuclear transfer, scientists remove the nucleus, which is the organelle that contains the chromosomes, from an unfertilized ovum, or egg cell, and implant the nucleus from a somatic cell, or non-reproductive cell, into that ovum. The ovum is then stimulated and develops in the normal way, growing into a whole organism that has the same nuclear DNA as the donor organism, though it will have all of the ovum's mitochondria and other cellular machinery. Clones like these have been described as identical twins to their donors, but younger.The scientists implanted 21 ova into surrogate mother monkeys, resulting in six pregnancies, two of which produced living animals. The young clones were named "Zhong Zhong" and "Hua Hua," both derived from Zhōnghuá, the Chinese-language word for the Chinese people. They are both cynomolgus monkeys, or crab-eating macaques (Macaca fascicularis). The scientists also attempted to clone macaques using nuclei from adult donors. They implanted 42 surrogates, resulting in 22 pregnancies, but there were still only two infant macaques, and they died soon after birth. The Scotland-based team that created Dolly the sheep in 1996 required 277 attempts and produced only one lamb.Generally, the older the donor organism, the more difficult it is to get the DNA from the harvested nucleus to reactivate the genes that allow the clone organism to grow. Previous efforts to clone rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) using embryonic donor cells have been successful, but the current attempt used significantly older donors: fetal fibroblast cells, which are key cells in connective tissue, and adult monkey cumulus cells."We're excited — extremely excited," said study co-author Muming Poo. "This is really, I think, a breakthrough for biomedicine." He went on to say that the cloned monkeys could be used as test subjects for the study of neurological diseases such as Parkinson's and Huntington's. Primates are already a popular model organism for neurological studies. In the United States, for example, non-human primates are used in less than 0.3% of all animal experiments, most of them involving neuroscience, and macaques in particular are a well-established animal model of atherosclerosis, which causes heart disease."I think it's a very exciting landmark. It's a major advance," agreed reproductive biologist Dieter Egli of Columbia University. "It should be possible to make models of human disease in those monkeys and study those and then attempt to cure it."About 90% of the laboratory animals used in the United States are rodents. Although the first cloned mouse was born in 1998, cloned mice are not currently common in laboratory settings. This may be because producing inbred mouse lines is still relatively effective.Although the announcement raised enthusiasm from researchers, it also drew caution from bioethicists. "Cloning one individual in the image of another really sort of demeans the significance of us as individuals," says Harvard Medical School's Dr. George Daley, speaking specifically of cloning humans. "There's a certain sort of gut sense that it violates sort of natural norms." While Muming Poo concedes it is now theoretically possible to clone a human, he says his lab has no plans to do so. Although somatic cell nuclear transfer was used successfully in amphibians as early as 1952, getting it to work in mammals took much longer. Dolly, the first cloned mammal, was born in 1996. Teams have been trying to clone monkeys for decades, but primate DNA is notoriously difficult to work with. "The trick is we choose the right chemicals to turn on these genes we transfer into the egg," Mu-ming Poo told the press. "So that's what we did different. I think that's the key." One of the agents used to treat the ova was messenger RNA from the human Kdm4d gene.An extremely well preserved woolly mammoth has been found by Russian scientists in Siberia, announced Wednesday.The adult female was found with blood preserved still intact in ice cavities. When palaeontologists excavated the animal, blood flowed from the space below the animal's abdomen. The discovery was made on the Lyakhovsky Islands by scientists from the North-Eastern Federal University in Yakutsk, who estimated the animal's age at 10,000 years.The temperature of the ice at time of excavation was estimated between −7 °C (19 °F) and −10 °C (14 °F). This has led scientists to believe mammoth blood may contain some cryoprotectant, making it resistant to freezing.Scientists are currently discussing the possibility of resurrecting extinct animals from their DNA.Along with blood samples taken from the site, scientists also discovered well-preserved muscle tissue described as the color of fresh red meat.The scientists hypothesise the mammoth had fallen into a swamp or water, where she was trapped and eventually died. The remains are to be transported to Yakutsk and tested to ensure there are no dangerous diseases present.Researchers said this mammoth is the best-preserved ever discovered.Researchers in the United States reported Saturday that cells from human bone marrow, blood and umbilical cords successfully grew into blood vessels after being placed in mice. The group at Harvard Medical School and Children's Hospital Boston stated that the human cells, referred to as "progenitor cells", connected to the circulatory system of the mice. The team, lead by Harvard associate professor of medicine Joyce Bischoff, reported their findings in the journal Circulation Research, published by the American Heart Association.Juan M. Melero-Martin, a co-author of the paper in Circulation Research, said that one of the project's goals is to be able to replace some types of heart surgery with an injection of cells grown in a lab that could develop into functioning blood vessels. "For clinical use, the way we envision it, if a patient has need to vascularize ischemic tissue, we can get cells from the patient ahead of time, grow them and inject them back into the patient," said Melero-Martin. Ischemic tissue refers to tissue that has been damaged due to a lack of blood flow from blocked arteries or other causes. Researchers hope to be able to speed up the process of repairing damaged tissue and vessels in the heart to a period of one or two days. The procedure could potentially be used to treat organs damaged by heart attacks, or other ailments which impede circulation.Due to their controversial nature the research team did not use stem cells in their study, but rather relied on progenitor cells taken from bone marrow or blood. "Our next goal down the line is to use them in humans. We need to do a lot more animal studies to test how these cells behave in different tissues," said Joyce Bischoff. Dr. Nick Rhodes of the UK Centre for Tissue Engineering at the University of Liverpool described the results of the study as "interesting and promising", and commented: "Although this approach is not yet suitable for clinical use, it is interesting that they have demonstrated you have all the elements you need to create a functional network of capillaries from a small amount of blood."Genetics researchers announced today that they will beginning a five-year plan to create a map of human migrations based on DNA mapping. The "Genographic Project" will be funded by the Waitt Family Foundation, IBM Corporation, and the National Geographic Society, and plans to collect 100,000 samples of DNA from people all over the world in order to sequence how related to each other they are.Details on data collection have not yet been specified, but there are implications that some of the data will come from field work among indigenous groups, and that other individuals may purchase kits to submit their own DNA in order to learn about their own genes.The project has drawn immediate comparison with the failed Human Genome Diversity Project from the 1990s, which ended after controversy over the patenting of the DNA of indigenous peoples. The Genographic Project leaders say that they will make the information from their project public and will not patent genes. Whether or not researchers using the data will be subject to licensing guidelines, or whether they can patent their own discoveries using the data, remains to be answered.In the last decade, the role of IBM tabulating machines in the Holocaust has been explored and criticized by a number of historians, and National Geographic has often been a target of critical theorists who have seen it as often representing the "gaze" of imperialism and Orientalism.Previous genetic mapping projects which focused on specific ethnic groups have met with continuous controversy, with allusions often made to the projects of racial anthropometry of the early 20th century which served as the "scientific" backbone to scientific racism and eugenics legislation. Though the Genographic Project participants have tried to emphasize that their project will be to look at the "similarities" between different groups of people rather than the "differences," it seems likely to remain a controversial issue.The body’s immune system is less effective at quashing disease than it could be - but if it were better the immune system might do more harm than good, according to new research by Michael Deem and colleagues of Rice University in Houston.The immune system has apparently evolved to be mildly inefficient so that it achieves a balance between quick response to disease and decreased probability of autoimmune disease, a condition in which the immune system attacks healthy tissue.The authors drew their conclusions from a model of the dynamics of antibody evolution. Their simulations show that while there are mechanisms that would allow the immune system to develop antibodies that respond faster and more strongly against invading pathogens, those mechanisms would also create antibodies that are likely to attack the body’s own healthy cells. The model also bolsters controversial suggestions that chronic infections could lead the immune system awry, ultimately resulting in rheumatoid arthritis or other autoimmune ailments.The study will be detailed in a forthcoming issue of the journal Physical Review Letters.In a new study that may have important applications in medicine, researchers from the University of California Santa Barbara found that cells have evolved a surprising, but efficient, way to regulate the transport of goods to the nucleus and surrounding organelles. Nutrients and signals outside of a cell get to the cell nucleus by way of carriers called endosomes. Endosomes travel through a cell on a highway of structural supports called microtubules. Researchers studied the motion of endosomes by putting florescent tags, which glow under certain types of light, on individual endosomes and recording their motion through a microscope. They found that endosomes do not travel straight to the nucleus. Instead, they randomly travel toward and away from the nucleus with no preferred direction.This is a little like getting in the car to drive to work, but instead of being caught in heavy traffic along the main road, randomly choosing a back road to follow. If you end up being caught in traffic going that way, you can also turn around and travel in the opposite direction for a while. It would make getting to work a little slow, but it leads to an even distribution of endosomes all along the microtubules.This finding surprised the Santa Barbara group. Endosomes are most concentrated around the nucleus of a cell, so researchers expected that the endosomes would usually travel toward the nucleus. Computer simulations show that the starburst-shaped layout of the microtubule system is responsible for the high concentration of endosomes at the nucleus. “It’s all in the geometry of the cell,” said Samir Mitragotri, a researcher on the project. Endosomes randomly travel toward or away from the nucleus and can change direction. But as in Italy where all roads lead to Rome, the endosomes get to their destination because all roads eventually pass the nucleus. This system does not get a particular endosome to its target as quickly as possible, but ensures that nutrient transport is not disrupted if the cell moves or there is increased traffic. Some heart, neurological, and muscular diseases are caused by the break down of proteins that regulate endosome movement. Scientists are not sure what this does to the cell said Samir Mitragotri, a co-author of the study, but research like this could help them discover the “missing link” between disease and transport properties.Global animal and health authorities' emergency mission to the Philippines is investigating  whether the strain of deadly Ebola Reston virus, recently discovered in dead pigs, poses a threat to human health. Unlike more-deadly strains of Ebola virus, Philippine health officials say this particular strain, known as the Reston ebolavirus, has never caused human illness or death, and it's not immediately clear there is a public-health issue.A 22-member team of experts from three United Nations agencies arrived in Manila on Tuesday for a joint risk assessment on the virus contamination of local swine, to help the government contain the outbreak. The mission will coordinate with the Philippine counterparts - the Departments of Agriculture and Health. According to chief veterinary officer, Davinio P. Catbagan, six of 28 swine samples tested positive for Ebola-Reston by the U.S. Department of Agriculture laboratory. The infected pigs came from two commercial and two backyard farms in three provinces north of Manila. Both Ebola and related Marburg hemorrhagic fever, are considered to infect humans via primates.The Straits Times reported that as of December, about 6,000 pigs at Pandi, Bulacan and  Talavera farms had tested positive for the Ebola-Reston virus. "Eating pork remained safe as long as it is handled and cooked properly (at a minimum of 70 degrees Celsius or 158 degrees Fahrenheit) and bought in outlets accredited by the government's National Meat Inspection Service," said a joint statement by the World Health Organisation (WHO), World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) and Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). "Our teams are doing field and laboratory investigation to determine where the Ebola-Reston virus came from and how it was transmitted," Caroline-Anne Coulombe, WHO risk communications officer, explained.According to FAO team leader, Juan Lubroth, it was the first time that the Ebola-Reston virus strain had infected animals other than monkeys and the first recorded worldwide in swine. The U.N. mission is scheduled to perform 10 days scientific tests, on two hog farms in Manaoag, Pangasinan and Pandi, Bulacan, but it would take months to publish evaluation reports on the virus. As early as May, a high incidence of swine sickness and death in three provinces caused Philippine authorities in August to send samples from the dead pigs to the NY Plum Island Animal Disease Center. The results found the presence of several diseases, including Ebola Reston virus and PRRS.In late October laboratory tests confirmed that pigs in Nueva Ecija and Bulacan farms were infected with the Ebola-Reston virus and the highly virulent strain of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus (PRRS). In early 2007 pigs on those farms died at a faster rate than usual amid the conducted lab tests. PRRSV, or Blue-Ear Pig Disease (zhū láněr bìng 豬藍耳病), is a viral and economically important pandemic disease which causes reproductive failure in breeding stock and respiratory tract illness in young pigs. Initially referred to as 'mystery swine disease' or 'mystery reproductive syndrome', it was first reported in 1987 in North America and Central Europe.  The disease costs the United States swine industry around $600 million annually.In December, the Philippine health authorities conducted testing of about 10,000 swine in two northern Luzon quarantined farms. Reuters reported that "the Ebola-Reston virus in some pigs in two commercial farms and two backyard farms in the Philippines were discovered by accident in United States laboratory tests in September, when samples were sent to test another disease."Ebola virus is one of at least 18 known viruses capable of causing the viral hemorrhagic fever syndrome. It is the common term for a group of viruses belonging to genus Ebolavirus, family Filoviridae, and for the disease which they cause, Ebola hemorrhagic fever. The virus is named after the Ebola River where the first recognized outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever occurred in 1976. The viruses are characterized by long filaments and have a similar shape to the Marburg virus, also in the family Filoviridae, and share similar disease symptoms. Since its discovery, Ebolavirus has been responsible for a number of deaths.In the central Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), the highly contagious Ebola virus was first detected in September, according to Medecins Sans Frontieres. "As of Tuesday January 7, a total of 42 patients have been reported with suspected Ebola haemorrhagic fever in the province of Western Kasai... 13 of these 42 patients suspected of having Ebola have died," it said.The Reston ebolavirus is suspected of being either another subtype of the Ebola or a new filovirus of Asian origin. It was first discovered in crab-eating macaques originating in the Philippines, from Hazleton Laboratories (now Covance) in 1989. This discovery attracted significant media attention and led to the publication of The Hot Zone. There was then, an outbreak of viral hemorrhagic fever among monkeys imported from the Philippines to Reston, Virginia. The Ebola-Reston strain was discovered among Philippine monkeys in the U.S. again in 1990 and 1996, and in Italy in 1992.According to the World Health Organization, African strains kill 50 percent to 90 percent of those infected through lethal bleeding and organ failure. “Since the 1970s, scientists, veterinarians, microbiologists and physicians have been looking at thousands of species to see if they can find this elusive reservoir, and we have been pretty much empty-handed,” Juan Lubroth, head of infectious diseases in the animal health unit of the Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome, explained. Despite its status as a Level-4 organism, the Reston ebolavirus is non-pathogenic to humans and is only mildly fatal to monkeys; the perception of its lethality was skewed due to the monkey's coinfection with Simian hemorrhagic fever virus (SHFV). During the incident in which it was discovered, six animal handlers eventually became seroconverted, one of whom had cut himself while performing a necropsy on the liver of an infected monkey. When the handler failed to become ill, it was concluded that the virus had a very low pathogenicity to humans.In January 1997, The Philippines Department of Environment and Natural Resources had ordered the immediate slaughter of some 600 monkeys in Ferlite, a breeding farm in Laguna, to prevent an outbreak of the deadly Ebola Reston strain virus.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had donated 8,000 test kits to diagnose the ebola reston strain. "I am more concerned in the international community because we have proven in our December sales that this ebola did not affect consumer confidence," Albert R. T. Lim, president of the National Federation of Hog Farmers, Inc., warned. The Philippines Department of Agriculture (DA) has directed the Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) and the National Meat Inspection Commission (NMIC) to conduct swine tests in South Cotabato using the US test kits for the Ebola Reston virus, before approval of the "Meat in a Box" shipment to Singapore. The initial export of the meat for December was deferred pending outcome of the ERV tests.Meanwhile, in eight Barangays of Santa Maria, Davao del Sur, in Mindanao, at least 50 pigs died since December due to viral and bacterial infections. Dr. Nestor Barroga, provincial veterinarian, said that he could not however detect yet the type of the infecting virus. The village of Pong-pong had the largest number of casualties. Mercy Olalo, a hog raiser, said their pigs would suddenly become weak and eventually die. "The pigs developed red skins and they salivate excessively," she said.A University of Tokyo group of researchers, led by bioengineer Shoji Takeuchi, has made an electronic sensor capable of smelling gases. The sensor uses genetically engineered frog cells. Since previous sensors were not very accurate, the scientist decided to try a biological approach. The invention was revealed in a US scientific journal yesterday, and is supposed to be used to design better machines to detect polluting gases in the atmosphere.Previous smell sensors were based on quartz rods, which vibrate when a substance binds to them. The gases are distinguished by their molar masses, which can be similar for molecules with different structure, thus relatively often triggering a false positive. Trying to find a more accurate solution, Takeuchi decided to follow an example from insect world. As he explained, "when you think about the mosquito, it is able to find people because of carbon dioxide from the human. So the mosquito has CO2 receptors. When we can (extract) DNA (from the mosquito) we can put this DNA into the frog eggs to detect CO2."Genes of several insects (the silk moth, diamondback moth and fruit fly), injected into African clawed frog Xenopus laevis eggs, allowed them to produce relatively inexpensive and useful sensors. The choice of the species was caused by their widely studied and well-understood protein expression mechanism.The modified cells responded to three kinds of pheromones and one odourant, which have similar chemical properties. When a molecule of an odorous substance adhered to the receptor on the membrane protein, ion channels opened for a certain period of time, and a current was generated. Its magnitude was clearly different for all four tested substances, allowing to distinguish between them accurately.The colleagues embedded the sensor into a mannequin, so that it could shake its head when a gas was detected. It was easier to observe. Pheromones and molecules with quite similar molecule structure produced clearly distinguishable reaction, with higher accuracy than other biological or human-made sensors. As the research group said, the detection sensitivity of the odor sensor is several tens of parts per billion (ppb), and it is as high as the sensitivity of an existing odor sensor that uses an oxide semiconductor. The distinctive feature of the new sensor is its capability to selectively detect some odorous substances, rather than its sensitivity. Very few false positives were possible due to the biological mechanism involved.At normal temperature, the sensor lifetime is about 12 hours, which can be extended by putting it into a refrigerator before first use.Shoji Takeuchi says has a great hope for research use in future, since the frog eggs are very practical for genetic engineering, and can be conveniently used to develop smell sensors for a wide range of gases. He said, "The X. laevis oocyte has high versatility for the development of chemical sensors for various odorants. We believe that a shared ability to smell might open a new relationship between man and robot. .. The research will have wide implications... If the sensor is embedded in a nursing robot, it will be able to identify certain mouth odors or body odors. Also, it can be used for detecting CO2, air pollution, water pollution and food. It's very important for the environment."Superior Court Judge Neil Shuster ruled that a New Jersey ballot proposal to fund stem cell research would stay on the November 6 ballot. Under the proposal, previously approved by the state Senate and Assembly and signed by the governor Jon Corzine, New Jersey would borrow US$450 million over a ten-year period to be used to fund stem cell research. Shuster's ruling was in response to a suit by the pro-life Legal Center for the Defense of Life on behalf of 15 New Jersey residents and the anti-abortion group New Jersey Right to Life.The suit asked for an injunction to keep the proposal off the ballot, arguing that the ballot measure was deceptive since it did not reveal that the funding might go to human cloning and that property taxes might be raised as a means of paying off the debt. Proponents of the measure argued that the bill would not in fact allow cloning and that allowing the use of property tax to pay off debt was standard for similar ballot measures. Shuster ruled that the plaintiffs had waited too long to file their case and that they did not made a convincing enough claim of imminent harm to justify the unusual and disruptive measure of removing an item from the ballot. An injunction now would create complications to military personnel who vote by mail as well as civilians who use absentee ballots. Stem cell research has been a controversial topic in the United States, where it is wrapped up in the abortion debate. Opponents, principally religious groups, have condemned such research when it would use embryonic stem cells which they view as endorsement of abortion. Since many of them view abortion as murder, the use of embryonic stem cells is in their eyes  tantamount to murdering people for scientific research. Also, some have expressed concern that the research is a slippery slope to reproductive cloning. In response to funding restrictions on federal money to stem cell research and an earlier veto by President Bush of a federal bill for stem cell research a number of states such as New Jersey and California have adopted measures to fund stem cell research, which proponents argue could be useful for curing a variety of diseases, including Alzeimer's, Parkinson's and diabetes.Yesterday, Kenya's Ol Pejeta Conservancy announced they had euthanised the last male northern white rhino, Sudan, on Monday, after consulting with wildlife officials. Sudan was 45-years-old, and now only two northern white rhinos, both female and descendants of Sudan, remain."Sudan was being treated for age-related complications that led to degenerative changes in muscles and bones combined with extensive skin wounds", the conservancy said. "His condition worsened significantly in the last 24 hours; he was unable to stand up and was suffering a great deal", they added.Sudan, who was born in the early 1970s, suffered a wound in his right hind leg in late February. He was born in South Sudan, and at that time around 700 northern white rhinos were alive.Sudan was in captivity for the last 38 years. Earlier, he was kept at the Dvůr Králové Zoo in Czech Republic before he was moved to Kenya. He stayed in a 90 thousand acre (about 140 square mile, 364 square kilometre) reserve with the only two remaining female northern white rhinos, 27-year-old Najin and seventeen-year-old Fatu. Najin and Fatu are Sudan's daughter and granddaughter, respectively.Ol Pejeta said they collected Sudan's genetic material on Monday. The conservancy said, "The only hope for the preservation of the subspecies now lies in developing in-vitro fertilisation techniques using eggs from the two remaining females, stored northern white rhino semen from males and surrogate southern white rhino females."Last year, an account was opened on dating platform Tinder on Sudan's behalf, to raise money for a fertility treatment after attempts at natural mating proved futile. Suni, second to last male of the subspecies, died four years ago, in October 2014 in San Diego Zoo, US. He was 42.Ol Pejeta's CEO, Richard Vigne, said Sudan "was a great ambassador for his species and will be remembered for the work he did to raise awareness globally on the plight facing not only rhinos, but also the many thousands of other species facing extinction as a result of unstable human activity".In 2008, the World Wildlife Foundation declared northern white rhinos extinct in the wild.Researchers from the Argentinian Garrahan Hospital, the CONICET (National Scientific and Technical Investigations Council) , the University of Texas, and the Wilford Hall Medical Center discovered that quantities of a specific immunological gene in humans (CCL3L1) may have an effect on the contraction and development of HIV and AIDS.According to the investigation, individuals with fewer copies of the gene are more prone to contract the virus in case of direct contact. Each additional copy of the gene reduced the chance of infection by 5-10%, according to a press release from the study's leader, Dr. Sunil Ahuja of the University of Texas.The study is based upon the analysis of blood samples from 4308 subjects, including 800 children at Garrahan Hospital, located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The gene may act upon "blocking substances" that are inside cells and have an important role in preventing infections, including the one brought on by HIV. Those cases which presented less quantities of this gene had a higher index of HIV+ infections, while the rest appeared to be more resistant.The research was detailed in a paper published on January 6, 2005, through Science Magazine's online service, Science Express.A process that would normally take millions of years, scientists have mimicked within a couple of days.  Today, researchers at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory have turned wood mineral by the process of soaking poplar and pine in a chemical mix and then cooking them. The team of scientists accomplishing this feat, led by Yongsoon Shin, bought pine and poplar boards and performed a series of steps. The first step leading to the petrifying of the wood is thinly cutting it, then soaking it in acids and a silica solution, after that, heating it, and lastly, cooling the product in argon. Silica takes up a bond with the carbon left in the wood's cellulose, creating silicon carbide, widely known as a ceramic.Wolbachia has on some occasions inserted almost its entire genome into species that it infects, reported scientists at the J. Craig Venter Institute and the University of Rochester. This is the first example of large-scale horizontal gene transfer between single-celled and multicellular organisms. Although horizontal gene transmission is common among single-celled organisms, it is rare among multicellular organisms, and large scale transfer like that of an entire genome had previously not been suspected. The scientists found that in addition to Wolbachia engaging in almost complete genome transfer into Drosophila ananassae, it also had made significant transfer in 3 other insects species and 4 species of nematodes. The researchers found candidate species by scanning genetic databases for sequences found in Wolbachia. The scientists also found that these added sections were conserved by reproduction; that is the added sections stayed in the genomes after multiple generations. Moreover, there is evidence that suggests that the segments of Wolbachia's genome increased the reproductive fitness of the insect species. The transfers likely occurred during attempts at DNA repair in which the repair mechanisms incorporated Wolbachia DNA (available since the cells were infected with Wolbachia) into the genomes. These results could have major implications for understanding of evolution. The research also has implications for various forms of sequencing research, since when sequencing species, bacteria sequences are frequently ignored as they are generally assumed to be contaminants rather than good data. Wolbachia, a genus of bacteria that normally infects arthropods, especially insects, is already known for its odd behavior that can affect species in strange ways. For example, Wolbachia has been shown to be correlated with fast evolution among species it infects and is suspected for being responsible for a variety of speciation events as a side effect of Wolbachia creating reproductive barriers. Wolbachia by some estimates infects more than half of all arthropods and is already thought to play a major role in the evolution and speciation of many invertebrates. Since Wolbachia can generally only reproduce through females, it has adopted a number of strategies that treat males and females of species differently that can result in reproductive barriers. These strategies include killing of males, forced parthenogenesis, and preventing infected males from reproducing with uninfected females.Environmental scientists say they have concrete evidence that the planet is undergoing the "largest mass extinction in 65 million years". Leading environmental scientist Professor Norman Myers says the Earth is experiencing its "Sixth Extinction."  Scientists forecast that up to five million species will be lost this century. "We are well into the opening phase of a mass extinction of species. There are about 10 million species on earth. If we carry on as we are, we could lose half of all those 10 million species," Myers said. If we do not do more, Myers says, the planet will continue to lose around 50 species per day compared to the natural extinction rate of one species every five years. He projected this rate in the late 1980s to much criticism, but the figure is now widely accepted by scientists. "The whole thing is taking place in what you might call a flickering of an evolutionary eye," said Myers. "It's hard to keep up with unless we damp down on some of the causes of the evolution."The 2002 collapse of the Antarctic Larsen B Ice Shelf, which seemingly had remained stable for 10,000 years, has revealed a cold seep containing ecosystems that seem to have been isolated from the outside world for 10,000 years by a 600-foot ice shelf.The discovery was made during an expedition led by  Eugene Domack investigating the cause of the collapse. He concluded that the collapse was caused by long term gradual thinning of the shelf, followed by a recent increase in surface air temperature.The cold seep is nearly 1.5 million square kilometers in area, and sits about 2,800 feet below the surface. The source of energy for the ecosystem has not yet been discovered, but Domack and his colleagues propose that it is methane, rather than sunlight or hot vents, that supplies energy to the system.Domack warns that the collapse of the ice shelf may have disrupted and may possibly destroy the unusual ecosystem.Scientists at the UK's Newcastle University have published their research into the effect of neonicotinoid chemicals on the brains of honeybees in the Journal of Experimental Biology. The findings determined that chemicals such as imidacloprid and coumaphos did impair bee learning and memory.Wikinews interviewed Dr. Sally Williamson, who co-authored the findings with Dr. Geraldine Wright, about how they went about confirming their hypothesis regarding the effects of different pesticides on honeybees and their learning abilities.The Wikinews Q&A can be read below:Around seventy new species of microbes have been discovered in a highly concentrated salt basin of the Mediterranean Sea, so salty that almost half of the liquid is magnesium chloride. Researchers, led by Paul van der Wielen at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands, found abundant colonies of halophile microbes in ancient salty pockets that are devoid of oxygen.It has been suggested that pools of a similar liquid might be able to exist on Mars, providing a possible niche for simple life to exist there.A frilled shark was spotted off the coast of Japan on January 21, 2007 and taken to the Awashima Marine Park in Shizuoka, Japan where it was filmed and later died."We believe moving pictures of a live specimen are extremely rare," said an official with the Awashima Marine Park.The frilled shark, Chlamydoselachus anguineus, is a member of a 350 million year old family, and characterised by an eel-like appearance with a distinctive protrusion of the gills. The 1.6m female specimen was spotted in shallow waters by a local fisherman who contacted the Awashima Marine Park who were able to catch the shark.The video is available on many websites including "YouTube" and shows the dying shark swimming around the aquarium with its mouth open.It is unknown as to why the shark was in such shallow waters, but officials say it might have been sick. Its usual habitat is between 120 meters and 1280 meters in depth where it feeds on squid and bony fish. The sharks grow to 2 meters in length and are regularly caught by bottom trawlers and used as fish bait."They live between 1,968 and 3,280 feet (600 and 1,000 meters) under the water, which is deeper than humans can go," added the park official."We think it may have come close to the surface because it was sick, or else it was weakened because it was in shallow waters," continued the official.This species is a living fossil, having a close resemblance to fossil records of paleozoic sharks. In comparison modern sharks have 5 sets of gills whereas the frilled shark has 6 sets.A tropical  tree-dwelling lizard has succeeded  in a problem-solving test by learning to associate the color of a cap with a food reward, contesting the stereotype that reptiles are extremely limited cognitively compared to birds and mammals. The cognitive abilities of reptiles have rarely been studied.In a color discriminating task, the lizards learned to flip over the correctly colored cap to reveal a worm hidden underneath.  The experiment was conducted at Duke University and the results, published in the Royal Society journal Biology Letters, suggest that the problem-solving abilities of reptiles may be greater than previously thought.  The Puerto Rican lizard, (an anole), used in the study,  is a well-studied species, known to excel at foraging food  by being acutely aware of movement. Several lizards of this species were collected from Puerto Rico for the experiment.Researches first wanted to determine if the six lizards used in the study were able to figure out how to flip off the cap to obtain the food. The agile reptiles quickly learned to use one of two ways to move the cap: they closed their jaws on the edge of the cap and dragged it off the food, or ran into the cap with their heads, tipping it over and grabbing the food.The lizards were then given a choice between two caps; one was blue and the other was yellow and blue; under only one was the food reward of a worm. They quickly learned to distinguish which cap had the reward."They learned to associate the color of the [cap] with a food reward," said Manual Leal, the Duke University researcher who led the study. Their success on a  test that is based on worms and usually used on birds was "completely unexpected," he said.The lizards solved the problem in fewer tries than birds needed to flip the correct cap and pass the test, Leal explained. Lizards get just one chance per day because they eat less, while birds usually get up to six chances a day. Thus a mistake by a lizard means it must remember until the next day how to correct the mistake, Leal said.And when the color of the caps was switched, after a few mistakes two of the lizards were able to figure out the trick. "We named these two Plato and Socrates,"  said Leal. Jonathan Losos, a biologist at Harvard University not involved in the study, said Leal's experiment demonstrates that when faced with a new situation, most of the lizards were able to solve the problem. They had the ability to figure out the trick and disregard their previous learning; a sign of a cognitively advanced animal that some mammalian species cannot easily do. The results "should cause researchers to re-evaluate what they think they know about the evolution of animal cognition," Losos said.The annual Living Planet Report compiled by the Zoological Society of London and the Global Footprint Network, published this week by WWF International, assessed "the health of the planet's ecosystems" and measured the demands people make on the planet's resources.The Living Planet Index is based on population trends between 1970 and 2003 of over 3 600 populations of more than 1 300 vertebrate species from around the world. There has been an overall decline of around 30 per cent over the 33-year period.  Tropical species populations declined by around 55 per cent on average from 1970 to 2003, while temperate species populations, have shown little overall change.   The Ecological Footprint measures the area of biologically productive land and sea required to sustian humanity. In 2003 this was 14.1 billion global hectares, or 2.2 global hectares per person (a global hectare is a hectare with world-average ability to produce resources and absorb wastes). The total supply of productive area, or biocapacity, in 2003 was 11.2 global hectares, or 1.8 global hectares per person. Demand overshot supply first in the 1980s and has been increasing every year since, By 2003 the overshoot was about 25 per cent. Thus, it took approximately a year and three months for the Earth to produce the ecological resources humanity used in that year.  The Living Planet Index and the Ecological Footprint, along with other measures, have been adopted as indicators for the 2010 targets of the Convention on Biological Diversity. The report concludes with a description of the roles of the various disciplines required to "shift humanity's current trajectory on to a path that will remain within the biological capacity of the planet".James P. Leape, the Director General of WWF International summarises: "The message of these two indices is clear and urgent: we have been exceeding the Earth's ability to support our lifestyles for the past 20 years, and we need to stop. We must balance our consumption with the natural world's capacity to regenerate and absorb our wastes. If we do not, we risk irreversible damage".In findings published earlier this month in Ecological Applications, scientists from the University of Washington and Center for Ecosystem Sentinels examine the reason for the plummeting numbers of female Magellanic penguins, Spheniscus magellanicus, that have been reported at the birds' breeding sites in South America over the past twenty years and more. Wikinews caught up with postdoctoral researcher and study co-author Natasha Gownaris to learn more.In a press release, Gownaris said, "Two decades ago, there were about 1.5 adult male Magellanic penguins for every adult female at Punta Tombo[...] Today, it's approaching three males for every female." The findings suggested a disparity in the death rate of juvenile and adult penguins, rather than differences in chick survival, account for this difference. Punta Tombo is one of the annual breeding sites for the species; it is in Argentina. The penguins travel thousands of miles each year to reach these sites.The work involved building population models out of over thirty years of data collected by tagging individual penguins.  Findings also suggested the pronounced sex disparity might make population models used to predict survival among other birds with a more even gender balance inappropriate for use on Megallanic penguins.According to the data, since 1987, overall population of Magellanic penguins in Punta Tombo at one of their annual breeding sites in Argentina has declined 40%, while the male-to-female ratio has greatly increased.Since 1983, the research team has been putting stainless steel bands on tens of thousands of chicks hatched at the Punta Tombo breeding site in Argentina, noting which juvenile and adult birds make it back to the site the next year and extrapolating how many lived and died.  Among juveniles, there was a 17% survival rate for males and 12% for females.  Among adults, it was 89% and 85%.  These effects became compounded every year, reaching as high as six males to one female among older penguins.The researchers noted implications for penguin conservation: Gownaris remarked, "Over the years, this team has helped preserve the land and waters around breeding colonies like Punta Tombo[...] But now we're starting to understand that, to help Magellanic penguins, you have to protect waters where they feed in winter, which are thousands of miles north from Punta Tombo."Gownaris answered a series of questions for our correspondent.((Wikinews))  What prompted your curiosity about Magellanic penguins? Natasha Gownaris: I've wanted to be a marine scientist since I was a child, when I would collect sand crabs (Emerita talpoida) from local beaches in New York. I studied fish as a graduate student, but I have a pair of adopted parrots and I am generally fascinated by birds. Plus, penguins eat fish! Studying penguins seemed like a great way to merge my love for the ocean and my love for birds. Penguins and other seabirds are also important to study because they tell us something about the health of the ocean ecosystems they feed in, similar to the use of canaries to test air quality in coal mines. Unfortunately, the decline of many seabird species worldwide is yet another warning sign of the negative and widespread impacts humans are having on the ocean.((WN))  How did you approach putting together such a large-scale study?NG: This study started in 1982, long before my joining the lab in March of 2016. Dr. Dee Boersma began this study as a response to a Japanese company's interest in harvesting penguins for their skin, meat, and oil. Although the project has evolved over time, Dr. Boersma had the foresight to start banding chicks in 1983 and to set up a standard protocol that we follow each year. Since then, over 44,000 chicks have been banded at Punta Tombo. We’ve been able to follow some individuals for 30+ years, collecting detailed information on things like how often they breed and how many mates they've had. ((WN))  How much time did you end up spending in Argentina? What was it like at the breeding site?NG: Members of the Boersma lab and volunteers spend approximately six months each year at Punta Tombo. I was fortunate enough to spend nearly four months at the colony between 2015 and 2017. It's an incredible, otherworldly place. Magellanic penguins nest in burrows or bushes, and some areas of the colony are so dense with burrows that you feel like you're on a different planet. The colony has declined by over 40% since the study started...so I can't even imagine what it was like in the 1980s. My favorite time of the day is around 8PM, when (hopefully fat) penguins are returning to the colony en masse after a foraging trip. They are also most vocal in the morning and evening, making their characteristic braying sound— the related African penguin earned the name "jackass penguin" because they sound a bit like donkeys. The colony is also full of other beautiful and interesting creatures, including a llama-like species called the guanaco and an ostrich-like species called the rhea.((WN))  Do you have any theories on why more female juveniles die at sea? You mention starvation; what might be the causes of that, and are there other possible explanations you can think of?NG: We are not yet certain why females are more likely to die, but we think it must be related to their smaller body size. Because the mortality is most uneven in juveniles, higher mortality doesn’t seem to be related to greater costs of breeding for females than for males. Female Magellanic penguins are about 17% lighter than males and have smaller bills. We think that, because of this size difference, females have a lower storage capacity, can't dive as deep, and can't take as wide a range of prey as males — all disadvantages when faced with limited and unpredictable food resources. These disadvantages hit juvenile females even harder, as juveniles are still learning how to forage and often travel further than adults do in the non-breeding season. Counts of carcasses in the species' migration range support starvation as the main cause of female-biased mortality; while oiled carcasses have a sex ratio of 1:1, females outnumber males in carcasses of starved birds. The only other possibility is that females are moving to other colonies at higher rates than are males, but this species is known to almost always return to its natal colony to breed.((WN))  You suggest conservation efforts should look at protection of feeding grounds. What sort of measures do you think might be beneficial?NG: Because penguins migrate such long distances over the non-breeding season, a mixture of tools (including no-take marine protected areas and traditional fisheries management tools, like catch limits) is likely to be needed. Although there is currently some spatial protection surrounding the species’ breeding colony, this protection does not extend to their migratory route. And, of course, everyone can contribute to penguin conservation by reducing their plastic waste, making more sustainable food choices, and reducing their carbon footprint.((WN))  What do you think might be causing pressure on food sources for the penguins?NG: The two main threats to the food sources of this colony are climate change, which cause shifts in primary productivity and fish stocks, and fisheries. Fisheries compete with penguins for fish species such as hake and anchovy.((WN))  Have you noticed differences in behavior among the penguins as the ratios become increasingly skewed?NG: In a separate study currently under review, we have shown that aggression between males of Magellanic penguins is higher when the sex ratio at the colony is more skewed towards males. We also showed that nearly all females at the colony breed but that, over time, fewer and fewer males find mates. Single male penguins sometimes intrude [on] nests of mated pairs and interrupt the incubation of eggs or feeding of chicks, leading to mortality. In some cases, they will even attack and kill chicks. ((WN))  Your release mentioned sexing the penguins was problematic; how did you achieve it with confidence?NG: We have some methods of sexing penguins that we feel confident about — using genetics or measures of cloaca size around egg laying, for example. However, these methods are time intensive, so we have also developed visual cues for sex penguins (bill size, behavior, forehead shape). We looked at individuals that had been sexed using both a certain method (e.g. genetics) and visual methods to calculate how often we got it right based on visual cues alone and found that we have very high accuracy. We also used statistical tools to help to deal with uncertainty in the sex of some individuals. ((WN))  How well can you extrapolate population trends at Punta Tombo based on the birds you tagged? More broadly, how well do you think this work represents global populations?NG: It is likely that females have higher mortality than males at other colonies of this species and in other penguin species. We unfortunately do not have enough information from other colonies of this species (e.g. sex ratio and population trends) for an accurate global assessment of population trends. We do know that some colonies of the species are growing but that, at the global level, the species is still in decline.((WN))  In your opinion, for how much longer are penguin populations sustainable without intervention?NG: This is nearly impossible to answer without more information on other colonies of the species, but the Punta Tombo colony is declining rapidly. We estimate declines of at least 43% since 1987 from our annual surveys at the colony, but it is likely that actual declines are higher because of the increasingly skewed sex ratio.((WN))  What are your next plans moving forward with your work?NG: We are currently studying the sex ratio in Magellanic penguin chicks (at hatching and at fledging) to determine how this influences the sex ratio in adults. There are two priorities moving forward — 1) estimating sex ratio at other colonies of this species and determining whether females are more likely to leave Punta Tombo for other colonies than are males and 2) determining the mechanisms underlying lower female survival, e.g. by studying the foraging behavior and diet of males and females and the individual characteristics (like body size) that correlate with survival.National Institute of Genomic Medicine of Mexico (Inmegen) Director Gerardo Jiménez Sánchez presented in Los Pinos the genome map of Mexicans, a stepping-stone for Latin American genomic medicine.Previous endeavours of this kind had so far only covered some of the most ancient races on the planet, native from Africa, Europe and Asia, leaving out the recently admixed races of Latin America.During the ceremony Jiménez, who led the project, symbolically presented President Felipe Calderón with a hard copy of the results. Calderón then uploaded the map to the Internet making it publicly available for researchers around the world. The President commented on the research being a step towards population-specific predictive medicine and medications, and particularly useful for Latin America for being genetically closer to the Mestizo peoples of those countries than genome maps published so far.Among other results, the five year-long work found that, while sharing the 99.9% of the genome common to all humans, in the remaining portion the Mexican population has significant genetic variation from the world's other known genetic subgroups. This makes importing genome maps from other groups unfeasible, and hence justifies the study.Also, by comparing with data sets from the HapMap Project (a map of the human genome's haplotypes, which are clusters of the possible genetic variations a human individual can present), it was found that Mexicans share 64% of their haplotypes with West Africans, 74% with East Asians and 81% with Northern Europeans.Genetic analyses aimed at common disorders in Mexico like diabetes, obesity and breast cancer are yet to be performed. "With a drop of saliva we would be able to tell whether to prescribe a medication or not", forecast Jiménez about the applications of the genome map in the long run."Studies such as this are helping us define the future of the genome era", commented U.S. Translational Genomics Research Institute President Jeffrey Trent. "Gaining a clearer understanding of how genetic variation plays a role in disease, including the risk to some infections, will help tip the scales in our favour in terms of understanding and treating disease at the individual level", he added."It is not possible today to say genetic variation is responsible for the unique H1N1 Influenza A mortality rate in Mexico. However, knowledge of genomic variability in the Mexican population can allow the identification of genetic variations that confer susceptibility to common diseases, including infections such as the flu", said Jiménez when talking about the current swine flu outbreak.Recently, however, Inmegen's Multifactorial Diseases Genomic Research Laboratory head Lorena Orozco revealed that one fifth of the Mexican population have genes in their immune system that can trigger an immune overreaction in presence of some diseases. According to Orozco one of these genes is responsible for symptoms similar to the ones A/H1N1 victims presented, which makes it a strong candidate for explaining these deaths.Although blood samples were collected from 10 different states and 4 Amerindian populations, the published results are based on data from only 6 states and 1 Amerindian population. The presentation ceremony and the online publication of the research paper in the PNAS journal came just days after the Mexican Government came under criticism for its low investment in science and the resulting dependency on other countries in the beginning of the current sanitary crisis.The University of California, Berkeley announced that one of its graduate students, Michael Park, rediscovered on May 24 the Mount Diablo buckwheat, a plant not sighted since 1936 and believed to have been extinct.Found nearly 30 miles east of San Francisco, Park [aged 35] identified the small pink flowering plant said to resemble baby's breath during a routine visit to the mountain. He is currently pursuing his doctorate in integrative biology. The significance of the find drew comparisons to the recent discovery of the Ivory-billed woodpecker in Arkansas earlier this year in April. The exact location of the flowering plant is, for now, being kept secret. Several botanists have confirmed it along with the nearly dozen or so other plants.The property is being preserved by the Save Mount Diablo conservation group operating in the Mount Diablo State Park.In a recent discovery by researchers at Tel Aviv University, it has been determined that Mushrooms Corals (Fungiidae) can change sex from male to female and back again female to male.It was in 2004 that scientists had collected two species of Mushroom Corals near Japan and tagged them. They were kept in a lab until after the full moon when then would send out sperm or eggs in gamete explosions. Mushroom corals were classified as male or female. The corals were returned to the sea and researchers repeated the laboratory experiment in 2006 and 2007.The gamete explosions on tagged mushroom corals revealed that the corals had changed sex. In 2006, 75% of the corals had changed sex, and in 2007, 80% of the corals had changed sex, some returning back to the original sex they had been tagged with."No one reported before on the fact that some coral species may change sex. I believe this was quite a big surprise to all coral reef scientists," said lead author Yossi Loya, a zoologist at Tel Aviv University. "We never realised in our wildest dreams that these corals can undergo sex changes. This is really exciting." said Professor Robert van Woesik, marine biologist at the Florida Institute of Technology.NASA has denied media and internet speculation that the Phoenix Lander has found life on the 'Red Planet', Mars and has also denied that the White House in the United States has been briefed on such matters that would lead up to an announcement by NASA later this week. This comes just after NASA stated on July 31, that Phoenix confirmed the presence of water-ice on Mars.Rumors began to spread on the internet Saturday after an unnamed scientist working on the Phoenix Mission stated to Aviation Week & Space Technology, the White House had been briefed on "provocative and complex" information that NASA has yet to disclose to the public regarding the "potential for life on Mars." The scientist said that the announcement will be regarding the habitability of Mars rather than finding actual life. The scientist also said that the information had been excluded from the July 31 press conference.NASA immediately denied those claims sending out a message on Twitter, a social networking and micro-blogging website which is used by NASA to communicate to the public in a style pretending that the Lander itself is talking to its readers, stating, "Heard about the recent news reports implying I may have found Martian life. Those reports are incorrect. Reports claiming there was a White House briefing are also untrue and incorrect." The Phoenix Lander, according to NASA, does not have the ability to detect life, past or present, but the Lander's MECA microscopy station could potentially 'see' bacteria in the soil, which NASA states have not been discovered."[The report of a White House briefing is] not true [and is] bogus". MECA results have not been discussed at the White House. There is no one who knows either on the [Phoenix] project in Tucson or at [NASA] HQ who knows where this information came from," said Peter Smith, the top investigator for the Phoenix Mission. Smith also added that MECA has "nothing new to report." The MECA or Microscopy, Electrochemistry and Conductivity Analyzer, is designed to analyze soil samples as small as 16 μm to determine the chemical composition of the sample. While the lander were unable to image any bacteria, Phoenix's MECA did detect potassium, magnesium and chloride, minerals that are necessary to create or sustain life. MECA also determined that the soil was acidic, which means it could support the growing of some plants from Earth like asparagus."We are attempting to assess the chemicals and minerals that make up the soil composition. We are now about half way through the process and there are several conflicting points of view. This is not a good time to go public with half the story," added Smith who also stated that "we are committed to following a rigorous scientific process. While we have not completed our process on these soil samples, we have very interesting intermediate results. Initial MECA analyses suggested Earth-like soil. Further analysis has revealed un-Earthlike aspects of the soil chemistry."Despite the denials by NASA, some Internet observers maintain that NASA is still preparing for a major announcement."The reason that all this seems so hush-hush is due to a future paper and press release that appears likely to pop out of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and its Science magazine. Whatever the poop is from the scoop that’s been studied by Phoenix, that information is purportedly going through peer-review", said David Leonard for LifeScience.com.NASA will hold a media teleconference today August 5, at 2:00 p.m. EDT, to discuss these recent science activities.Earth science experts studying ocean currents and their relationship to snow melts have discovered that an unusual heating of the ground in one place on our planet can choke off sea life over a thousand miles away.In a new NASA funded study, they have found that a decline in winter and spring snow cover over Southwest Asia and the Himalayan mountain range is creating conditions for more widespread blooms of ocean plants in the Arabian Sea.The decrease in snow cover has led to greater differences in both temperature and pressure systems between the Indian subcontinent and the Arabian Sea. The pressure differences generate monsoon winds that mix the ocean water in the Western Arabian Sea. This mixing leads to better growing conditions for tiny, free-floating ocean plants called phytoplankton. The senior researcher and lead author of the study is Joaquim Goes, from the Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences, West Boothbay Harbor, Maine. Goes and his colleagues used observations from satellite imagery of the ocean’s colors to show unusual blooms, or growth, of phytoplankton concentrations in the Western Arabian Sea.  His work shows an increase of more than 350 percent over the past seven years.Since 1997, a reduction in snow has led to wider temperature differences between the land and ocean during summer. As a consequence, sea surface winds over the Arabian Sea have strengthened leading to more intense upwelling and more widespread blooms of phytoplankton along the coasts of Somalia, Yemen and Oman.According to Goes, while large blooms of phytoplankton can enhance fisheries, exceptionally large blooms could be detrimental to the ecosystem. Increases in phytoplankton amounts can lead to oxygen depletion in the water column and eventually to a decline in fish populations.The study is in this week’s SCIENCE magazine.Among its many ongoing research studies, the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) National Plant Materials Center (NPMC), in Beltsville, Maryland, is researching native, ornamental, perennial plants which are tolerant of hot, droughty conditions.  The end result of this research is to promote city gardening in the Washington/Baltimore metro area and to eventually expand to the entire mid-Atlantic region.  “The use of native plants are beneficial to the region in that they are already adapted to the cultural conditions present in city environments and are unlikely to displace other native-plant communities,” said Shawn Belt, Horticulturalist at the NPMC. “And, not only do these native plants add to the diversity of inner-city plant materials they encourage wildlife as well.” Working with NRCS conservationists for Washington, DC, the NPMC has recently installed a “butterfly garden” a native-plant garden at the Myrtilla Miner Elementary School in NE Washington DC. According to Belt, Washington, DC typically has poor soils so this site will be a good evaluation for hot, dry conditions.“Since there are no farms in DC to award contracts for the various NRCS cost share programs, NRCS does award cost share for schools in order to educate students to the benefits of using native plants in city landscapes,” said Belt. NRCS conservationists have been encouraging teachers to install butterfly gardens with cost-share money from the Environmental Quality Incentives Programs (EQIP) to help with the costs of installing these gardens.While working with the school to install the native-plant garden, NRCS employees will evaluate the performance of the plants over the next 3 years.  Additionally, evaluations will be continued in other areas of Washington, DC in order to replicate the "experiment" in differing locations.German researchers have found that natural methods of family planning like the symptothermal method (STM) are as effective as modern contraceptives. This finding challenges the common conception that natural methods of birth control are the least effective among all the family planning methods that are available today.In 1985, scientists at University of Heidelberg started a prospective, longitudinal study of 900 women using the symptothermal method for family planning (not compared to another population). The symptothermal method requires a woman to define her fertile interval during the monthly cycle through measuring body temperature and observing cervical secretions. It was found that the lowest pregnancy levels (an average 0.43 pregnancies per 100 women per year,  i.e. 13 cycles, with 95% confidence intervals of 0.05-1.55) were among women who abstained from sex contact or practiced non-penetrative sex during their most fertile period (as defined by the symptothermal method). The rate was slightly higher (0.59 pregnancies per 100 women per year) among women who used barrier methods of contraception (for example, a condom) during the same period.These figures indicate that the symptothermal method might be reliable, but more research is needed to increase the statistical power of the data. Scientists consider a method of contraception to be highly effective if the pregnancy rate is less than one pregnancy per 100 women per year when used properly (the upper limit of confidence was 1.55 in this case, but the average 0.43).The study reported a dropout rate of 9.2 per 100 woman. Study participants indicated that this was either due to the fact that they no longer wished to participate, or that they wanted to achieve pregnancy, for medical reasons, because they separated from their partner, etc.Surprisingly enough, the rate of pregnancy among women who had sex during their fertile period turned out to be only 7.46 pregnancies per 100 women per year, although the rate was four times higher than what could be expected. The researchers say these women had sex on the boundaries of their fertile periods.Taken together, these findings suggest that the symptothermal method of contraception is worthy of further research, as a possible future option for those who for some physical or religious reasons cannot use other family planning methods.A new show cave opened to the public in Indiana in mid-June. Indiana Caverns, located near Corydon, in Southern Indiana, is part of the Binkley Cave system. Binkley is the longest cave system in the state, totaling 35 miles, and is the 11th largest cave system in the United States.The cave was discovered in 2010. That year, Pleistocene era bones from animals were discovered in the caverns. Most were discovered in an area called Big Bone Mountain. The findings include dozens of remains from bison, snakes, birds, bears, and an extinct peccary species. The remains are dated as being approximately 25,000 years old. It is believed an entryway collapsed and the animals were trapped in the cave. Live animals also live in the cave, including 21 species of troglobites. Indiana Caverns is a show cave, which allows visitors to explore Big Bone Mountain and view the animal remains. It used to take spelunkers upwards of 12 hours to make it to Big Bone Mountain. Visitors can now visit the location within minutes, exploring less than a mile of the cave system, which includes a trip across an underground lake by boat.Researchers say that new, ten million-year-old fossils found in Ethiopia, prove that the theory that humans may have evolved from a species of great apes eight million years ago, may not be true, but that humans may have split from apes as long as 10.5 million years ago.At least nine fossilized teeth, one canine tooth and eight molars, of a previously unknown species of apes found in Africa were discovered by a team of researchers from Ethiopia and Japan who then compared the 3-D make up of the teeth to other fossils that date back as far as 8 million years and found that the fossils are likely a "direct ancestor" of apes currently living in Africa and that the new ape fossils were that of a species of gorilla who ate mostly plants high in fiber.Current fossils and research say that the evolutionary split from apes to humans occurred at least eight million years ago. The new fossils say that the split may have happened as long as 10.5 million years ago."Based on this fossil, that means the split is much earlier than has been anticipated by the molecular evidence. That means everything has to be put back," said researcher at the Rift Valley Research Service in Ethiopia and a co-author of the study, Berhane Asfaw. Despite the finds, other researchers are not convinced that the findings are correct."It is stretching the evidence to base a time scale for the evolution of the great apes on this new fossil. These structures appear on at least three independent lineages of apes, including gorillas, and they could relate to a dietary shift rather than indicating a new genetic trait," said a Professor at the London Natural History Museum in the United Kingdom, Peter Andrews who also added, "but the fossil evidence for the evolution of our closest living relatives, the great apes, is almost non-existent.Researchers have named the newly discovered species Cororapithecus abyssinicus whose remains were found in the Afar Region of Ethiopia, the same place where the remains of Lucy were discovered in 1974.In a small-scale trial on humans, American scientists say they may have developed a new drug that could stop the spread of HIV and "rapidly clears" the blood of the virus."There is a lot of interest in this product," said editor Keith Alcorn of the National Aids Manual.The drug called PA-457, which is derived from betulinic acid and comes from by-products from paper manufacturers, is being manufactured and developed by Maryland drug manufacturer Panacos Pharmaceuticals. The drug is known as a maturation inhibitor, which is a new group of drugs. Its purpose is to break down the protective protein coating of HIV. The drug exposes the inner genetic material by making holes in the coating of the virus essentially causing it to break down and disabling its ability to be passed from one human to the next. The drug also shows that it works on strains of HIV that are resistant to other medications. The drug is also compatible with other HIV drugs."It's a truly novel new class of drugs, and I really support their development. If PA-457 turns out to be non-toxic, easy to use and not to select for resistance, it will find good use," said Charles Boucher who researches HIV at Utrecht university medical center in the Netherlands."It stops the virus by interfering in one of the final stages in its assembly and stops it from 'budding out' from the wall of a cell," said Alcorn.Scientists are expected to begin a larger scale test on 48 people in one month, whose drugs are no longer working; however, the drug itself is not likely to be available for wide-scale use for at least 3 years. Test subjects will be administered either a placebo or PA-457 that will be taken in combination with the medication they already take."This provides the basis for future studies that will be designed to provide a detailed understanding of the interaction between PA-457 and its target as well as insights into the design of new generations of maturation inhibitors," said CEO of Panacos Pharmaceuticals, Graham Allaway.At least 80% of those suffering from the disease have shown resistance to other medications.A woman in Paris, France has been found to be infected by a strain of the HIV virus with a lineage that is closer to the Simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) normally found in gorillas than that in chimpanzees.  The new strain, which has been designated as P by the University of Rouen and University of Manchester researchers, is the first confirmed human infection of an SIV from a non-Chimpanzee source."We have identified a new human immunodeficiency virus in a Cameroonian woman. It is closely related to gorilla simian immunodeficiency virus (SIVgor) and shows no evidence of recombination with other HIV-1 lineages. This new virus seems to be the prototype of a new HIV-1 lineage that is distinct from HIV-1 groups M, N and O. We propose to designate it HIV-1 group P," said the researchers.The 62-year-old woman, originally from Cameroon in Africa and who emigrated to France five years ago, is healthy and shows no sign of AIDS. Her claims of no previous contact with gorillas or with bushmeat suggests human-to-human infection. The prevalence of the new strain is as yet unknown, and researchers are sifting through the woman's contacts for other possible sources of infection.At the moment, the most likely pathway of infection is of gorilla-to-human, though it cannot be ruled out that this new strain began in chimpanzees before moving to gorillas and humans.Researchers in mammalogy from London, Vermont, Wisconsin, and Gloucestershire, UK have just discovered a new species of rodent that is unlike anything previously identified.In a new study published in Systematics and Biodiversity, researchers describe a new rodent species called the Laotian Rock Rat.  It was found for sale as meat at a marketplace in Laos.  The researchers brought it to London for a closer look at its skeleton and DNA.Researchers found that the specimen was not particularly related to anything currently known.  The group had to describe a new family of mammals for this single species.  The last time a new mammal family was created to accommodate a new species discovery was in 1974 when the bumblebee bat was discovered.The closest relatives to Laotian rock rats are a group of rodents that includes porcupines and guinea pigs, but this relationship is a rather distant one. The researchers think the Laotian rock rats may have split off from common ancestors a long time ago, with porcupines and guinea pigs evolving after that split.The authors hope that by studying Laotian rock rats, they can solve an old puzzle.  How did guinea pigs and their relatives get to South America at a time when it was surrounded by water?  Until these rock rats came along, the only Old World relatives of guinea pigs were ones found in Africa or both Africa and Asia.  This led some scientists to think that guinea pig ancestors got to South America from Africa across the Atlantic Ocean.  Others insisted that they went through Asia and North America first.  Understanding how the guinea pig's new Asian relative is connected to the rest of the family may help to explain this mystery.Scientists have discovered a new species of venomous dart frog in Colombia.The new species, dubbed the 'golden frog of Supatá', is 2cm (0.8 inch) long and has a range of just 50 acres (20 hectares), which is believed to be the reason why the frog remained undiscovered until now.The frog was found in February during an expedition arranged by the Conservation Leadership Program (CLP), a nonprofit organization, but the discovery has only just been announced.However, according to Giovanni Chaves, a biologist from the CLP, the frog is in imminent danger. "This frog exists in a little fragment of cloud forest that is under intense anthropogenic pressure, mainly the destruction of the forest for cattle-raising and agriculture," he said. "This discovery allows us to know a little more about the ecology of these beautiful animals, and it will also allow us to use it as a symbol to carry out campaigns of environmental education in this area, to show the need to protect and to conserve the fauna and flora of this region of Colombia." Colombia has one of the richest diversities of amphibians in the world, with more than 583 known species.File:Orcaella heinsohni.jpgA new species of dolphin, the first to be identified these last three decades, has been discovered in Australian waters. It was thought that the Australian snubfin dolphin was in fact an Irrawady dolphin (usually found in Asia and Australia) but DNA tests prove that it is in fact a different species. Its scientific name is Orcaella heinsohni, honouring George Heinsohn, an Australian biologist who worked at the James Cook University on dolphins.In two studies presented on Monday at the annual meeting of the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology in Orlando, Florida in the United States, scientists have disclosed new steps toward using natural adhesives made by the dusky Arion slug (Arion subfuscus) in medical applications such as in closing skin wounds and reducing scarring.When threatened, the dusky Arion slug secretes an unusual glue, making itself a difficult target for predators.  This glue remains both sticky and flexible and works even when the surface the slug is on is wet.  Previous studies have shown that, unlike many artificial adhesives, Arion slug glue is non-toxic to mammalian tissue.Scientist Rebecca Falconer, an Ithaca College undergraduate who led one of the two studies, said "Typical sutures like staples and stitches often lead to scarring and create holes in the skin that could increase the chance of infection after surgery [...] Understanding the roles of adhesive proteins in the slug glue would aid in the creation of a medical adhesive that can move and stretch yet still retain its strength and adhesiveness."In her set of experiments, Falconer observed eleven proteins found only in slug glue and used DNA recombination to produce usable amounts of each of these proteins.  Specifically, she produced complementary DNA sequences (cDNA) for each protein, which are stretches of DNA with all the pieces not necessary for producing the protein removed.  She then spliced these into circular DNA sequences called plasmids, which she inserted into bacteria, whose natural cellular machinery began to produce the proteins in quantity.  She then analyzed the three-dimensional structures that the protein molecules form with each other and with other substances that make them work.Christopher Gallego-Lazo, also an Ithaca undergrad, evaluated glue from the dusky Arion slug by focusing on the chemical bonds within the glue and the way they affect the glue's deformability.  Gallego-Lazo found that slight changes in these chemical bonds could alter the strength of the slug glue.Gallego-Lazo said, "Few studies on biological adhesives have identified the exact nature of the bonds holding the glue together [...] This knowledge can guide the development of an organic synthetic adhesive that would reduce the risk of infection and scarring compared to stitches and staples and could be applied rapidly and simply."Falconer and Gallego-Lazo both performed their research in the laboratory of Dr. Andrew Smith.In findings published on Friday in PeerJ, an open-access peer-reviewed scientific journal, researchers from the University of York and Maldives Whale Shark Research Programme have mapped key habitats of the world's largest fish, the whale shark, shedding light on congregation sites that have perplexed marine biologists.According to the researchers, Whale sharks, Rhincodon typus, listed as endangered under the IUCN Red List, do feed in the open ocean, but juveniles tend to form large groups in only about 20 to 25 specific places around the coasts of Mexico, Belize, the Maldives, and Australia, which previous research has not explained. The research team reviewed dozens of previous papers, compiled their findings into a database, and performed spatial analysis with the aggregate shark-related event data. Results showed the sharks' frequented sites had areas of very shallow water near a steep drop-off into the depths, such as a shelf break or reef slope.The whale shark can grow to eighteen metres (60 ft) in length. Unlike its better-known relatives, the Great white shark and other predatory sharks, the whale shark is a filter feeder, meaning that it draws water into its mouth and extracts small organisms from the liquid. They can search for food at the surface of the ocean but are also known to dive deep.  According to supervising author Dr Bryce Stewart, PhD, "Sharks are ectotherms, which means they depend on external sources of body heat. Because they may dive down to feed at depths of more than 1900 metres, where the water temperature can be as cold as four degrees, they need somewhere close by to rest and get their body temperature back up. Steep slopes in the seabed also cause an upwelling of sea currents that stimulate plankton and small crustaceans such as krill that the whale sharks feed on."Such sites are also attractive to fishing and recreational boating, and collisions can injure sharks.  Stewart emphasized the importance of using research to help preserve and protect the sharks, calling them, "extremely valuable to local people on the coastlines where they gather, which are often in developing countries. While a whale shark can be worth as much as $250,000 USD dead, alive it can provide more than $2 Million USD over the course of its life span." The latter figure specifically estimates only ecotourism.A recently released study has shown how dramatically children's perception of wildlife differs from the animal's effect on the rainforest. The study said that it aimed to "investigate UK children's perceptions of the biodiversity and ecology of rainforest environments," by evaluating "children's perceptions by assessing their drawings of rainforests."The study showed that children have a greater awareness of the animals like tigers and spiders, instead of the more common species like ants, which are often considered less exciting. This is despite the fact that these species have the greatest effect on the rainforest.Children from aged 3 to 11 were included in the study, and all age groups had a disproportionately large amount of mammals and birds in their drawings. Around half of the participants were aged over eight, and both the three to five and five to seven age group covered around a quarter of the participants each.According to a study performed by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, the level of acid in the world's oceans is rising, decades before scientists expected the levels to rise.The study was performed on the coastal waters of the Pacific Ocean from Baja California, Mexico to Vancouver, British Columbia, where tests showed that acid levels in some areas near the edge of the Continental Shelf were high enough to corrode the shells of some sea creatures as well as some corals. Some areas showed excessive levels of acid less than four miles off the northern California coastline in the United States."What we found ... was truly astonishing. This means ocean acidification may be seriously impacting marine life on the continental shelf right now. The models suggested they wouldn't be corrosive at the surface until sometime during the second half of this century," said Richard A. Feely, an oceanographer from the NOAA.The natural processes of the seas and oceans constantly clean the Earth's air, absorbing 1/3 to 1/2 of the carbon dioxide generated by humans. As the oceans absorb more of the gas, the water becomes more acidic, reducing the amount of carbonate which shellfish such as clams and oysters use to form their shells, and increasing the levels of carbonic acid. Although levels are high, they are not yet high enough to threaten humans directly."Scientists have also seen a reduced ability of marine algae and free-floating plants and animals to produce protective carbonate shells," added Feely.Feely noted that, according to the study, the oceans and seas have absorbed more than 525 billion tons of carbon dioxide since the Industrial Revolution began.OSLO — The 2004 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded today to Dr Wangari Maathai from Kenya. She is the first African woman to win the Peace prize, and the 12th woman to win the prize since its inception in 1901. The Nobel committee cited "her contribution to sustainable development, democracy and peace" as the reasons for awarding the prize. It is the first Peace prize awarded to an environmentalist.Dr Maathai is a member of parliament in Kenya, the country's deputy environmental minister, and holds a Ph.D. in anatomy from the University of Nairobi. For seven years she was the director of the Red Cross in Kenya, and is most known for founding the Green Belt Movement — a non-governmental organization dedicated to environmental conservation and protecting forests. Since its founding in 1997, the organization claims to have planted over 30 million trees, in the process employing thousands of women — offering them empowerment, education and even family planning.The GBM organises rural women in Kenya to participate in environmentally friendly activities such as reforestation; economically-conducive activities like eco-tourism and training in forestry and food processing; as well as community development. On her Green Belt Movement project, Dr Maathai told the UNESCO Courier in 1999, "If you want to save the environment, you should protect the people first, because human beings are part of biological diversity. And if we can't protect our own species, what's the point of protecting tree species?"In accepting the prize, Dr Maathai said that she was humbled by the recognition and uplifted by the honor of receiving the award, and discussed social and environmental problems that still challenge Africa and the rest of the world. The award includes a cash component of 10 million Swedish Kronor (approximately US$1.4 million). Dr Maathai's project was opposed by the Kenyan government during Daniel arap Moi's  rule, and Dr Maathai's demonstrations to protect the forests often met with violent resistance; eventually, she was jailed.  "The government thinks that by threatening me and bashing me they can silence me," Dr Maathai said. "But I have an elephant's skin and somebody must raise their voice."In 1997 Dr Maathai ran for president on the Liberal Party of Kenya ticket. In 2002 — after Moi's Kenya African National Union party lost the presidential race — she was elected to Parliament, and was appointed deputy minister of environment for the new government the next year, a position she holds today.Stanford biochemist Arthur Kornberg, winner of the 1959 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, died on October 26, 2007 of respiratory failure.  He was 89.  He is survived by his third wife, Carolyn Frey Dixon.Kornberg is best known for his discovery (with Severo Ochoa) of "the mechanisms in the biological synthesis of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)", including the isolation of DNA polymerase I, which led to his Nobel prize.  He was the first scientist to make DNA in a test tube.  He also studied pathways for synthesis of ATP and nucleotides, and he was the first to synthesize PRPP.  In his later years, Kornberg studied inorganic polyphosphates.Kornberg's son, Stanford structural biologist Roger D. Kornberg, won the 2006 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for work on the molecular basis of eukaryotic transcription.American agronomist and Nobel laureate Norman Borlaug has died aged 95. Borlaug, known as the father of the Green Revolution that transformed agriculture in the 20th century, died of complications from cancer at his home in Dallas, Texas in the United States late on Saturday evening.Borlaug was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1970 for his development and introduction of high yield crops, and also received the Presidential Medal of Freedom and Congressional Gold Medal, the two highest civilian awards in the U.S.. His work is often credited as saving over a billion lives.Born in 1914 in Cresco, Iowa Borlaug worked on the family farm before enrolling at the University of Minnesota, gaining a master's and a Ph.D. in plant pathology and genetics.In 1944 he began working for the Cooperative Wheat Research and Production Program, a joint project of the Mexican government and the Rockefeller Foundation. It was there that he led the development of new disease-resistant, high yield wheat varieties.His introduction of these varieties to Southeast Asia in the 1960s averted mass famines, and led to countries such as India and Pakistan becoming self-sufficient in food. This was soon heralded as the start of a "Green Revolution", and later his efforts were extended to Africa.From 1984 until his death Borlaug taught as Distinguished Professor of International Agriculture at Texas A&M University, whilst continuing his research in Mexico and his promotion of agricultural development around the world. In 1986 he established the World Food Prize to recognize contributors to improvements in world food supplies. In 2006 A&M created the Norman Borlaug Institute for International Agriculture to continue his work.As well as his agricultural work, when younger he was a keen wrestler, competing for his high school and the University of Minnesota. He was inducted into the National Wrestling Hall of Fame in 1992.Borlaug is survived by two children, Jeanie and William, five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. In a statement his children said: "It is the hope of the Borlaug family that his life be an example to all. We would like his life be a model for making a difference in the lives of others and to bring about efforts to end human misery for all mankind."A memorial is planned to be held at Texas A&M.Dutch researchers have discovered that cabbage volatile odour released in response to white butterfly caterpillar attack can attract multiple parasites making the food chain unbeneficial to the plant.  The study, published in journal PLOS Biology Tuesday, highlights the possible side effects of parasitoid use for pest control.A second parasite, called hyperparasitoid, is attracted by the cabbage odour only after a first parasite infects the caterpillar. The researchers performed both laboratory and field experiments to verify the data.As described by the study, the food chain starts when a white butterfly caterpillar, Pieris rapae, attacks a cabbage leaf.  In response, the cabbage releases volatile odour to attract the caterpillar parasites. The odour attracts parasitical wasps, such as Cotesia glomerata, that infect the caterpillar with their eggs. Such behaviour is called parasitoid, when larvae lead a parasitical lifestyle and the adult individuals don't. Such reaction favours the plant.However the odour also attracts a hyperparasitoid wasp, Lysibia nana, which infects the Cotesia glomerata's larvae and takes over the food chain. Field study confirmed the hyperparasitoid's behaviour is well tuned to the environment: it does not follow cabbages nearly as much until they are infected by the first parasite, too.Dr Erik Poelman, the research leader, commented about the specifically well adapted behaviour of the parasitoids, "In controlled laboratory assays as well as under field conditions, hyperparasitoids were offered plant odours coming from two types of plant: ones damaged by healthy caterpillars, and ones damaged by parasitoid-infected caterpillars. We found that they preferentially detected odours of plants damaged by infected caterpillars. We were excited by these results as they indicate that hyperparasitoids rely on a network of interactions among plant, herbivore and parasitoids to locate their host".The scientists hypothesised the saliva of infected caterpillars is different and affects the cabbage odour. The study involved collecting air around healthy, infected, and twice infected cabbage plants. Then the researchers checked the hyperparasitoid reaction to the collected odours. The hyperparasitoid attraction to the twice infected cabbage odour was nearly five times more compared to the odour of a cabbage infected only with caterpillars.The researchers also carried out tests of hyperparasitoid attraction to the healthy and infected caterpillar saliva alone, without the cabbage. There was no such attraction, confirming the cabbage odours are affected by the saliva.The scientists say, "Our results show that hyperparasitoids may parasitize up to 55% of the parasitoid offspring, therefore potentially playing a major role in parasitoid population dynamics. ... Overexpression of herbivore-induced plant volatiles [HIPVs] in crops or field application of synthetic parasitoid attractants may not benefit pest control in conditions where the responses of hyperparasitoids to HIPVs cause major mortality to parasitoids."Two sets of remains, one a near complete set, the other just a skull, found in Ethiopia forty years ago, have been dated using potassium-argon dating, as the oldest human remains yet discovered at 195,000 years old. Remains from Herto, Ethiopia held the previous record of 160,000 years.The findings, published in the February 17 issue of the journal Nature, show the remains Omo I and II, approach what geneticists believe is the age of the human race — 200,000 years. Due to geological activity in the region, this number may not be accurate; it is feasible that the fossils are as young as 104,000.The uncertainty is due to the method by which they were dated from the known geological age of surrounding rock. The exact dig location where the fossil remains had been excavated in 1967 needed to be relocated.It was determined that Omo I and II were buried in the lowest sedimentary layer, dubbed Member 1, of the 100-meter-thick Kibish rock formation, near the Omo River. By searching for datable material in that layer, and then dating it using the potassium-argon method, a research team was able to estimate an age for the fossils by association.The date found agrees with findings from genetic studies on modern human populations, which use extrapolation to determine a date for the earliest modern humans.In the same Member 1 sediment layers, were found additional Omo I bones, animal fossils, and stone tools."Those who believe that there is widely scattered evidence of 'modern' behavior going back 200,000 years in Africa will be delighted that modern human anatomy also goes back that far," according to study co-author John Fleagle, a physical anthropologist at Stony Brook University in New York.When comparing the two sets of fossils, there is an anatomical difference between them. Omo II is much more primitive in appearance, while Omo I more resembles modern anatomy. Their existence in the same location in the same geological timeframe, may change the way scientists believe humans evolved.Chris Stringer, director of the Human Origins Group at the Natural History Museum in London: "Given what we see in larger fossil samples from other regions, we may need to accept that African populations showed large [physical-form] variation at this time."A group of 41 paleontologists and researchers reaffirmed the cause of dinosaur extinction.  The research team concluded that a giant asteroid killed dinosaurs over 65 million years ago.  The asteroid crashed into Yucatán, Mexico creating the Chicxulub crater.  Their report was published Friday in the academic journal Science.In 1980, Louis Alvarez and son, Walter, had published a paper stating that an asteroid had killed the dinosaurs.  The Chicxulub crater was also discovered in Mexico at approximately that same time, therefore the theory gained scientific acceptance.  More recent explanations of the cause of dinosaur's extinction included that perhaps volcanic eruptions on Deccan traps or multiple asteroid crashes ended the dinosaurs' existence.The team performed chemical analyses of soil and fossil samples, where a high concentration of iridium (which is commonly found in asteroids and meteors) was found, which dated back to the approximate time of the asteroid crash. The asteroid measured approximately 7.5 miles wide, and hit with an impact of one billion times the force of the Hiroshima atomic bomb.  The impact would have immediately killed all animals and plant life within the radius of half of a continent.  With such an impact, debris would have flown into the air and then fallen back into the atmosphere with the force of a ballistic missile.The crash of this asteroid into the earth would have also caused the equivalent of the heat of ten noonday suns, which would have burned the skin or feathers of dinosaurs, and created wildfires on any plant life which had survived to that point. The crash would have also triggered massive earthquakes and tsunamis, possibly causing parts of continents to fall into the ocean.The area of Yucatán which the asteroid struck had also been rich in sulfur, which was blasted out of the earth and into the sky, where it would have mixed with water vapors, creating clouds that rained sulfuric acid, and which would block out the sun for approximately a decade.Nine year old giant panda Yuan Yuan has given birth to a cub in a zoo in Taipei, Taiwan on Saturday at 8:05pm local time. The female cub was born weighing 6.4 ounces and measuring 6.1 inches. The cub won't be on public display for another three to five months. The cub, born out of an artificial insemination given in March, is under intensive care for its first week of life. It was the seventh attempt to get the nine-year old Yuan Yuan pregnant in a three year period. Yuan Yuan, and her mate, Tuan Tuan, were a gift from China to Taiwan in December, 2008, as a gesture of goodwill due to historical conflicts between the island of Taiwan and mainland China. The two pandas have failed to mate successfully through natural pregnancy, hence the use of artificial insemination. Yuan Yuan showed signs of pregnancy in early June and towards the end of the month caretakers believed she would soon give birth. Caretakers spent the night at the zoo, keeping a constant watch over Yuan Yuan during her birth. China usually requests that cubs born in other countries be returned to China for care. China has agreed to allow the newborn cub to remain in Taiwan. Two Chinese panda specialists are at the zoo helping to care for the newborn.Bai Yun, a Giant Panda, has given birth Friday at the San Diego Zoo, after two and a half hours in labor. After birth, the cub was immediately taken into the arms of its mother. Bai Yun has had three other cubs, Hua Mei, 1999, Mei Sheng, 2003, and Su Lin, 2005.The newborn cub's gender is not yet known - zookeepers want to avoid going close to the cub for a few days, and are watching on a closed-circuit camera. While Bai Yun has been relatively fertile in captivity, other animals have had difficulty mating. Since these pandas possess extremely low hormonal desires for sex, scientists in China have recently developed a method involving "panda porn" to induce the animals into mating. Bai Yun, however, seems to be getting along just fine, producing her previous two cubs with a male panda named Gao Gao.Dr. Ron Swaisgood, who helped deliver the newest cub, has said that “Gao Gao is a very proficient mater.”A Magellanic Penguin, who normally makes its home off the coast of Chile where the Pacific Ocean waters are cold, has taken a small vacation on the coast of Peru, an event that has never happened before in the country.According to scientists, the penguin was looking for food when it got lost in the ocean currents off Peru's coast. It is reported that the penguin swam nearly 3,100 miles [5,000 kilometers] off course."It seems he was disoriented and got lost in the sea due to the different ocean currents. In his endless search for food, he casually climbed up on our shores, something that has never happened before," said the head of the National Paracas Reserve in Peru, Wilder Canales.For the moment, the penguin will stay at the reserve, in its natural habitat until researchers can coordinate for the penguin's release with officials in Chile. The penguin also required a small injury to be fixed that he received from a fishing net during his travels."It has not been kept in a cage or anything like that. It has been kept where it can live naturally," said David Orosco, a biologist at the reserve.The Philippine Department of Agriculture (DA), local health and agricultural teams Sunday have started slaughtering, burning and burying roughly 6,500 hogs at a farm in Pandi, Bulacan in Central Luzon on Sunday after three farm workers became infected with Reston ebolavirus (ERV) of the virus group Ebola, as a precautionary measure and to protect the local livestock industry."We culled around 300 heads—piglets and growers—in two and a half hours; we tried to start the process at 5 p.m. Sunday; after three hours we disposed of 442 hogs; that includes transporting the hogs to an area in the farm where they will be disposed of; with this rate and with some improvements in the procedure tomorrow, we expect to complete the depopulation by Wednesday,” Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) head Davinio Catbagan said. "With the problems we encountered last night, we may go beyond Thursday," he added.But according to Dr. Eric Tayag, the 56-man team's five captive bolts used in stunning the pigs malfunctioned, for which reason, they decided use instead .32 caliber pistols. "We need to finish this off because sometimes it rains," he said. But due to other problems, 12 policemen were ordered to use instead .22 caliber guns for  80-120 kilograms pigs. The pig depopulation in the Pandi farm has reached 1,237 Tuesday amid strong rains as schedules have been set from 5 a.m. to 9 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. daily, Cecilia Yacob, head of the Bulacan Provincial Public Affairs Office, said.Monday's culling was witnessed by representatives from the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO), the World Health Organization (WHO), animal welfare observers, Bulacan Gov. Joselito Mendoza and Pandi Mayor Roberto Oca. The slaughter has been estimated to cost 16 million Philippine pesos (₱), which include hog farm owners' compensation and the cost of culling for five to seven days. "As of late Tuesday the depopulation teams have culled 2,663 pigs, compared to 442 on Sunday, 795 on Monday and 1,426 on Tuesday; as of early afternoon on Wednesday, the numbers have reached 3,482," said Dr. Davinio Catbagan. According to Agriculture Secretary Arthur C. Yap, the culling team has slaughtered 2,078 pigs, bringing the total to 4,741 on Wednesday. The number of hogs had increased to 6,500 from 6,000 as some mother pigs gave birth amid the depopulation.But according to Dr. Joy Gomez, provincial public health officer of Bulacan, six members of the depopulation team at the Pandi "Win Farm" have complained of fatigue, headache and dizziness, and have been closely observed by a team of doctors.The state will compensate the farmers, however "it cannot be [100% of the market price.] A range of about 25%-50%, but it has to be discussed [with the farm owner]. At 25%-50%, the government may pay the farm owner ₱6.28 million-15.625 million, plus the cost of animal culling operations," said Yap. A polymerase chain reaction test to check the virus' presence was conducted by the United States Centers for Disease Control (US-CDC) to verify ongoing transmission. "Of 160 pig blood samples that were positive for antibodies, 133 came from Bulacan and 27 from Pangasinan as reported by RITM. Those from Bulacan were traced to pigs at different age groups while those in Pangasinan were found in sows and just one piglet. This means that there is on going viral transmission in Bulacan but past infection with recovery was the case in Pangasinan,” Yap explained.The agriculture officials earlier announced that the depopulation will be carried out in a "humane" manner, following current Office international des épizooties (OIE) procedures that ensure protection of animal welfare in the Bulacan farm. According to Philippine Department of Health (DOH) Secretary Francisco Duque, the quarantine of the hog farm in Palauig, Manaoag, Pangasinan has been lifted after finding no traces of viral transmission. According to Yap, test results conducted by a joint mission of FAO, the World Animal Health Organization, WHO and their local counterparts, reveal that viral transmission continues to exist in Pandi hog farms, which is only 0.5% of the 13 million pigs raised throughout the country.DOH officials also say a pig farm worker in Cabanatuan City in Nueva Ecija, who had no direct contact with sick hogs, has tested positive for Immunoglobulin G antibodies against the Reston ebolavirus, which is non-lethal, unlike the Zaïre, Bundibugyo, Côte d'Ivoire and Sudan strains, according to FAO."The additional positive human sample, showed signs of antibodies for Ebola Reston, was traced to a slaughterhouse male worker and was not sick during visits by the investigation team. He does not recall any direct contact with sick pigs but remembers having flu-like sickness in the past twelve months," a DOH statement said, also confirming four pig farm workers and a butcher from Bulacan and Pangasinan tested positive for the antibodies last month."Ebola Reston poses a low risk to human health at this time," said DOH Secretary Dr. Duque. "147 human samples have been tested for Ebola, but only six have tested positive. But stay away from kilawin, and half-cooked pork," he added. The laboratory tests of 147 blood samples from workers in the affected areas were conducted by the Research Institute for Tropical Medicine (RITM) and the US-CDC. RITM has also reported that "1039 pig blood samples collected by the expert mission yielded negative results on antigen tests," the DOH said. The 24 other workers tested were all found negative for ERV infection. "To date, all close contacts of humans with positive anti-bodies who were tested remained anti-body-free signifying absence of illness in affected humans that can lead to possible human-to-human transmission," Dr. Duque said. The RITM and the US-CDC also tested 160 pig blood samples: 133 of which came from the Bulacan farm and 27 from the Pangasinan farm; of the 133 blood samples from Bulacan, 19 tested positive for ERV; none of 27 samples from Pangasinan were affected. Global experts said they will continue to conduct research studies of the Ebola strain to determine how it can be controlled. FAO of the United Nations has initially committed ₱10 million to buy additional kits. "We support the Bureau of Animal Industry to expand surveillance in other areas," said Kazuyuki Tsurumi, FAO representative in the Philippines. "We have not committed any amount of money... [but] we are ready to support a wider surveillance and capacity-building for more tests," Tsurumi explained."We can't speculate. We don't know the source of this virus, how it's being transmitted. We're studying that," said Soe Nyunt-U, WHO Representative in the Philippines. "Our current issue is that the test kits are limited because we are depending on the [United States] CDC [Center for Disease Control and Prevention] to send those kits. If we are going to extend the surveillance both in the animal and human side, we need more test kits," he added.Both the DA and DOH officials have decided to expand the scope of the testing for the Reston ebolavirus by inspecting and monitoring hog farms in the whole of Central Luzon, Calabarzon, Southern Luzon and Pangasinan province after the culling of the 6,500 pigs."As a precautionary measure, while there are many questions left unanswered, these ERV-contaminated pigs should be extinguished so we can move forward and study the virus," said BAI Director Davinio "Dave" Catbagan. "In six months we might be finished testing Regions 3 and 4 depending on the assurance of the US Center for Disease Control and Prevention [in Atlanta Georgia, USA] to give test kits. In Region 3 alone, the government would need to test farms in 566 villages that would require around 36,000 kits, but the country only has 10,000 kits" Mr. Catbagan said. "The expanded tests will cover the provinces of Aurora, Bataan, Bulacan, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Tarlac and Zambales in Central Luzon, and Cavite, Laguna, Batangas, Rizal and Quezon in Calabarzon," Mr. Catbagan added.Mr. Catbagan has assured infected hog farm owners in Pandi they would be properly indemnified after the country's first large-scale animal depopulation process. "We are finalizing the indemnification contract. But we will make sure the indemnification would not be open to abuse," he said. Fatteners and piglets cost an average of ₱3,000-4,000 per head, boars cost ₱25,000-30,000, and sows cost ₱14,000-15,000.Juan Lubroth, senior officer of the Infectious Disease Group of FAO’s Animal Health Service, has arrived on Wednesday to discuss in detail with government officials how the agency can support in the wider surveillance. The DA and DOH officials and other government agencies met last Thursday to discuss and finalize the procedure in the burning of 6,500 pigs in Pandi, Bulacan."The Bureau of Animal Industry and the provincial government of Bulacan, experts carrying out the ₱500,000 five-day depopulation would observe three guidelines, namely: the main disposal, water safety, and environment protection. The depopulation process will involve stunning the pigs unconscious, burning them in a 6-foot deep pit, then burying them at the site. We want to make sure that our means would not violate the Animal Welfare Act. We are also ensuring that there would be no seepage," Governor Mendoza explained."Local authorities have decided to use electric prods and a ₱70,000 captive bolt pistol with a blunt rod to stun the 6,000 pigs in Pandi, prior to slaughter burning using rice hulls before burying them in a pit dug inside the hog farm," said Dr. Davinio Catbagan."About 40 health workers — clad in special hog mask suits and are tasked to facilitate the depopulation — would then dump the pigs into 10 30x30-foot pits that can accommodate 600 pigs each. The pits are located some 30 feet from the infected pig farm," said Mr Eric Tayag, head of the National Epidemiology Centre. "The cull could take up to seven days to complete," Mr Tayag added. A truckload of disinfectants was prepared amid  rice husks to be used in the burning.The Pandi culling will be the first large-scale depopulation because of a disease, according to Samuel B. Animas, chief of BAI's animal health division. "Only one to three pigs are slaughtered at a time in backyard farms during the foot and mouth disease infection [in the 1990s]," he added.Meanwhile, at the 18th hog farmers convention, which was launched on Monday at Club Filipino, the president of the National Federation of Hog Farmers, Albert R. T. Lim, Jr., said hog farmers have feared the effects of Reston ebolavirus virus on industry, since hog exports were banned due to the outbreak. "We are also apprehensive that if we keep on talking about this thing, some people might just misconstrue or misunderstand what they are talking about and people might get scared," Lim said.The government has spent about ₱10 million to maintain the two quarantined hog farms in Bulacan and Pangasinan. "Anyway, we always have our hog producers in Mindanao to supply Luzon if necessary. I am more concerned about our exports although the Ebola scare also somewhat affected local demand," Lim said.Amid the nationwide ERV scare and probe, local authorities have seized more than 200 kilograms of rotten pork meat at a local market in Pasay City Wednesday. Barangay officials in Maricaban district have intercepted the banned ‘hot meat’ and arrested Roberto Clet and Rafael Fruelda, who were indicted under the "Consumer Act of the Philippines." The statute punishes the illegal sale of unsafe products like double-dead meat with penalty of ₱1,000 to ₱10,000 and not less than six-months but not more than five years of imprisonment.Local police has also arrested four vendors and seized their 3,000 kilos of "botcha" (rotten pork meat or "double dead meat") at MC Market in Balintawak, Quezon City Wednesday evening, and allegedly delivered from Bulacan. The four suspects were charged for violation of the Consumer Act of the Philippines and Republic Act 9296 or the Meat Inspection Code.In December, international experts initially probed outbreak among Philippine pigs, wherein about 6,000 pigs at Pandi and Talavera farms were tested for the Reston ebolavirus. "There is no salmonella outbreak in Eastern Visayas, Region 8, said Dr. Archie Lluz, Chief of Regional Animal Disease and Diagnostic Laboratory of the Department of Agriculture in the region. But hog specimens from Leyte and Babatngon, where 270 swine deaths and cases of sick pigs were reported, were examined by lab tests. The results revealed cutaneous "Pasteurella hemolytica", a type of bacterial infection which causes swine deaths due to loss of appetite, dehydration, fever and diarrhea.According to the DA, sick pigs had been culled from Babatngon, Tacloban City, Alangalang, Santa Fe, Palo, Pastrana, Dagami, Burauen, Tabontabon, Lapaz, Mayorga, and Abuyog in Leyte; Sogod in Southern Leyte; Catbalogan, Calbiga, Daram, and Santa Rita in Samar; and Lope de Vega in Northern Samar. Swine infections have spread to 18 towns and one city in Eastern Visayas.The Reston ebolavirus is suspected to be a subtype of the Ebola virus or a new filovirus of Asian origin. It was first discovered in crab-eating macaques from the Philippines at a laboratory in Reston, Virginia. The same lab then recorded an outbreak of viral hemorrhagic fever among monkeys imported from the Philippines in 1990. The Reston ebolavirus strain was discovered among monkeys in the Philippines in 1996, and in Italy in 1992.African strains of the virus caused deaths of about 50 percent to 90 percent of those infected with prior symptoms of lethal bleeding and organ failure, the WHO said. "Since the 1970s, scientists, veterinarians, microbiologists and physicians have been looking at thousands of species to see if they can find this elusive reservoir, and we have been pretty much empty-handed," Juan Lubroth, head of infectious diseases in the animal health unit of the Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome, explained. "Unlike the three subtypes, Zaire, Sudan and Ivory Coast, which can cause hemorrhagic symptoms, Reston does not. There has been no evidence that Reston can cause significant illness in humans. When Reston was previously found in monkeys, few animal handlers were infected but only one had very mild symptoms," the DOH's official website announced.In January 1997, the Philippines Department of Environment and Natural Resources ordered the immediate slaughter of some 600 monkeys in Ferlite, a breeding farm in Laguna, to prevent an outbreak of Reston ebolavirus.The robotic arm scoop on the Phoenix lander on Mars has made its first impression on the red planet, leaving behind a mark that resembles a human footprint. It began its first dig on Saturday, May 31, and the camera on board the arm caught an image."This first touch allows us to utilize the Robotic Arm accurately. We are in a good situation for the upcoming sample acquisition and transfer," stated Phoenix's surface mission manager from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, David Spencer.Scientists named the initial impression Yeti in an area they describe as 'The King of Hearts'. NASA has decided to name the various tasks and operations performed by Phoenix after fairy tale and mythological characters.On Friday May 30, 2008, the same camera captured images of what appears to be ice under the lander. Scientists, who named the exposed area Snow Queen, say that as Phoenix landed the exhaust from its thrusters cleared away a three- to four-inch layer of Martian soil which exposed a flat layer of a white substance that NASA says could be ice. The image shows the white layer which is shiny and smooth. Scientists expect to find more of the alleged ice when Phoenix begins its digging mission not far from the initial test dig."What we see in the images is in agreement with the notion that it may be ice, and we suspect we will see the same thing in the digging area," stated Uwe Keller, Robotic Arm Camera lead scientist for Phoenix.Phoenix is searching for evidence of water and microbial life on Mars. Its mission is to determine Mars's ability or inability to host life and hold water. The Phoenix lander uses a robotic arm to dig through the protective top soil layer to the alleged water ice below and ultimately bring both soil and water ice to the lander platform for sophisticated scientific analysis.A baby pink elephant was sighted in the African country of Botswana on Friday by a filmmaker for the BBC as he was filming for a wildlife documentary. The cameraman took photographs of the elephant when he noticed it in a herd of around eighty elephants in the Okavango Delta. According to experts, it is most likely an albino, an occurrence that is very rare among African elephants."We only saw it for a couple of minutes as the herd crossed the river", said Mike Holding, who spotted the elephant. "This was a really exciting moment for everyone in camp. We knew it was a rare sighting - no-one could believe their eyes." "I have only come across three references to albino calves, which have occurred in Kruger National Park in South Africa," said ecologist Mike Chase, who is in charge of the Elephants Without Borders conservation charity. "This is probably the first documented sighting of an albino elephant in northern Botswana. We have been studying elephants in the region for nearly 10 years now, and this is the first documented evidence of an albino calf that I have come across."The ecologist said that the condition might make it hard for the animal to survive for very long. "What happens to these young albino calves remains a mystery. Surviving this very rare phenomenon is very difficult in the harsh African bush. The glaring sun may cause blindness and skin problems," he noted.However, he added that it still might be possible for the elephant to survive, as it appears to be adapting to the condition: "Because this elephant calf was sighted in the Okavango Delta, he may have a greater chance of survival. He can seek refuge under the large trees and cake himself in a thick mud, which will protect him from the sun," Dr Chase noted."Already the two-to-three-month-old calf seems to be walking in the shade of its mother. This behaviour suggests it is aware of its susceptibility to the harsh African sun, and adapted a unique behaviour to improve its chances of survival."The death of pioneering oceanographer Walter Munk was announced on Friday by the University of California, San Diego. He was 101 and died of pneumonia in La Jolla, California.Munk was born in Austria, but he emigrated to the United States to pursue his education, before moving to California in 1939 due to a love interest in La Jolla. Although this romance failed, he remained there, taking a job at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography. He served in the US Army in World War Two, before being recalled to Scripps where he assisted in work to predict likely wave conditions during Allied landings on both Pacific and Atlantic coasts. He also researched ways to counter military submarines.Munk's work was later used during the D-Day landings. Post-war, he was involved in nuclear weapons research, observing a 1950s atomic bomb test from a raft and receiving fallout from it. Other research interests included oceanic currents and the interrelation of the sea with the planetary climate.Earning a post-war PhD in oceanography from University of California, Los Angeles, Munk was an early scientific adopter of scuba equipment and in addition to physical processes was also interested in marine life. A species of devil ray known to leap out the water as if taking flight was named after Munk."Walter was the most brilliant scientist I have ever known," said University of California, San Diego's chancellor, Pradeep Khosla. Khosla talked of Munk's "countless discoveries that put the university on the map as a great research institution" and "his global leadership on the great scientific issues of our time." Scripps Oceanography director Margaret Leinen said "Munk has been a world treasure for ocean science and geophysics." She described him as "a guiding force, a stimulating force, a provocative force in science for 80 years" who was "one of the most distinguished and honored scientists in the world" and "always interested in sparking a discussion about what's coming next."Awards included a trip to the White House to receive the US National Medal of Science, and the French Legion of Honour, received last year during a visit to Paris. His wife Mary said "We thought he would live forever. His legacy will be his passion for the ocean, which was endless."A new study suggests that plants can adapt to changing climatic conditions more efficiently than previously thought, making the onset of climate change less of a concern for plant species around the world. Jodrell Laboratory in the London Botanical Gardens has discovered that plants can alter specific components of their genetic make-up to suit rising temperatures and varying levels of rainfall that would otherwise take hundred of years to develop through natural selection, via a process known as epigenetics.This newly discovered ability suggests that mass plant extinction brought on by climate change may not happen to the extent that scientists previously predicted. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change claimed in 2007 that "20 to 30 per cent of species assessed so far are likely to be at increased risk of extinction if increases in global average warming exceed 1.5C to 2.5C", a statement that now needs re-evaluating.The study focused on three species of common spotted orchid that grow in varying environments. These plants had nearly identical genetic heritage, but thrived under very different conditions. Mark Chase of Jodrell Laboratory claims that "[their] results are particularly relevant in the present context of widespread environmental challenges and give us more hope in the adaptive potential of organisms [...] it is not instantaneous, but it is much faster than we thought previously".It is still unclear whether plants would adapt in the same way under "extreme" climate change.On Wednesday, NASA scientists said that, unlike green plants on the planet Earth, plants on other planets may be the color red or yellow.Plants on Earth are green because they contain chlorophyll.  The chlorophyll appears green because it absorbs mainly blue and red light in order to produce food for the plant via photosynthesis, while reflecting the green light frequency.Scientists at NASA point out that if the stars for other planets were in a different state than our sun and if the light frequency that reached the planets' surface was different, then the plants on those planets would have also evolved a different type of photosynthetic pigment other than chlorophyll. This pigment would be dedicated towards the different light frequencies received by the planet causing the plant to appear a different color from green such as red and yellow.Carl Pilcher, director of the NASA Astrobiology Institute, said, "This work broadens our understanding of how life may be detected on Earth-like planets around other stars, while simultaneously improving our understanding of life on Earth. This approach--studying Earth life to guide our search for life on other worlds--is the essence of astrobiology."The research into the color of plants on other planets was started by California Institute of Technology astrobiologist Vikki Meadows and a host of other scientists who were studying how light is absorbed and reflected by plants and some bacteria on Earth. Using this data, a computer model was designed to predict the color of plants and bacteria on other planets.Nancy Kiang, a biometeorologist at NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies, noted that it was unlikely any of the plants would be the color blue, "It appears that harvesting blue light is very common across the board for photosynthetic organisms. I think it is unlikely that anything will be blue."The upcoming Sony PlayStation 3 game console is going to assist scientists in finding cures for cancer and Alzheimer's disease using the Folding@home distributed computing program.Folding@home is run by the Pande group of Stanford University (America) to research protein folding, this is the process whereby proteins build themselves inside the cells in the body. Analyisis of how proteins fold (specifically how the folding goes wrong) can give insights into how diseases form. The simulation processes used in the research take months just for a single protein so the data is split into small packets (called workunits by the community) and distributed to volunteers around the world. By downloading a program called a 'client' users can receive units and perform the simulations on them - results are then sent back to the Stanford servers.Currently more than 150,000 computers run the folding 'client' worldwide. The new client can be downloaded to the users PlayStation 3 console and will then begin to calculate "work units" when users are not playing games. Since the PS3 has a 'Cell' processor with a total of 8 cores the calculations should be performed faster than on a PC. With this new program scientists aim to create a super computer faster than IBM's BlueGene/L System (which currently calculates more than 280.6 trillion bits of information per second). The new calculations are expected to process a thousand trillion bits of information across the whole project every second.A statement on Folding@home's website explained further: "Using the Cell processor of the PS3, we should be able to do more folding than what one could do on a PC. Also, since the PS3 has a powerful GPU, the PS3 client will offer real time visualization for the first time."The new program is part of an expansion of the project and the first of 2 new clients that have been developed. The second, scheduled for release later on, will utilise a computer's graphics card (supporting only ATI graphics cards at first) to perform folding calcualtions."We will release more details on all of this as the new software rolls out," said the statement, "We are beta testing the ATI GPU client software internally at the moment and will likely announce an open beta in four to five weeks (end of September)."The Pande group noted their ultimate aim as being to create an even faster super computer, with the ability to process over a million trillion bits of data every second: "The PS3 client and GPU client are together part of our new broader goals to push Folding@Home to the next stage, reaching calculations on the petaflop to 10 petaflop scale."The PS3 client is expected to be available at the end of September.Modern polar bears are genetically related to an extinct species of Irish brown bear, according to a study published Thursday in Current Biology.  The two share a distinct genetic marker not present in other brown bears, strongly suggesting that all modern polar bears are descended from the same extinct species.The study found evidence of polar bear hybridization with a now-extinct population of brown bears that lived in Ireland and Britain during the last ice age. Brown bears are no longer found on the British Isles, and it had been thought that polar bears interbred more recently with brown bears living around Alaska. However, the samples used in the analysis came from the past 120,000 years and show that interbreeding of the two species occurred a great deal earlier. Climate change is thought to have presented opportunities for the two species to mate now and then in the past 100,000 years. The evidence comes from a DNA analysis of fossil bones collected from the teeth and bones of seventeen bears from eight Irish caves. Ten Irish brown bears from between 10,000 and 38,000 years ago carried a distinct sequence of mitochondrial DNA, originating from a specific female brown bear, and this DNA sequence has been passed down the female polar bear line and is found in all polar bears today. It is not found in modern bears from Europe.Fossils from the last species of ancient brown bears in Ireland, living from 3,000 to 5,000 years ago, have a different genetic fingerprint, matching neither that of polar bears nor of modern brown bears.A member of the international team conducting the study, Dr Ceiridwen Edwards from Oxford University, said: "Hybridisation between ancient Irish brown bears and polar bears has led to the complete replacement of the original polar bear mitochondria. This maternal lineage is now present in all modern polar bears."The authors of the paper conclude that their evidence shows that matrilineal history of brown and polar bears suggest that "a likely genetic exchange with extinct Irish brown bears forms the origin of the modern polar bear matriline." They suggest that hybridization may be more common than previously recognized and may be a way species deal with loss of their  habitats when the environment is changing.The United States is giving some thought to adding polar bears to the list of threatened species. The proposal to list polar bears has resulted from a lawsuit settlement the Bush administration reached in February with Greenpeace and the Natural Resources Defense Council,[1] and a decsion was to be made 12 months after that settlement, based on the Endangered Species Act petition process[2]."Today the Interior Department's U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is proposing to list polar bears as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act. We are making this proposal because a scientific review of the species by the Fish and Wildlife service found that populations may be threatened by receding sea ice, which polar bears use as a platform for many activities essential to their life cycle, including hunting for their main prey, Arctic seals," said Dirk Kempthorne, the Secretary of the Interior in the U.S."[Polar bears are] one of nature's ultimate survivors, but we are concerned the polar bears' habitat may literally be melting," added Kempthorne."[We have never had a species] listed with such a close correlation to climate change as this one," said an attorney with Natural Resources Defense Council, Andrew Wetzler."Global warming is the single biggest threat to polar bears' survival, and this will require the government to address the impacts on the polar bear," added Wetzler.The "threatened" category encompasses "vulnerable," "endangered," and "critically endangered." Currently, polar bears are listed as "vulnerable" under the World Conservation Union.Although the United States Fish & Wildlife Service makes no formal mention of increasing or decreasing polar bear population within US borders or worldwide, it is estimated that there are between 22,000 and 25,000 polar bears living[3], some 4,700 are living in the state of Alaska[4], and about 15,000 live in Canada[5][6].A suspected case of BSE, better known as mad cow disease, has been discovered in Sweden at a farm near Västerås some 80 kilometres west of Stockholm.The affected farm has been quarantined and no ruminants from the farm are allowed to be sold or transported. The cow was destroyed earlier after symptoms of calving paralysis had been discovered, and the tests where carried out in accordance to rules set by the European Union (EU).The Swedish Board of Agriculture (Jordbruksverket) analysed a specimen from the cow at the farm this weekend. The tests confirmed the presence of BSE and the specimen was sent for further analysis at a United Kingdom laboratory.If the British analysis confirms BSE in the specimen, it will be the first case of BSE in Sweden. The affected farmer told the Swedish public service radio: "As my father said, if we have to make history it would be a pity to do it this way."BSE isn't transmitted directly between animals, but rather from feedstuffs containing tainted tissues from infected ruminants to healthy animals. Such cattle feeds have been prohibited in Sweden for many years, but as the affected cow was born in 1994 she might have been given such food in her early life.The disease has been declining in the EU after restrictions and regulations were put in place or tightened following an epidemic of the disease in humans in the UK. In that outbreak 150 people died. Sweden has been considered a low-risk country. Ten previous tests have all proven to be false alarms.BUCHAREST, Romania —The average production of genetically-modified (GM) soy grew by 50 tonnes to 250 tonnes per square kilometre last year, said Constantin Sin from the Romanian Ministry of Agriculture. Soy is the only GM crop allowed in Romania for commercial purposes. Additionally, the area cultivated with the modified soy increased from 396 km² in 2003 to 581 km² in 2004. GM soy is mainly farmed in southeastern Romania, in the counties of Brăila, Călăraşi and Ialomiţa.In 1996, the European Union endorsed the import of transgenic soy, and, in 2004, the green light was given for the sale of new genetically-modified products which were used for animal breeding. Globally, the largest producers of genetically-modified soy are the United States of America, Argentina and Brazil.A study published by researchers at John Hopkins University (Balitmore, Maryland) concluded that psilocybin, a hallucinogenic drug, causes experiences of "substantial personal meaning and spiritual significance" in users. A majority of the participants felt a better sense of well-being, even months after consuming the drug. Researchers expect that the results can be used for further investigation of psychoactive substances and cognition.The experiment, led by Roland R Griffiths, assessed the degree of mystical experience and attitudinal effects of the psilocybin experience; this report was published in the journal Psychopharmacology.Thirty volunteers without prior experience with hallucinogens were given psilocybin and methylphenidate (Ritalin) in separate sessions. The Ritalin sessions served as the control group who used that drug as a placebo. The tests were double-blind, with neither the subject nor the administrator knowing which drug was being administered.The degree of mystical experience was measured using a questionnaire on mystical experience developed by Ralph W Hood; 61% of subjects reported a "complete mystical experience" after their psilocybin session, while only 13% reported such an outcome after their experience with Ritalin. Two months after taking psilocybin, 79% of the participants reported moderately to greatly increased life satisfaction and sense of well-being.About 36% of participants also had a strong to extreme “experience of fear” or dysphoria (eg, a "bad trip") at some point during the psilocybin session (which was not reported by any subject during the methylphenidate session), with about one-third of these (13% of the total) reporting that this dysphoria dominated the entire session. These negative effects were reported to be easily managed by the researchers and did not have a lasting negative effect on the subject’s sense of well-being.Puffin numbers are declining on the Farne Islands, where the United Kingdom's largest colony resides. During the past five years, the puffin population on the islands has decreased by a third. Experts had expected numbers to rise this year, but now with news of the decline, are citing an inability to find food as the probable cause.Numbers of puffins have also been declining on the Isle of May, 100 miles north. Professor Mike Harris, Emeritus Research Fellow at the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, said that the birds spend eight months at sea, and some do not return, which may be the cause of the lowering population. Puffins, like many auks, feed on fish and zooplankton. It is not known if man-made causes, such as over-fishing or climate change, have lowered the amount of food available to puffins, causing them to starve while at sea."Whether it is climate change or man-induced we just don't know but I suspect the cause is oceanographic and it has resulted in the birds being unable to find enough to eat," said Professor Harris.Scientists report that alligators might not be as effective as hoped in controlling the burmese python population in the Florida Everglades.  A six foot alligator was found with its rear half hanging from the belly of a 13-foot python last week.  Because of injuries on the alligator's body, Frank Mazotti, a University of Florida wildlife professor, believes that the gator was injured but alive when the python attacked."Encounters like that are almost never seen in the wild. ... And here we are, it's happened for the fourth time," Mazzotti said.  These remains were discovered September 26 by pilot and researcher Michael Barron.  The non-native pythons are often released by individuals who are ill-equipped to care for the pet when it has grown more than expected.  Iguanas present similar problems.  The invading species often consume natives like the alligator, or tropical flowers, in the case of the iguanas.While some have expressed concern that children are in danger from these pythons, Joe Wasilewski, a wildlife biologist and crocodile tracker, says it's not a great issue.  "I don't think this is an imminent threat. This is not a 'Be afraid, be very afraid' situation."A megamouth shark was found dead in the Philippines on Wednesday.  There have been only fifteen confirmed sightings in the nation and around 60 worldwide. The fifteen-foot male was found after reportedly becoming entangled with a fishing net near the Barangay Marigondon neighborhood of Pio Duran, Albay province. Its body was encased with ice pending a necropsy. The cause of death was not immediately clear.Locals have nicknamed the dead shark 'toothless', a How to Train Your Dragon movie reference.  In truth megamouths can have up to fifty rows of teeth.Megamouths reach up to eighteen feet. Their name refers to its large head and mouth, used to filter plankton and other small food from the ocean. Occasionally the prey of other sharks and whales, megamouths are thought to live in the Pacific around Taiwan, the Philippines, and Japan based on previous sightings. Its true range and population size are however unknown. The first such shark identified was accidentally discovered by the US Navy off the coast of Hawaii when it became stuck in a ship's anchor. Researchers theorise a white strip on the shark's head illuminates to attract prey.A camera set up in the jungles of Malaysian Borneo in Sabah by the World Wide Fund for Nature or WWF, has captured, for the first time, a Borneo Rhino on videotape."This astonishing footage captures of one of the world’s most elusive creatures. Tremendous progress has been made in recent years to secure the rhino’s habitat but so much more needs to be done considering this species may very well disappear in the next 10 years," said President and CEO of the World Wildlife Fund in a press release, Carter Roberts.In the video, the rhino comes out of the jungle brush and then proceeds to sniff the camera and equipment surrounding it. The video also shows the rhino getting a bite to eat.It is estimated that there are only 25 to 50 of the rhinos alive on the planet, and they can only be found in the jungles of Sabah, or better known as the "Heart of Borneo." For the past 20 years, the rhino has not been reported anywhere else in Sabah and researchers say that it is likely "extinct" in the rest of Malaysia.Researchers say that poaching to use the rhino's horn in medicine and encroachment into their habitats are causing them to decline. Researchers also say that because the rhino is so isolated from the rest of Malaysia, that they are rarely able to breed together."The rhino is very sensitive to the presence of human beings. Till now, we can still see the rhino, but if we cannot develop any kind of protection method, I think the rhinos will survive less than 10 years," said a project manager for the WWF for elephants and rhinos in the Borneo region, Raymond Alfred.In 2006, the first ever still image was captured of the rhino.Thursday, April 28, 2005 Wildlife scientists confirmed on Thursday that a bird long thought extinct, the Ivory-billed woodpecker, has been found in Arkansas. The remarkable birds have a 30-inch wingspan and stand nearly 20 inches high.The birds inhabited a wide swath of American bottomlands and mountain pine forests until the latter part of the 1800s. They require a large feeding ground, and it is thought the expansion of towns and cities closed off their domain. They went extinct in Cuba during the same period. Ornithologists say each mating pair of Ivory-billed woodpeckers needs three square miles of forest to survive. There were thought to be only 22 of them left in 1938.There have been several independent sightings of the bird in Arkansas over the last year, and even a videotape. In an effort to support the birds, the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, The Nature Conservancy, and other groups have joined to form the Big Woods Conservation Partnership to conserve 200,000 acres of forest habitat and rivers in the area during the next 10 years.John Fitzpatrick, director of the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology told the Associated Press, "the bird captured on video is clearly an ivory-billed woodpecker. Amazingly, America may have another chance to protect the future of this spectacular bird and the awesome forests in which it lives."  The story premiered Thursday in the online version of Science magazine.The Center for Biological Diversity announced on Wednesday the monarch butterfly population counted over-wintering in Mexico was 144% greater than last year, with the highest overall population since the winter of 2006–2007. Scientists cautioned against an excess of optimism for the species.Remarked Center for Biological Diversity scientist Tierra Curry, "This reprieve from bad news on monarchs is a thank-you from the butterflies to all the people who planted native milkweeds and switched to organic corn and soy products[...] But one good weather year won't save the monarch in the long run, and more protections are needed for this migratory wonder and its summer and winter habitats." Milkweed is the sole food of the monarch caterpillar.According to ecologist Chip Taylor of the University of Kansas, last year's relatively cool temperatures in the insects' migration corridor kept them in the right place at the right time to lay eggs with a good chance of survival. He also said this is not likely to happen again next year. Ecologist Ryan Norris of the University of Guelph in Ontario also said human actions had little to do with the increased population.Almost all of the monarch butterflies ranging across the continent, as far north as Canada, return to the same wintering area in central Mexico's oyamel fir forests every year.  Scientists from the World Wildlife Fund Mexico estimate the population by observing the area turned orange by butterfly bodies on the trees.  This year, the butterflies occupied roughly 6.05 hectares (14.95 acres; .0605 square km), up from 2.48 (6.12 acres) last year.  The hibernation area was as large as 21 hectares in the 1990s and as low as under a hectare in 2014.  Factors cited for the drop in the monarch's overall population include habitat loss, loss of milkweed to agricultural herbicides, and use of insecticides.The Center for Biological Diversity and Center for Food Safety requested monarch butterflies be given Endangered Species Act protections from the United States government in 2014.  The decision is pending and expected in June of this year. George Kimbrell of the Center for Food Safety said "This year's count is a temporary reprieve that doesn't change what the law and science demands, which is that we protect monarchs under the Endangered Species Act before it's too late."A global review of threatened species by the  International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) indicates drastic decline of animal and plant life. This includes a quarter of all  mammals, one out of eight birds, one out of three  amphibians and 70 percent of plants.The report,  Red List of Threatened Species, is published by IUCN every year. Additionally a global assessment of the health of the world's species is released once in four years. The data is compiled by 1,700 experts in 130 countries.The key findings of the report were announced today at the World Conservation Congress being held in  Barcelona, Spain. The congress, held every four years, will deliberate over the next 10 days actions required to slow the rate of species extinction.The survey includes 44,838 species of wild  fauna and  flora, out of which 16,928 species are threatened with extinction. Among the threatened, 3,246 are tagged critically endangered, the highest category of threat. Another 4,770 species are endangered and 8,912 vulnerable to extinction. The latest review includes a survey covering all 5,487 mammal species, out of which 1,141 are considered threatened with extinction.  The study notes 79 percent of  primate species in South and Southeast Asia are threatened with extinction. This companion study on mammals is being published this week in the journal  Science."Our results paint a bleak picture of the global status of mammals worldwide," Jan Schipper, lead author and his co-authors said in the mammalian study. "We estimate that one in four species is threatened with extinction and that the population of one in two is declining."However there is some cheer for the conservationists. It is revealed that 5% of the currently threatened species are recovering, including the European bison and black-footed ferret."We are now emerging from the Dark Ages of conservation knowledge, when we relied on data from a highly restricted subset of species," says Jonathan Baillie, director of conservation programmes at the Zoological Society of London. "We will expand the scope further to include a far broader range of groups, thus informing and assisting policy-makers in a hugely more objective and representative manner."Anne Gaskett, a PhD student from Macquarie University in Sydney, has been conducting new research into the nature of the relationship between five species of native Australian tongue orchids and the orchid dupe wasp (Lissopimpla excelsa).The research builds on an original discovery in the 1920s that the orchids convince male wasps that the flowers are actually females of the same species. The wasps then attempt to mate with the flowers, before moving on, often to another orchid, thus pollinating them. The discovery received worldwide attention at the time."I wanted to know what it was about the five orchids that could persuade the male that they were all a female [wasp]," she says, adding that the flowers all look very different to the human eye, and that usually only one species of insect pollinates one species of plant."I have accumulated the first compelling evidence of an ongoing and escalating arms race between orchids and their unwitting insect pollinators," Gaskett, says, "Over generations the insects learn to avoid having sex with orchids, and this means only the most persuasive orchids reproduce, which drives the acceleration of orchid subterfuge."Gaskett has discovered that the wasp, however, quickly learns to avoid the orchid, meaning that "...only the most persuasive orchids will continue to reproduce," she says. She has also discovered that the flowers have various structures that feel like parts of a female wasp to a male, including mimic 'love handles', which the male would normally hold on to during mating. Gaskett says of this particular discovery that the flowers have "curves in all the right places".Gasket has also used a spectrometer to analyse the colours of four of the orchids and a female wasp, and found that, although they look very different to humans, they actually match almost exactly.Gasket's research is important to the conservation of the orchids, and to developing sensitive control methods for use against agricultural pests. She says of the wasps "these insects might be fools for love, but their role as orchid pollinators makes them indispensable."Gasket has currently turned her attentions to the role of scent in the process, and is testing the effect of the perfumes of the orchids on the antennae of the male wasps.New research has indicated that bats will 'cry out loud' to detect their prey. The report, which was published at PLoS ONE, states that "source level varied with species, but all bats emitted intense search call."The report also states that bats will make calls with a lesser intensity when they are close to the ground. It says that "at close range there was a distinct correlation between distance and source level, such that the closer a bat was to the array and therefore also to the ground, vegetation or buildings behind the array, the less intense were its emitted calls."The authors of the reports also noted that the bats that fly away from obstructions did not produce the loudest calls. This is despite the fact that they originally predicted otherwise. The report also noted other findings that were different from the original predictions. It says that they were surprised that "the most intense source levels did not necessarily provide the longest prey detection ranges."Heidi Hopkins, a taxonomic researcher and PhD candidate at the Museum of Southwestern Biology of the University of New Mexico, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, United States, conducted a four-year study revising the Arenivaga genus of cockroaches, discovering 39 new species in the genus previously thought to contain 9 species. ZooKeys journal published her findings Wednesday.The study involved examining over 5200 specimens from universities and collections throughout the United States. The researcher had to dissect the specimens' genitalia to accurately distinguish the species as their external features were often not enough for identification. Hopkins was advised by Dr Kelly Miller during the investigation.The species are also sexually dimorphic, making morphological association of females with males a challenge. The researcher published a key for adult males in the genus.The study revealed a vaster distribution area than was previously thought, including additional regions in Southern US and over a half of Mexico. Hopkins remarked about potential of further studies of the genus and Corydiidae, its parent family, "The extent of the radiation of this genus is quite surprising. These animals have remarkable adaptations that allow them to succeed in some of the harshest places on earth. I suspect that the thorough application of modern collection methods would reveal many more species of Arenivaga across Mexico, and many more species of Corydiidae in the deserts and dry places of the rest of the world."The study was a first revisit of the genus since 1920 with only one new species discovered since then. The study was supported by grants from American Museum of Natural History, Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University, National Museum of Natural History, and University of New Mexico.Researchers at the Massachusetts General Hospital have created laboratory-grown rat kidneys that function when transplanted into rats according to a study published online yesterday in the medical journal Nature Medicine. The kidneys were capable of urine production and excretion without blood clots in both the laboratory and inside living rats. The researchers were able to create the functional kidneys by using a donor kidney and using a detergent to remove the rats' kidney cells, then used new cells to cause the kidney to grow around the remaining "scaffolding," the natural protein-based structure of the kidney that remained after washing the kidney.These kidneys would also be of the patient's tissue avoiding issues of organ rejection and would increase the pool of kidneys available for human transplant.The researchers incubated the kidneys in a specialized oven for 12 days to mimic the insides of a rat. The researchers reported that these kidneys produced urine at 23% of the normal levels of properly working kidneys.The lead researcher of the study published in Nature Medicine, Dr. Harald C. Ott, says this partial functionality is enough, saying, "If you're on haemodialysis then kidney function of 10% to 15% would already make you independent of hemodialysis. It's not that we have to go all the way."The techniques developed by Ott and the team of researchers still have to be further researched before it can be applied for use in humans. When it comes time for use in humans, Ott says that pigs' kidneys would be used as the templates for making human-usable kidneys.Ott said, "You'd take a kidney matrix off the shelf. Then in an ideal world, you'd take cells from that patient and create a kidney on demand."Roughly 100,000 patients in the United States need an immediate kidney transplant, with 500,000 more on dialysis.Researchers have found a giant asteroid impact crater under the Wilkes Land ice sheet of Antarctica and it may have been responsible for creating the conditions in which dinosaurs evolved, but may also have been the cause of a mass extinction."This Wilkes Land impact is much bigger than the impact that killed the dinosaurs, and probably would have caused catastrophic damage at the time," said Ohio State University Professor of geological sciences, Ralph von Fres."All the environmental changes that would have resulted from the impact would have created a highly caustic environment that was really hard to endure. So it makes sense that a lot of life went extinct at that time," added von Fres.The crater is over 300 miles wide and was made about 250 million years ago by an asteroid nearly 30 miles wide. Researchers say that it may have caused an Earth-wide Extinction Level Event (ELE), but also may have created the conditions under which dinosaurs evolved. The species that benefited include the archosaurs, the immediate ancestors of the dinosaurs.It is thought that nearly 96% of Earth's ocean life and at least 70% of animals on land were made extinct. The impact itself may also have caused the supercontinent Gondwana to break, ultimately forming Australia.Researchers have unearthed a new fossil primate that they think may be closely related to the common ancestor of apes and Old World monkeys, collectively known as catarrhine primates. Paleontologist Iyad Zalmout of the University of Michigan discovered the new species, Saadanius hijazensis near Mecca in Saudi Arabia; the discovery gives new insights into human evolution.The specimen, a partial skull, dates to the Oligocene, approximately 29 to 28 million years ago, and exhibits puncture wounds from a large predator that may have killed it.  Saadanius is thought to have been a tree-dweller and lived at a time when the Arabian peninsula had not yet split away from the African continent, forming the Red Sea.  The discovery may help resolve the dating of the split between Old World monkeys and apes.  Paleoanthropologists have traditionally dated the divergence to between 25 and 23 million years ago, based on early fossils of the two groups.  Genetic studies, however, date it to between 30 to 35 million years ago.Although Saadanius shares some features with living catarrhine primates, such as a bony ear tube, called an ectotympanic, it also possesses other features more common in the fossils of primitive or basal catarrhines, from which Old World monkeys and apes did not evolve.  These basal features include a longer face and the lack of a frontal sinus.Researchers led by a University of Pennsylvania scientist have discovered that moonlight increases the nocturnal activity of owl monkeys in South America.  The researchers say this is the first long-term study showing that heat and light can affect the nocturnality of primates in the wild.Azara's owl monkeys were known to have regular activity patterns that included both nocturnal and diurnal (daytime) activity.  These patterns changed more frequently than a few times per year along with seasonal phenomena.  The study showed the monkeys' nocturnal activity increased in warmer months and peaked on full moon nights — but decreased during full lunar eclipses on full moon nights, which occurred three times during the study.Lead investigator and assistant professor in U.Penn.'s Department of Anthropology Eduardo Fernández-Duque explained that many animals change their activity levels with changes in environmental conditions.  These changes are called "masking" in chronobiology.  But the species of owl monkeys is distinguishable by its increased activity during nights with better moon light.As Fernández-Duque explained, "The behavioral outcome for these owl monkeys is nocturnal activity maximized during relatively warm, moonlit nights. While laboratory studies have pointed to the importance of masking in determining the environmental factors that cause animals to switch from nocturnal activity patterns to diurnal ones or vice versa, our study underscores the importance of masking in determining the daily activity patterns of animals living in the wild.  It also suggests that moonlight is a key adaptation for the exploitation of the nocturnal niche by primates.""Harsher climate, food availability and the lack of predators or daytime competition have all been proposed as factors favoring evolutionary switches in primate activity patterns," said Fernández-Duque.Team member Horacio de la Iglesia, of the Department of Biology at the University of Washington, pointed out that the changes of activity, though seasonal, aren't a built-in biological clock. He was sure that they wouldn't happen in absence of the Moon. He stated, "If there was a biological clock that they were depending on to regulate this activity, you could expect the activity to continue even in the absence of lunar light. The lunar day has not been a stable force as much as the solar day to evolutionarily select for a clock. We still have to prove it in the lab, but the evidence in this paper points to a lack of a lunar biological clock."In a study scheduled for publication in the December 1 issue of Forest Ecology and Management, scientists from the University of California, Davis; USDA Forest Service Pacific Southwest Research Station; and University of Washington have found a way to resolve the conflict that has sprung up between protecting forests from increasingly frequent wildfires and droughts and preserving sufficient habitat for the endangered spotted owl, Strix occidentalis.  The study was performed in two national parks in California, United States.For the past twenty-five years, spotted owl habitat preservation has focused on keeping 70% or more of the total ground area covered by natural tree canopy, a tree density that leaves forests prone to wildfires and trees more likely to die during droughts. Both wildfires and droughts have become more frequent in the years since the program began. However, the previous studies upon which the 70% figure was based only measured overall canopy coverage. In this work, researchers used aerial LiDAR (Light Detection And Ranging) imaging technology to scan areas within Kings Canyon National Park and Sequoia National Park in California. The regions were analyzed by distribution of foliage, tree height, and the sizes of the spaces between trees and stands. These data were then cross-referenced with decades of field studies showing the locations of hundreds of owl nests.  They found that spotted owls clustered in areas with very tall trees and stands almost exclusively, over 150 feet (48 m), avoiding areas that only had moderate or low canopy, regardless of how dense or wide."This could fundamentally resolve the management problem because it would allow for reducing small tree density, through fire and thinning," said lead author Malcolm North, of UC Davis and the USDA Pacific Southwest Research Station. "We've been losing the large trees, particularly in these extreme wildfire and high drought-mortality events. This is a way to protect more large tree habitat, which is what the owls want, in a way that makes the forest more resilient to these increasing stressors that are becoming more intense with climate change."The spotted owl gained national prominence in the United States during the 1990s, when environmentalists' efforts to preserve its habitat resulted in federal measures forbidding logging on large swaths of land, as well as federal limits on the sales of harvested wood. There was a 1995 U.S. Supreme Court case which was preceded by lawsuits on the part of timber companies and by years of large protests by timber workers and their communities who feared job losses.  For a time, it seemed that the spotted owl was also threatened by competition from the faster-breeding barred owl, which had moved west into its territory.This is not the only major study of spotted owls to reach the public eye this week.  On Thursday, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service released the California Spotted Owl Conservation Objectives Report, which analyzes the past several decades of research on the California spotted owl and provides recommendations for ecologically and economically viable conservation.Two groups of researchers have independently identified the the protein responsible for malaria transmission to mosquitoes in studies published in journal Nature on Sunday. The scientists found a direct relationship between the protein AP2-G's with malaria gametocytes (male and female sexual forms) production, which is necessary for the transmission. Only the sexual forms infect mosquitoes and sexual reproduction occurs within the mosquito digestive tract.Malaria is caused by Plasmodium parasites. The initially separate teams looked at different plasmodium species. One, an international group led by Manuel Llinás of Penn State University in the US, examined Plasmodium falciparum, which is responsible for the worst form of human malarial infections; the other, led by UK scientists Oliver Billker from the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute in England and Andy Waters from University of Glasgow in Scotland, looked at Plasmodium berghei, which infects rodents.The P. falciparum group was kickstarted by research in Spain which found different organisms from the same strain with identical DNA had varying levels of AP2-G, with a strong correlation to their levels of sexual activity. The more AP2-G, the higher the rate of gametocyte formation.  Researchers in England, later also drawn into the international team, analyzed the genomes of two mutated strains of P. falciparum which were both unable to form gametocytes. They found that the gene responsible for producing the AP2-G protein was the only common non-functioning gene. The international team found found the AP2-G protein catalyzes the transmission by activating a relevant gene set in the parasite. Both teams confirmed the finding by gene therapy — both by adding the gene into a mutated strain and observing its ability to form gametocytes, and the other way round.The parasites exist in a mosquito, then in a human, and require subsequent transmission for the parasite to spread. The transmission can only happen through gametocytes. The parasite triggers formation of the sexual gametocytes into the human's circulatory system every two days in small quantities — not wasting energy on the process at the dry time of year when few mosquitoes are available — but little was known about the mechanism.Dr. Oliver Billker commented on the potential of getting the transmission of malaria under control, unlike the existing focus on addressing the phrase causing the clinical symptoms, "Current drugs treat patients by killing the sexless form of the parasite in their blood — this is the detrimental stage of the malaria lifecycle that causes illness. However, it is now widely accepted that to eliminate malaria from an entire region, it will be equally important to kill the sexual forms that transmit the disease." The researchers hope to continue research toward drugs to prevent the transmission of the disease. The science was funded by groups including UK research councils, the Spanish government, the U.S. National Institutes of Health, and the European Commission.A study published on Thursday in the journal Science reported on formation of a new bird species on the Ecuadorean Galápagos Islands. Researchers from Princeton University in the United States and Uppsala University in Sweden reported the new species evolved in just two generations, though this process had been believed to take much longer, due to breeding between an endemic Darwin finch, Geospiza fortes, and the immigrant cactus finch, Geospiza conirostris.Princeton University scientists B. Rosemary Grant and Peter Grant, who were conducting their field work on the island of Daphne Major, noticed a non-native male bird — cactus finches — on the island in 1981. The research team said they believe the immigrant bird was native to Española Island, which is located about 100 kilometres (60 miles) southeast of the Galápagos archipelago. Cactus finches have bigger body and beak as compared to other finch species living on the island at the time.Interbreeding between the two different species of finches produced fertile offspring of a new species. However, these were not able to attract native finches for copulation and thus had to mate within their own new species, making them genetically and reproductively isolated. Currently, there are about 30 birds belonging to the new species. These birds were able to adapt to their environment, and sustain themselves in the food chain. The Grants' team paired up with Leif Andersson, a professor of Uppsala University, for the genetic analysis of the birds using blood samples. Researcher B. Rosemary Grant said, "Through our work on Daphne Major, we were able to observe the pairing up of two birds from different species and then follow what happened to see how speciation occurred." The isolated island helped the biologists to study evolution due to natural selection.All the eighteen species of finches in the archipelago had a common ancestor, from which they evolved in the course of time due to natural selection. Some of them were discovered by English naturalist Charles Darwin. Also regarded as the father of evolution, Darwin studied these birds to come up with his theory of natural selection. Darwin later wrote On the Origin of Species after his study of the Ecuadorean islands.The Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science was recently approved as a charitable foundation in the United States. Started by biologist Richard Dawkins in April 2006, the IRS has approved the foundation's effective date of the tax-exemption as 20 April 2006. As a result, the donors who gave money before the 2007 IRS decision can deduct their donations when they file taxes in 2008. Dawkins started the foundation to combat pseudoscience and attacks on the Enlightenment through educating the British and American publics via research, humanitarian efforts, and lectures. It intends to finance research into the psychology of belief and religion, finance scientific education programs and materials, and publicize and support secular charitable organizations. In addition, the foundation has helped sponsor the "Out Campaign," which encourages atheists to come "out of the closet."The scientific journal RNA Biology will require authors of articles in a new section on RNA families to submit summaries of their work to Wikipedia, Nature News reports.Since 2007, the RNA family database (Rfam) has been synchronized with Wikipedia, so that editing Wikipedia alters the database. A small core group of scientists updates the entries in Wikipedia, but a long tail of scientists and other Wikipedians have contributed as well. Due to the scientific nature of the entries, vandalism has not been a large problem, according to Sean Eddy, a computational biologist at the Janelia Farm Research Campus of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute in Ashburn, Virginia."The novelty is that for the first time it creates a link between Wikipedia and traditional journal publishing, with its peer-review element," Alex Bateman from the Rfam database told Nature News. This way, scientists are encouraged to submit to Wikipedia, while they are rewarded with a citable publication in a peer review journal (which in turn drives their funding). In the interview with Nature, the journal's editor expressed her hopes that other journals would adopt the model.The new Wikipedia entry will be peer reviewed separately before it is published on Wikipedia. The first article in the new journal section will deal with SmY RNA, a family which now has its own Wikipedia article. According to the online version of the article, it was submitted on November 21, 2008, and accepted five days later. The Wikipedia article was moved from the userpage of one of the co-authors to the article section one day before submission.In an accompanying editorial, the new Associate Editor-in-Chief of the new section, Paul P. Gardner, explained: "...A Wikipedia entry is usually among the top few hits from a Google search with a molecular biology keyword. Therefore, we would like to ensure that the RNA relevant information in Wikipedia is both reliable and current. We think that this track will provide an important mechanism by which time will be spent by experts to improve the record."The author guidelines for this new section contain a mini-guide for the scientists to publishing their first Wikipedia article, mostly from a technical aspect (explaining syntax) rather than as a style guide.In the field of molecular biology, wiki technology is increasingly being used. For example, two biochemists and Wikipedians, Professor William J. Wedemeyer and Tim Vickers, MSc, PhD, hosted a Wikipedia workshop last Tuesday at the American Society for Cell Biology Annual Meeting. The Wiki approach is not met with undivided enthusiasm; last March, 250 scientists wrote a petition in the magazine Science to ask GenBank to allow community annotation of its DNA sequences, but their request to 'Wikify' GenBank was denied.In an e-mail to Wikinews and on the Nature website, Prof. Wedemeyer called the new initiative a "promising method for outreach, connecting the scientific world with the public that usually pays for the research," by "centralizing public outreach in the widely read Wikipedia." He said that the initiative "seems likely to be effective."Zoë, a four-wheeled robot constructed by Carnegie Mellon’s Robotics Institute, is the first rover-based system to discover life. Although the presence of life in the Chilean Atacama Desert is no surprise, Zoe is a step forward in an effort to design automated systems to find life on Mars.Zoë, named after the Greek word for "life", is part of a three-year Life in the Atacama project at the Astrobiology Science and Technology Program for Exploring Planets (ASTEP). It was specifically designed to be deployed as a remotely-operated or autonomous rover.The life Zoë was able to detect came from four elements. Zoë detected signs of chlorophyll, DNA and protein, which are strong indications of life. Scientists then gathered visual evidence from the pictures taken by Zoë. The research was presented this week at the 36th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference in Houston, Texas. The study was led by Nathalie Cabrol, a planetary scientist at NASA’s Ames Research Center.One of the important new features developed for Zoë is a fluorescence imager in the shadow under its belly that can be used in daytime. This tool scans for chlorophyll-based-life that would otherwise be rendered undetectable by sunlight. Zoë also carries a spectrometer that scans for chlorophyll using visible and near-infrared light.Zoë searched for signs of life in coastal and inland regions of the Atacama Desert between August and October of 2004. She was remote conrolled from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania while a ground crew followed her to verify her detections.With studies suggesting the existence of life on Mars, the new system may soon see implementation.A report published in the scientific journal Nature of results from the Cassini probe indicates the discovery  of the existence of liquid water on Saturn's moon Enceladus, and with it the possibility of extraterrestrial life.Analysis of ice particles once thought to be emitted by geysers from the moon revealed the presence of sodium salt in the ice. As on Earth, the most plausible explanation of the presence of salt water is the prolonged contact of liquid water with mineral bearing rocks.The currently accepted scientific theory for how life occurs requires the presence of three elements: the existence of complex organic molecules, liquid water and a source of energy. All three appear to be present on Enceladus.The possibility of discovering a global ocean on the moon has receded, and has been replaced by the idea of large subterranean caverns with large pools or lakes of water, created by tidal forces acting upon Enceladus, and it is from these mist filled caverns that the water evaporates into the atmosphere in a steady jet. However, until further flybys and missions can be carried out other mechanisms for the presence of salt water ice cannot yet be dismissed.Scientists at NASA say that new satellite images of Saturn's moon Enceladus taken in 2005, has shown that the moon has begun to spew geysers which contain liquid water, and that the internal heat produced by the moon's core may be able to host life below the icy surface, but scientists also stress that life has not yet been found on the moon.Scientists say that the heat source producing the geysers is "organic" and that the material used to spew them is caused by the decaying of radioactive material from inside the moon."Deep inside Enceladus, our model indicates we've got an organic brew, a heat source and liquid water, all key ingredients for life. And while no one is claiming that we have found life by any means, we probably have evidence for a place that might be hospitable to life," said Dennis Matson, a scientist for the Cassini project.In a new model created by NASA scientists, data shows that Enceladus might have been created by aluminum and iron isotopes which have begun to decay causing large amounts of heat to build up in the moon and over billions of years later, the icy mass has began to melt near the moon's core, causing the water to spew into outer space."Enceladus is a very small body, and it's made almost entirely of ice and rock. The puzzle is how the moon developed a warm core. The only way to achieve such high temperatures at Enceladus is through the very rapid decay of some radioactive species," said Dr. Julie Castillo, the lead scientist developing the new model at the Jet Propulsion laboratory or JPL."The decomposition of those isotopes - over a period of about 7 million years - would produce enormous amounts of heat. This would result in the consolidation of rocky material at the core surrounded by a shell of ice. According to the theory, the remaining, more slowly decaying radioactivity in the core could continue to warm and melt the moon's interior for billions of years, along with tidal forces from Saturn's gravitational tug," said a statement on NASA"s website.Data from Cassini's ion and neutral mass spectrometer further shows that the natural building blocks of life are also present within Enceladus. The results show that carbon dioxide, acetylene, methane, propane and nitrogen, the basic building blocks for life, are all present within the moon."The team concludes that so far, all the findings and the hot start model indicate that a warm, organic-rich mixture was produced below the surface of Enceladus and might still be present today, making the moon a promising kitchen for the cooking of primordial soup," added the statement.Cassini will make a flyby on Enceladus in march of 2008. The mission will "measure the gas emanating from the plume," ended the statement.The Interacademy Panel on International Issues (IAP), a global network of the world's science academies, has released a statement urging parents and teachers to provide children with 'the facts about the origin and evolution of life on Earth'. The statement is signed by 67 of the 92 member academies of the organisation, and notes that in some schools around the world, "testable theories" about evolution are being "concealed, denied or confused by theories not testable by science".File:UreyMillerExperiment.jpegThe statement presents four "evidence-based facts" that no scientific evidence has ever contradicted. These include the Earth being approximately 4.5 billion years old, life on Earth being at least 2.5 billion years old, and commonalities in all living organisms indicating a common primordial origin based on the process of photosynthetic organisms.The news follows developments, mainly in the United States, where there is a concerted effort to include the teaching of 'intelligent design' (ID), a theory which claims that complex biological features indicate that the presence of an intelligent 'designer' in schools. Opponents of this movement argue that it doesn't qualify as a scientific theory, and is simply a disguise for creationist beliefs. In the US, where the separation of church and state is mandated by constitutional law, efforts to include ID in school syllabi were quashed by the courts, as the teaching of religion in schools is against the Establishment clause of the constitution of the United States. Despite this, George Bush has in the past remarked that he believes intelligent design should be taught in schools. The President has not shown any sign of plans to personally intervene in the legal debate however.In December 2005, following legal case between the parents and the school district of Dover (Pennsylvania, USA), the judge decided that intelligent design was a religious view, and that it was unlawful to teach it as an alternative to evolution within the classroom. The IAP statement suggests that the science academies believe that ID is still being taught within some schools, however.A Gallup poll conducted in May concluded that 46 percent of Americans believe that God created man in his present form sometime in the past 10,000 years, with 13 percent believing mankind evolved with no divine intervention and 36 percent saying that mankind developed over millions of years from lesser life forms, but with God guiding the process.The IAP statement acknowledges limitations in current understanding, but argues that the process of science allows it to be open-ended and subject to correction and expansion as new understanding emerges.In findings published on Thursday in PLoS Computational Biology, scientists from China's Tsinghua University and the Chinese Academy of Sciences reported bird flight may have evolved from wing-flapping by running dinosaurs. These findings support the hypothesis flight could have evolved up from the ground, in contrast to models in which active flapping flight evolved after gliding, a passive form of flight. The authors proposed that in Caudipteryx, from a mechanical perspective, two-legged running automatically induced wing flapping. The authors of the report used a mathematical model, a robot, and young ostriches to test their hypotheses.For the study, the researchers chose Caudipteryx zoui, a dinosaur about the size of a peacock known to have feathered wings but not flight.  It weighed about ten lbs (five kg) and the researchers estimate it had a top speed of about 18 mph (8 m/s).  Using modal effective mass theory, the team conceptualized the dinosaur's body as a series of springs and other components, first as a computer model and then as a physical robot.  In both scenarios, running at medium speed produced vibrations making the animal's wings flap.Co-author Jing-Shan Zhao said, "Our work shows that the motion of flapping feathered wings was developed passively and naturally as the dinosaur ran on the ground[...] Although this flapping motion could not lift the dinosaur into the air at that time, the motion of flapping wings may have developed earlier than gliding."They also attached sets of artificial wings to juvenile ostriches about the same size as Caudipteryx.  They found the faster each ostrich ran, the more it tended to flap, with larger wings providing more lift.John Hutchinson, an evolutionary biomechanicist at London's Royal Veterinary College, questioned the findings, saying Caudipteryx might have dealt with the vibrations by holding its forelimbs tight against its body instead of flapping.  "However," he told Science News, "this study does lay groundwork that could be built upon and tested more rigorously. So perhaps it will inspire deeper insight in the future."Although Caudipteryx is in the same evolutionary group as birds and other theropods, it lived millions of years after flying dinosaurs, such as Archaeopteryx, were already in the air.While current consensus among scientists says birds as we understand them evolved from theropod dinosaurs, there are several competing ideas about how exactly flight developed in these vertebrates.  Some scientists believe the first fliers were tree-dwelling dinosaurs who could parachute and glide before they could fly, while some say flight grew up from the ground, from runners.A group of scientists at the Assam Agricultural University of Assam, India has claimed the Bhut Jolokia, once recorded as the hottest chilli in the world by the Guinness World Records, is losing its characteristic hotness with time. The scientists suggested changing agricultural patterns in Assam and cross-pollination as the main reasons.The scientists said according to their study the hotness of the chilli has reduced greatly in the past eight years. The hotness, which measured 1.5 million Scoville heat units (SHU) in 2008, now measures only 0.4 million SHU.With this, the Bhut Jolokia loses its status as the world's hottest chilli, left behind by, reportedly, Carolina Reaper of the US and the Trinidad Moruga Scorpion of Trinidad and Tobago.The scientists suggested cross-pollination and changing farming patterns in Assam were likely the causes. However, they still have to check other possible influences such as changing agro-climatic conditions.Dr Hazarika of the team said, "We are now taking up some scientific works to maintain the original degree of pungency of bhot jolokia which we found eight years back".In findings published on March 14 in ZooKeys researchers led by Carlos Perafán and Fernando Perez-Miles of Uruguay's Universidad de la Republica and William Galvis of Universidad Nacional de Colombia announced six previously undiscovered species of spiders with hairless legs found during a field study in the Colombian Andes, a first for the country.  Because four of the species do not fit into existing genera, they coined the genus Stormtropis after the cloned soldiers in the Star Wars films.According to the publication, to identify and describe the species, the researchers took photos with an Olympus camera and adapted these photos for further investigation using a stereomicroscope. The report also included a map of the then-known species habitat.  According to the publication, the researchers had originally collected the specimens in field studies in 2016."The stormtroopers are the soldiers of the main ground force of the Galactic Empire. These soldiers are very similar to each other, with some capacity for camouflage, but with unskillful movements, like this new group of spiders. [...] We wanted to make a play on words with the name of the known genus, Paratropis, and of course, we also wanted to pay tribute to one of the greatest sagas of all time," explained the researchers in a press release. Bald-legged spiders characteristically stick pieces of soil to their bodies, also giving them limited camouflage, though scientists are not sure how they accomplish this.Scientists have had difficulty determining the precise taxonomic position of bald-legged spiders.  The survey both confirmed existing ideas about bald-legged spiders and provided new information.  The research team observed the spiders engaging in camouflage and ground-running but also found that a few of the species could burrow into the ground and the sides of rock formations, a first.  They also recorded one species, Stormtropis muisca, living at the unusually high altitude of 3400 m (11,000 feet) in the Colombian Andes. The team plans to compose further papers specifically addressing some of these new findings.Although bald-legged spiders have been found in many other places in South America, these are the first species to be confirmed in Colombia.  These spiders, family Paratropididae, are part of the sub-order Mygalomorphae, which also includes trapdoor spiders and tarantulas.At least 11 new species of life have been discovered in the rainforests of Thua Thien-Hue Province in Vietnam in a region of the forest described as the "Green Corridor." The discovery was made by researchers from the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).Among the new species are five orchids and at least three other species of plants, two butterflies and a snake. At least ten more species of plants are believed to be new species but are still being studied."You only discover so many new species in very special places, and the Green Corridor is one of them. Several large mammal species were discovered in the 1990s in the same forests, which means that these latest discoveries could be just the tip of the iceberg," said a technical adviser in Vietnam for the WWF, Chris Dickinson.The new species of life are exclusive to the rainforest in Thua Thien-Hue Province.The new snake, which can grow to 80 centimeters long, has been given the name white-lipped keelback because of a yellow-white stripe on the top of its head and makes its home near small streams and feeds on small animals and frogs.The new species of butterflies are one subfamily of the Satyrinae species and the other a species of the Skipper butterfly.The orchids, all of which are considered very rare because they were found to have no leaves whatsoever on the plant, grow in "matter" that is rotting and also contain no chlorophyll. The other two new plant species are of Arum and Aspidistra.The WWF is concerned that civilization may move closer into the rainforest, destroying the homes of these new species, but the government of Thua Thien-Hue Province says it's dedicated to making sure that they are protected, along with the rainforest."The area is extremely important for conservation and the province wants to protect the forests and their environmental services, as well as contribute to sustainable development," said Provincial Forest Protection Department Director for the province, Hoang Ngoc Khanh.The species were found in the rainforest in 2005 and 2006.Scientists have identified more than 300 previously unknown species of land and sea creatures, according to a news release from the  California Academy of Sciences. They were discovered on a six-week-long expedition that ended in early June, and focused on the Philippine island of Luzon. The California Academy of Sciences, together with over two dozen Philippine colleagues, conducted the expedition that recorded the new terrestrial and marine life forms. Academy scientists who work in exotic places frequently discover new species, commonly only a few at one time. Finding 300 species that may be unknown on a single expedition is considered to be extraordinary, according to SF Gate.The findings will be confirmed using microscopes and DNA sequencing. The identification, scientific description and classification of each specimen as new or old, could take many months or even years.The expedition leader, Terry Gosliner, an invertebrate zoologist who is also  Dean of Science at the California academy, said, "The Philippines is one of the hottest of the hot spots for diverse and threatened life on Earth. Despite this designation, however, the biodiversity here is still relatively unknown, and we found new species during nearly every dive and hike as we surveyed the country's reefs, rainforests, and the ocean floor. The species lists and distribution maps that we created during this expedition will help to inform future conservation decisions and ensure that this remarkable biodiversity is afforded the best possible chance of survival." He emphasized the need for scientists to gather in-depth information about the rare life forms there so they can be given a chance to survive.On the 42-day expedition, academy officials said in the news release that the creatures found include "dozens of new insects and spiders, deep-sea armored corals, ornate sea pens, bizarre new sea urchins and sea stars, a shrimp-eating swell shark, and over 50 colorful new sea slugs."A new species of hammerhead shark has been found in the northwest Atlantic Ocean off the coast of South Carolina.According to scientists, the species, classified as genus Sphyrna, looks much like the scalloped hammerhead, but is "genetically distinct" from the scalloped hammerhead. University of South Carolina Biology Professor Joe Quattro, who discovered the shark, describes it as "cryptic"; it is described as a rare find. This is the ninth such species of the hammerhead shark to be discovered. Scientists have named the species a 'cryptic species' because no formal name has been selected for the shark.According to Dr. Quattro, "if South Carolina's waters are the primary nursery grounds for the cryptic species and females gather here to reproduce, these areas should be conservation priorities." Scientists say the shark only breeds off the S. Carolina coast and that it is at a risk for extinction. "Management plans are needed to ensure that these sharks are not adversely impacted so that we can learn more," added Dr. Quattro.So far, there are only 454 other named and classified species of shark in the wild. Two other scientists, Dr. Jim Grady at the University of New Orleans and Dr. Trey Driggers with the National Marine Fisheries Service, are also among the biologists to help with the discovery.Scientists in Israel say that a cave containing an ecosystem with unknown life forms  have been discovered in the Israeli city of Ramle. The cave was found when miners were drilling in a rock quarry."Until now eight species of animals were found in the cave, all of them unknown to science," said a biologist at Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Dr Hanan Dimantman. He also said that all of the life forms were found alive except for one.At least eight species of unknown life forms were found to closely resemble scorpions. Dimantman also said that the cave has been sealed off from the outside world, receiving no sunlight for at least 5 million years, when parts of Israel were under the Mediterranean Sea. The life forms consist of four freshwater and seawater species and at least four terrestrial species. Scientists believe that they are related. Bacteria were also found, which scientists say served as food for the life forms. DNA tests have shown these life forms to be "unique" and unknown in science."Every species we examined had no eyes which means they lost their sight due to evolution," added Dimantman. "This is a cave of fantastic biodiversity."The cave has been closed off to the public so researchers can examine it further.Scientists have uncovered soft bone tissue of a Tyrannosaurus Rex known as MOR 1125, found in a sandstone formation in Montana.MOR 1125 was 18 years old when it died, 65 million years ago. Similar tissue of a dinosaur has never been found before, as all remains found until now were fosilized. The tissue still contains microscopic structures resembling bloodvessels and cells. The comparison between the structures found in the T-rex and a modern day Ostrich shows a remarkable similarity. The results have been duplicated with an 80-million-year-old hadrosaur and two other tyrannosaurs. The discovery was reported in today's issue of Science.Results similar to the popular film "Jurassic park" are unlikely, as the recovery of DNA from the tissue is improbable. The results remain astounding, however, and tests with antibodies that react to collagen shows the tissue may still contain proteins. “Ultimately if we could establish chemical composition, we would have insights into all kinds of things: diet, sexual maturity, whether the specimen is the male or female.”, paleontologist Hans-Dieter Sues said.Richard A. Hengst of Purdue University said the finding "opens the door for research into the protein structure of ancient organisms, if nothing else. While we think that nature is conservative in how things are built, this gives scientists an opportunity to observe this at the chemical and cellular level."Matthew Carrano, curator of dinosaurs at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History, said the discovery was "pretty exciting stuff." "You are actually getting into the small-scale biology of the animal, which is something we rarely get the opportunity to look at."An international team of researchers announced on Thursday  they have found the tail of a juvenile dinosaur preserved in amber — with its feathers still attached.  Although some preserved feathers that may have been from dinosaurs have been found before, this is the first time they have been conclusively connected to the animal that grew them.Lead researcher Lida Xing of the China University of Geosciences found the amber, originally from amber mines in Myanmar's Hukawng Valley, in a Myanmar market, where it had been mistaken for a preserved plant.  She encouraged the Dexu Institute of Palaeontology to purchase the sample, after which its bone structure was carefully studied to confirm that it was not a bird but the tail of a theropod, likely a juvenile; probably a coelurosaur, which is related to the Tyrannosaurus rex. "We can be sure of the source because the vertebrae are not fused into a rod or pygostyle as in modern birds and their closest relatives. Instead, the tail is long and flexible, with keels of feathers running down each side", said Ryan McKellar of Canada's Royal Saskatchewan Museum.This not only confirms that at least some dinosaurs had feathers, a theory already widespread, but provides details fossils generally cannot, such as color and three-dimensional arrangement.  Scientists say this animal's plumage was chestnut-brown on top with a pale or carotenoid-colored underside.  The find also grants insight into the evolution of feathers in birds.  Because the dinosaur feathers do not have a well-developed shaft, called a rachis, but do have other features of feathers — barbs and barbules — the researchers inferred the rachis was likely a later evolutionary development that these other features.  The feathers' structure suggests that they were not used in flight but rather for temperature regulation or display.  The researchers suggested that, even though this is the tail of a young dinosaur, the sample shows adult plumage and not a chick's down.The tail dates to the Cretaceous period, about 99 million years ago.The full text of the study is available at Current Biology.Researchers have found a crucial genetic difference between humans and chimps that could help explain our language and speech abilities. The difference lies in a gene called FOXP2 which encodes for a protein of the same name. This acts as a transcription factor, controlling the activity of other genes.The human and chimp versions of the protein differ in only two of their 740 amino acid components, but when researchers at the University of California, Los Angeles, replaced the human gene with the chimp version in neurons grown in the laboratory, they found it affected the expression of at least 116 other genes.The results are detailed in a paper published on Thursday in the scientific journal Nature.Author of the study Dr. Daniel Geschwind, of the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, said the gene had a "major role" in differences between chimps and humans. "We showed that the human and chimp versions of FOXP2 not only look different but function differently too."Some of the affected genes control the formation of connections in the brain, whilst others relate to facial movements. Several have already been found to be involved in language disorders. Mutations in FOXP2 itself were also known to affect speech and language; the gene was first identified in members of a family suffering from language problems who were found to share a genetic mutation.Frances Vargha-Khadem at University College London has studied patients with FOXP2 mutations, and agrees with the new research. As well as language problems, some of her subjects have changes in the shape of their jaws, mouths and tongues. She thinks that chimps may also have these differences."We believe FOXP2 is not only important for the higher order cognitive aspect of language but also for the motor aspect of speech and language," said Genevieve Konopka, one of the authors of the paper at UCLA.Previous research indicates that the changes in FOXP2 occurred around 200,000 years ago with the rise of modern humans. Geschwind also suggests that several of the related genes may have evolved together. Preliminary studies have shown signs that they too emerged relatively recently.Scientists are now keen to further study FOXP2 and the genes that it affects. Geschwind believes this could eventually lead to breakthroughs in treatment for disorders such as autism and schizophrenia, which affect language skills.The study was funded by the National Institute of Mental Health, the A.P. Giannini Foundation and the National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression.Scientists from the University of Minnesota have successfully created a beating heart in a lab. The team was led by Dr. Doris Taylor, director of the University's Center for Cardiovascular Repair, used a process called "decellularization" in which the hearts were taken from newborn rats and stripped of their cells. The resulting non-living mass, called an extracellular matrix or ECM, contains no cells and therefore will not be rejected by its new owners. New muscle and endothelial cells are then injected into the ECM and stimulated electrically.The first micro-contractions occurred within two days of the new cells being injected into the ECMs and visible contractions began to occur within seven to eight days. The rat hearts beat strongly enough to pump fluid out the aorta, although the force at which they beat was only equivalent to 2 percent of a normal adult rat or about 25 percent of a 16 week old human fetus.The researchers will next be testing the process of pig hearts for which ECMs have already been created. A pig heart is roughly the size of a human heart. The eventual hope of the project is to be able to use the process on human hearts taken from cadavers or pig hearts with human cells injected, though it remains to be seen whether or not the process will work on a heart from a larger animal, such as a pig or human. The team also plans to experiment with the process on other organs such as kidneys, livers and lungs.Researchers at the University of Oxford, England, have published details of an improved method for growing cancer stem cells in the laboratory. They hope that the news will lead to faster progress in developing cancer treatment drugs. Learning how to tackle cancer stem cells is important for scientists because these cells may be the reason that tumours grow back after standard treatments such as chemotherapy or radiotherapy, as they can self-replicate or develop into other cell types. Trevor Yeung, one of the researchers from the Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, explained the importance of tackling cancer stem cells: "It's like trying to weed the garden. It's no good just chopping off the leaves, we need to target the roots to stop the weeds coming back."The approach until now has been to take samples of cancer from a patient, then improve the number of stem cells in each sample before seeing whether tumours were produced in mice.  Not only was this a slow process, but the samples could only be used once.  In the new method, details of which were published yesterday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, researchers have learned how to extract samples that have high numbers of cancer stems cells from bowel cancer cell lines (cells grown in a laboratory). Working with laboratory-grown cells enables drugs to be tested on them more quickly and repeatedly.The research also showed that the proportion of cancer stem cells varies between bowel cancers, with more aggressive tumours having a higher proportion. It had previously been thought that cancer stem cells were only a small part of the cells within a tumour.Sir Walter Bodmer, who led the study, said "We can now evaluate anti-cancer drugs better to see whether they attack cancer stem cells. If you don't attack these cells, the cancer can grow out again." Yeung said "If we could target treatments against these cells specifically, we should be able to eradicate cancer completely."  He added that the research "should allow the development of more useful, safe and specific drugs targeting cancer stem cells."Bodmer, 74, is a former Director General of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund.  He was later Principal of Hertford College, Oxford, and has been a professor at Oxford as well as Stanford University. He was knighted in 1986.Chemotherapy is usually associated with a collection of side effects ranging from digestive problems to hair loss, but a study published this week in Human Reproduction demonstrated that female cancer patients may find they have something in common with much younger women in one specific area — their ovaries.Scientists from the University of Edinburgh examined donated ovarian tissue from fourteen female cancer patients, most of whom had Hodgkin lymphoma, and compared it to tissue from healthy women.  They found the samples from women who had been treated with a specific chemotherapeutic regimen known as ABVD not only contained greater numbers of dormant ova — egg cells — than those from women treated with harsher regimens but also more than samples from healthy women. ABVD is named for combining several drugs known as adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine.These reproductive cells were not merely more plentiful in ABVD patients.  They also appeared immature, "new" in the words of lead researcher Evelyn Telfer.  This challenges the conventional belief that girls are born with all the ova they will ever have and the numbers can only go down as the cells are either used up by the reproductive cycle or succumb to damage or natural aging.  However, further research is needed to confirm this.  The study covered relatively few patients by scientific standards, and David Albertini of the Center for Human Reproduction in New York has suggested the cells may not actually be freshly grown. Instead, they may have always been there and were merely rendered more detectable by ABVD treatment.The ability to grow new egg cells may have significant implications for women in Western societies, many of whom postpone childbearing to establish careers, sometimes into their late thirties or forties.  However, Telfer warns against making use of these findings too soon: "There's so much we don't know about the ovary.  We have to be very cautious about jumping to clinical applications."The experiments had been discussed earlier this year at the annual conference of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.On Thursday, the journal Science published a report by a team from the University of Hawaii at Mānoa (UH Mānoa) and the University of Southern California (USC), saying the eruption of the Kīlauea volcano last year has been followed by a dramatic increase in the population of phytoplankton, also called green algae, in the waters surrounding the island.Study co-author and geochemist Seth John remarked in a press release, "There was no reason for us to expect that an algae bloom like this would happen [...] Lava doesn't contain any nitrate." According to the hypothesis of the report, the microbe population grew because there was suddenly a large quantity of nitrates in the water for them to feed on.  Although the lava itself was low in nitrates, it heated the deeper layers of nutrient-rich water.  This upward current brought the nitrates nearer to the surface, where phytoplankton, which also need sunlight, tend to live.UH Mānoa dispatched the research ship Ka'imikai-O-Kanaloa from July 13 to 17 of last year, when Kīlauea was still erupting, and it sailed very close to where the lava entered the ocean so researchers could study the organisms and water chemistry there.Co-lead author Sam Wilson of UH Mānoa's Center for Microbial Oceanography: Research and Education (C-MORE) said, "The expedition in July 2018 provided a unique opportunity to see first-hand how a massive input of external nutrients alters marine ecosystems that are finely attuned to low-nutrient conditions [...] Ecosystem responses to such a substantial addition of nutrients are rarely observed or sampled in real time. UH has a strong tradition of not only volcanic research, but also looking at its impacts on the surrounding environment such as the ocean, groundwater, atmosphere. This latest piece of research improves our understanding of lava-seawater interactions within the much broader context of land-ocean connections."The mass of microbe-rich water, called a plume, was large enough to detect from space.  The research team used both satellite images and subsurface gliders to study the water.The study's lead authors, Wilson of C-MORE and Nick Hawco of USC, had initially hypothesized the lava itself would cause an increase in microbes that rely on iron and phosphates by directly supplying them with those nutrients.  They found there was so much iron and phosphate that the particles coalesced into clumps where these microbes could not get to them.  Other microbes, dependent on nitrates, came to dominate the plume instead.Unlike red algae, whose blooms can damage the ecosystem, green algae form the basis of the food chain, providing food for crustaceans and larger organisms.  A similar volcanic eruption in Alaska in 2008 was found to be associated with an increase in the local salmon population. Green algae also absorb carbon dioxide and produce oxygen.The researchers have speculated this upwelling pattern may have occurred repeatedly during the volcanic process that produced the Hawaiian Island chain.On Monday morning, Director Anthony Fauci of the United States National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), announced a trial of four possible Ebola drugs was stopped early because two of them had already shown considerable progress in treating the disease and saving the lives of those infected. Ebola virus disease (EVD) is a hemorrhagic fever with a high mortality rate and spreads via human-to-human contact.The PALM trial, for the Swahili phrase pamoja tulinde maisha or "together save lives," began last November and collected data from 499 patients from the towns of Beni, Butembo, Mangina, and Katwa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has suffered an Ebola outbreak for roughly the past year.Professor Jean-Jacques Muyembe, Director General of the DRC's Institut National de Recherche Biomédicale that monitored the trial, said, "From now on, we will no longer say that Ebola is incurable[.]" He went on to say thousands of deaths could be prevented.While one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce Ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.  One antibody cocktail, ZMapp, initially showed promise in the field, but formal studies indicated it had less benefit than sought in preventing death.  In the PALM trial, ZMapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.The other three treatments were remdesivir, an antiviral drug; mAb114, a monoclonal antibody first isolated from human survivors of an outbreak in Kikwit in 1995, now produced by the Florida company Ridgeback Biotherapeutics; and REGN-EB3, a cocktail of three monoclonal antibodies from Ebola-infected laboratory mice whose immune systems had been altered to be similar to humans'.The overall mortality rates were 49% for patients treated with ZMapp, 53% for remdesivir, 29% for REGN-EB3, and 34% for mAb114, but patients treatment early with low viral loads had a death rate of only 6% to 11% when treated with REGN-EB3 or mAb114.Mike Ryan of the World Health Organization (WHO) told the press the new drugs were only part of the solution: "What will stop Ebola, under professor Muyembe's leadership and that of the government of the DRC, is good surveillance, good infection prevention and control, good community engagement, excellent vaccinations, and the use of these therapeutics in the most effective way possible."Past EVD outbreak mortality rates have been at least 25%, as high as 90%, and averaged around 50% according to WHO's statistics. According to Muyembe, many people do not seek treatment because they see their friends and relatives die after entering a care facility. "Now that 90% of their patients can go into the treatment center and come out completely cured," he told the press, "they will start believing it and building trust in the population and community[.]"Per the WHO's Monitored Emergency Use of Unregistered and Investigational Interventions framework, all treatment centers in the DRC are to be permitted to administer mAb114 and REGN-EB3 to patients, even though research into the two treatments is not yet complete, and ZMapp and remdesivir are to be retired.  A follow-on study, to be performed in the same four treatment centers as PALM, is to involve randomly assigning patients either a mAb114 or REGN-EB3 regimen.In the DRC's current Ebola outbreak, two thirds of those known to be infected with Ebola, over 1800 people, have died.In a study that appeared on Monday in Biological Psychiatry, scientists from the Universities of California and North Carolina, with several other universities in the United States and Canada, report a strong correlation between abnormal distribution of cerebrospinal fluid in infants and later development of autistic symptoms."The more extra-axial CSF present at six months, the more severe the autism symptoms when the kids were diagnosed at 24 months of age," said first author Dr. Mark Shen, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of North Carolina.The study covered 343 children examined aged six months, twelve months, and twenty-four months, 221 of whom had older siblings with autism.  Children with higher than usual volumes of cerebrospinal fluid in the subarachnoid space — the area just around the brain — were more likely to be diagnosed with autism later in life, with a strong correlation in the high-risk group.  Ultimately, cerebrospinal volume was able to provide an early diagnosis of probably ASD in high-risk children with 70% accuracy.  The six-month-old babies who later went on to a diagnosis of autism had an average of 18% more CSF by volume than those who were not so diagnosed.  This built on the findings of a 2013 study that covered only 55 children.Researchers said it is not clear whether a large amount of cerebrospinal fluid actually causes autism or not.  While studies have shown that cerebrospinal fluid, once thought to act solely as a cushioner and shock absorber for the brain, can influence the way neurons grow, Shen speculated that the large amount of fluid may itself be a symptom: "We believe that extra-axial CSF is an early sign that CSF is not filtering and draining when it should. The result is that there could be a buildup of neuro-inflammation that isn't being washed [a]way."Currently, coauthor David Amaral said, children are not diagnosed with autism spectrum disorders until they are old enough for their behavior to change, usually at two or three years old.  Researchers said these findings could be used to develop an early diagnostic system usable when the patient is as young as six months old.Researchers say that a study of chimpanzees in the Republic of the Congo in Africa, show that they specifically create and design tools to catch termites living underground. The study was performed in the Nouabale-Ndoki National Park in the Congo in an area known as the Goualougo Triangle. The study was published in the Royal Society journal Biology Letters.Dr. Crickette Sanz, the leader of the team who filmed the chimps crafting "fishing rod" type tools, says that they have "invented" ways of "improving their termite-fishing technique" by using a stick from a plant called the Marantaceae. They pick off the leaves and then create and place a brush like object on the end. Doing so improved the number of termites they catch, by more than 10 times."They then pulled the herb stems through their teeth, which were partially closed, to make the brush and they also attended to the brush by sometimes pulling apart the fibres to make them better at gathering the termites," stated Sanz to the BBC.Researchers are aware that chimps have used similar methods in the past, but it was not fully known if the tools they used were designed specifically for the task of gathering the insects. Of all the tools the chimps left behind and recovered by Sanz's team, 80% were custom made by their owners. Sanz says the new study has determined that their methods have since evolved, proving previous hypotheses."Our results indicate that chimpanzees have a mental template of the tool form, which is employed in crafting the tool prior to use and refining it during use," Sanz said. Sanz also says that because of Africa's vastness, much of it is still unstudied leaving him to suggest other species of chimps and apes use complex tools to gather food."Just as we are learning about these exciting new complex tool behaviours, the chimps that are showing us these behaviours are under danger from logging, poaching and Ebola," added Sanz. The triangle is a host to a variety of endangered or threatened animals including gorillas and elephants.A team of 55 researchers led by University of Western Ontario biologist Miodrag Grbic has sequenced the genome of the spider mite Tetranychus urticae, a pest that costs over USD 1 billion to control annually. Their results were published in the journal Nature yesterday.  The genome is the smallest arthropod genome sequenced so far.The study was funded by the US Depeartment of Energy Joint Genome Institute programme, Genome Canada, and the European Union.The pest is resistant to major plant toxins, and it takes a spider mite from two to four years to become resistant to new pesticides. University of Utah assistant professor of biology Richard M. Clark, a study co-author, said, "One key thing that makes spider mites unique is they can eat many, many different plant species... These mites are ... a major cause of people's house plants turning yellow and getting sick. They also are a major problem for agricultural nurseries and greenhouses, and for field crops. ... [the spider mite] has been found to rapidly develop resistance to multiple types of pesticides, often within a couple of years after a pesticide is introduced."The study found the mite's genome includes a variety of genes responsible for digestion and toxin degradation, possibly including some genes from bacteria and fungi. Because these bacterial/fungal genes are peculiar to spider mites, they appear to be a rare example of lateral gene transfer — gene transfer between distant species.The study also found 17 web-production genes. The spider mite's webs provide weather- and predator-protection and are somewhat stronger than webs of other species.Scientists from the Northern Australian region Queensland have said that the population of cane toads could be limited by scaring them. The toads are non-native, imported invasive pests in the parts of Australia they inhabit.The scientists have reported that scared tadpoles will transform into toads prematurely, leaving them undersized and weak. The intimidation has been found by putting a squashed, dead tadpole into a pool and observing that some of the chemical signals given off by the corpse scare tadpoles already in the pool. The result is the early metamorphosis, and a weaker population of cane toads.Today, some of the leading biologists in the world announced that they are starting a new project to write the Encyclopedia of Life, a project that aims to bring resources on all 1.8 million species together.The website will take the form of a wiki-like environment, but in contrast to Wikimedia's project Wikispecies, only scientists will be allowed to edit. The information will be made freely available on the internet. "Sharing what we know, we can protect Earth's biodiversity and better conserve our natural heritage," said said Jonathan F. Fanton, President of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, which has donated US$10 million to the project. Another US$2.5 million grant came from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.According to their press release, the website aims to become "a global beacon for biodiversity and conservation." The trailer video mentions that the work of classifying all species has barely begun, and that species are disappearing even before we glimpse at them.The founding partners of the project include the Field Museum of Natural History, Harvard University, the Marine Biological Laboratory, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Biodiversity Heritage Library. The Missouri Botanical Garden later joined, and negotiations are ongoing with the Atlas of Living Australia. Other partners are the American Museum of Natural History (New York), Natural History Museum (London), New York Botanical Garden, and the Royal Botanic Gardens (Kew).The institutional council is made up of a selection of international advisors, such as a representative of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Another member is Erik Möller of the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees.According to the press release, the species pages will become available in "all major languages". Initially the focus will be on animals, plants and fungi, but later this could be expanded to microbes. The goal is to document all 1.8 million species over the next 10 years, but the founders warn that it might take up to 4 years before the quality of the pages becomes acceptable. Today, Wikispecies has over 98,000 articles.The website will partially draw information from existing databases, for example from FishBase which has 29,900 species listed already. Wikipedia is also listed as a source on some of the demonstration pages. Using an indicator for the educational level of the user, novices and experts will be shown just the information that suits them. A system of filters could be used to allow identification of species: for example, if you've just caught a 6-inch-long fish with big teeth in the Amazon River, you could use the filter system to find out what species it might be.The Biodiversity Heritage Library will scan tens of millions of pages to provide open access to the relevant scientific literature which it holds. The first 1.25 million pages have already been digitized in scanning centers in London, Boston, and Washington, D.C. .Ice samples retrieved from 1.2 miles (2 km) beneath the surface of Greenland have uncovered the oldest known samples of DNA from insects. The samples, estimated to be 450,000-900,000 years old, have also shown that no more than one million years ago, Greenland was once home to forests and animal life."We have shown for the first time that southern Greenland, which is hidden under 2 km of ice, was once very different to the Greenland we see today. Back then, it was inhabited by a diverse array of conifer trees and insects," said Professor and leader of the team who made the discovery, at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark, Eske Willerslev."This genetic material presents a biological environment which is completely different to today. We have found grain, pine, yew and alder. These correspond to the landscapes we find in eastern Canada and in Swedish forests today," added Willerslev.Willerslev also says that because of the presence of the yews, the temperatures in that area of Greenland could not have been "lower than -17 degrees Celsius" and that with the variety of other trees, the summer temperatures were no lower than "10 degrees Celsius."These findings could change the history of Greenland. The current theory is that Greenland was free from its ice no more than 125,000 years ago. The results of the findings now suggest that Greenland may have been covered with ice for at least 450,000 years.The Chesapeake Bay, on the Atlantic coast, is the largest estuary in the United States. It is famous for its seafood, especially crabs and oysters. However, in the last century, the bay's oyster population has been in steady decline.For hundreds of years, watermen of the Chesapeake Bay have made a living by harvesting oysters. In the last 50 years, the number of oysters has declined dramatically.Tommy Leggett is an Oyster Restoration and Fisheries scientist with the Chesapeake Bay Foundation, an environmental organization that works to protect the bay's resources. "Our population is down to one to three percent of historical levels. So, consequently our bay's water quality is down," Leggett said.Graham Blake grew up on Sarah Creek, a tributary to the bay. His father and grandfather made a good living as watermen by harvesting, transplanting, fattening, and then re-harvesting oysters from the creek. It was an early form of oyster farming. In the 1940s and ‘50s his family could harvest 200 to 300 bushels of oysters each day. Blake says those days are long-gone."There is none of it like my father made his living, that is non-existent. Some are still trying to make a living on the water, oystering and crabbing and so forth,” Blake said. “They have got to do a lot of things. They can't just do it in one industry anymore."In the late 1950s, parasites, which were introduced from foreign oysters, began to kill the Chesapeake Bay oyster population.Graham and Tommy are now stocking the creek bed with hundreds of thousands of disease resistant young oysters. When they reach adulthood, they are transplanted to state sanctuary reefs in the bay."Since 2000 we have been attempting to grow about a million oysters a year as brood stock to be placed on state sanctuary reefs to help jump start rivers,” Leggett said. “To date, we have produced about five million oysters that we have transplanted onto a number of reefs in the Virginia portion of the Chesapeake Bay." The project seems to demonstrate that watermen and other entrepreneurs can grow oysters in the bay using aquaculture techniques."We have pretty well demonstrated it, and over a number of years we have had industry people come out to the site. There have been a number of people who have scaled up and are growing more oysters than we are now,” Leggett said. “Oyster farming in the bay is just getting ready to take off."According to Leggett, the number of commercial operations growing oysters on the bay will dramatically increase in the next several years. His primary goal is to restore the natural oyster population to what it once was, but it is a goal he says may not happen in his lifetime."We are just learning some of the pitfalls and the roadblocks that we are going to encounter. We try and learn from our mistakes and change the way we do things,” he said. “It will happen in time. It's not going to happen in the short term."Last Tuesday early morning, a sea lion walked from the beach into Pantai Inn in La Jolla, California. The animal was rescued by local animal rescue authorities. Wikinews took an interview from Shane Pappas, a General Manager of the inn.((Wikinews))  At what time of day did the sea lion enter the Inn?Shane Pappas: Surveillance footage shows that our sea lion friend made her way onto our property at approximately 5:45am on Tuesday morning. She waddled through our courtyard and climbed up onto one of our lounge chairs.((WN))  How long did he stay in the Inn before he was moved out of the building?Shane Pappas: The sea lion was not seen by our staff until about 6:30am. At that point my front desk agent Veronica made frantic calls to the authorities to find someone to come rescue the sea lion. By the time we got a hold of Sea World they were able to come and rescue her at around 9:45am. All told the sea lion was here for about four hours.((WN))  What do you think attracted the animal? Was it the radio sound? Was it heard as far as the beach?Shane Pappas:  We're not sure what attracted the sea lion. We like to think that it was the beauty and relaxation of our courtyard. In regards to the radio sound I'm not sure what you are referring to.((WN))  Who and how transported the animal out of the building?Shane Pappas:  A gentleman named Bill who is a rescue worker with Sea World came out to rescue the pup. He asked if I would assist in the rescue which I was more than happy to do. It's not every day that you get to rescue a sea lion.((WN))  Where was the animal transported to?Shane Pappas:  The sea lion was loaded into a crate on a truck and transported back to Sea World. She will be kept there for six weeks so that she can be nursed back to health and returned to the wild.Moss Landing, California, United States is a small community on the shore of Monterey Bay. In April of 2007, the community installed a dock for visitors at a cost of US$800,000. Since then, the new dock has been taken over by hundreds of sea lions.Harbor officials estimate there are more than 400 of them on the dock. The gangway, which leads to the dock, is closed. A sign reads: "Do not approach. Vicious Sea Lions."Boaters and kayakers cannot use the new dock. Wikinews observed kayakers trying to paddle as far away as possible from the dock and its new residents.Quite a few tourists were seen stopping to take pictures of the new Moss Landing attraction. Harbor officials have tried to make the sea lions leave, but the sea lions seem to like it there. They can be seen fighting and playing all around the dock in the harbor.Sea lions in California are protected under the U.S. Marine Mammal Protection Act. They are generally found in shallow waters of coastal areas of both with abundant food resources.Visitors might also find sea otters at Moss Landing, as Wikinews did. Sea otters are more rare and much harder to find in the wild than sea lions. While the recovery of the sea otter is considered an important success in marine conservation, it remains an endangered species. The otter is also considered to be a keystone species.Parallels could be drawn between Moss Landing and the docks at Pier 39 in San Francisco, which were famously taken over by sea lions in 1990 and has become a familiar tourist attraction. It remains to be seen if sea lions become a permanent part of Moss Landing.Illinois officials announced Monday that a six-week search for Asian carp in Chicago waterways has turned up no sighting of the dreaded fish. The statement comes over a month after electric barriers were placed in local canals to block the fish from entering Lake Michigan. Originally from Asia, the carp have infested portions of the Mississippi and Illinois Rivers and several Chicago-area waterways. Failing to keep the fish away from the Great Lakes could severely damage the $7 billion fishing industry there. The Illinois Department of Natural Resources, along with U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers biologists, placed netting and electric stunning prods in areas where the carp were most likely to gather, about 25 miles away from Lake Michigan. A six-week search since then has resulted in none of the undesirable silver or bighead carp, but rather over 1,000 common carp and other harmless variations. The State of Michigan, along with the Great Lakes States of Minnesota, Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania and New York and the Canadian Province of Ontario, has requested an injunction to shut down two Chicago canals leading into lake Michigan. The US Supreme Court has twice rejected that request.Although no Asian carp has since been found, the Michigan Attorney General still wants the locks closed. "What did they expect? [Illinois'] own court filings say they are not likely to catch Asian carp using nets or electro-fishing," said spokesman John Sellek. Illinois and the White House oppose closing the locks, claiming that doing so would harm the Chicago-area barge and tour boat industries. Biologists plan to keep searching for Asian carp over the next three months.A German shepherd who recovered the last survivor of the September 11, 2001 attacks is to be cloned. His owner, James Symington, a former police officer from Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada entered an essay writing contest about why his dog should be cloned.Trakr, the 15 year old German shepherd suffering from degenerative neurological disorder, was the subject of a contest-winning essay about why Trakr should be cloned that was written by Symington. Trakr and Symington received Humanitarian Service Awards from Jane Goodall for their heroics at Ground Zero. Symington is now an actor of film and television, sometimes credited as Peter James.BioArts International sponsored the essay-writing contest. Five more dogs are to be cloned by its Best Friends Again program. While Trakr will receive free replication, the other dogs will have to participate in an auction with a starting bid of US$100,000.BioArts is going to send the DNA of the 6 dogs to Sooam Biotech Research Foundation in Seoul, South Korea. A Sooam researcher said that the dog should be born in November.Seven months after suspicions were first raised, United States Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns confirmed that a second American cow has tested positive for BSE (also known as 'mad cow disease'), as determined by a lab in Weybridge, England. The department believes that this cow was born in the United States.The delay in confirmation followed two conflicting test results from last November.  The "Western blot" test, which is a more sophisticated test, could have helped reach a final determination, but the U.S. refused to perform it in November. The department's inspector general, Phyllis Fong, ordered the Western blot test in June without advising Johanns and by the time Johanns found out about it, the testing was under way.Johanns was annoyed that the round of testing which confirmed "Mad Cow" had been ordered without him being consulted first."I was asked by the Senate and the president to operate the department," Johanns said. "I believe, in this area, very clearly, the secretary should be consulted, whoever the secretary is, before testing is undertaken. From my standpoint, I believe I was put there to operate the department and was very disappointed."A senior research associate with Consumers Union, Michael Hansen, said USDA officials "almost sound like some Keystone Kops."Johanns reassured Americans that they should not be afraid of eating beef, saying: "This animal was blocked from entering the food supply because of the firewalls we have in place. Americans have every reason to continue to be confident in the safety of our beef."On June 17, the Associated Press reported: "American cattle are eating chicken litter, cattle blood and restaurant leftovers that could help transmit mad cow disease — a gap in the U.S. defense that the Bush administration promised to close nearly 18 months ago."John Stauber, co-author of "Mad Cow USA: Could the Nightmare Happen Here?" said: "Once the cameras were turned off and the media coverage dissipated, then it's been business as usual, no real reform, just keep feeding slaughterhouse waste. The entire U.S. policy is designed to protect the livestock industry's access to slaughterhouse waste as cheap feed."Critics of the U.S. testing regimen said the fumbles this time increase their concerns about America's screening process."How can we be sure they were really negative?" Craig Culp, a spokesman for the Center for Food Safety asked; "After all, (here is a cow that was) negative in November that is positive in June."The companies which render slaughter waste say new restrictions are not warranted. "We process about 50 billion pounds of product annually — in visual terms, that is a convoy of semi trucks, four lanes wide, running from New York to L.A. every year," said Jim Hodges, president of the American Meat Institute Foundation.Tararua Ranges, New Zealand — In an attempt at a world first twenty short-tailed bats are to be moved by the New Zealand Department of Conservation from the Tararua Ranges to Kapiti Island. If the transfer to predator-free Kapiti works, it will become the first time that bats have ever been trans-located.All previous attempts at moving bats have failed due to their natural homing instincts. However scientists with the Department of Conservation, are aiming to overcome this by shifting juveniles. The young bats, which weigh in at only 14 grams each, were born in the week around New Year and were raised at Pukaha Mount Bruce National Wildlife Centre near Eketahuna.Conservation Minister Chris Carter said that while the trial was risky, it was also worthwhile. "A willingness to push boundaries and try new things is exactly what conservation in New Zealand needs," he said.Planetary scientist Vlada Stamenković of the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory and colleagues have developed a new chemical model of how oxygen dissolves in Martian conditions, which raises the possibility of oxygen-rich brines; enough, the work suggests, to support simple animals such as sponges. The model was published in Nature on October 22. Wikinews caught up with him in an email interview to find out more about his team's research and their plans for the future.The atmosphere of Mars  is far too thin for humans to breathe or for lungs like ours to extract any oxygen at all. It has on average only around 0.6% of the pressure of Earth's atmosphere, and this is mainly carbon dioxide; only 0.145% of the thin Martian atmosphere is oxygen. The new model indicated these minute traces of oxygen should be able to enter salty seeps of water on or near the planet's surface at levels high enough to support life forms comparable to Earth's microbes, possibly even simple sponges.  Some life forms can survive without oxygen, but oxygen permits more energy-intensive metabolism. Almost all complex multicellular life on Earth depends on oxygen."We were absolutely flabbergasted [...] I went back to recalculate everything like five different times to make sure it's a real thing," Stamenković told National Geographic."Our work is calling for a complete revision for how we think about the potential for life on Mars, and the work oxygen can do," he told Scientific American, "implying that if life ever existed on Mars it might have been breathing oxygen". Stamenković et al cite research from 2014 showing some simple sponges can survive with only 0.002 moles of oxygen per cubic meter (0.064 mg per liter). Some microbes that need oxygen can survive with as little as a millionth of a mole per cubic meter (0.000032 mg per liter). In their model, they found there can be enough oxygen for microbes throughout Mars, and enough for simple sponges in oases near the poles.In 2014, also suggesting multicellular life could exist on Mars, de Vera et al, using the facilities at the German Aerospace Center (DLR), studied some lichens, including Pleopsidium chlorophanum, which can grow high up in Antarctic mountain ranges. They showed those lichens can also survive and even grow in Mars simulation chambers. The lichens can do this because their algal component is able to produce the oxygen needed by the fungal component. Stamenković et al's research provides a way for oxygen to get into the Martian brines without algae or photosynthesis.Stamenković et al found oxygen levels throughout Mars would be high enough for the least demanding aerobic (oxygen-using) microbes, for all the brines they considered, and all the methods of calculation. They published a detailed map[3] of the distributions of solubility for calcium perchlorates for their more optimistic calculations, which they reckoned were closer to the true case, with and without supercooling. The lowest concentrations were shown in the tropical southern uplands. Brine in regions poleward of about 67.5° to the north and about 72.5° to the south could have oxygen concentrations high enough for simple sponges. Closer to the poles, concentrations could go higher, approaching levels typical of sea water on Earth, 0.2 moles per cubic meter (6.4 mg per liter), for calcium perchlorates. On Earth, worms and clams that live in the muddy sea beds require 1 mg per liter, bottom feeders such as crabs and oysters 3 mg per liter, and spawning migratory fish 6 mg per liter, all within 0.2 moles per cubic meter, 6.4 mg per liter.((Wikinews))   Does your paper's value of up to 0.2 moles of oxygen per cubic meter, the same as Earth's sea water, mean that there could potentially be life on Mars as active as our sea worms or even fish?Stamenković: Mars is such a different place than the Earth and we still need to do so much more work before we can even start to speculate.Stamenković et al studied magnesium and calcium perchlorates, common on Mars. They found the highest oxygen concentrations occur when the water is colder, which happens most in polar regions.((WN))   The temperatures for the highest levels of oxygen are really low, -133 °C, so, is the idea that this oxygen would be retained when the brines warm up to more habitable temperatures during the day or seasonally? Or would the oxygen be lost as it warms up? Or — is the idea that it has to be some exotic biochemistry that works only at ultra low temperatures like Dirk Schulze-Makuch's life based on hydrogen peroxide and perchlorates internal to the cells as antifreeze?Stamenković: The options are both: first, cool oxygen-rich environments do not need to be habitats. They could be reservoirs packed with a necessary nutrient that can be accessed from a deeper and warmer region. Second, the major reason for limiting life at low temperature is ice nucleation, which would not occur in the type of brines that we study.Stamenković et al's paper is theoretical and is based on a simplified general circulation model of the Mars atmosphere — it ignores distinctions of seasons and the day / night cycle. Stamenković's team combined it with a chemical model of how oxygen would dissolve in the brines and used this to predict oxygen levels in such brines at various locations on Mars. When asked about plans for a future model that might include seasonal timescales, Stamenković told Wikinews, "Yes, we are now exploring the kinetics part and want to see what happens on shorter timescales."Stamenković et al's model also takes account of the tilt of the Mars axis, which varies much more than Earth's does.  Wikinews asked Stamenković if he had any ideas about whether and how sponges could survive through times when the tilt was higher and less oxygen would be available:((WN))   I notice from your figure[4]  that there is enough oxygen for sponges only at tilts of about 45 degrees or less. Do you have any thoughts about how sponges could survive periods of time in the distant past when the Mars axial tilt exceeds 45 degrees, for instance, might there be subsurface oxygen-rich oases in caves that recolonize the surface? Also what is the exact figure for the tilt at which oxygen levels sufficient for sponges become possible? (It looks like about 45 degrees from the figure but the paper doesn't seem to give a figure for this.)Stamenković: 45 deg is approx. the correct degree. We were also tempted to speculate about this temporal driver but realized that we still know so little about the potential for life on Mars/principles of life that anything related to this question would be pure speculation, unfortunately.((WN))   How quickly would the oxygen get into the brines — did you investigate the timescale?Stamenković: No, we did not yet study the dynamics. We first needed to show that the potential is there. We are now studying the timescales and processes.((WN))   Could the brines that Nilton Renno and his teams simulated, forming on salt/ice interfaces within minutes in Mars simulation conditions, get oxygenated in the process of formation? If not, how long would it take for them to get oxygenated to levels sufficient for aerobic microbes? For instance could the Phoenix leg droplets have taken up enough oxygen for aerobic respiration by microbes?Stamenković: Just like the answer above. Dynamics is still to be explored. (But this is a really good question 😉).Wikinews also asked Stamenković how their research is linked to the recent discovery of possible large subglacial lake below the Martian South Pole found through radar mapping. ((WN))   Some news stories coupled your research with the subglacial lakes announcement earlier this year. Could the oxygen get through ice into layers of brines such as the possible subglacial lakes at a depth of 1.5 km?Stamenković: There are other ways to create oxygen. Radiolysis of water molecules into hydrogen and oxygen can liberate oxygen in the deep and that O2 could be dissolved in deep groundwater. The radiolytic power for this would come from radionuclides naturally contained in rocks, something we observe in diverse regions on Earth.((WN))   And I'd also like to know about your experiment you want to send to Mars to help with the search for these oxygenated brines.Stamenković: We are now developing at "NASA/JPL-California Institute of Technology" a small tool, called TH2OR (Transmissive H2O Reconnaissance) that might one day fly with a yet-to-be-determined mission. It will use low frequency sounding techniques, capable of detecting groundwater at depths down to ideally a few km under the Martian surface, thanks to the high electric conductivity of only slightly salty water and Faraday's law of induction. Most likely, such a small and affordable instrument could be placed stationary on the planet’s surface or be carried passively or actively on mobile surface assets; TH2OR might be also used in combination with existing orbiting assets to increase its sounding depth. Next to determining the depth of groundwater, we should also be able to estimate its salinity and indirectly its potential chemistry, which is critical information for astrobiology and ISRU (in situ resource utilization).((WN))   Does your TH2OR use TDEM like the Mars 94 mission — and will it use natural ULF sources such as solar wind, diurnal variations in ionosphere heating and lightning?Stamenković: The physical principle it uses is the same and this has been used for groundwater detection on the Earth for many decades; it’s Faraday’s law of induction in media that are electrically conducting (as slightly saline water is).Stamenković: However, we will focus on creating our own signal as we do not know whether the EM fields needed for such measurements exist on Mars. However, we will also account for the possibility of already existing fields.While naming 65 new species of slime-mold beetles, entomologists Quentin Wheeler and Kelly Miller named three after U.S. President George W. Bush, Vice President Dick Cheney, and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld. Of the genus Agathidium, they are bushi, cheneyi and rumsfeldi.Wheeler, keeper and head of entomology at the Natural History Museum in London, intended the names to be an honor: "We admire these leaders as fellow citizens who have the courage of their convictions and are willing to do the very difficult and unpopular work of living up to principles of freedom and democracy rather than accepting the expedient or popular."Miller is a post-doctoral fellow at Brigham Young University.A. bushi Miller and Wheeler inhabits southern Ohio, North Carolina and Virginia. A. cheneyi Miller and Wheeler lives in Chiapas, Mexico. A. rumsfeldi Miller and Wheeler is from Oaxaca and Hidalgo in Mexico.Other inspirations for names include their illustrator Frances Fawcett, their wives, geographic areas, Latin and Greek words, the Aztecs, Pocahontas, and Darth Vader.In findings reported Monday in Nature Sustainability, researchers from Pennsylvania State University in the U.S. report the invention of a new coating that could reduce bacterial growth, water waste, and odor when sprayed onto a bog-standard house toilet by rendering its surface too slippery for anything to remain attached for long.According to the research team, half of all people worldwide are affected by limits on their water supply, and 141 billion liters of water are used every day solely to flush the planet's 1 billion toilets and flush urinals.  Inventions that render the facilities more water-efficient, they reason, could have a profound impact on wastewater management, sustainable water use, and sanitation."Our team has developed a robust bio-inspired, liquid, sludge-, and bacteria-repellent coating that can essentially make a toilet self-cleaning," study co author Tak-Sing Wong, said in a press release.  Wong is Penn State's Wormley Early Career Professor of Engineering and an associate professor of mechanical engineering and biomedical engineering."When we put that coating on a toilet in the lab and dump synthetic fecal matter on it, it (the synthetic fecal matter) just completely slides down and nothing sticks to it," said co-developer Dr. Jing Wang.As anyone who's had to clean the dinner dishes knows, the more something sticks to a surface, the more water it takes to rinse it off.  The researchers managed to invent a coating that is good at resisting substances that are sticky and vary profoundly in viscosity across their mass—like human fecal matter. The coating also repels bacteria, which may have implications for preventing the spread of disease and certainly reduces smells.The invention, called a liquid-entrenched smooth surface (LESS) coating, involves two separate treatments, both presented as suitable for spraying onto ceramics.  The first spray is made of molecularly grafted polymers, specifically polydimethylsiloxane silicone, that Wang described as resembling human hairs once it has dried on the target surface, which makes it very smooth.  The second spray covers the target surface in silicone lubricant.  According to the report, the two sprays take less than five minutes to dry and would last for roughly 500 flushes before requiring reapplication.  Existing treatments have tended to take hours to set.Carl Hensman of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which offered contest for redesigning the toilet some years ago, noted that the ingredients in the sprays are also found in common toiletries like toothpaste and are unlikely to pollute nearby water supplies, though he also remarked that, because the spray wears off, it was unlikely to be used in developing countries as the researchers claim to hope.Wong and his partners have started a company, spotLESS Materials, to transform their invention into a product. "As a researcher in an academic setting, my goal is to invent things that everyone can benefit from," said Wong. "As a Penn Stater, I see this culture being amplified through entrepreneurship, and I'm excited to contribute." They have already received support from the Rice Business Plan Competition, Ben Franklin Technology Partners' TechCelerator, Y-Combinator, and the United States' National Science Foundation, Department of Energy, and Office of Naval Research.A joint research team from the University of Calgary, American Museum of Natural History, and Florida State University announced on Monday that the eggs of non-avian dinosaurs such as the duck-billed dinosaur took as long as six months to hatch, far longer than had previously been believed.Bird eggs incubate for 11 to 85 days, about half the time of most other egg-laying vertebrates. Scientists had thought dinosaur eggs were more like those of modern birds than modern reptiles, but this long hatch time is far more reminiscent of monitor lizard than magpie. The scientists reached this conclusion by comparing CT scans of the teeth of dinosaur embryos of two different species, the Protoceratops andrewsi, which had eggs weighing under 200 grams, and Hypacrosaurus stebingeri, a type of duck-billed dinosaur that had eggs twenty times that size. They observed the von Ebner lines, patterns that form in vertebrate teeth as they grow, to determine how long the overall developmental process was taking. "They're kind of like tree rings, but they're put down daily," said Florida State University co-author Gregory Erickson. "And so we could literally count them to see how long each dinosaur had been developing." They found the Protoceratops embryo was about three months old and the Hypacrosaurus about six months. According to the research team, this may be one reason why dinosaurs did not recover after the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event 65 million years ago. Both the eggs and any parents guarding them would have drawn the attention of predators and been unable to flee floods or other problems. Guardians might not have been able to move far to find food. This, researchers say, would have put dinosaurs at a disadvantage over animals with quicker-hatching eggs and their mammalian competitors. Natural History Museum Curator and study co-author Mark Norell cites advances in imaging technology as the reason why this study is being published today: "We know very little about dinosaur embryology, yet it relates to so many aspects of development, life history, and evolution, [b]ut with the help of advanced tools like CT scanners and high-resolution microscopy, we're making discoveries that we couldn't have imagined 20 years ago."The research team plans to study more fossilized dinosaur embryo skeletons to confirm their findings. Specifically, the current study did not include the skeleton of a velociraptor or any other dinosaur considered closely related to birds.South Korean scientists have confirmed that they have completed the first ever commercial cloning of a dog to take place.Bernann McKinney, who ordered the cloning for US$50,000, has said that she is pleased with the result of the cloning. "They are perfectly the same as their daddy. I am in heaven here. I am a happy person," she said in a press conference delivered earlier today. The regular charge will be up to US$150,000, but was discounted for the first customer.McKinney continued the press conference by saying that "Booger [the dog] had a kindness in his heart and I believe that kindness is something that can be, I don't want to use the word reproduced, but the best way Dr Lee explained it is we can give him his body, you are going to give him the love and environment to recreate the original Booger's personality."McKinney ordered five copies of her dog Booger, which she describes as her 'partner' and 'friend'.RNL Bio, which performed the cloning said that "we commemorate the world's first commercial cloning of a pet dog, Booger," on their website. They also stated that anyone interested in getting their pet cloned should contact them.Seoul National University’s Hwang Woo-Suk has reported his findings in the Journal Nature after being involved in producing the first cloned dog. The dog, named Snuppy, was born on April 24. He is an Afghan hound. The issue presents a whole host of ethical questions for researchers in the stem cell field. Companies like Amgen are interested in the technology, as is accounted in Fortune Magazine for making human-safe pharmaceuticals. The business sector relies on technology improvements to make life saving realities.The Los Angeles Times has reported that Snuppy came from the DNA of the tissue of the ear of the original canine. According to ABC News Associated Press reporter JI-SOO KIM, Korea has declared that we are still a long way from creating clones of monkeys, which have a great deal more human-like traits. Slashdot actually reported an RSS feed yesterday at 4:15 p.m. regarding the BBC and Reuters News articles which told of the two successful terms of gestation for Snuppy. "the South Korean team only obtained three pregnancies from more than 1,000 embryo transfers into 123 recipients." (BBC).Kennel experts, according to the BBC, agree that there will be many moral issues to contend with, especially among pet lovers.Two researchers at the University of California, Riverside have found a gene coding for a silk protein used by female spiders to construct their egg cases. The research confirms that the silk protein used for the egg case is different than that used in spider webs. Spider silks are renowned for their superior material properties, being among the toughest known naturalfibers. The researchers' findings may lead to new applications of spider silks for novelhigh-tech materials. The researchers, Jessica Garb and Cheryl Hayashi, published their findings in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences on August 1, in the early edition of the journal.Until now, the sequence of the silk protein used to construct the egg case was unknown. The team characterized the egg case silk protein from multiple spider species and found within a species its gene was composed of nearly identical, repeating sequences. The repeat units were also similar across species that diverged more than 125 million years ago. Their findings suggest that the egg case silk gene has been undergoing what is known as concerted evolution where mutations in one part of the gene "spread" to other parts of the same gene, creating a highly repetitive gene sequence."The protein of the egg-case fibers has a different function altogether from that of the other silks such as dragline or capture silks," Garb said. "Egg-case silk has to last a long time and therefore must be durable under a wide variety of conditions, from freezing to very high temperatures. It needs to be strong enough to protect the eggs from threats such as predators, parasites and molds."Although the egg case silk protein is extremely different, its gene sequence shares certain features in common with all other spider silk genes. According to Garb, this discovery confirms that spider silk genes comprise what is known as a "gene family". This means that silk genes first evolved with spiders approximately 400 million years ago and subsequently evolved into different genes specifically used for different functions, such as genes for spider webs or genes for egg cases (Gatesy et al. 2001).  The researchers also suggest that there are many more silk genes that remain unknown, particularly as there are more than 37,000 known species of spiders, and silk genes sequences have been described from only a few species. According to the team, this unknown diversity of silk genes may not only be important for understanding spider evolution but also for the development of genetically modified fibers. "Collectively, spider silks are some of the toughest natural fibers known," Hayashi said.  "Imagine a fabric made from such a substance? It would be incredibly strong, flexible and ultimately, biodegradable."Researchers at the  National Center for Atmospheric Research have found that stressed plants produce an aspirin-like chemical,  methyl salicylate. Methyl salicylate is also known as oil of  wintergreen. This semi-volatile plant  hormone was detected in the air above the plants in the experiments conducted in a walnut grove near  Davis, California. According to the scientists the chemical may be a sort of immune response that help protect the plants. Acetylsalicylic acid, commonly called aspirin, had originally come from the bark of Willow trees. It had never been observed to be emitted as a gas. The researchers observed spikes in methyl salicylate after nighttime temperatures dipped low, which suggested the plants were reacting to cold stress. The peaks were higher during a dry period, pointing to combined stress of cold nighttime temperatures and mild drought.Laboratory observations have shown that numerous plants produce methyl salicylate, but this is the first time the phenomenon has been observed in nature. Previous studies have shown that plants being eaten by animals produce chemicals that can be sensed by other plants. A study conducted in 1997 found that methyl salicylate is produced by tobacco plants inoculated with tobacco mosaic virus. Emitting methyl salicylate may be a means for the plants to warn other plants about a threat.The finding may help to more readily identify plants under stress by monitoring for the airborne distress signal.Children on a field trip in New Zealand have discovered what may be the finest giant penguin fossil yet found. These early penguins stood 1.5 metres (5 feet) tall, weighing over 100 kilograms (220 pounds), and lived some 40 million years ago. While the party of 22 from the Hamilton Junior Naturalists Club were looking for fossils, they did not expect to find anything this significant in their trip to Kawhia, an hour southwest of Hamilton. Group leader Chris Templer said that the sea was already beginning to erode the fossil, and if it had not been found for another 18 months, there might not have been much left. He has dreamed of making a find like this since he began hunting fossils as an eight-year-old. "I went 'Oh my God', and just about keeled over on the reef," he said. The fossil has been carefully removed after consultation with Te Papa (the national museum) and local Māori. Experts are excited by the completeness of the Kawhia fossil. Although roughly a dozen extinct penguin species have already been discovered in New Zealand, only a few fossilised bones have been found from most of these species. Te Papa has only three bones from the largest giant penguin. According to Alan Tennyson, curator of fossils at Te Papa, the Kawhia discovery might be of international significance. "I think it's very exciting to find something like this...it's a very rare event to find such a well preserved specimen," he enthused.Michael Gurian, psychologist and author of "What Could He Be Thinking?", has claimed to identify approximately one hundred structural differences between male and female brains in a recent study. Gurian comments:"Men, because we tend to compartmentalize our communication into a smaller part of the brain, we tend to be better at getting right to the issue, the more female brain (will) gather a lot of material, gather a lot of information, feel a lot, hear a lot, sense a lot."One major structural difference that Gurian has made clear is that males generally have more activity in the mechanical centers of the brain, while women have more activity in centers of the brain dedicated to verbal communication and emotion. A clear example of this is the hypothetical situation of giving a child a toy. He explains it as such:"That doll becomes life-like to that girl, but you give it to a two-year-old boy and you are more likely, not all the time, but you are more likely than not to see that boy try to take the head off the doll. He thinks spatial-mechanical. He's using the doll as an object."Another expert, Dr. Marianne Legato, says it all boils down to genetics, noting that the Y chromosome (which only males carry) has "at least 21 unique genes unique to males which control many of the body's operations down to the level of the cells."Gurian agrees that culture is significant in brain development, but argues that biology plays an equally important role. He makes a point of how the MRI scans show that the female corpus callosum, the center of the brain which regulates communication between the brain's hemispheres, is larger than the male's. On the other hand, the scans also show that information flows more freely between the hemispheres of the male brain. The exact role that brain structure plays in behavior, however, has been an area of considerable contention in science for literally hundreds of years. Early studies in craniometry conducted by Paul Pierre Broca were used to attempt to distinguish differences between human races, though have now been dismissed as scientific racism. The nature-nurture debate has raged for centuries in a variety of forms, without yet any clear resolution as to the role in which innate biological tendencies interact with environmental conditions or willed behavior. As such, studies relating to brain structure and claims to innate behavior often generate substantial controversy.MIT anthropologist of science Joseph Dumit's study of brain imaging in his book Picturing Personhood: Brain Scans and Biomedical Identity, noted that the apparent "transparency" of such pictures (the appearance that they can be easily interpreted by laymen, when they are often the source of ambiguity and dispute by even highly-trained neurosurgeons) has led to their proliferation as indicators of objective truth in media and in courts of law, and that such conclusions are often knowingly exaggerated by the specialists creating the images for better visual effect. The timing of Gurian's book comes on the heels of another controversy over gender differences sparked by comments made by Harvard president Lawrence Summers, who blamed low numbers of women in the sciences on genetic differences. Summers has been criticized by a large number of academics and scientists, as well as by many news publications, in the wake of what he was reported as saying during a conference on January 14.A study published yesterday by Nature estimates the global tree population at just over three trillion. Previous work estimated the total at 400 billion.The international research, led by Yale University in the US, used satellite images to examine over 400,000 plots of land for estimated tree density. Subarctic regions of Scandinavia, Russia, and North America had the highest densities but the largest forested areas were tropical. The study puts 43% of trees in the tropics, where deforestation is particularly common.The study also claims the number has been cut by human activity from around six trillion 12,000 years ago. Lead researcher Thomas Crowther said "We have nearly halved the number of trees on the planet, and we have seen the impacts on climate and human health as a result. This study highlights how much more effort is needed if we are to restore healthy forests worldwide." Crowther was "surprised" to come up with a number as high as the trillions.The study was made at the request of a United Nations project which wanted an estimate on which to base reforestation targets. As well as numbers and distribution the study looks at what factors might control the density of trees in any given area, such as soil type. The study suggests trees outnumber humans by around 422 to one."It's not like we've discovered a load of new trees; it's not like we've discovered a load of new carbon", cautioned Crowther, speaking to the BBC. "So, it's not good news for the world or bad news that we've produced this new number." He says the estimate is valuable for lawmakers, academics, and the general public.In the November issue of the Journal of Clinical Investigation,researchers announce that they have found that cannabinoids promoted a generation of new neurons in rats' hippocampi. The study held true for both a plant-derived and a synthetic cannabinoid. The hippocampus is a part of the brain that contributes to learning and memory. In particular, it has been shown that the hippocampus is essential for the formation of new episodic memories."This is quite a surprise, chronic use of marijuana may actually improve learning memory when the new neurons in the hippocampus can mature in two or three months," said Xia Zhang, with the Neuropsychiatry Research Unit of the University of Saskatchewan."Our results were obtained from rats, and there's a big difference between rats and humans," added Zhang, "So, I really don't know yet if our findings apply to humans. But our results indicate that the clinical use of marijuana could make people feel better by helping control anxiety and depression."Zhang and his co-workers performed behavioral tests on two purified cannabinoids. The test results indicated that these two cannabinoids have anti-anxiety and antidepression-like effects in rats that may depend on the ability of cannabinoids to promote the production of new neurons in the hippocampus. Marijuana contains a complex mixture of chemicals including cannabinoids and may have somewhat different behavioral effects than the purified cannabinoids tested so far.Previous studies examining the effects of cannabis have highlighted negative aspects of the drug's use, such as short term memory difficulties, increased heart rate, nausea, and (in a very small percentage of people) hallucinations. Long term studies about cannabis use tend to be controversial as the data is seen to be biased or flawed. The most agreed upon effect of long term cannabis use is lung damage. However, proponents argue that the correlation between cannabis consumption and lung cancer is misleading suggesting that cannabis use may correlate with tobacco use or that the data is not being properly analyzed.On Wednesday, scientists from the University of Miami and Apex Shark Expeditions published a study in Scientific Reports, an on-line journal, documenting the disappearance of the great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias) from a specific area off the coast of South Africa.  The study found that when the whites disappeared, a Jurassic-era predator called the sevengill shark (Notorhynchus cepedianus) moved in.The study was a collaborative project between Neil Hammerschlag of the Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science at the University of Miami and Chris Fallows of Apex Shark Expeditions, a company that conducts cage diving and shark viewing trips.The study covered more than 8000 hours of shark observations in South Africa's False Bay spread out over the past 18 years.  The great white shark population remained relatively stable until 2015, at which point their numbers went into sharp decline, sometimes reaching zero during 2017–2018.  At those times, another predator, the sevengill shark, previously unknown in the study area, began to appear.  The sevengill is sometimes called a living fossil because it closely resembles similar sharks from prehistoric times.Fallows remarked, "In 18+ years of working at Seal Island, we had never seen sevengill sharks in our surveys[...] Following the disappearance of white sharks in 2017, sevengill began to show up for the first time and have been increasing in number ever since."The study itself outlined the tight correlation between the absence of white sharks and the presence of sevengills: "[S]evengill sharks [...] were only detected during the prolonged periods of complete white shark absence, disappearing from our surveys during the intermittent short periods when white sharks temporarily returned to Seal Island, albeit in very low numbers, only to reappear when the white sharks were again absent from surveys[.]"The sevengill shark usually lives in areas where the sea floor is thick with kelp, as opposed to the relatively clear-bottomed study area.  The sevengill and great white are both ordinarily apex predators and seek some of the same food, such as cape fur seals, but great whites can also prey directly on sevengills.  The great white shark and orca are the only species known to eat adult sevengills.  The sevengill has seven gills, whereas most species of shark have only five gills on each side of their bodies.The scientists behind the present study only noted various hypotheses about the cause of the disappearance of great white sharks from this area, though Dr. Alison Kock of the University of Cape Town has reported a correlation with the entry of orcas into False Bay, possibly because human activity has rendered prey hard to find elsewhere.  These orcas, she suggested, specialize in hunting sharks.The researchers noted the sevengill sharks might not have the same effect on the ecosystems involved as the great whites have had, citing the ecological disruption apparently caused off Alaska when a change in orca behavior had a knock-on effect, disrupting sea otters' predation of sea urchins, whose population then exploded, plowing through the area's kelp forests.According to a recent study, almost every kind of animal on Earth engages in same-sex sexual behavior whether intentional or natural. Lead scientist on the study, Nathan Bailey, says the list includes, among others, dolphins, penguins, frogs and birds."It's clear that same-sex sexual behavior extends far beyond the well-known examples that dominate both the scientific and popular literature," said Bailey, a postdoctoral researcher of biology at University of California, Riverside.The study was published in today's edition of the journal Trends in Ecology and Evolution.In some cases the animals are not aware that they are engaging in same-sex sexual behaviors. One example are male fruit flies. According to the study, males in some cases will unintentionally cater to other male flies because they lack a gene which allows them to determine the sexes of other fruit flies. Bottle nose dolphins have also been known to sometimes engage in same-sex sexual behavior as a way to socially bond with other dolphins.Bailey states that such actions will have an effect on evolution, but that science is only just beginning to research what the effects might be. Bailey also said that natural selection could be playing a role in what animals engage in same-sex sexual behavior."Like any other behavior that doesn't lead directly to reproduction — such as aggression or altruism — same-sex behavior can have evolutionary consequences that are just now beginning to be considered," Bailey said.He added that "same-sex behaviors — courtship, mounting or parenting — are traits that may have been shaped by natural selection, a basic mechanism of evolution that occurs over successive generations."Scientists included in the study research on the origins of homosexual behavior in animals, examining whether the behavior is adaptive in an animal's environment, and whether it happens often.Research teams from  the universities of Georgia and Glasgow discovered the mechanism the Trypanosome parasite evolved for "sleeping sickness" disease to circumvent the human immune system.  Their study follows a recent African outbreak of the disease this parasite causes. The discovery is expected to help develop a cure preventing future deaths.The 1998–2001 sleeping sickness epidemics in South Sudan, Angola, Democratic Republic of Congo, and Uganda caused tens of thousands of deaths.  The parasites are spread by tsetse flies.  It is considered one of the worst epidemics in the last five decades.  As WHO reported, subsequent recent introduction of population screening in rural areas and distribution of more effective drugs had potentially reduced the number of death incidents.  However, the main effect of these measures being a decrease in spreading of the parasite and not in decrease of the death rate, the researchers decided to tackle the puzzle.The scientists studied the molecules the human immune system activates in response to the attack.  They were looking for the way the parasites inhibit it and lead to the death of the victim.  Of the several known parasite species, the two that can infect humans were chosen to study, called Trypanosoma brucei gambiense and Trypanosoma brucei rhodensiense.  Several others also exist, but they affect only animals.Researchers knew that the Trypanosoma attacks typically are repelled by an HDL, more specifically trypanosome lytic factor-1 (TLF-1).  It is generated in the humans' immune system and is toxic to the parasites but not to humans.  It was known that one of the parasites, T. b. rhodensiense, has evolved an inhibitor of the toxic chemical, called Serum Resistance Associated (SRA) protein.  However the other one, T. b. gambiense, was responsible for over 95% of human deaths, and it had been previously unknown why. The study showed that a gene mutation has lead to a change in the parasite's surface protein receptor.  It doesn't bind to TLF-1 as well as for other species, leading to a substantial decrease in TLF-1 uptake by the parasite.  The receptor is more strict, causing a lower nutrient intake as well, but it suffices, and the parasite defends against the human immune system. As professor and head of the department of biochemistry and molecular biology at UGA (and one of the leaders of the research) Stephen Hajduk explained, "Humans have evolved TLF-1 as a highly specific toxin against African trypanosomes by tricking the parasite into taking up this HDL because it resembles a nutrient the parasite needs for survival. But T. b. gambiense has evolved a counter measure to these human 'Trojan horses' simply by barring the door and not allowing TLF-1 to enter the cell, effectively blocking human innate immunity and leading to infection and ultimately disease."Based on the results of the research, humans could possibly develop a defense mechanism to keep the parasites from evading the human defense system.  Stephen Hajduk commented, "We believe this research represents a paradigm shift and causes us to think more broadly about how pathogens avoid host defense mechanisms.  It turns out that African trypanosomes have evolved a diversity of ways to avoid human innate and acquired immune systems."In a new study announced on Monday and available in the current volume of Earth and Planetary Science Letters, an international team led by scientists from Brown University in the United States said the planet Mars once had the right water and temperatures to host simple life forms — just not on its surface.  Mars's rocky, subterranean layer once, for some hundreds of millions of years, had enough water and reductants to support some of the same kinds of microbial communities seen on Earth."We showed, based on basic physics and chemistry calculations, that the ancient Martian subsurface likely had enough dissolved hydrogen to power a global subsurface biosphere," reported lead author and current Brown graduate student Jesse Tarnas.  The paper does not claim life on Mars did exist but rather that conditions suitable for life are very likely to have lasted for an extended time.  This habitable zone, located beneath Mars's then-frozen surface, would have reached several kilometers into Mars's surface, potentially protected by ice above.The study showed that, during Mars's Noachian period (4.1–3.7 billion years ago), radiolysis, the process by which radiation splits water molecules apart, produced enough hydrogen gas (H2) for microbial organisms to live on so long as they remained within the area just beneath the cryosphere, the SHZ (subcryospheric highly-fractured zone).  The concentration of hydrogen in the groundwater could have ranged from about 35 to about 55 millimoles per liter depending on whether ancient Mars was warm or cold, respectively, and higher if the subsurface medium also contained enough salt.  The researchers determined this by establishing three factors.  First, they examined data from the gamma ray spectrometer aboard NASA's Odyssey spacecraft, from which they inferred how much of various radioactive elements would have been present in Mars's crust during the Noachian, and therefore how much radiation would have been available to split water and so produce hydrogen.  They then built on existing models of water flow on Mars to determine how much groundwater would have been present. Third, they used climate and geothermal modeling to determine how much of that water would have been in liquid form and at a suitable temperature for living things.In subterranean environments on Earth called subsurface lithotrophic microbial ecosystems, or SLiMEs, ecosystems sustain themselves not on plants that harness sunlight through photosynthesis but on microbes that harvest electrons from nearby molecules.  Molecular hydrogen is an especially good electron donor.One of the study authors, Brown Professor John Mustard, is on the team designing the next Mars Rover mission, scheduled for 2020.  He and Tarnas recommended the Rover examine the sites of meteorite crashes, which may have excavated rocks from this possibly habitable depth that may hold traces of ancient life.According to a recent study, birds learn the skill of building nests during their lifetimes, as opposed to instinctively knowing how to build them. The findings were made by researchers from various universities within Scotland — Edinburgh, St Andrews, and Glasgow.The researchers examined footage of the Southern Masked Weaver recorded by scientists in Botswana, Africa. The species was picked due to its tendency to build numerous grass nests during the breeding season.During the study, which had Leverhume Trust funding, it was noted that each individual bird has a tendency to vary their technique in nest building, and that some birds built nests from right to left and some vice versa. The researchers also discovered that as birds gain more experience, they drop fewer blades of grass. This indicates that birds learn how to build nests over time, as opposed to the theory of them being aware of how to perform such a task immediately.Dr. Patrick Walsh of the University of Edinburgh has explained: "If birds built their nests according to a genetic template, you would expect all birds to build their nests the same way each time. However this was not the case. Southern Masked Weaver birds displayed strong variations in their approach, revealing a clear role for experience. Even for birds, practice makes perfect." The study was published in the journal Behavioural Processes.In a study published yesterday online in the journal Neuropsychopharmacology, scientists from the Indiana University School of Medicine say the taste of beer alone triggers a release of dopamine, the brain's chemical reward signal.Dopamine is a chemical released by the human body and is associated with drug- and alcohol-related use and pleasure. In men with family histories of alcoholism, the dopamine release was greater.The scientists sprayed 15 milliliters (about one tablespoon) of either beer or a sports drink into the mouths of the participants over a period of 15 minutes, scanning their brains and noting increases in dopamine levels were present. According to the scientists, 15 mL of beer does not contain enough alcohol for the alcohol to cause intoxication or any noticeable increase in blood-alcohol levels.Brain scans were accomplished with positron emission tomography, an imaging technology using radiation to obtain three-dimensional images of, in this case, the human brain.The senior author of the study, Dr. David A. Kareken, said "We believe this is the first experiment in humans to show that the taste of an alcoholic drink alone, without any intoxicating effect from the alcohol, can elicit this dopamine activity in the brain's reward centers".Professor of substance use, policy and practice Peter Anderson at Newcastle University in the UK said many "sorts of cues" can cause an urge to drink. "This paper demonstrates that taste alone impacts on the brain functions associated with desire. This is not surprising — if taste increases desire, it has to impact on brain functions."The Dover, Pennsylvania school board became the first to mandate inclusion of Intelligent Design in a public school biology curriculum. For this year's November 8 election, Republicans fielded a pro-Intelligent Design slate of candidates including some returning candidates who had previously voted to include a statement about Intelligent Design in the biology curriculum. A mixed slate of Democrat and Republican candidates came forward as an alternative group of school board candidates, the Dover CARES coalition. They proposed to remove Intelligent Design from the biology curriculum but allow discussion of Intelligent Design in courses dealing with philosophy and comparative religion. All eight open school board seats were won by Dover CARES coalition candidates. Two candidates who had previously voted as school board members to include intelligent design in the public school science curriculum received the fewest votes in Tuesday's election. One of the newly elected board members is Bryan Rehm, a parent of a Dover school student. Rehm, along with ten other parents, initiated a law suit against the school board for its decision to insert Intelligent Design into the science curriculum.In October 2004, the Dover school board decided that Intelligent Design is a scientific theory that should be mentioned in biology classes that include discussion of biological evolution as part of the course content. The board mandated that a statement should be read in those classes stating "Intelligent Design is an explanation of the origin of life," and "The school leaves the discussion of the Origins of Life to individual students and their families."The school board's statement on Intelligent Design directs students to the book Of Pandas and People as a source of information "for students who might be interested in gaining an understanding of what Intelligent Design actually involves." This book is published by the Foundation for Thought and Ethics, a non-profit organization founded for the purpose of "promoting and publishing textbooks presenting a Christian perspective."Parents of some Dover public school students filed a lawsuit against the school board, charging that including the school board's statement on Intelligent Design was an attempt to introduce religion into the science curriculum. The book Of Pandas and People says, "Intelligent design means that various forms of life began abruptly through an intelligent agency." The original complaint in the law suit against the school board claimed that "Intelligent design is a non-scientific argument or assertion."  The US District Court Judge John Jones, who heard the non-jury case, hopes to make his ruling by the end of the year. The evidence phase of the trial ended on November 4, 2005.A local Dover newspaper, the York Daily Record, editorialized that Dover voters should take trial testimony into account during the general election when they could cast votes for school board members along with other elective offices.Biology teachers in the Dover schools have refused to read the school board's statement on Intelligent Design to students because the Pennsylvania state code for education states that "The professional educator may not knowingly and intentionally misrepresent subject matter." In a letter to their administrator, the teachers stated their view that "Intelligent design is not science." School administrators have been reading the school board's Intelligent Design statement to students in Dover public schools.File:Durion-interdit-malaysia.jpgIn southeast Asia, durian is known as the "king of fruits," but with its pungent odor, the large, spike-husked fruit receives less-than-royal treatment in many quarters.A Thai scientist thinks he has found the key to more widespread acceptance of durian, by creating odorless varieties of the fruit. After 20 years of cross-breeding, researcher Songpol Somsri has come up with a durian "that smells as inoffensive as a banana," according to an article today by The Guardian."I've got friends from Australia, Europe and Japan who just won't eat durian because they can't stand the smell," Songpol was quoted as saying. "But I'm sure producing those with a mild smell will help us find new markets."Despite their popularity, the fruits are banned from the subway system in Singapore. In Bangkok, taxi drivers will often balk at a passenger with durian. The region's airlines won't allow them to be brought onboard. Across southeast Asia, a sign that denotes a finer hotel is a placard in the lobby with a red circle and cross through a silhouette of a durian.Cultivated across all of southeast Asia, the fruit measures about 12 inches (30 centimeters) long and 6 inches (15 centimeters) in diameter, and weighs around 2 to 7 pounds (1 to 3 kilograms). The fruits are green on the outside, and covered with a thick, spike-covered husk. In Malay, the name durian literally means "thorny fruit".Inside is a yellow, custard-like flesh that has been described as nutty and sweet, perhaps like a fine French cheese. But because of the smell, which can be overpowering, durian is an acquired taste.The Guardian quoted a travel writer who described the smell like "pigshit, turpentine and onions, garnished with a gym sock."Devotees of the "king of fruits" say a major part of the experience of eating the smelly fruit is the aroma, or fragrance, if you will."To anyone who doesn't like durian, it smells like a bunch of dead cats," Bob Halliday, a food writer in Bangkok was quoted as saying by The New York Times in April. "But as you get to appreciate durian, the smell is not offensive at all. It's attractive. It makes you drool like a mastiff."Swanzea Banchee, manager of Sunshine Fruit, a major Thai exporter of durian, told National Public Radio (NPR) last month that he thinks an odorless variety of durian would help increase orders from overseas. But, he said he'd never eat one, adding that if a durian doesn't smell, then it isn't really a durian."I don't think it's possible to make a durian that doesn't smell," orchardist Somchai Tadchang was quoted as saying by The Times. "Anyway, durians actually smell good," he told The Times. "Only rotten durians stink."But Dr. Songpol, senior agricultural scientist for the Thai government's Department of Agriculture, has put a lot of time and effort into creating his varieties of odorless durian, called Chanthaburi No. 1 and Chanthaburi No. 2. They were developed at the department's Horticultural Research Institute in Chanthaburi Province, in eastern Thailand, near the border with Cambodia, about 200 miles (320 kilometers) from Bangkok. Growing up on a durian farm, he has studied them all his life, he said.The research farm has several thousand durian trees, and Songpol has spent about 20 years crossing more than 90 different varieties to produce Chantaburi No. 1. It started with only one tree, planted 18 years ago, and which produces about a dozen fruit annually, Songpol told NPR.Songpol has also been working on another variety of durian, without either the smell or the spikes. It's called Chanthaburi No. 3, he said.The Thai government is keen to produce and export odor- and spike-free durian, announcing a plan back in April to distribute saplings of the three new varieties to farmers. It's expected that the odorless durians will hit the market in around three years.A new giant panda cub has been born at the San Diego Zoo. Bai Yun, a 13-year-old giant panda, gave birth at 9:57 p.m. on Tuesday to a cub weighing four ounces (113.5 grams)."Bai Yun immediately tended to her squawking infant," said Suzanne Hall, a panda research technician at the San Diego Zoo who observed the births of Bai Yun’s other cubs in 1999 and 2003. The cub is the second to be born in the United States this year. In Washington, Mei Xiang gave birth to a male panda cub at the National Zoo last month after artificial insemination.According to Hall, early ultrasound images indicated Bai Yun was pregnant with twins. However, zoo personnel became suspicious that one fetus was no longer viable after veterinarians failed to detect a heartbeat in one cub last week. Bai Yun failed to give birth to a second cub Tuesday evening. "It is likely that the second fetus died in utero and was reabsorbed by her body," Hall said.Panda behavioral researchers will be watching the pair 24 hours a day for three weeks to record and assess the mother-infant relationship. The new cub has not yet been named. The gender of the cub will be unknown until zoo staff can safely check.Thousands of people across Australia are taking part in protests calling on the Federal Government to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. The 'Walk Against Warming' is part of an international day of action in 40 countries, coinciding with the United Nations climate change talks in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. According to the Walk Against Warming group, "the need to reduce greenhouse gases is at crisis point, we must act now for the sustainability of our planet for future generations."Melinda Cook, Nature Conservation Council of New South Wales official, says governments need to take much stronger action on the issue of Climate Change. "This international day has been called to put pressure on Australia and the US to ratify and to make sure governments are aware that the community is demanding serious commitments and action on greenhouse gas reduction," said Cook.Siding with the United States, the Australian Federal Government has refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, arguing it is damaging to their economic interests. Federal Environment Minister Ian Campbell says Australia is focused on measures that should be taken after Kyoto expires in 2012."We need to do something that suits the developed world, something that suits the rapidly developing world, partnerships, technologies, economic mechanisms that drive us towards that," said Campbell. "We're nowhere near that at the moment and Australia wants to be a constructive part of driving us towards a very useful post-Kyoto regime."Protesters across Australia are using the International Day of Action on Climate Change to demand the government adopt a clean energy policy. Hundreds of people marched through Sydney on Saturday to mark the day. The protest against global warming coincides with the 12-day conference in Montreal, which will discuss climate change measures and future international action when the Kyoto Protocol expires at the end of 2012. Australia and the United States are the only western industrialised nations which refuse to ratify the global Kyoto Protocol. Australia has delegates at the Montreal meeting, but will only act as observers.Melinda Cook said scientists had predicted huge negative consequences including extreme weather and even social and economic impacts if steps were not taken now. Cook also said governments must make a "serious commitment" not to build any more coal fire powered stations.The United States Bush administration and the Australian Howard Government have refused to ratify the Kyoto agreement, which pledges industrialised nations to cut carbon dioxide levels to 5.2 per cent below 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012.Global ActionUp to a million people will take to the streets of more than 100 cities across dozens of countries today to demand greater action on global warming. Organizers of the protests say the world's leading industrialised nations had failed to make an impact on climate change and some, in particular Britain, were backsliding on their environmental commitments.The United Nations meeting in Montreal, will be attended by representatives of 189 countries. The centerpiece of the International Day of Climate Protest will be a mass protest in Montreal, where at least 15,000 people are expected to lobby delegates.Across the planet, protests are being held in locations from Helsinki to Seoul. In Washington, drivers of fuel-efficient hybrid cars will rally around the White House. In New Orleans - devastated by Hurricane Katrina in August - there will be a "Stop Global Warming" street party in the French Quarter."There is probably very little we can expect [from Montreal] because we are doing nothing to keep fossil fuel in the ground. All these techno-fixes are a waste of time if we continue to burn fossil fuel at the same rate," said George Monbiot, an academic and environment commentator, who will address a rally in London."There is a lot of cynicism about what the British government is doing. [Prime Minister] Tony Blair has promised much and persuaded many that he will deliver but it has turned out to be rubbish. Blair had no intention of doing anything on climate change other than talk about it. But this weekend's protests are taking place in a changed context - the media are listening and finally we have to make the politicians listen."Countries taking part in the global day of action include: Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Democratic Republic of Congo, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Republic of Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Turkey, Uganda, United States, Venezuela...Scientists in Queensland, Australia have discovered three new species of dinosaur in the mid-Cretaceous Winton Formation. The find has been published in the 2009 online journal PLoS ONE by Queensland Museum palaeontologist, Scott Hocknull et al.Skeletal remains of two giant (titanosauriform) herbivorous sauropods along with one lightweight carnivorous theropod were found.Diamantinasaurus matildae (meaning "Matilda's Diamantina River Lizard") derives its name from the Diamantina River which meanders through Queensland, Australia, and the Greek word sauros, which means lizard.  The name matildae honours a national song of Australia, "Waltzing Matilda" penned by poet and writer A.B. "Banjo" Patterson whilst visiting near the town of Winton.  Diamantinasaurus was a very large and heavy lithostrotian sauropod which has been compared to a gigantic modern-day hippopotamus.Wintonotitan wattsi was named firstly for the town of Winton, followed by Titan, a giant in Greek mythology.  Wattsi honours Keith Watts, the original person who discovered the bones and donated them to Queensland Museum back in 1974. This plant-eating, tall, basal sauropod was nicknamed "Clancy" and has been said to resemble a present-day giraffe.Australovenator wintonensis (meaning "Winton's Australian hunter") is named after Australia (from Latin Australis), and venator, the Latin word for hunter. The name wintonensis again means from the town of Winton. This allosauroid was nicknamed "Banjo".  "The cheetah of his time, Banjo was light and agile. He could run down most prey with ease over open ground," said Hucknell. “He’s Australia's answer to Velociraptor, but many times bigger and more terrifying.”"Banjo" and "Matilda" were both found entangled together in a 98- to 95-million-year-old billabong.Anna Bligh, Premier of Queensland, was called upon to unveil the fossil remains on July 3 at the Australian Age of Dinosaurs Museum of Natural History.“The Australian Age of Dinosaurs Museum and Queensland Museum have successfully partnered to uncover this greatest concentration of dinosaur bones ever found in Australia,” said Bligh. “This State Government-funded initiative has revealed to the world the first new sauropods to be named in Australia in over 75 years, and the most complete carnivorous dinosaur skeleton ever found in our country.”Yesterday, Göran K. Hansson, permanent secretary of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, announced this year's Nobel Prize in Chemistry is awarded to three scientists for their work on DNA repair. Tomas Lindahl, Paul Modrich and Aziz Sancar showed how damaged DNA is repaired and genetic information is safeguarded by the cells at the molecular level.Swedish scientist Tomas Lindahl found that DNA molecules decay too quickly for life, or evolution, to be sustainable. This led to the discovery of base excision repair, a cellular mechanism that repairs damaged DNA by removing erroneous sections and replacing them.Turkish molecular biologist Aziz Sancar mapped nucleotide excision repair, a DNA repair mechanism that targets larger-scale damage caused by mutagens and ultraviolet radiation.US professor of biochemistry Paul Modrich showed how errors caused during DNA replication are usually rectified. DNA mismatch repair increases the precision of DNA replication when cells divide.The prize is shared 1/3rd to each scientist.Ian Baldwin, of the Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology in Jena, Germany, and colleagues have discovered a multi-step protective mechanism of tobacco plants against Manduca sexta  caterpillars. In response to a chemical in the caterpillars' larvae, the plants release an odorous substance into air to attract  another species of insects, called "big-eyed bugs" (Geocoris). These carnivores come to the scene and attack the caterpillars. The response is triggered within 24 hours, which is a relatively short period of time. The discovery occurred as a result of field studies in a nature preserve in southwestern Utah.The phenomenon starts with the recognition of the caterpillars by the plant. As a PhD student in the Department of Molecular Ecology Silke Allmann explained, "The plant cannot see its attacker, but plants can sense the digestive substances that attacking larvae have in their oral secretions when these substances come into contact with the leaves." To test that, the scientists coated some of caterpillars' eggs on two groups of tobacco plants and glued them. On one of the groups, the glue was mixed with caterpillars' split. The latter got more attention of the attackers, getting 25% of eggs destroyed against 8% for the other group.Allmann supposed that "The simplest assumption is that the larval oral secretions contain a special enzyme, probably an isomerase, which rearranges the Z:E ratio of the aldehyde in favor of (E)-2-hexenal." The researchers heated the oral secretion to destroy the enzyme,  and applied it to wounded leaves. No plant response related to the studied process was observed, confirming the hypothesis.(E)-2-hexenal is a strong antibiotic agent. The food consumed by a caterpillar typically includes hundreds of microorganisms together with leaf tissue, which are mostly unneeded and killed by the above-mentioned substance quickly. Because of this important role of this substance, the caterpillars can't change their metabolism easily enough to prevent the subsequent events from happening.To find out what happens after a caterpillar's presence is noted by the plant, Silke Allmann, a graduate student in Baldwin's group, examined the green leafy volatiles (GLVs), the substances responsible for the smell of fresh-cut plant parts. These substances are released into air if a plant is damaged. As the study released, the tobacco plant GLVs typically have a major share of Z isomers with very small amount of E isomers present. But the shares are distributed equally during a caterpillar attack. In a study with varying amount of different isomers present, E isomers turned out to be the ones attracting the predators to come to the scene and to attack the caterpillars.What is surprising, Silke Allmann found that the caterpillars are the direct stimulus of this change: caterpillar saliva converts the Z-isomers of the GLV molecules to E-isomers.  Prof. Ian Baldwin commented, "That's where it got really weird. Why would a caterpillar do this to itself?" He suggested that the E-GLVs could have anti-biotic effect in the caterpillar's digestive system.The speed of the triggered reaction is relatively fast, it taking about one hour for the GLV isomers ratio change, and about 24 hours for the predators to be attracted by the substance released into the air. As Prof. Ian Baldwin, who was leading the research, said, "Other indirect defense mechanisms of plants require the activation of new metabolic pathways for the release of odorant signals, and these responses are much slower."The multi-step intricate approach involved is attracting the attention of scientists, who are looking forward to its application in agriculture. Baldwin noted that "in effect, the caterpillar calls the police on itself", and suggested to genetically modify crops to release similar signals to defend themselves against pests.United States Senator Elizabeth Warren released to newspaper The Boston Globe on Sunday, with public statement following on Monday, the results of a DNA test suggesting she has somewhere from 1/64 to 1/1024 Native American ancestry.  She took the test in response to a dare from U.S. President Donald Trump, who promised at a rally this July to donate USD1 million to a worthy cause if she could prove she had Native American genes, as she claimed.Warren on Monday reminded Trump of his offer publicly on Twitter: "By the way, @realDonaldTrump: Remember saying on 7/5 that you'd give $1M to a charity of my choice if my DNA showed Native American ancestry? I remember – and here's the verdict. Please send the check to the National Indigenous Women's Resource Center".Trump responded by telling the press "I didn't say that. You better read it again." He later added he would only write the check if he could personally test Warren's DNA himself, adding "That will not be something I enjoy doing, either."An aide to Warren said her DNA was collected in August.  It was tested by Stanford University professor and genetics expert Carlos D. Bustamante, who did not know whose sample he was analyzing at the time. Accoriding to Bustamante's report, "While the vast majority of the individual's ancestry is European, the results strongly support the existence of an unadmixed Native American ancestor in the individual's pedigree, likely in the range of 6-10 generations ago." Bustamante himself told the press about a stretch of genes on Warren's 10th chromosome. "We found five segments, and that long segment was pretty significant. It tells us about one ancestor, and we can't rule out more ancestors. [...] We are confident it is not an error."Chuck Hoskin Jr., Secretary of State of the Cherokee Nation, voiced a concern: "Using a DNA test to lay claim to any connection to the Cherokee Nation or any tribal nation, even vaguely, is inappropriate and wrong. [...] Senator Warren is undermining tribal interests with her continued claims of tribal heritage."Democratic strategist Steve Elmendorf told the press, "She is most clearly doing the things you do if you're running for president."Teaching from 1987 to 1995 at the University of Pennsylvania, Warren identified there as Native American, and again at Harvard University, where she served as a professor.  This fact re-emerged during her 2012 campaign for the senate, drawing some criticism.  President Trump has sarcastically referred to Senator Warren by the nickname "Pocahontas" after the famous Powhatan Indian chief's daughter.  Warren has said she identified as Native American during that part of her life because that was when her older female relatives were dying and she wanted to feel closer to her family history.  Warren said on Monday via Twitter, "DNA & family history has nothing to do with tribal affiliation or citizenship, which is determined only – only – by Tribal Nations. I respect the distinction, & don't list myself as Native in the Senate."In the 1980s and 1990s, universities like Harvard and Penn were under pressure to show they had minorities on staff. Warren recently released employment documents to The Boston Globe that reportedly indicated her purported ethnicity did not affect her career.Warren's family's history names a great-great-great grandmother called O.C. Sarah Smith. She is listed as white on period documents, but Warren's family maintained she was, in some degree, Native American.Bustamante's report notes searching DNA for Native American ancestry is difficult because the databases of known Native American DNA to which to compare samples are relatively small.  Some tribal authorities have asked their members not to participate in genetic studies because of exploitation and misuse by scientists in the past. In one case, beginning in 1989, hundreds of Havasupai Indians provided blood samples to researchers from the University of Arizona who claimed they were performing a study on diabetes, from which many Havasupai suffered.  The donors later learned their samples were used not only for diabetes but for other disease studies and for migration studies that contradicted the tribe's traditional stories about its origin. This was without the donors' knowledge or permission, in violation of standard medical ethics.  This led to the Havasupai Tribe vs. the Arizona Board of Regents lawsuit, which was settled in 2010.  Warren's sample was tested against samples from Mexico and South America believed to have genetic markers in common with Native Americans from what is now the United States.A group of University of Nottingham, UK researchers, led by Simon Lee, found that brains of certain species of  cockroaches and locusts contain substances toxic to antibiotic resistant organisms.  The scientists considered the brain as the most vital part of the insect to protect and screened it for antibacterial activity.  The results were positive, and scientists are analyzing brain chemicals to determine the one which plays a key role.  The discovery could reveal new treatments for multi-drug resistant bacteria, also known as superbugs.The research focused on insects because of the relatively "unhealthy" environments they often live in. Lee stated that "insects often live in unsanitary and unhygienic environments where they encounter many different types of bacteria, it is therefore logical that they have developed ways of protecting themselves against micro-organisms."Initially, the scientists screened whole insects, until they found that the brain is the best protected area.  Lee commented, "Without [the brain] they die, whereas they can survive losing limbs such as legs. From the locust's point of view, it's important that the central nervous system is protected all the time against bacteria and other pathogens."The brain chemicals extracts killed some superbugs. Further study and analysis showed that nine molecules killed food poisoning microorganism Escherichia coli, and seven of them killed Methicillin-resistant deathly Staphylococcus aureus.The current work in progress is the identification of the exact chemical ingredients which are toxic for the superbugs. The researchers observed that the extracts stop working when exposed to protein-degrading enzymes. Hence the scientists supposed that some proteins are actively participating in the attack.The extracts don't harm human cells, as the study showed, but Lee stressed that much work is needed, in order to yield more specific conclusions. "We're a long way from these being active drugs", he said.University of East Anglia researchers led by Dr Matt Hutchings have discovered that leafcutter ants deploy several antibiotics to protect fungi they grow as food for their queen and larvae.  It is the first time ants have been found using more than one antibiotic in combination.  The new antibiotics discovered have anti-fungal effect, and can be useful for modern medicine. UK Medical Research Council funded the investigation.Acromyrmex octospinosus leaf cutter ants form the biggest known animal colonies, reaching several million individuals.  They are native to South and Central America, but are now found in the southern United States as well.  They are known to grow fungi gardens, and this is why the researchers looked into the interaction of ants and fungi.  The scientists collected them from three colonies in Trinidad and Tobago.  UEA professor Dr Matt Hutchings explained, "This was really a fun project which started with a PhD student, Joerg Barke, streaking leaf-cutting ants onto agar plates to isolate antibiotic producing bacteria."The health of a certain type of fungus gardens is vital for the ants colony since the fungus is used to feed larvae and the queen. The antibiotics act both as herbicides and regulators of fungus growth. The antibiotics are produced by actinomycete bacteria, which live in a state of symbiosis with the ants, and are found on the bodies of the ants themselves. The symbiotic relationships benefit both the ants and the bacteria.As a result of the study, a new antibiotic has also been discovered.  It's related to nystatin, one of the antifungals used in modern medicine.  The researchers expect to discover more new antibiotics and are optimistic about their use in medicine.  Dr Matt Hutchings who was leading the research said, "It's also very exciting that ants not only evolved agriculture before humans but also combination therapy with natural antibiotics.  Humans are just starting to realize that this is one way to slow down the rise of drug resistant bacteria — the so called superbugs."Two Australian researchers, J. Robin Warren and Barry Marshall, are the 2005 winners of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work in discovering the role of ulcer bacteria in producing digestive ulcers.  [1].  They were announced Monday morning in Stockholm, Sweden.Warren and Marshall will equally share a US$1.3 million cash prize award for discovering "the bacterium Helicobacter pylori and its role in gastritis and peptic ulcer disease."  [2] Dr Marshall cultivated the previously unknown bacterial species H. pylori from a study of biopsies from 100 ulcer patients, firmly establishing that gastric disorders are infectious diseases. Before their discovery, peptic ulcer was attributed to stress and lifestyle. [3] The Nobel Committee has awarded the Nobel Prize in the category 'Physiology or Medicine' since 1901, when Emil Adolf von Behring won for developing a treatment for diphtheria.The announcement begins a week of Nobel announcements. The Physics and Chemistry awards will be announced Tuesday and Wednesday. The Nobel Peace Prize will be announced Friday.American biologist Craig Venter has announced that he has created the first ever "artificial life form" on Earth at the J. Craig Venter Institute, a U.S. laboratory and research center.The breakthrough is the culmination of fifteen years of research and builds upon earlier work, research which saw the creation of a synthetic bacterial genome and the transplant of a genome from one species of bacteria into a second. "Synthia", a nickname derived from synthetic lifeform, combines these two techniques to create a "new lifeform".A genome was created using synthetic chromosomes made from bottles of chemicals, the chromosomes sequenced to create a genome using as a template an existing bacterium. A bacterium from different species then had its own genome removed and the synthetic one transplanted in its place. Venter's achievement is that the new genome switched on and the new cell was able to replicate. A process likened to the booting of a computer with a new operating system.Venter's achievement has been dismissed by some as falling short of a true technological breakthrough, claiming that rather than creating a new genome, that he has merely recreated the genome of an existing bacterium: "a technical tour de force" but not breakthrough science, according to Caltech geneticist David Baltimore.Amongst the possibilities of artificial bacteria talked about are bacteria tailored to solve climate change by taking CO2 out of the atmosphere and to develop new vaccines. More complex organisms could include algae which would both be a source of biofuels and a CO2 remover. This is not, however, the instant solution to the Earth's major problems. Although enough is now known to duplicate a genome, there is insufficient knowledge as to what the role of individual chromosomes within the genome do. Any advances in synthetic biology to design life forms would require a much greater understanding of how the creation of proteins are coded in a genome's chromosomes.According to reports, American biologist Craig Venter is going to announce that he has created the first ever "artificial life form" on Earth at the J. Craig Venter Institute, a U.S. laboratory and research center, using synthetic chromosomes made from chemicals.The Guardian Unlimited reports that Venter may announce the discovery on Monday, but could publish the report within a few weeks."[This is] a very important philosophical step in the history of our species. We are going from reading our genetic code to the ability to write it. That gives us the hypothetical ability to do things never contemplated before," said Venter.The discovery was made by 20 scientists on a team that was led by microbiologist Hamilton O. Smith which created the synthetic chromosome. The chromosome is filled with 580,000 'base pairs' of a genetic code, and is 381 genes in length. Using Mycoplasma genitalium bacteria, the scientists broke down the genetic coding of the bacterium and removed a fifth of it, making sure that only the essential genetic products exist to support life. They then inject the bacterium into a living bacterial cell, where the new life form takes over, creating an entirely new species of life.At least one test has been reported to be successful when scientists used a genome of a natural bacterium and implanted it into another cell. That bacterium took over that cell, creating a new form of life, and Venter says that he is "100% confident" that the scientists will be able to get the same results when using the synthetic chromosome.Despite the reports, a spokeswoman for the offices where Venter works states that the Guardian Unlimited "jumped the gun" in reporting the event."The Guardian is ahead of themselves on this. We have not achieved what some have speculated we have in synthetic life. When we do so there will be a scientific publication and we are likely months away from that," said Heather Kowalski, the office's spokeswoman.US biologists from the Universities of Pittsburgh and Vermont have found that social spiders of species Anelosimus studiosus exhibit apparent group selection, determining a trait affecting the colony's survival. According to one of the researchers, this is the first experimental evidence of group selection in wild populations driving adaptation to local conditions. The study was published in journal Nature on Wednesday.The researchers found that, depending on the availability of resources at the location of the colony and the size of the colony, the spider colonies have a different composition, promoting colony survival. The collective colony trait the scientists analyzed is the shifting ratio of "aggressive" and "docile" female spiders.  The authors suggest two possible causes of colony extinction from inappropriate ratio in a large colony, depending on the availability of resources:  egg cannibalism when there are few resources and a high proportion of "aggressive" female spiders, and social parasites when there are abundant resources and a high proportion of "docile" female spiders.To check whether the self-regulation of spider colonies can be considered an adaptation to local conditions, the scientists placed artificially assembled colonies in different locations, with resource availability similar to or different from their home location. In cases of high risk of extinction, colonies self-regulated the ratio of "aggressive" and "docile" female spiders to match not resource conditions of the site they were placed at, but resource conditions of the home site from which they were taken.Coauthor Jonathan Pruitt, University of Pittsburgh assistant professor of behavioral ecology, said, "These findings provide compelling evidence that the mechanisms that colonies use to regulate their compositions are themselves locally adapted, presumably because of the survival advantages they confer to the colony". "They're continuing to make the phenotypes, the trait at a group level, that would have been advantageous if they had stayed home [...] But they seem to have no idea that they're at a new site and that what they're doing is going to doom the whole colony. All the friends die".Coauthor Charles Goodnight, at the University of Vermont, said: "Biologists have never shown an adaptation in nature which is clearly attributable to group selection [...] Our paper is that demonstration."A Nile monitor lizard has produced an offspring without ever performing sexual intercourse or coming in contact with male monitor. This is the first time parthenogenesis has been witnessed among this particular species. The 10-year-old, 4.5 feet (1.4 m) long lizard named Nice, came from the African nation of Ghana as a hatchling. It is currently housed in a reptile zoo in Kilkenny, Ireland. This species of Monitor lizard is common to West and Central Africa.The discovery was reported by James Hennesy, in charge of the lizards at Reptile Village Zoo in Kilkenny.Nice is one of the two female monitors kept at the zoo. Nasty is the other. When both monitors laid eggs, they were put in an incubator together. Hennessy said, "both the lizards lay eggs most years, but we usually just throw them out. I decided to put the eggs in an incubator and see what happened. I'm still not one hundred percent sure why I did it this year, but I'm glad I did." Unfortunately the baby monitor was too weak to fully hatch from its egg and died before it could. Hennessy knew there was a problem when the egg failed to hatch within the normal 180 day period. When he opened one of the eggs, he found the baby monitor lifeless, but fully formed. The baby lizard's remains have now been preserved in the zoo."It's a huge deal," Hennessy said, "It's just absolutely amazing. It's still quite hard to believe, but I'll be keeping a close eye on the eggs from now on. My theory behind it would be that I’ve a female here who has never seen another male in her life. As far as she is concerned, she’s in a habitat where it looks to her like there are no males around. She needs to keep her species going, so she needs to repopulate."In May of 2007, it was reported that blood samples taken from a Hammerhead shark, born in 2001, located in Omaha Nebraska at the Henry Doorly Zoo was the product of a "virgin birth". The mother shark was in a tank with three other hammerheads, all female, and the baby shark was also born in the same tank. Tests on the DNA from the baby shark show that there was no "chromosomal contribution" of a male shark present in the blood, something that is required in order for mating to have taken place.In findings published on Wednesday in Science Advances, researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology (GT) and University of South Carolina Beaufort, both in the United States, reported warming seas appear to decrease the efficacy of the chemical compounds that corals release into the water to defend themselves from bacteria and encroaching seaweed, but these losses may be mitigated if there are large numbers of hungry fish around.The research was led by Mark Hay, a marine ecologist and Regents Professor at GT, who said "There is a lot of argument now about whether local management can help in the face of global stresses — whether what a Fijian village does matters when people in London and Los Angeles burn fossil fuels to drive to work". Hay added, "Our work indicates that local management provides a degree of insurance against global stresses, but there are likely higher temperatures that render the insurance ineffective."The researchers examined three types of coral in reefs off the coast of Fiji, Acropora millepora, Porites cylindrica, and Pocillopora damicornis.  Some of these reefs were in areas where fishing was prohibited and some were not.  The researchers found when fish were plentiful, they would eat algae and seaweed off the corals, which appeared to leave them more resistant to the bacterium Vibrio coralliilyticus, a bacterium associated with bleaching.The researchers suggested the algae, like warming temperatures, might render the corals' chemical defenses less effective, and the fish were protecting the coral by removing the algae.  They reported, "Macroalgae are suggested to disrupt coral microbiomes via transfer of allelochemicals or microbes or release of dissolved organic carbon that affects microbial growth".P. cyclindrica and P. damicornis are known to be function under conditions that damage other corals and A. millepora is not.Each reef-building coral unit is a collection of polyps living in symbiotic partnership with zooxanthellae algae.  The polyp, a cnidarian as are jellyfish, provides stinging protection and secretes a calcium shell, and the algae performs photosynthesis, produces oxygen and gives the coral its color.  Changing ocean environments have led to a phenomenon called coral bleaching when warmer waters cause the cnidarian to expel the algae from its body, which turns the coral reefs white.  This does not kill the cnidarian partner but does leave it badly weakened and vulnerable to disease.In findings published Tuesday in The Lancet Infectious Diseases, researchers in the United Kingdom established that poor hygiene by humans, specifically insufficient hand washing after defecation, is especially responsible for the spread of antibiotic-resistant — superbug — strains of Escerichia coli (E. coli) bacteria."We wanted to find out how these superbugs are spread — and whether there is a cross-over from the food chain to humans" said lead author Professor David Livermore of the University of East Anglia's medical school. There are many strains of E. coli, and a large number are either harmless to humans or cause only mild health problems.  Infection with a pathogenic strain, however, can cause blood poisoning or other serious conditions.In this work, scientists assessed the strains of E. coli from infected humans and looked for the same strains in sewage, dairy farm slurry, human faeces, and contaminated foods including beef, pork, chicken, salad and fruit from different parts of Great Britain."[T]he strains of resistant E. coli [found in food], were almost entirely different from the types found in human faeces, sewage and bloodstream infections", said Dr. Livermore. "[...] Rather — and unpalatably — the likeliest route of transmission for ESBL-E. coli is directly from human to human, with faecal particles from one person reaching the mouth of another.  We need to carry on cooking chicken well and never to alternately handle raw meat and salad. There are plenty of important food-poisoning bacteria, including other strains of E. coli, that do go down the food chain. But here — in the case of ESBL-E. coli — it's much more important to wash your hands after going to the toilet."According to a survey published in 2017 by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society, 84% of surveyed Britons did not wash their hands well enough from a hygiene perspective — at least twenty seconds with soap and water.  Society President Ash Soni told the public, "If we can reduce the number of illnesses where antibiotics are needed [...] we can reduce antibiotic resistance by saving these important medicines for when they are really required."Washoe, a chimpanzee that became famous for being taught to use American Sign Language (ASL), has died at the age of 42. Washoe was the first chimpanzee to learn sign language, although whether or not Washoe's and many other great apes' communication is actually language is still a subject of controversy.In the early 1960s, attempts to teach apes to speak had consistently failed. Allen Gardner and Beatrix Gardner hypothesized that this was due to physical constraints on the vocal apparati of the apes rather than a lack of brain power. To test their hypothesis, in 1966 they took the baby Washoe and began to teach her sign language which turned out to be successful; Washoe learned over 250 symbols from American sign language, and other researchers quickly began to make similar experiments with other chimpanzees and great apes.However, later work by Herbert Terrace suggested that the behaviour of Washoe and others was, to a large extent, imitating the researchers rather than spontaneous. Furthermore, Washoe and other chimpanzees never learned how to use grammar or how to construct recursions, two things which many linguists point to as unique aspects of language. Later attempts to have chimpanzees learn by observation as human infants do have also been successful, but there are still no signs that they have learned grammar. Some linguists such as Noam Chomsky have suggested that humans have specialized areas of the brain devoted to processing language and that we are hardwired to do so. Such hypotheses explain why apparently intelligent apes are unable to form language.This is the second death this year of an animal famous for possibly learning language. In September 2007 Alex the Grey Parrot, who had learned to speak a variety of words and distinguish colors and shapes, died after a protracted illness.When Washoe and other apes who had learned ASL interacted with each other, they used ASL to communicate. Washoe spent the last few years of her life at Central Washington University at the Ellensburg campus.A memorial service is planned for Washoe for November 12, 2007. Details will be made available from "Friends of Washoe," a non-profit organization.At the meeting of the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, North Carolina State University (NCSU) researchers lead by Coby Schal and Ed Vargo presented preliminary research on the genetic diversity of populations of bedbugs. Their DNA analysis showed the diversity is low within a single building. The researchers discovered that the bugs can inbreed and evolve at the same time.A part of the research included extensive DNA analysis of genetics of bed bugs in different apartments. The diversity was lower than it would be for a population of most other species. Coby Schal said, "We kept discovering the same thing. Within a given apartment, or even a given building, there was extremely low genetic diversity. In most cases there's just a single female that founded the population."Another NCSU anthologist Zachary Adelman, not one of the researchers, said that the fact of different strains of bedbugs in the United States east coast "means they're coming into the country from lots of different places".The discovery shows that pesticides are ineffective if they don't eliminate the entire population. Just a few survivors can produce a new generation within the house or building quickly; and, as the offspring of those surviving pesticide use, pass on their genetic resistance; emphasising Schal's remark that, "[t]he insecticides really need to be robust".Coby Schal said that for most species, limited diversity causes generic disorders and population does not survive, thus making the discovery a surprise. He said, "But somehow bedbugs are able to withstand the effects of inbreeding, and do quite well." Schal was suggesting that as cockroaches inbreed successfully as well, its success may be related to the species' reliance on humans to relocate from place to place. The research is at preliminary stage, meaning the scientists may carry out more analysis before a final release.American zoologists, William Resetarits and Christopher Binckley, have discovered chemical camouflage in pirate perches. The researchers experimented with common predatory fish victims, such as tree frogs and aquatic beetles, which avoid places where fishes live. However these victims didn't avoid pirate perches. On March 7, the American Naturalist published the researchers' paper. Today, Wikinews interviewed one of the researchers, William J Resetarits, about the study.((Wikinews))  What caused your initial interest in Pirate perches?William J Resetarits: Pirate perch are quite common at our field site in Virginia and we were looking to include as much breadth of diversity as possible in our experiments to see whether the avoidance response we were seeing was a generalized response to fish.  So, we used fish that were both phylogenetically and ecologically diverse.  Pirate perch are in their own taxonomic family, and represent a different taxonomic order, which includes the Amblyopsid cavefish.  So, they have some unique aspects to their morphology and life history, but they are generalist predators and so should have be avoided like all the other fish tested.((WN))  Do you have a photo of a Pirate perch, and of the environment you conducted experiments in (the pools)? What lab were the experiments carried out in?WJR: We don't have a great photo ourselves, but there are several available in the public domain.  We do have photos of the pools, which I will send.WJR: All of the experiments (11 in total) were carried out in the field, rather than in the lab, with natural populations of colonizing organisms.  Work was conducted at several sites over the years, including the Duke Zoology Field Station, University of Illinois Experimental Pond Facility, Grice Marine Lab (College of Charleston), Naval Security Activity Northwest (Virginia) and Tyson Research Center (Washington University in St. Louis).((WN))  As far as I could see from the news and Abstract, the prey species avoided pirate perches. What prey species did you test?WJR: Over the 11 experiments we have used three species of treefrogs (gray treefrogs, Hyla chrysoscelis, squirrel treefrogs, H. squirrella, and pine woods treefrogs, H. femoralis), as well as a total of about 45 species of Dytiscid and Hydrophilid beetles – the two largest families of aquatic beetles.  Quite a diverse group, and obviously the shared ancestor of treefrogs and beetles is quite far back in evolutionary history, so these groups have separately evolved avoidance responses to fish.((WN))  What makes you confident that the camouflage has a chemical nature?WJR: Well, just to clarify a bit, we use the term camouflage, because it is readily understandable, but what we really are dealing with is some form of "chemical deception".  The actual mechanism may be camouflage, which makes an organism difficult to detect, mimicry, which make an organism difficult to correctly identify, or cloaking, in which the organism simply does not produce a signal detectable to the receiver.  We are all familiar with visual camouflage, chameleons being a great example, or a deer fawn in the underbrush.  Mimicry, flies that look like bees, or harmless snakes that look like highly venomous ones, is also familiar and common.  But an organism can't evolve practical invisibility, like Harry Potter's invisibility cloak, or the Romulan cloaking device.  However, an organism COULD conceivably be chemically "invisible", either by not producing a signal or producing a second chemical that masks the signal.  So, the general term "chemical deception" applies until we tease out the specific mechanism.WJR: Because fish cues appear highly volatile, lasting only a few days if the fish are removed, and colonization/oviposition is highly unpredictable in time, we really couldn't simply use fish conditioned water.    So, in our early experiments, we went to considerable pains to isolate the fish in terms of visual and movement cues, so that only chemical cues were available.  Sound production is rare in fishes, and none of the fish tested are known to produce sounds.  We placed fish inside 115ℓ opaque plastic trash cans with opaque lids and each can had two 25x50 cm sections on opposite sides (and entirely below water-level) removed and replaced with one layer of 99% shade cloth over one layer of no-see-um netting (<1 mm x < 1mm mesh).  When submerged in larger tanks light penetration was essentially zero and motion cues were eliminated, but water (and chemical cues) were exchanged.((WN))  What equipment was used during the study? Do you have photos?WJR: This is pretty simple stuff, from the perspective of equipment.  Not much fancy "science gear" involved.  We use cattle tanks or kiddie wading pools, window screen, aquarium nets and turkey basters to collect beetles and eggs,  and then dissecting microscopes to identify beetles.   The "rocket science" part of it comes in the careful experimental design, the meticulous set up of the experiments and data collection, and then the analysis.  Of course, our current work trying to identify the active compound(s) in fish kairomones (odor) uses much more sophisticated analytical equipment.((WN))  What were the roles of the people involved in the research? What activity was most time-consuming?WJR: Across the entire 11 experiments, Chris and I did the bulk of the work, along with help from a variety of field assistants and grad students along the way, particularly Joe Rieger and Dave Chalcraft, who also contributed data to the paper.WJR: This is VERY tedious work.  Setup of the experiments is tough physically, and quite elaborate and time consuming, but the toughest part was collecting the frog eggs and beetles, which involves long hours bending over tanks in the hot sun.  Counting eggs also takes considerable time, but the most time consuming aspect was sorting and identifying beetles, which was done by Chris and Joe with help from folks at the Smithsonian.((WN))  How do you plan to investigate the chemistry of the phenomenon? How would you like to check what exactly happens?WJR: We are using an approach developed by my current post doc, Alon Silberbush, who identified and characterized the kairomone produced by a predatory insect Notonecta.  This process involves chemical analysis using gas chromatography.   We have an advantage over others who have tried unsuccessfully to identify fish kairomones because we essentially have a control – a fish (pirate perch) that does everything a fish does, but does not "smell" like a fish.  So, we can use chemical differences between pirate perch and other fish to guide us in identifying the active compounds in fish kairomones, as well as the mechanism of chemical deception in pirate perch.WJR: Once we have identified candidate compounds, we then take it back to the field to test with the same organisms which alerted us to the phenomenon originally, treefrogs and beetles, as well as other organisms known to respond to fish chemical cues, such as mosquitoes and water fleas (Daphnia).  This allows us to iteratively verify that we have the right compound(s), as well as further test the generality of the response to fish and the chemical deception of pirate perch.  We will also test whether this chemical deception works against the pirate perch's own predators.WJR: Of course, other critical questions that we are working on include just how much advantage in terms of prey acquisition do pirate perch gain as a result of chemical deception, does this phenomenon occur in closely related species, like the cavefish, and are there prey species that have found a way around the chemical deception?  There is lots to do and I think we have just scratched the surface.A group of researchers published a paper about their discovery of a new species of Madagascar mermaid skink lizards last December. The species is the fourth forelimbs-only terrestrial tetrapods species known to science, and the first one which also has no fingers on the forelimbs.The species was collected at Marosely, Boriziny (French: Port-Bergé), Sofia Region, Madagascar. The Sirenoscincus mobydick name is after the existing parent genus, and a sperm whale from the 1851 novel Moby-Dick by Herman Melville.This week, Wikinews interviewed one of the researchers, French zoologist Aurélien Miralles, about the research.((Wikinews))  What caused your initial interest in Madagascar lizards?Aurélien Miralles: Well, I would say that since I am a child I am fascinated by the biodiversity of tropical countries, and more especially by reptiles. I did a PhD on the evolution and systematics of skink lizards from South America. Then, I get a Humboldt grant to do a postdoc in Germany, at the Miguel Vences Lab, in order to study Malagasy skinks. Madagascar being a fabulous hotspot for reptiles (and not only for reptiles actually), it was a very nice opportunity. Professor Vences proposed me to associate our complementary fields of expertise: he is expert in herpetology for Madagascar, and I am expert in skinks lizards (family Scincidae). It was a very fruitful experience, and many other results have still to [be] published.((WN))  How was the new species discovered?AM: By a very funny coincidence actually. In 2010, I went to Madagascar for a long trip through the south of the island, in the semi-arid bush for collecting lizards and snakes samples. Then, during the last days, just before coming back to Germany, I have visited by coincidence the zoological collection of the University of Antananarivo. In that place, I found an old jar of ethanol with two weird little specimens previously collected by a student who didn't realize it was something new. Being expert on skinks, I immediately recognised it was something very probably new, very different from all the other known species.((WN))  What does "Sirenoscincus" stand for?AM: I am not the author of the genus name Sirenoscincus. This genus name was already existing. It has been described by Sakata and Hikida (two Japanese herpetologists). "Sireno" means mermaid. "Scincus" means skinks, a group of little lizards on which I am particularly focusing my studies. So, Sirenoscinus means "mermaid skink", in reference to [the] fact it has forelimbs but no hindlimbs.((WN))  How deep underground do the lizards live?AM: Hard to answer this question because nothing is known on the ecology of this species. But more reasonably, we can hypothesize, by comparison to similar species of skinks, that it is probably living just under the sand surface, [a] few centimeters deep, probably no more, or below [a] rock, leaf litter, or piece of dead wood.((WN))  What do the lizards eat?AM: Again, by analogy, I would say most likely small invertebrates (insects, larvae, worms etc...).((WN))  What equipment was used during the research?AM: Classic equipment (microscope) and also a state-of-the-art device: a micro CT-scan. It is a big device producing [a] 3D picture of the internal structure without damaging the specimen. It is actually very similar to the scanner used in human medicine, but this one is specially designed for small specimens. Otherwise, I am currently studying the DNA of this species and closely related species in order to determine its phylogenetic position compared to other species with legs, in order to learn more about the evolutionary phenomena leading to limb loss.((WN))  There are several news sources that have a photo of the species. Is it a photo as seen in a CT-scan?AM: No, this picture showing a whitish specimen on a black background is not a CT-scan. It is a normal photograph of the collection specimen preserved in alcohol (the one that was in the jar). You can see the complete of picture (including CT-scan 3D radiography, drawing...) in the original scientific publication.((WN))  Do you know when the newly discovered mermaid skink species was put into the jar? Do you have its photo (of the jar)?AM: No, I have no picture of the jar. The specimen has been collected in November 2004.((WN))  What were the roles of the people involved in the research? What activity was most time-consuming?AM: As first investigator, I did most of the work...and the longest part of the work was to examine closely related species in order to do comparisons...and also to check the complete bibliography related to this topic and to write the paper.Mrs Anjeriniaina is the student who [...] collected the specimen a couple of years ago.Mrs Hipsley and Mr Müller learnt me how to use the CT-scan, and helped me concerning some point relative to internal morphology. Mr Vences helped me as supervisors. Additionally, all of them have corrected the article, and gave me many relevant advices and corrections, thus improving the quality and the reliability of the paper.((WN))  Did you get in touch with an external entity to get the new species officially recognised?AM: No. In zoology, it is only needed to publish the description of a new species (and to give it a name) in a scientific journal, and to designate a holotype specimen (= specimen that will be the official reference for this species), to get this new species "officially" recognised by the scientific community. That does not mean that this new species is "correct" (it might be invalidated by subsequent counter-studies), but that means that this discovery and the new name of [the] species are officially existing.((WN))  Are there any further plans on exploring the species habitat and lifestyle?AM: No, not really for the time being, because ecology is not our field of expertise. But other studies (including molecular studies) are currently in progress, in order to focus on the phylogenetic position and the evolution of this species.In May, periodical cicadas with 17 years life cycle emerged on the East Coast of the USA after underground development as juveniles since 1996. Researchers and scientists worked to map and study the rare wave, and the locals prepared for the noisy event. First recorded in 1666, the Magicicada septendecim species recently emerged in 1979, 1996, this year, with a next wave due in 2030.This week, Wikinews interviewed Chris Simon, an ecology and evolutionary biologist at University of Connecticut, about the cicadas.((Wikinews))  What caused your initial interest in periodical cicadas?Chris Simon: As an undergraduate student, I was interested in the formation of species so when I went to graduate school I looked for a study organism that was likely to be in the process of forming new species.  I chose periodical cicadas because they are broken up into reproductively isolated broods (or year classes).  Reproductive isolation leads to speciation so I planned to study biochemical differences among the broods.((WN))  You study the emergence of the periodical cicadas. What do you study? What observations are you making?CS: We record exactly where each cicada population emerges (using GPS automated mapping and crowd sourcing).  We record the presence or absence of each of the three morphologically distinct species groups of periodical cicadas (Decim group, Cassini group, and Decula group).  We collect specimens for DNA analysis.  We look for cicadas coming up one and four years early and late.  We dig up cicada nymphs and monitor their growth rates.((WN))  What equipment do you use?CS: Nets, shovels, automated GPS recorders, cameras, laptop computers, automated DNA sequencers.((WN))  Do you study the periodical cicadas with anyone else? What is their role?CS: Yes, there are a large number of people studying periodical cicadas in my lab and in other labs.  My lab is made up of Research Scientists, Postdoctoral Researchers, a technician, graduate students, and undergraduates.  Research Scientist John Cooley is the leader of the GPS mapping project; he invented the automated GPS recorder; he built our crowd-sourcing website, and he is instrumental in public outreach.  Postdoctoral research David Marshall also participates in the mapping project and leads the part of the research related to the mapping of stragglers.  John and Dave and Technician Kathy Hill all study periodical cicada mating behavior and conduct mating and hybridization experiments.  One of my graduate students Beth Wade has participated in the nymph collections and will soon start genetic work involving genome wide association mapping designed to locate genes related to life cycle. My graduate student Russ Meister is studying the genes of the bacterial endosymbionts of cicadas.  My current undergraduate honors student Erin Dwyer is also studying the development of Magicicada nymphs and is helping to design a lab exercise for college students around the eastern US to do the same.  Many of my past undergraduate students have studied the biochemical genetics and development of periodical cicadas.  See the Simon Lab website.CS: We are collaborating with Teiji Sota at the University Kyoto and Jin Yoshimura at Shizuoka University in Japan.  They are studying the phylogeography of Magicicada.  We are collaborating with John McCutcheon of the University of Montana who is studying the endosymbiont genomes.CS: We are also collaborating with ecologists Rick Karban and Louie Yang, both professors at UC Davis who have an interest in cicada population dynamics and nutrient cycling in the ecosystem.((WN))  You studied the periodical cicadas in 1979 and 1996 too. What changes with time?CS: I have studied periodical cicadas since I was a student back in 1974.  What changes with time is increased human development constantly shrinking the patch size of cicada populations.((WN))  What are your thoughts on the long life span of the periodical cicadas? Why could it be so? What advantages and what disadvantages does it have?CS: Most or all cicadas have long life cycles compared to your typical annual insect. Examples have  been found of two-year to 9-year cycles in different species.  Periodical cicadas evolved an even-longer life cycle and I think that part of this relates to the evolution of their synchronized life cycles and peculiar safety-in-numbers strategy for survival.  To become synchronized, periodical cicadas had to evolve an exact length life cycle and all adults would have to appear in the same year.  Because the nymphs grow at different rates underground, a longer life cycle and a way of counting years must have evolved so that the individuals that get to the last nymphal (underground juvenile) stage first would wait long enough for all other individuals in the population to become ready to emerge.((WN))  News reports mention this is 'Brood II' of the periodical cicadas. What are the distinctive features of this specific species and what is its full scientific name?CS: The same species exist in multiple broods.  No species is restricted to Brood II.  The three species present in Brood II are: Magicicada septendecim, M. cassini, and M. septendecula.  These same three species are found in every 17-year brood (except the farthest north which only has M. septendecim).((WN))  At what depth do the cicadas juveniles live underground?CS: Most live within the top foot of soil but some have been found deeper.  We do not know if they go deeper in winter.   We need to do much more digging to understand the nymphs.((WN))  How do people prepare for the cicada emergence?CS: Of course various people prepare in different ways.  Ideally, everyone prepares by studying information available on the web (especially on our websites Magicicada Central and Magicicada.org).((WN))  Do cicadas affect transport in the local area?CS: No, not really.  Occasionally individuals can be seeing flying across highways and sometimes they smash into cars.((WN))  Do cicadas usually stay outside or do they also invade houses too?CS: They stay outside.  One might accidentally fly in through an open window but that would be rare.((WN))  What do the cicadas eat?CS: Cicadas suck xylem fluid (the watery fluid coming up from the roots of plants) in deciduous forest trees and herbs.  Essential amino acids in the cicada diet are supplied by their bacterial endosymbionts.  There are two species of endosymbionts.  One makes 8 essential amino acids and one makes two essential amino acids.((WN))  Do cicadas damage crops or city vegetation? What damage?CS: Cicadas do not chew leave so they do not damage crops like other insects.  They can inflict some damage by their egg laying.  Cicadas lay eggs in pencil-sized tree branches.  If there are not enough branches available, too many female cicadas may lay eggs in a single branch weakening it and making it susceptible to breakage by wind.  This can sometimes cause damage in fruit orchards.  If the branches break, the eggs die so this behavior is selected against by natural selection.((WN))  Thank you.CS: You're welcome.  I am happy to have this opportunity to communicate with your readers!Last Thursday, British sensory biologist Dominic Clarke and other authors published research about detection of floral electric fields by bees in journal Science. The research involved studying bees' reaction to flowers with different electric fields. The researches concluded that bees can choose flowers based on their electric fields, and remember them as they do with color and other characteristics of flowers.This Friday Wikinews interviewed Dominic Clarke about the research.((Wikinews))  What caused your initial interest in electric fields of flowers?Dominic Clarke: There has been a considerable amount of speculation in the scientific literature since the 60s about the role of electric fields in pollination. It has been suggested that the electric field that arises between a charged bee and a grounded flower may be responsible for increasing the efficiency of pollen transfer between the two. We looked at this literature as sensory biologists and naturally formed the question 'can bees sense these fields?'. Since we couldn't find any answers to that question in the literature, we decided to find out for ourselves.((WN))  How was the new phenomenon discovered?DC: We use what's called 'differential conditioning', where bees are trained to find a sucrose reward from an array of flowers, where only half of the flowers contain the reward. In our experiment, the flowers that were rewarded (with a sugary solution) were marked with a small electric field (about the same strength as around a flower in the wild). The ones that were not rewarded were not marked with fields. Since the electric field is the only thing that differs between the two flowers, we know that if the bees can learn to tell them apart, they can sense the electric field. Our bees were able to pick the rewarded flower 80% of the time when the electric field was present as a cue. When the electric field was switched off, they could only get it right half the time, which is the same as if they were just picking flowers at random.((WN))  How many species of flowers and bees did you study during your research?DC: We focus on one species of bee, the bumblebee Bombus terrestris. And we look mainly at Petunia flowers (P. integrifolia). These two species provide the bulk of our data, but we do consider other flowers like geraniums, daisies, clematis and foxglove, and other species of bee (particularly the honeybee Apis mellifera).((WN))  Do you have diagrams, sketches, or drawings of electric field around a bee and a flower?DC: I have attached a picture of a computer model of the electric field around a flower called "Flower Potentials and Fields".((WN))  Was it known that bees have a charge before?DC: Yes, reports as early as the 70s have measured electrical charge on bees, but it was not known before whether or not they could sense such charges.((WN))  What environment did you study the flowers and bees in? A laboratory? A garden? Natural environment?DC: The behavioural tests were carried out in a laboratory because we needed to be able to precisely control the environment in which the bees were tested. Future work will be aimed at trying to get out into the bees' natural environment and trying to figure out exactly what role(s) this sense plays in their lives.((WN))  What equipment was used during the research? How did you measure the charge?DC: Charge was measured using a device called a "Faraday Pail". It is basically an electrically shielded metal cup, the voltage of which changes according to how much charge is inside it. We can measure this voltage when a bee flies in and so measure its charge. We did this with 51 individual bees.((WN))  What were the roles of the people involved in the research? What activity was most time-consuming?DC: It was very collaborative in all aspects of the research. I carried out the bulk of the experimental work and data analysis, but the process of designing the experiment, figuring out how to do the analysis, choosing which ideas to follow and which to put on the shelf etc., that is highly collaborative. Then of course comes the long period of writing, re-writing, re-re-writing, sending out to colleagues for feedback, re-re-re-writing, submission, peer-review, editing re-submission etc. which is also a collaboration between all the authors. A large part of doing science is talking as well; meeting, planning brainstorming. It feels to me like putting together the paper took the longest, but perhaps that's just because it's the most fresh in my mind.((WN))  What do you see as possible directions for future research in this field? What do you think possible applications of the discovery can be?DC: The two big questions now are "how do the bees do this?" and "why do they do this?". The first is a case of pinning down the sensory mechanism used by the bees to detect the fields, and the second will involve a great deal of field-based experiments. We need to get out of the laboratory and understand the role this phenomenon plays in the lives of bees in the wild.((WN))  Thank you for sharing your insight and details. Have a good time.In February, Japanese herpetologists Kanto Nishikawa, Masafumi Matsui (of the Kyoto University), and Tao Thien Nguyen (of the Vietnam Academy of Science and Technology) discovered Ziegler's crocodile newt in Vietnam. The new species, called Tylototriton ziegleri, is characterised by a unique morphology, most noticeably the rough skin. The researchers noticed the new set of species features when examining a specimen in National Museum of Nature and Science, Tokyo and confirmed the species after a field study and DNA analysis.On February 18, the researchers successfully published the paper at Current Herpetology,published by the Herpetological Society of Japan.Masafumi Matsui asked Kanto Nishikawa to identify the species from the museum. After a discussion with Tao Thien Nguyen, younger brother of T. Q. Nguyen, co-author of an existing Tylototriton vietnamensis species, Kanto Nishikawa identified the species as a new one.Last Friday, Wikinews interviewed the research team about the study.((Wikinews))  What is most particular in the new species morphology?Kanto Nishikawa: Very rough skin.((WN))  What kind of environments do the newts live in?KN: Secondary and primary forest, near wet land.((WN))  What do the newts eat?KN: Probably small invertebrates, like earthworms, insect, and snails...((WN))  What equipment was used during the research?KN: Calipers for measuring specimens, DNA sequencer and PC for molecular analysis.((WN))  What were the roles of the people involved in the research? What activity was most time-consuming?KN: Collecting in the wild, analysis of data, and getting research permission.Tao Thien Nguyen: I am also co-author of paper.TTN: I was conducted survey in Hagiang and Cao Bang provinces during two year 2010 and 2011. I collected total 10 samples of Tylototriton in the nature habitat for our research,TTN: I like Nikon camera very much and the photos taken by Nikon D300 body with Macro-len 60:2.8,((WN))  Who did you have to get research permission from?KN: From local government or national museum where Mr. Tao belongs to. We need many permissions not only for conducting research, but also exporting (= borrowing) specimens. This is common for researchers.((WN))  What was the purpose of the field study? Is an alive individual required for DNA analysis, for species description and depiction, or for something else?KN: Yes, for collecting alive one for DNA, and compiling information on habitat, ecology, breeding sites of the species.Scientists at Chicago's Field Museum and New York's American Museum of Natural History have discovered three new species of yellow-shouldered bats, genus Sturnira, in the Neotropics. On Wednesday open-access journal ZooKeys published their paper on two of the new species, Sturnira bakeri and Sturnira burtonlimi. The two new species were previously confused with S. ludovici, and S. lilium and S. luisi, respectively. With the discovery, genus Sturnira now has the most species of any genus in family Phyllostomidae, the leaf-nosed bats.Species S. bakeri was named after Dr. Robert J. Baker, who "has made enormous contributions to our [Authors of the ZooKey paper] understanding of bats, particularly to the evolution of Neotropical phyllostomids"; and S. burtonlimi after Dr. Burton K. Lim, who "collected the type series of this species and has made many other important collections throughout the Neotropics and beyond", the authors noted in the paper.Within the New World tropics, the distribution range of the genus, the new species' known living areas are in Costa Rica and Panama for S. burtonlimi, and Western Ecuador for S. bakeri. The researchers identified differences between different specimens, including those in their teeth, skull shapes, and DNA sequences.Wikinews interviewed one of the chiropterologists, Paúl M. Velazco of the American Museum of Natural History, about the study.((Wikinews))  The Sturnira genus now has 22 species, over 1.5 times larger than it was a year ago (14 species). Who contributed to this change? Did you participate throughout the entire process, or only the discovery of the last 2 species?Paúl M. Velazco: The last Mammal Species of the World (Simmons, 2005) recognized 14 species for Sturnira. Since then three new species have been described [S. sorianoi Sánchez-Hernández et al., 2005; S. koopmanhilli McCarthy et al., 2006; and S. perla Jarrín-V. and Kunz, 2011] and one subspecies was elevated to the species level (S. hondurensis) by Gardner (2008). This brought the number of species of Sturnira to 18 by 2011.  Along with my coauthor Bruce Patterson, we generated the most comprehensive phylogeny of the genus. For this we sequenced two nuclear and three mitochondrial genes from the liver or muscle tissue that had been frozen or preserved from each bat specimen, isolating nearly 5,000 base pairs of DNA. These sequences were obtained from specimens we have collected in the past (38) and from tissues we borrowed from different natural history collections. We published this phylogeny last year in the journal Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution. Results of this study found that two subspecies of Sturnira lilium should be recognized as valid species (S. parvidens and S. paulsoni). Additionally we found three new species, two of them described in the ZooKeys paper. The third one hopefully will be published later this year.((WN))  The genus is called Sturnira Gray in the paper. I've not seen extra adjectives in genus names, before. What is the context for such name?PMV: Usually in papers that deal with taxonomy and nomenclature, the first time that a genus or species is mentioned in text is accompanied by the authority that describes that taxon. In the case of Sturnira, it was Gray in 1842 that named the genus.((WN))  What caused your initial interest in the question in the genus? When did you become interested?PMV: I have been studying bats for the past eighteen years and I am especially interested in the family Phyllostomidae that is endemic to the Neotropics. This family includes more than 160 species. It is the most diverse family of bats in the Neotropics, which together exhibits more variation in morphological features and feeding ecology than any other family-level group of mammals. Phyllostomid bats exploit an unusually diverse array of feeding habits including sanguivory, insectivory, carnivory, omnivory, nectarivory, pollennivory, and frugivory. Because of all mentioned before, phyllostomids are a really interesting group to work with. Sturnira and Platyrrhinus are members of this family.((WN))  The paper mentions that the genus is now the most speciose genus in the Neotropical family Phyllostomidae. What genus did it beat? How many species does it include?PMV: The other genus with the most species in the family is Platyrrhinus. Currently, it has 20 species, but soon it will increase to 21. Along with another colleague, Burton Lim, we have a paper in press describing a new species based on molecular and morphological data from the Guianan Shield.((WN))  What equipment did you use?PMV: For the ZooKeys paper, we examined several specimens under the stereoscope. The molecular phylogeny gave us the separation between species, from there our job was to focus on finding morphological differences between these groups.((WN))  Did you conduct field study to identify the species' habits? If so, where and how did you do that?PMV: I have done fieldwork in Belize and Peru, and my coauthor did field work in Brazil, Ecuador, and Peru, where we collected several specimens of Sturnira (including the third species that has not been described yet). But the two species that were described in the ZooKeys paper are based on specimens collected by our colleagues Dr. Robert Baker from Texas Tech University and Dr. Burton Lim from the Royal Ontario Museum.((WN))  How do you isolate of the living area of the new species from the living area of the old species?PMV: We used the phylogeny of Velazco and Patterson 2013 (Molecular Phylogenetics and Evolution) as a framework for this.((WN))  How long did the study take? What has been the most time-consuming activity?PMV: It took almost a year. The most time consuming part was spending several hours behind the stereoscope looking for the diagnostic characters.((WN))  Who participated in the study? What were their roles?PMV: Dr. Bruce Patterson from the [American] Museum of Natural History and I. I was the one in charge of finding the diagnostic characters and together we both worked on the manuscript.((WN))  Who do you collaborate with internationally about your study?PMV: For this study I collaborated directly with Dr. Bruce Patterson from the Field Museum of Natural History, but studies like this cannot be completed without the contribution of scientific collections. We used specimens from the American Museum of Natural History, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Louisiana State University, Museum of Southwestern Biology, Museo de Historia Natural de la Universidad Nacional de San Marcos, Museo de Zoología of the Pontificia Universidad Católica del Ecuador, Museum of Vertebrate Zoology at Berkeley, Royal Ontario Museum, Texas Tech University, and the National Museum of Natural History.((WN))  What future research do you plan?PMV: To keep doing what I love, which is going to the field, working at collections, and collaborating with the wonderful collaborators I have, all of this is an effort to try to understand bat diversity and evolution in the Neotropics, especially why phyllostomid bats are so successful at this. There is still much to discover, and hopefully we could, in time, implement conservation actions for species that have small distributions.In a study published on October 29, Spanish researchers studied  Singapore rhododendron interaction with ants. The researchers discovered that the flower produces substances to attract weaver ants to drive away the smaller Nomia  bees, which are a worse pollinator than larger carpenter bees. The ants don't drive away the larger bees, which pollinate the flowers and visit them more often as they get better.Today, Wikinews interviewed Spanish evolutionary biologist Francisco G. Gonzálvez, one of the lead researchers of this study.((Wikinews))  What prompted your curiosity in the rhododendron flowers and bees?Francisco G. Gonzálvez: I am an evolutionary biologist interested in how ambush predators on flowers, such as crab spiders, praying mantises or ants, can modify pollinator-plant interactions. By doing field observations in Singapore I realized that the aggressive weaver ant, Oecophylla smaragdina, spent a lot of time on rhododendron flowers causing different responses in their floral visitors. While the presence of the weaver ants on flowers deterred small floral visitors, large carpenter bees were unaffected by the presence of the ants. Since then we conducted a number of experiments and observations to elucidate the role of the weaver ants, flowers visitors and the plant species in this complex system.((Wikinews))  What activities did the study involve?Francisco G. Gonzálvez: Mostly the study involved many hours fieldwork. We quantified bee visit rates at plant with and without ant nests, assessed the pollination effectiveness of the different flower visitors, examined the association between weaver ant presence ant fruit an seed set and finally we tested whether weaver ants were attracted to flowers. Additionally we developed a simple optimal-foraging model and compared its prediction with observed patterns.((Wikinews))  What was the study timeline? What activity took the most time and attention?Francisco G. Gonzálvez: The experiments and observations in field were conducted from April to June 2010 in MacRitchie Reservoir, Singapore. However, the activity that took most time and attention was to determine pollen production per flower in order to evaluate pollination effectiveness of the floral visitors. We spent almost two months counting pollen grains under a microscope. It was definitely the most tedious part of our work.((Wikinews))  What technology was involved in the study?Francisco G. Gonzálvez: Basically it was an observational study so we did not use complex technology. Probably the most sophisticated technology we used was the microscope under which we counted pollen grains.New research suggests that the extinction of Woolly mammoths may have been caused by the combined effect of both climatic change and human hunting. Scientists suggest that climate change during the end of the Pleistocene caused their habitat to shrink in size and as a result caused Woolly mammoth populations to drop and then Paleolithic humans delivered the final blow to the woolly mammoths by hunting the remaining Woolly mammoths. The warming climate may have also assisted humans in over hunting the woolly mammoth, the global warming that occurred during the end of the Pleistocene and the beginning of the Holocene melted ice and allowed humans to gain accesses to more mammoth habitats than previously possible.Scientists have reached this new conclusion by combining population and climate change modeling in their research which has never been attempted in the past. This new method may have made them able to retrieve clearer data regarding the extinction of the woolly mammoth from the geological record. Previously, the two methods were used separately, yielding less conclusive evidence of a human role in the extinction of the Woolly mammoth and other Pleistocene Megafauna. Additionally, recent years have seen an improvement in Paleoclimatic data, allowing scientists to draw a better conclusion from the existing data.The World Health Organization (WHO) has told people to stay away from Ugandan caves with bats, due to the fact that a tourist visiting Uganda was recently killed by the fatal Marburg virus. Health authorities in the Netherlands said that the forty-year-old tourist contracted the disease from fruit bats in a cave.A spokesperson for WHO said that "it is an isolated case of imported Marburg." He continued, "people should not think about amending their travel plans to Uganda but should not go into caves with bats."The Health Ministry of Uganda advised people who have to enter caves in Uganda that they should exercise "maximum precaution not to get into close contact with the bats and non-human primates in the nearby forests".Marburg virus causes Marburg hemorrhagic fever, which is related to Ebola. It is believed that humans first caught the virus from Egyptian fruit bats.The first Ugandan case of the virus occurred approximately a year ago; it involved a 29-year-old man who became symptomatic on July 4 and died on July 14. A co-worker of the man had previously suffered from a similar disease, although he survived.The Soviet Union also reportedly prepared Marburg virus samples for use as a biological weapon in the time of war.On Monday, in Stockholm, Japanese cell biologist Yoshinori Ohsumi of Tokyo Institute of Technology won this year's Nobel Prize in the field of physiology or medicine for his research on autophagy. Ohsumi is the 25th Nobel laureate from Japan.71-year-old Yoshinori Ohsumi studied mechanisms of autophagy — a process in which cells eat parts of themselves and recycle the cell components.This phenomenon was observed in the 1960s with the discovery of lysosomes, which contain enzymes to digest cell content. For that discovery, Belgian scientist Christian de Duve was subsequently honoured with the 1974 Nobel Prize in the same category. Ohsumi conducted a series of experiments with baker's yeast in the 1990s and identified fifteen genes needed for autophagy. Ohsumi applied the same mechanism to understand the process in humans. Autophagy is an important phenomenon whose failure through gene mutation may be involved in type 2 diabetes, cancer, and neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease.The committee said Ohsumi's discoveries have helped to understand "the fundamental importance of autophagy in many physiological processes, such as in the adaptation to starvation or response to infection."In remarks to Japanese broadcasting company NHK, Ohsumi said he was honoured to be recognised by the Nobel committee. Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe congratulated Ohsumi and said "The results of [Mr. Osumi's] studies have brought hope to people in the world suffering from intractable diseases like cancer and Parkinson's disease, and the Japanese people can feel very proud" ((zh))Chinese language: ‍(大隅良典)先生的研究成果给世界上苦于癌症及帕金森病等顽症的人们带来了希望,作为日本人感到非常自豪。.Ohsumi's research also earned him a 2015 Canada Gairdner International Award in March 2015. Ohsumi is to receive 8 million Kronor (¥95 million) in the Nobel awards ceremony scheduled on December 10.In findings published on Wednesday in PLoS One, scientists from the University of Bristol and UC Davis say zebras may have gotten their stripes to confuse ectoparasites, such as flies.The researchers observed tabanid horse flies around zebras and domestic horses in captive settings and they found the flies had a harder time landing on zebras than on the monochrome coats of the horses.Results showed the horse flies hovered over both types of animals at roughly the same rate but, over zebras, they did not always slow down fast enough to land successfully.  They then equipped horses with both zebra-striped and unstriped cloths and again observed that the flies had trouble landing on the striped surfaces."This reduced ability to land on the zebra's coat may be due to stripes disrupting the visual system of the horse flies during their final moments of approach. Stripes may dazzle flies in some way once they are close enough to see them with their low-resolution eyes[,]" said study co-author and Royal Society University Research Fellow Martin How.Scientists have long wondered about the evolutionary impetus behind zebras' coat patterns.  Other hypotheses include the idea that stripes may confuse predators, facilitate social interactions within the herd, and regulate body temperature.In Africa, where zebras evolved, flies can carry dangerous blood-borne pathogens.