A group of Melbourne scientists has released a study of the energy problems confronting Australia in the future. The study endorses the use of nuclear energy and attacks some of the data used by anti-nuclear campaigners. The scientists from the University of Melbourne say their research shows that the benefits of nuclear energy have been underestimated and concerns about nuclear waste overplayed. The six month study compared the environmental impact, health risks, economic effects and social implications of the use of fossil fuels, renewable energy sources such as wind and solar energy, and nuclear power.According to the Melbourne University, the investigation will significantly impact the nuclear debate in Australia, with findings showing that hundreds of times more uranium could be available than was predicted in a widely quoted European study. Associate Professor Martin Sevior, of Melbourne University's school of physics, claims the recent study bolsters the case for Australia to invest more in nuclear energy. Sevior says his research into nuclear waste disposal should help dispel many environmentalists' fears."One thing that's perhaps not always realised is that the amount of waste that comes out of a typical plant is around 30 tonnes a year, he said. "The amount of waste that comes out of a coal-fired power plant is around 1,000 tonnes a day." Prof Sevior says his study has exposed flaws in the European study into the limits of the uranium industry. "This previous research overestimated the energy costs and carbon emissions generated by the construction of nuclear power plants and for mining uranium," Prof Sevior said.The Australian Conservation Foundation's (ACF) nuclear campaigner, Dave Sweeney, says the study appears flawed and does not provide a sound argument for the use of nuclear energy."It glances over some really key concerns of proliferation, key areas of reactor safety are not delved into too deeply and they have direct links to industry websites for further information," said Mr Sweeney. "I'm not sure it's altogether appropriate or altogether balanced to be referring people to the nuclear industry's own websites for further information on such matters as radioactive waste, nuclear weapons and nuclear reactor safety." The six-month study found Australia has more uranium than was previously thought. "We have enough uranium in Australia to power the country for thousands of years," said Prof Sevior.Friends of the Earth nuclear campaigner Dr Jim Green said nuclear power should never be considered as an energy source. He said greenhouse emissions saved by switching to nuclear power were only about 5 per cent of total emissions and could only be achieved if thousands of reactors were installed globally. Dr Green said an energy debate in Australia was necessary, but it had to go beyond just the nuclear alternative.Albert Einstein's best known equation, and probably the best known aspect of all physics, E=mc2, turns one hundred today. September 27, 1905 is generally considered the birthday of the equation because that is the day that Einstein's paper outlining the significance of the equation arrived in the offices of the German journal Annalen der Physik.In the equation, 'E' stands for Energy, 'm' stands for mass, and 'c' stands for the speed of light.The equation shows that matter and energy are, essentially, two aspects of the same thing, and that a small amount of matter can be converted into an enormous amount of energy. Nuclear reactions, including fusion in the sun and in nuclear weapons, are examples of large amounts of energy released from the conversion of comparatively small quantities of mass. The United Nations declared 2005 the International Year of Physics in recognition of Albert Einstein's work in 1905. In addition to discovering his famous equation, over the course of 5 months in 1905 Einstein developed the theory of Special Relativity (which led him to the equation E=mc2), proved the existence of atoms and molecules, and showed that light is made of photons. 1905 is often called Einstein's annus mirabilis, or miracle year.	 The 100th anniversary of Einstein's miracle year is being celebrated in many countries around the world as the World Year of Physics. In the UK, it is called the Einstein Year.Japan's nuclear watchdog, the Nuclear Regulation Authority, yesterday said the revealed leaking of an estimated 300 metric tons of radioactive water at the damaged Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant was a "serious incident", level three on the seven-part international scale.Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), who run the plant, announced the leak last week and the new accident's level-three rating was made after consultation with the International Atomic Energy Agency. However, the Nuclear Regulation Authority notes this estimate may be overstated as it relies on the leaking tank being full before the leak began.There is no gauge to measure water quantities inside the tank, used to store contaminated water after the initial accident. Water is being collected at a rate of 400 tons per day, and an unknown quantity of radioactive groundwater is flowing into the sea. Industry minister Toshimitsu Motegi has already announced increased governmental supervision of TEPCO's leak mitigation after two other leaks this year. Motegi said TEPCO's antileak methods were like "whack-a-mole". Nuclear Regulation Authority disaster taskforce leader Shinji Kinjo has said TEPCO fails to document inspections and is poor at monitoring the tanks on the site. TEPCO staff had said water levels in the tank had remained constant.Shunichi Tanaka, head of the Nuclear Regulation Authority, said "We have no idea whether it's actually 300 tons that leaked. We need to look into this issue more." TEPCO initially said the leak was small when it was found in July and the watchdog gave it a level one "anomaly" rating at the time. Inspectors now say radiation below this tank stands at 100 millisieverts per hour, and another at the facility has a level of 70 millisieverts per hour."One hundred millisieverts per hour is equivalent to the limit for accumulated exposure over five years for nuclear workers; so it can be said that we found a radiation level strong enough to give someone a five-year dose of radiation within one hour," said TEPCO boss Masayuki Ono last week. TEPCO shares dropped yesterday by 2.6% to 497 yen.The Brazilian president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva is due to meet the French President Nicholas Sarkozy later today. Lula da Silva is due to meet with Sarkozy in French Guiana.The two are expected discuss issues such as greater cooperation between the two countries and the coordination of work on areas around Brazil and French Guiana.In addition, subjects such as biofuels, nuclear science and defence are expected to be discussed in the meeting.After the meeting, at the headquarters of the local Lula and Sarkozy will present the design for a road bridge that is planned to be built over the river Oiapoque, linking the Brazil to French Guiana. Initial forecasts are suggesting that the bridge, will be about 400 meters long, and will cost approximately US$38.6 million. It is scheduled to be completed for 2010.The cost of the project is planned to be divided equally between Brazil and France. This was made clear in an agreement between the two nations that was signed in July 2005. The agreement was approved by the Brazilian government in November 2007 and was approved by the French Parliament in March 2007.Dr Frank Cain, a political expert and Lecturer in Defence and Australian Political and Economic History at the University of New South Wales has told Wikinews that many political commentators are finding Prime Minister John Howard's revival of the nuclear debate "surprising".Australia came close to building a nuclear power reactor in the Jervis Bay Territory in the late 1960s but was later abandoned in 1971 after massive anti-nuclear demonstrations. The fear that Australia would produce nuclear weapons as a by-product of its nuclear energy programs killed the plans and a change in government ended the plans.The fear that the Jervis Bay reactor could have been used to produce weapons grade plutonium was substantiated when secret 1969 cabinet documents were released in 2000 stating that "The government will acquire a facility with long term defence implications" and "Over 25 years of operation the reactor will provide six tonnes of plutonium".Anthony Albanese, the opposition's Shadow Minister for Environment and Heritage accused Mr Howard on Tuesday of living in the past and of not being serious about the debate.In an interview with Wikinews, Dr Cain said that there are a number of possibilities for Mr Howard's nuclear revival. Dr Cain said one of these could be to challenge the opposition over its three mine policy. "One of his (Howard's) motives might be to challenge the ALP over its three-mine policy" said Dr Cain.Dr Cain warned that such a move would be unpopular with younger voters, "The young people would not support his programme for the uranium mining companies to expand their mine numbers and production" he said.Speaking on the economics of nuclear energy in Australia, Dr Cain said it was still uneconomic due to Australia's large supplies of coal and natural gas. "It still remains uneconomic for Australia to commence generating electricity from nuclear plants.  Our coal supplies will last for another century and the natural gas deposits seem unlimited.  These gas supplies will probably displace coal generation and thereby reduce the greenhouse gas problem" he said.Martin Sevior, an associate professor in particle physics at the University of Melbourne told ABC Radio on Monday that nuclear power can be generated "almost as cheaply as coal". He said in the future nuclear power should be able to be produced for $AUD40 per megawatt-hour, versus the current price of $30 per megawatt-hour for coal.Prof Sevior said that when the cost of carbon sequestering was included in the running costs for coal fired power plants that nuclear energy was "very, very competitive".John Price, a professor at Monash University and expert in nuclear energy (having designed some in the UK) told ABC Radio that nuclear energy is competitive in many parts of the world, including Europe, North America and Eastern Asia.Prof Price said that the use of nuclear energy in Australia is "inevitable" in Australia's future and that it may well be economically competitive with new lower emission coal fired power plants of which the costs are not known.According to Prof Price, Victoria will need to generate 3 gigawatts more electricity within the next ten years, but conceded that it is likely that gas and coal fired plants will be built to meet that need.Howard would not be proposing for the government to own its own uranium enrichment plant and would need to entice an overseas company to establish a plant in Australia according to Dr Cain. Dr Cain questioned whether a company from France, Russia, the US or China would be willing to come to Australia to "do what it has been doing quite well in its own country for decades".Dr Cain said overseas companies would see "no financial advantage for them to do so".The Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, has issued a new report titled "Implementation of the NPT Safeguards Agreement in the Islamic Republic of Iran" and distributed it to members of the United Nations Security Council and the Agency's member states, but notes that the report is to remain secret, stating that "unless the IAEA Board of Governors and Security Council decide otherwise, the Agency cannot authorise its release to the public."Iran is presently neither a member of the UN Security Council nor of the IAEA Board of Governors. As of 20:52, 29 April 2006 (UTC) or earlier, the report was made available on the Internet on the website payvand.com, dated April 28, 2006. It is unknown whether or not the release was authorised by the United Nations Security Council or the IAEA.The report's concluding paragraphs summarise the IAEA's findings: "33. All the nuclear material declared by Iran to the Agency is accounted for. Apart from the small quantities previously reported to the Board, the Agency has found no other undeclared nuclear material in Iran. However, gaps remain in the Agency's knowledge with respect to the scope and content of Iran's centrifuge programme. Because of this, and other gaps in the Agency's knowledge, including the role of the military in Iran's nuclear programme, the Agency is unable to make progress in its efforts to provide assurance about the absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities in Iran. ... 37. The Agency will pursue its investigation of all remaining outstanding issues relevant to Iran's nuclear activities, and the Director General will continue to report as appropriate."Yesterday the President of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, stated in a letter to the Cultural Ministry, the country was banning all work of CNN (Cable News Network), which is owned by Time Warner Inc., for making a translation error during a press conference on Saturday.However, today Ahmadinejad announced that Iran was lifting the ban. Apparently late Monday, Ahmadinejad had asked the Cultural Ministry to lift the ban after CNN apologized for their error."I want the channel to be allowed to resume its work owing to the apology it made," Ahmadinejad said in a letter sent to the Culture Ministry."Following a request from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the ban on the activities of CNN's stringer in Iran was lifted," Mohammad Hossein Khoshvaght, director of foreign media at Iran's Culture Ministry, told the media.Less than 24 hours ago Iran had banned CNN from the country for misquoting the president as speaking of "nuclear weapons" when he actually spoke of "nuclear technology" during Saturdays press conference.Israeli firm Environmental Energy Resources (EER) has announced that it has developed a new technology, plasma gasification melting technology (PGM), to safely dispose of low- and medium-level nuclear waste.  Extremely high temperatures are used to turn the waste into a mildly radioactive glass-like substance, which can be used as a building material.  The process also releases an extremely hot mixture of gases that can be used to power steam turbines, generating electricity. The company claims that 70% of this electricity is used to drive the PGM process, while 30% is available as exportable energy.The 'Ndrangheta, an Italian mafia syndicate, has been accused by a former member of the gang of sinking dozens of ships loaded with toxic waste, much of it radioactive. He says a journalist and cameraman were killed to keep them from revealing the activity.Turncoat Francesco Fonti has identified a wreck located a few months ago by environmental workers as MV Kunsky or Cunsky and says he sunk it himself in 1992, complete with 100 barrels of radioactive waste. The gang received £100,000 ($162,720) for the job.The wreck was scoured last week by a robot, but could not be identified.  It lies 480 feet below sea level, and is about 330 to 360 feet long.  Its description and location have been found to match an old account Fonti gave authorities three years ago, and environmental detection equipment has been dispatched to the ship, images of which do show barrels in the area.Fonti claims he blew it up with explosives from Holland and it was used to dispose of Norwegian nuclear waste. The damage seen by the team working at the site does appear consistent with this version of events. Prosecutors say it appears the issue is displaying "all the appearances of being a confirmation". Fonti says waste was disposed of for businesses across Europe.Nicola Pace, an Italian prosecutor, said there was evidence of "deliberate sinking of 42 ships with cargoes of waste, including radioactive waste" but there has never been concrete proof. Investigators will seek more shipwrecks if the mystery vessel does indeed have a toxic cargo. Over thirty vessels are believed to be in Italian waters.Both Fonti and environmental group Legambiente have also claimed vessels were sent to Somalia and other developing countries with toxic cargoes, which were either sunk with the ship or buried on land. Legambiente alleges that local rebel groups were given weapons in exchange for receiving the waste ships. Fonti claims that Italian TV journalist Ilaria Alpi's 1994 murder alongside her cameraman was because she had seen toxic waste arrive in Bosaso, Somalia.Japan and the United States have co-signed an agreement to remove and dispose of over 300 kilograms of weapons grade plutonium and an unspecified amount of highly enriched uranium. According to a statement released by the White House, the fissile material will be transported from the Fast Critical Assembly at the Japan Atomic Energy Agency to a "secure facility" in the U.S., and will be "fully converted into less sensitive forms".Barack Obama announced his aim to seek "the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons" in Prague in 2009. He has been pressing his foreign counterparts, both in Asia and Europe, demanding they either get rid of their excess nuclear materials via the U.S., or tighten security on stockpiles at home. Belgium and Italy have also agreed to hand over excess nuclear material. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall of the US National Security Council says Japan's pledge to hand over nuclear material to the U.S. shows leadership and dedication to the nonproliferation of nuclear material and nuclear weapons. The deal is part of an ongoing U.S. goal to reduce fissile material worldwide. The U.S. hopes to convince more nations to use reprocessing and enrichment facilities in an effort to minimize proliferation risks.Radiation at Japan's damaged Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant yesterday spiked to lethal levels around a leaking tank. Today the national Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA) said contaminated water may be pumped into the sea.Tanks holding contaminated water at the site continue to leak; operator Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) says up to 300 metric tons may have leaked from one tank alone. Radiation at that tank soared to 1,800 millisieverts per hour yesterday, a rate lethal to an exposed human in about four hours. Japanese law says nuclear workers cannot be exposed to more than 50 millisieverts in a year.TEPCO says other locations at the plant have readings of 70–230 millisieverts per hour. Waste water totalling more than 300,000 tons has already been collected at the site; more is being stored at a rate of 400 tons per day. An unknown quantity of radioactive groundwater is flowing into the sea.NRA boss Shinichi Tanaka told a press conference today that stored water may be pumped into the Pacific after treatment to reduce contamination to within legal limits. "I'm afraid that it is unavoidable to dump or release the water into the sea," he said, adding "careless management" was being applied to the water by TEPCO. TEPCO first noticed a leak at the now-deadly tank in July but said it was minor and the NRA gave it a level one "anomaly" rating on the seven-part international scale. Last week that was raised to "serious incident", level three, after TEPCO said up to 300 tons of water had leaked. The exact amount is unknown as there is no gauge to measure levels inside the tank and TEPCO staff had said water levels in the tank had remained constant.Last week levels under the tank, where lost water is thought to have seeped into the ground, stood at 100 millisieverts per hour, and another at the facility had a level of 70 millisieverts per hour. TEPCO found another leak yesterday in a pipe between coolant tanks. Highly radioactive material was dripping out, but TEPCO says the leak is now fixed. Monitoring at the site has been increased since the original leak's discovery two weeks ago.Around 1,000 tanks are used to store water from the power plant's coolant system, which was contaminated when three reactors melted down after a tsunami in March 2011. Around 160,000 people were evacuated in the worst nuclear disaster since 1986. Tanaka said "The situation at Fukushima is changing everyday... The accident has yet to be settled down."The new radiation involves beta rays, TEPCO said, which can be stopped with a sheet of metal. Water treatment has extracted caesium from the tanks but other radioactive elements remain. TEPCO's equipment to remove other contamination is out of action due to filter corrosion after a few months of operating, but the government has demanded it be returned to service this month.None of the tanks have monitoring equipment and TEPCO's initial procedure involved two employees manually checking each tank over a two-hour period. Since the tank was found to be leaking the total monitoring staff has increased from ten to 60, and patrols are carried out four times a day instead of twice a day.Prosecutors brought criminal charges against TEPCO and government officials including then-Prime Minister Naoto Kan for their handling of the crisis formed after the tsunami. Daily newspaper Sankei Shimbun today claimed all charges, brought after local residents complained, were to be dropped. Sankei Shimbun suggests a formal announcement may come within days.Kansai Electric Power today began shutting down one of only two reactors still generating power in Japan, reactor #3 at Oi Nuclear Power Plant, for mandatory inspection. The other, Oi's reactor #4, is to be permanently switched off this month. When the accident began nuclear energy supplied a third of Japan's power requirements, but in the aftermath of Fukushima the nation has switched to fossil fuels.Helen Clark (Prime Minister) and Don Brash (Leader of the Opposition) have gone head-to-head in the first live televised debate between the two leaders in the New Zealand general election of 2005.A studio audience contained equal numbers of National and Labour Party supporters.The debate ran through tax, race relations, foreign affairs, immigration, education and health (all the key policy areas).Taxes were at the top of the agenda; the debate was just hours after the National Party released their tax policy.Don Brash said that the nuclear freeze policy of New Zealand (which bans nuclear powered US warships from its ports) and Helen Clark's criticism of the war in Iraq have both contributed to her failure to secure a free-trade pact with the United States.Helen Clark was confident and aggressive and she often forced Don Brash into defensive explanations of National's policies.A power outage at Japan's Fukushima 1 nuclear plant on Tuesday has seen eight water transfer pumps shut down, hindering efforts to collect leaked radioactive water before it can reach the sea.Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), which runs the plant, said the affected pumps pull radioactive water out of a drainage channel, sending it through another channel to an enclosed artificial bay. This transfer began on April 17, following an official report released in February by TEPCO, revealing high concentration of radioactive materials found in the plant's drainage water.This latest news from the nuclear plant, which sits on the eastern edge of the island nation, alongside the North Pacific Ocean, comes four years after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, on March 12, 2011. This disaster saw the nuclear plant subjected to the combined force of an earthquake and tsunami, which caused an explosion at the plant. Since then, the site has remained unstable.The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution found small amounts of radioactive caesium isotopes along the coast of North America, reported early this month. Along with these caesium substances, TEPCO reports indicate up to 10 trillion becquerels of strontium-90 and 40 trillion becquerels of tritium have contaminated sea water as a result of, and in the aftermath of, the 2011 disaster.Russian expedition Arktika 2007 made the first descent to the ocean bottom below the North Pole, and planted a titanium flag of Russia on the seabed.Submarines have in the past traveled below the Arctic ice cap, but this is the first time man has reached the seabed below the North Pole. The Mir-1 and a second Mir-2 submarine face the challenge of diving 13,980 feet (4,261 metres) deep, and then having to resurface at the exact location where they've submerged, because they are not strong enough to penetrate the ice themselves. The nuclear ice-breaker vessel Rossiya is keeping the ice open for the research ship and the submarines.The expedition ship Akademik Fyodorov is carrying over 100 scientists to the North Pole. "Apart from the purely scientific goal of a comprehensive study of the climate and seabed at the North Pole, this expedition may help Russia to enlarge its territory by more than one million square kilometers," the Russia's Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute said. The mini-submarine Mir-1 has successfully reached the Arctic seabed. "Our mission is to remind the whole world that Russia is a great polar and research power," said expedition leader and deputy speaker of the Russian parliament Artur Chilingarov, who has been named presidential envoy to the Arctic by Russian President Vladimir Putin.The Indian navy yesterday began their ten-year lease of the nuclear submarine K-152 Nerpa, agreed with Russia several years ago, and secured at a cost in-excess of 900 million USD. Reporting on the addition to India's fleet, the Times of India announced the boat had been renamed to INS Chakra II.Indian naval officers assumed control of the submarine at the port town of Bolshoi Kamen, near Valdivostok. Ajai Malhotra, India's ambassador to Russia, Roman Trotsenko, head of United Shipbuilding Corporation, and Konstantin Sidenko, Eastern Military District commander, were amongst the officials attending yesterday's ceremony.Initially planned for the lease to begin in 2009, testing failures delayed the handover — including the death of 20 sailors in a Sea of Japan exercise where toxic gasses were accidentally released by the fire-suppression systems.The submarine can attain a peak speed of 30 knots and has a 8,140/12,770 tonne displacement. It can be equipped with both torpedoes and Granat cruise missiles.India previously operated a Russian Charlie class submarine, returned in 1991. With the acquisition of Nerpa, India becomes the sixth country operating nuclear submarines; previously only the United States, Russia, France, United Kingdom, and China counted such vessels as part of their fleets.According to a report by Thailand's The Nation, the Science Ministry has ordered a halt to work on the much-delayed Ongkharak reactor.The reactor, first commissioned from U.S. firm General Atomics in 1997 by Thailand's Office of Atomic Energy for Peace (OAP) has had prolonged delays in the project and faced threats from activists.Despite calls in 2002 for the reactor to be completed within two years, the reported position of the government now is to seek advice from the office of the Attorney General on how to proceed.  Irregularities uncovered by the State Audit Commission may lead to cancellation of the contract and legal action taken against people believed to have been involved in corruption or abuse of authority.Police have found the body of a man they had been hunting in Cumbria, United Kingdom for a series of shootings. Police later confirmed that twelve people had been killed with a further thirteen injured, three critically. Shots were fired in Whitehaven, Seascale and Egremont, with a total of thirty different crime scenes. The Sellafield nuclear reprocessing plant was locked down for the first time in its history. The prime suspect was named as 52 year old local man Derrick Bird, a taxi driver.  The first of Bird's victims was a fellow taxi driver shot in Whitehaven at about 10.30 local time, with the following victims being shot at random as Bird drove down the west coast.  Originally driving a Citroën Picasso, he was later said to be on foot when he crashed his vehicle. Members of the public were advised by police to stay indoors, and for those who saw him not to approach him, but to call them.  The manhunt covered the Boot or Scafell Pike area, and at 14:04 BST (13:04 UTC) the Deputy Chief Constable of Cumbria reported that a body believed to be Bird was found in a wood near Boot with a firearm, and that he had turned the weapon on himself.The affected area is popular with walkers and hikers, and currently, many schools across England are on half term, meaning the pupils have no classes.British news network BBC News spoke to several eye-witnesses in relation to the incidents, from each of the areas, including Peter Watson of Whitehaven. "When I first got here it must have just happened. There was a man lying on the ground with police stood over him and a jacket on him," he reported.Home Secretary Theresa May is due to make a statement on the incident to the House of Commons tomorrow.Radioactive water has been leaking from the damaged Fukushima nuclear plant following damage caused by Typhoon Etau. The plant's drainage system has been inundated by a surge of sea water brought in by the typhoon, which reached Japan on Wednesday. A spokesperson for TEPCO, the company that runs the plant, yesterday said they were investigating the leaked water but it did not present a significant danger.This comes after authorities in eastern Japan ordered over 100,000 people to leave the area as a precautionary measure as the typhoon proceeded to flood the town of Joso. Up to 25 people are still missing and at least three are dead as a consequence of the flooding. Hundreds of thousands more people in the region have been encouraged to evacuate as well. Rescue efforts are being hampered by the floods, with some people being plucked from roofs and cars by teams in helicopters.The Fukushima nuclear plant was damaged after a huge earthquake and tsunami in March 2011. As recently as April this year there were concerns about leakages as a result of electrical problems with water pumps that caused contaminated water to escape into the Pacific Ocean. A large volume of water used as part of the cooling mechanism before the reactors were damaged has since been stored in numerous steel drums.A UN (UNCHR) committee on the Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) found the the US government in violation of Native Americans' land rights and the international anti-racism convention.The committee of 18 independent experts said in a press release that it had received credible information alleging that Western Shoshone peoples were being denied their traditional right to land. The decision details US actions against the Western Shoshone and calls upon the United States to immediately:Respect and protect the human rights of the Western Shoshone peoples.Initiate a dialogue with the representatives of the Western Shoshone peoples in order to find a solution acceptable to them, and which complies with their rights.Adopt the following measures until a final decision or settlement is reached on the status, use and occupation of Western Shoshone ancestral lands in accordance with due process of law and US obligations under the Convention.Freeze all efforts to privatize Western Shoshone ancestral lands for transfer to multinational extractive industries and energy developers.Desist from all activities planned and/or conducted on Western Shoshone ancestral lands.Stop imposing grazing fees, livestock impoundments, and hunting, fishing and gathering restrictions; and rescind all notices already given.Bernice Lalo, Western Shoshone delegate, said, "The mines are polluting our waters, destroying hot springs and exploding sacred mountains—our burials along with them—attempting to erase our signature on the land. We are coerced and threatened by mining and Federal agencies when we seek to continue spiritual prayers for traditional food or medicine on Shoshone land." Mr. Lalo continued, "We feel the decision will be helpful by opening the door. We will continue this struggle to give our children a better chance."Joe Kennedy, a Western Shoshone, said, "We have rights to protect our homelands and stop the destruction of our land, water, and air by the abuses of the United States government and the multinational corporations. He said, "The situation is outrageous, and we're glad the United Nations Committee agrees with us."Laura Inouye, Oxfam America, said, "This is a tremendous victory for the Shoshone people; the UN decision acknowledges the U.S. government's violations of Shoshone civil, political, economic, and cultural rights." Inouye concluded, "Hopefully, they will now be granted the justice that the US government has denied them for years." Oxfam America is a human rights organizaition which has backed the Western Shoshone.A UN official said, according to the AP, that the US mission to the UN in Geneva had no immediate response to the decision.The Western Shoshones' rights to the land, 60 million acres stretching across Nevada, Idaho, Utah and Califonia, were recognized by the US under the 1863 Treaty of Ruby Valley, which was signed by President Ulysses S. Grant a few years later. It was questioned by the US Supreme Court, 1979; the land was labeled 'government trusteeship' and much was claimed as federal territory. President Bush signed a bill in July 2004 that gave approval to distributing more than $145 million as compensation after the Shoshones voted to accept the distribution in a disputed election. Jim Manley, a spokesman for Sen. Harry Reid (D. Nevada) and a proponent of the bill, said "The tribe twice has voted decisively in favor of the distribution."Mass-walkouts took place today in cities throughout the United Kingdom, as students campaigned against rising tuition fees and government cuts. Protests took place for the second time in as many weeks in places such as Aberystwyth, Cambridge, Southampton, Liverpool, and Brighton. Events included a 'study-in' at the Edinburgh Liberal Democrat headquarters, a 10am protest in Trafalgar Square attended by thousands, and a 'dress in red' march in Manchester.In Cardiff, at least a hundred students rallied outside the main gates of Cardiff University's main building, in an event organised by a group named Actions Against Cuts Cardiff, with the support of a member of the National Union of Students executive committee. Occupations of university buildings have also begun in Birmingham, Plymouth, and the Royal Holloway. In London, students are infuriated by what they say is London South Bank University's decision to ban anti-cut related meetings from their campus earlier this month. One student described it as "undemocratic and scandalous" as, according to the students, they were forced out of their booked room by security guards, and prevented from partaking on any on-campus meetings -- but South Bank University maintains that it was a "misunderstanding" due to a double-booked room. Dr. Phil Cardew, Pro Vice-Chancellor of LSBU, maintained that "freedom of speech lies at the very heart of the higher education community whether it is academic, political or social debate", and that "the students were encouraged to continue their discussions in the Students Union".Not all the demonstrations were peaceful. Central London saw two officers injured as the police attempted to hold back the protesters, a police van attacked and vandalised, and three arrests were made. Police, keen to make sure that the 30 Millbank occupation was not repeated, were out in force, clashing with students in Cambridge, where two arrests were made, and kettling protesters of up to a thousand, according to protest organisers, as dusk approached.The group that organised the protests, the "National Campaign Against Fees And Cuts" (NCAFAC), told students in the run-up to the protests to not "be afraid of blocking traffic if you have enough people". On their blog, they stated that "[they] would like to see university students planning to march around their campus, bursting into lecture theatres and spreading the word", a move that would breach many University codes of conduct. When contacted by Wikinews, the group did not respond to requests for clarification.Universities are facing more than £900m ($1.4bn) cuts in the next three years. This protest comes as, earlier this month, 50,000 students and lecturers took to the streets in a National Union of Students organised rally, which culminated in the violent occupation of the Conservative Party campaign headquarters at 30 Millbank. In Westminster, a student suspected of throwing a fire extinguisher off the headquarters' roof pleaded guilty in court today, under the charge of violent disorder, and will appear in Southwark Crown Court at a later date for sentencing, the maximum of which is five years imprisonment. Some protesters involved in the 30 Millbank occupation led an 'energising meeting' in Cardiff yesterday, prior to today's demonstration.Many students do not understand the reasoning behind the cuts. The Trotskyist student group, Cardiff University Socialist Students, wonder why, compared to the "£120 billion the government throws away every year on evaded, avoided and uncollected taxes", the "few billion" required to pay tuition fees is "tiny". The group also advocates cutting the Trident nuclear deterrent in order to pay for fees, and wonder why the vice-chancellor of the university was awarded a 4% pay rise (to £275k p.a.) compared to last year, whilst during the economic recession.Last week, three hundred sixth-formers marched in Finchley, Margaret Thatcher's old constituency, throwing shirts at the local Tory headquarters, echoing the phrase "They ripped the shirts of our backs". Lower income college students are hit badly by the budget cuts, as plans to abolish Educational Maintenance Allowance (EMA), the up-to £30 a week subsidy for 16-19 year-old full-time students with household incomes of £30,810 or less.The protests were primarily organised on the popular social networking site, Facebook. One Facebook user said earlier this week that the protests were "a perfect opportunity for students to show how disappointed we are with Nick Clegg", who was advised by security officers earlier to desist from cycling from his home in Putney to Downing Street over fears that he could be pounced upon by angry students en route.The Ulysses spacecraft has been retired from service today, following a successful 17-year mission. The probe was launched aboard Space Shuttle Discovery, in October 1990. Following separation from Discovery, Ulysses was boosted into a Heliocentric orbit by an Inertial Upper Stage, and a Payload Assist Module.Ulysses was a joint venture between the European Space Agency (ESA), and the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Its primary mission was to study the Sun. It made several significant discoveries, including that the density of dust particles in the solar wind was over 30 times what scientists had expected, and that the solar magnetic field was weaker, and more complex, than expected.Over the last few years, the spacecraft has started to show its age, and several major systems have failed. When one of the high-band communications antenna was shut down to conserve power, technicians were unable to restart it, and from January onwards, the low-band antenna had to be used to relay all data to and from the probe. When the main power system started to fail, the decision was taken to retire the spacecraft before its propellant froze, making it completely inoperable.Ulysses operated for over three times its design life. It was originally planned to survive for five years, and make a single orbit of the Sun. Its seventeen year mission duration made it one of the oldest spacecraft in service at the time of its retirment, along with the Hubble Space Telescope, which was launched just six months earlier, the Voyager probes, and the much older Pioneer Solar probes. It was also one of a handful of spacecraft to use a nuclear radioisotope thermoelectric generator to generate power.Three men were arrested Wednesday following a police raid in Slovakia near the Hungarian border. A Ukrainian citizen and two Hungarians were arrested while trying to sell nearly half a kilogram of enriched uranium, Slovak police said.The 481.4 grams of powdered material seized were examined by experts who determined that it was comprised of the fissile isotope uranium-235 and the common isotope uranium-238. Uranium-238 is the most abundant naturally occurring form of uranium while uranium-235 occurs naturally at approximately 0.72%. Authorities revealed preliminary results that suggest the material recovered contained 98.6% uranium-235. Uranium is considered to be weapons-grade when the uranium-235 content is at a minimum of 85%.Photographs of the radioactivity measurements taken by police were shown to nuclear experts who have suggested that the uranium recovered was not likely as dangerous as authorities believe. Former UN weapons inspector David Albright downplayed the effectiveness of uranium-235 for use in a "dirty bomb". "Uranium is not very radiotoxic," said Albright. "The net effect of dispersing half a kilo of uranium -- who cares? Each person would get so little it would have no effect." Slovak police official Michal Kopčík suggested, however, that the uranium recovered would have been useful in preparing a dirty bomb. "The radioactive uranium was even more dangerous because it was in powder form," said Kopčík at a news conference following the arrests. "It was possible to use it in various ways for terrorist attacks."The investigation and surveillance of the suspects had reportedly been going on for months. "Police were watching the sellers as well as the buyers," said Kopčík, although the identity of the buyers was not revealed.Police said the material originated from an unspecified location in the former Soviet Union.The exercises are planned to focus on anti-submarine patrols, as well as improving both country's ability to detect shipments of nuclear material, which are currently banned.  According to analysts, the patrols are not intended to serve to intimidate North Korea; rather, they are considered a gesture of support towards the South.  The announcement marks the first response from the US military to the incident, although economic measures were announced earlier today.  Several hours before the announcement of military patrols, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak announced economic measures against North Korea in response to the attack.  The measures, endorsed by the US government, include the following:Ending trade between the two Koreas;Preventing North Korean vessels from entering South Korean ports or waterways;The resumption of a Cold War tactic known as "psychological warfare," including propaganda broadcast at the border and the dropping of leaflets from balloons;Requesting the intervention of the United NationsThe moves are considered the most aggressive steps South Korea could take short of war.  In a statement, President Lee said that "[w]e have always tolerated North Korea’s brutality, time and again.  But now things are different. North Korea will pay a price corresponding to its provocative acts. Trade and exchanges between South and North Korea will be suspended."The United States has not said what measures it will take in response to the incident beyond the announced naval patrols.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is to meet with President Lee on Wednesday, after which she will announce the US response.Clinton did say, however, that "[t]he Republic of Korea can continue to count on the full support of the United States.  Our support for South Korea’s defense is unequivocal."  She is currently in China, for talks between the US and Chinese governments.North Korea has continually denied its involvement in the warship's sinking, and the country's military released a statement warning that "[i]f [South Korea] sets up new tools for psychological warfare such as loudspeakers and leaves slogans for psychological warfare intact, ignoring our demands, we will directly aim and open fire to destroy them."  A North Korean military commander told the state newspaper that "[m]ore powerful physical strikes will be taken to eradicate the root of provocation if [South Korea] challenges to our fair response."A South Korean 1,200 tonne Pohang-class corvette of the Republic of Korea Navy (ROKN), the ROKS Cheonan, sank March 26, 2010 near the disputed maritime border with North Korea.  Of the 104 aboard, 46 seamen went down. The multi-national Joint Civilian-Military Investigation Group (JIG) investigation determined that a shockwave and bubble effect from a non-contact underwater horning North Korean torpedo explosion caused the naval vessel to split apart and sink.On March 31, 2006 the AMSAT-DL/IUZ team in Bochum, Germany managed to receive a signal by the American space probe Voyager 1 using the 20m antenna. It is the first time that a group of radio amateurs has successfully attempted this. The team included: Freddy de Guchteneire, James Miller, Hartmut Päsler and Achim Vollhardt. Voyager 1 had been launched on September 5, 1977 by NASA and was the first spacecraft to transmit close-up pictures of Jupiter and Saturn. In 2004 Voyager 1 entered the termination shock region, the region where the solar wind has weakened enough to mix with the interstellar medium, thereby leaving the Solar System.Voyager 1 is now 98 AU from Earth (14.7 billion km or three times the distance from Earth to Pluto). It is the most distant human-made object. The nuclear powered probe continues to measure the properties of the interstellar magnetic field.U.S. Republican Party presidential candidate and former Governor Buddy Roemer of Louisiana took some time to answer a few questions from Wikinews reporter William S. Saturn.Roemer served four terms in the U.S. House of Representatives in the 1980s as a member of the Democratic Party. He was elected governor as a Democrat in 1987 before switching to the Republican Party ahead of the 1991 election for governor. That year, he lost the party's primary to state legislator David Duke. After his governorship, Roemer worked as CEO of Business First Bank in Baton Rouge.Roemer announced his candidacy for president back in July after exploring a bid for several months.  He has focused his campaign on the issue of campaign finance reform, refusing to accept money from political action committees (PACs) and limiting individual campaign contributions to $100.  He raised a total of $126,500 in the third quarter of 2011, far short of the $14.2 million raised by former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  For his campaign, Roemer has adopted the slogan 'Free to Lead'.  He rails against corruption, special interests, and money in politics, and has expressed support for the Occupy Wall Street protests.  Furthermore, he has taken issue positions in favor of fair trade, a balanced federal budget, and a strengthened national defense.Roemer has not been invited to any national presidential debates.  He has focused largely on the first-in-the-nation primary state of New Hampshire, and recently signed up to appear on the state's primary ballot.  However, a recent University of New Hampshire Survey Center poll shows him with less than one percent support in the state. Pearson Cross of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette commented, "If Buddy can exceed expectations in New Hampshire or even sneak in and steal third — that would give a boost that he could build on".File:Robert Kelly File Photo.JPGA group of volcanologists from the UK and USA have traveled to North Korea to assist them with conducting scientific investigations and installing equipment near the volcano Mount Paektu.Wikinews interviewed Dr. Robert Kelly of Pusan National University (PNU) in South Korea, who specialises in security and diplomacy and Dr. Jim Gill from the University of California who has visited the Chinese side of Mount Paektu.Zach Johnson won the 2007 Masters Golf Tournament in Augusta, Georgia Sunday. His score of +1 over par (289) is the second highest score ever recorded for the Masters. He was two strokes ahead of three runners up, Tiger Woods, Retief Goosen, and Rory Sabbatini.This is Johnson's first win in a Major Championship, and second PGA win. He finished in 17th place in the 2005 PGA Championship, but was cut from the British Open three years in a row. Johnson netted $1,305,000 USD for this win.Tiger Woods, four-time Masters winner and score record holder for the tournament, said "This one's not disappointing, I threw this tournament away on two days when I had two good rounds and I [finished] bogey, bogey. So four bogeys in the last two holes basically cost me the tournament." Woods failed to finish any of the four rounds below par.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.A group of Melbourne scientists has released a study of the energy problems confronting Australia in the future. The study endorses the use of nuclear energy and attacks some of the data used by anti-nuclear campaigners. The scientists from the University of Melbourne say their research shows that the benefits of nuclear energy have been underestimated and concerns about nuclear waste overplayed. The six month study compared the environmental impact, health risks, economic effects and social implications of the use of fossil fuels, renewable energy sources such as wind and solar energy, and nuclear power.According to the Melbourne University, the investigation will significantly impact the nuclear debate in Australia, with findings showing that hundreds of times more uranium could be available than was predicted in a widely quoted European study. Associate Professor Martin Sevior, of Melbourne University's school of physics, claims the recent study bolsters the case for Australia to invest more in nuclear energy. Sevior says his research into nuclear waste disposal should help dispel many environmentalists' fears."One thing that's perhaps not always realised is that the amount of waste that comes out of a typical plant is around 30 tonnes a year, he said. "The amount of waste that comes out of a coal-fired power plant is around 1,000 tonnes a day." Prof Sevior says his study has exposed flaws in the European study into the limits of the uranium industry. "This previous research overestimated the energy costs and carbon emissions generated by the construction of nuclear power plants and for mining uranium," Prof Sevior said.The Australian Conservation Foundation's (ACF) nuclear campaigner, Dave Sweeney, says the study appears flawed and does not provide a sound argument for the use of nuclear energy."It glances over some really key concerns of proliferation, key areas of reactor safety are not delved into too deeply and they have direct links to industry websites for further information," said Mr Sweeney. "I'm not sure it's altogether appropriate or altogether balanced to be referring people to the nuclear industry's own websites for further information on such matters as radioactive waste, nuclear weapons and nuclear reactor safety." The six-month study found Australia has more uranium than was previously thought. "We have enough uranium in Australia to power the country for thousands of years," said Prof Sevior.Friends of the Earth nuclear campaigner Dr Jim Green said nuclear power should never be considered as an energy source. He said greenhouse emissions saved by switching to nuclear power were only about 5 per cent of total emissions and could only be achieved if thousands of reactors were installed globally. Dr Green said an energy debate in Australia was necessary, but it had to go beyond just the nuclear alternative.Albert Einstein's best known equation, and probably the best known aspect of all physics, E=mc2, turns one hundred today. September 27, 1905 is generally considered the birthday of the equation because that is the day that Einstein's paper outlining the significance of the equation arrived in the offices of the German journal Annalen der Physik.In the equation, 'E' stands for Energy, 'm' stands for mass, and 'c' stands for the speed of light.The equation shows that matter and energy are, essentially, two aspects of the same thing, and that a small amount of matter can be converted into an enormous amount of energy. Nuclear reactions, including fusion in the sun and in nuclear weapons, are examples of large amounts of energy released from the conversion of comparatively small quantities of mass. The United Nations declared 2005 the International Year of Physics in recognition of Albert Einstein's work in 1905. In addition to discovering his famous equation, over the course of 5 months in 1905 Einstein developed the theory of Special Relativity (which led him to the equation E=mc2), proved the existence of atoms and molecules, and showed that light is made of photons. 1905 is often called Einstein's annus mirabilis, or miracle year.	 The 100th anniversary of Einstein's miracle year is being celebrated in many countries around the world as the World Year of Physics. In the UK, it is called the Einstein Year.Japan's nuclear watchdog, the Nuclear Regulation Authority, yesterday said the revealed leaking of an estimated 300 metric tons of radioactive water at the damaged Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant was a "serious incident", level three on the seven-part international scale.Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), who run the plant, announced the leak last week and the new accident's level-three rating was made after consultation with the International Atomic Energy Agency. However, the Nuclear Regulation Authority notes this estimate may be overstated as it relies on the leaking tank being full before the leak began.There is no gauge to measure water quantities inside the tank, used to store contaminated water after the initial accident. Water is being collected at a rate of 400 tons per day, and an unknown quantity of radioactive groundwater is flowing into the sea. Industry minister Toshimitsu Motegi has already announced increased governmental supervision of TEPCO's leak mitigation after two other leaks this year. Motegi said TEPCO's antileak methods were like "whack-a-mole". Nuclear Regulation Authority disaster taskforce leader Shinji Kinjo has said TEPCO fails to document inspections and is poor at monitoring the tanks on the site. TEPCO staff had said water levels in the tank had remained constant.Shunichi Tanaka, head of the Nuclear Regulation Authority, said "We have no idea whether it's actually 300 tons that leaked. We need to look into this issue more." TEPCO initially said the leak was small when it was found in July and the watchdog gave it a level one "anomaly" rating at the time. Inspectors now say radiation below this tank stands at 100 millisieverts per hour, and another at the facility has a level of 70 millisieverts per hour."One hundred millisieverts per hour is equivalent to the limit for accumulated exposure over five years for nuclear workers; so it can be said that we found a radiation level strong enough to give someone a five-year dose of radiation within one hour," said TEPCO boss Masayuki Ono last week. TEPCO shares dropped yesterday by 2.6% to 497 yen.The Brazilian president Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva is due to meet the French President Nicholas Sarkozy later today. Lula da Silva is due to meet with Sarkozy in French Guiana.The two are expected discuss issues such as greater cooperation between the two countries and the coordination of work on areas around Brazil and French Guiana.In addition, subjects such as biofuels, nuclear science and defence are expected to be discussed in the meeting.After the meeting, at the headquarters of the local Lula and Sarkozy will present the design for a road bridge that is planned to be built over the river Oiapoque, linking the Brazil to French Guiana. Initial forecasts are suggesting that the bridge, will be about 400 meters long, and will cost approximately US$38.6 million. It is scheduled to be completed for 2010.The cost of the project is planned to be divided equally between Brazil and France. This was made clear in an agreement between the two nations that was signed in July 2005. The agreement was approved by the Brazilian government in November 2007 and was approved by the French Parliament in March 2007.Dr Frank Cain, a political expert and Lecturer in Defence and Australian Political and Economic History at the University of New South Wales has told Wikinews that many political commentators are finding Prime Minister John Howard's revival of the nuclear debate "surprising".Australia came close to building a nuclear power reactor in the Jervis Bay Territory in the late 1960s but was later abandoned in 1971 after massive anti-nuclear demonstrations. The fear that Australia would produce nuclear weapons as a by-product of its nuclear energy programs killed the plans and a change in government ended the plans.The fear that the Jervis Bay reactor could have been used to produce weapons grade plutonium was substantiated when secret 1969 cabinet documents were released in 2000 stating that "The government will acquire a facility with long term defence implications" and "Over 25 years of operation the reactor will provide six tonnes of plutonium".Anthony Albanese, the opposition's Shadow Minister for Environment and Heritage accused Mr Howard on Tuesday of living in the past and of not being serious about the debate.In an interview with Wikinews, Dr Cain said that there are a number of possibilities for Mr Howard's nuclear revival. Dr Cain said one of these could be to challenge the opposition over its three mine policy. "One of his (Howard's) motives might be to challenge the ALP over its three-mine policy" said Dr Cain.Dr Cain warned that such a move would be unpopular with younger voters, "The young people would not support his programme for the uranium mining companies to expand their mine numbers and production" he said.Speaking on the economics of nuclear energy in Australia, Dr Cain said it was still uneconomic due to Australia's large supplies of coal and natural gas. "It still remains uneconomic for Australia to commence generating electricity from nuclear plants.  Our coal supplies will last for another century and the natural gas deposits seem unlimited.  These gas supplies will probably displace coal generation and thereby reduce the greenhouse gas problem" he said.Martin Sevior, an associate professor in particle physics at the University of Melbourne told ABC Radio on Monday that nuclear power can be generated "almost as cheaply as coal". He said in the future nuclear power should be able to be produced for $AUD40 per megawatt-hour, versus the current price of $30 per megawatt-hour for coal.Prof Sevior said that when the cost of carbon sequestering was included in the running costs for coal fired power plants that nuclear energy was "very, very competitive".John Price, a professor at Monash University and expert in nuclear energy (having designed some in the UK) told ABC Radio that nuclear energy is competitive in many parts of the world, including Europe, North America and Eastern Asia.Prof Price said that the use of nuclear energy in Australia is "inevitable" in Australia's future and that it may well be economically competitive with new lower emission coal fired power plants of which the costs are not known.According to Prof Price, Victoria will need to generate 3 gigawatts more electricity within the next ten years, but conceded that it is likely that gas and coal fired plants will be built to meet that need.Howard would not be proposing for the government to own its own uranium enrichment plant and would need to entice an overseas company to establish a plant in Australia according to Dr Cain. Dr Cain questioned whether a company from France, Russia, the US or China would be willing to come to Australia to "do what it has been doing quite well in its own country for decades".Dr Cain said overseas companies would see "no financial advantage for them to do so".The Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, has issued a new report titled "Implementation of the NPT Safeguards Agreement in the Islamic Republic of Iran" and distributed it to members of the United Nations Security Council and the Agency's member states, but notes that the report is to remain secret, stating that "unless the IAEA Board of Governors and Security Council decide otherwise, the Agency cannot authorise its release to the public."Iran is presently neither a member of the UN Security Council nor of the IAEA Board of Governors. As of 20:52, 29 April 2006 (UTC) or earlier, the report was made available on the Internet on the website payvand.com, dated April 28, 2006. It is unknown whether or not the release was authorised by the United Nations Security Council or the IAEA.The report's concluding paragraphs summarise the IAEA's findings: "33. All the nuclear material declared by Iran to the Agency is accounted for. Apart from the small quantities previously reported to the Board, the Agency has found no other undeclared nuclear material in Iran. However, gaps remain in the Agency's knowledge with respect to the scope and content of Iran's centrifuge programme. Because of this, and other gaps in the Agency's knowledge, including the role of the military in Iran's nuclear programme, the Agency is unable to make progress in its efforts to provide assurance about the absence of undeclared nuclear material and activities in Iran. ... 37. The Agency will pursue its investigation of all remaining outstanding issues relevant to Iran's nuclear activities, and the Director General will continue to report as appropriate."Yesterday the President of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, stated in a letter to the Cultural Ministry, the country was banning all work of CNN (Cable News Network), which is owned by Time Warner Inc., for making a translation error during a press conference on Saturday.However, today Ahmadinejad announced that Iran was lifting the ban. Apparently late Monday, Ahmadinejad had asked the Cultural Ministry to lift the ban after CNN apologized for their error."I want the channel to be allowed to resume its work owing to the apology it made," Ahmadinejad said in a letter sent to the Culture Ministry."Following a request from President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the ban on the activities of CNN's stringer in Iran was lifted," Mohammad Hossein Khoshvaght, director of foreign media at Iran's Culture Ministry, told the media.Less than 24 hours ago Iran had banned CNN from the country for misquoting the president as speaking of "nuclear weapons" when he actually spoke of "nuclear technology" during Saturdays press conference.Israeli firm Environmental Energy Resources (EER) has announced that it has developed a new technology, plasma gasification melting technology (PGM), to safely dispose of low- and medium-level nuclear waste.  Extremely high temperatures are used to turn the waste into a mildly radioactive glass-like substance, which can be used as a building material.  The process also releases an extremely hot mixture of gases that can be used to power steam turbines, generating electricity. The company claims that 70% of this electricity is used to drive the PGM process, while 30% is available as exportable energy.The 'Ndrangheta, an Italian mafia syndicate, has been accused by a former member of the gang of sinking dozens of ships loaded with toxic waste, much of it radioactive. He says a journalist and cameraman were killed to keep them from revealing the activity.Turncoat Francesco Fonti has identified a wreck located a few months ago by environmental workers as MV Kunsky or Cunsky and says he sunk it himself in 1992, complete with 100 barrels of radioactive waste. The gang received £100,000 ($162,720) for the job.The wreck was scoured last week by a robot, but could not be identified.  It lies 480 feet below sea level, and is about 330 to 360 feet long.  Its description and location have been found to match an old account Fonti gave authorities three years ago, and environmental detection equipment has been dispatched to the ship, images of which do show barrels in the area.Fonti claims he blew it up with explosives from Holland and it was used to dispose of Norwegian nuclear waste. The damage seen by the team working at the site does appear consistent with this version of events. Prosecutors say it appears the issue is displaying "all the appearances of being a confirmation". Fonti says waste was disposed of for businesses across Europe.Nicola Pace, an Italian prosecutor, said there was evidence of "deliberate sinking of 42 ships with cargoes of waste, including radioactive waste" but there has never been concrete proof. Investigators will seek more shipwrecks if the mystery vessel does indeed have a toxic cargo. Over thirty vessels are believed to be in Italian waters.Both Fonti and environmental group Legambiente have also claimed vessels were sent to Somalia and other developing countries with toxic cargoes, which were either sunk with the ship or buried on land. Legambiente alleges that local rebel groups were given weapons in exchange for receiving the waste ships. Fonti claims that Italian TV journalist Ilaria Alpi's 1994 murder alongside her cameraman was because she had seen toxic waste arrive in Bosaso, Somalia.Japan and the United States have co-signed an agreement to remove and dispose of over 300 kilograms of weapons grade plutonium and an unspecified amount of highly enriched uranium. According to a statement released by the White House, the fissile material will be transported from the Fast Critical Assembly at the Japan Atomic Energy Agency to a "secure facility" in the U.S., and will be "fully converted into less sensitive forms".Barack Obama announced his aim to seek "the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons" in Prague in 2009. He has been pressing his foreign counterparts, both in Asia and Europe, demanding they either get rid of their excess nuclear materials via the U.S., or tighten security on stockpiles at home. Belgium and Italy have also agreed to hand over excess nuclear material. Elizabeth Sherwood-Randall of the US National Security Council says Japan's pledge to hand over nuclear material to the U.S. shows leadership and dedication to the nonproliferation of nuclear material and nuclear weapons. The deal is part of an ongoing U.S. goal to reduce fissile material worldwide. The U.S. hopes to convince more nations to use reprocessing and enrichment facilities in an effort to minimize proliferation risks.Radiation at Japan's damaged Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant yesterday spiked to lethal levels around a leaking tank. Today the national Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA) said contaminated water may be pumped into the sea.Tanks holding contaminated water at the site continue to leak; operator Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) says up to 300 metric tons may have leaked from one tank alone. Radiation at that tank soared to 1,800 millisieverts per hour yesterday, a rate lethal to an exposed human in about four hours. Japanese law says nuclear workers cannot be exposed to more than 50 millisieverts in a year.TEPCO says other locations at the plant have readings of 70–230 millisieverts per hour. Waste water totalling more than 300,000 tons has already been collected at the site; more is being stored at a rate of 400 tons per day. An unknown quantity of radioactive groundwater is flowing into the sea.NRA boss Shinichi Tanaka told a press conference today that stored water may be pumped into the Pacific after treatment to reduce contamination to within legal limits. "I'm afraid that it is unavoidable to dump or release the water into the sea," he said, adding "careless management" was being applied to the water by TEPCO. TEPCO first noticed a leak at the now-deadly tank in July but said it was minor and the NRA gave it a level one "anomaly" rating on the seven-part international scale. Last week that was raised to "serious incident", level three, after TEPCO said up to 300 tons of water had leaked. The exact amount is unknown as there is no gauge to measure levels inside the tank and TEPCO staff had said water levels in the tank had remained constant.Last week levels under the tank, where lost water is thought to have seeped into the ground, stood at 100 millisieverts per hour, and another at the facility had a level of 70 millisieverts per hour. TEPCO found another leak yesterday in a pipe between coolant tanks. Highly radioactive material was dripping out, but TEPCO says the leak is now fixed. Monitoring at the site has been increased since the original leak's discovery two weeks ago.Around 1,000 tanks are used to store water from the power plant's coolant system, which was contaminated when three reactors melted down after a tsunami in March 2011. Around 160,000 people were evacuated in the worst nuclear disaster since 1986. Tanaka said "The situation at Fukushima is changing everyday... The accident has yet to be settled down."The new radiation involves beta rays, TEPCO said, which can be stopped with a sheet of metal. Water treatment has extracted caesium from the tanks but other radioactive elements remain. TEPCO's equipment to remove other contamination is out of action due to filter corrosion after a few months of operating, but the government has demanded it be returned to service this month.None of the tanks have monitoring equipment and TEPCO's initial procedure involved two employees manually checking each tank over a two-hour period. Since the tank was found to be leaking the total monitoring staff has increased from ten to 60, and patrols are carried out four times a day instead of twice a day.Prosecutors brought criminal charges against TEPCO and government officials including then-Prime Minister Naoto Kan for their handling of the crisis formed after the tsunami. Daily newspaper Sankei Shimbun today claimed all charges, brought after local residents complained, were to be dropped. Sankei Shimbun suggests a formal announcement may come within days.Kansai Electric Power today began shutting down one of only two reactors still generating power in Japan, reactor #3 at Oi Nuclear Power Plant, for mandatory inspection. The other, Oi's reactor #4, is to be permanently switched off this month. When the accident began nuclear energy supplied a third of Japan's power requirements, but in the aftermath of Fukushima the nation has switched to fossil fuels.Helen Clark (Prime Minister) and Don Brash (Leader of the Opposition) have gone head-to-head in the first live televised debate between the two leaders in the New Zealand general election of 2005.A studio audience contained equal numbers of National and Labour Party supporters.The debate ran through tax, race relations, foreign affairs, immigration, education and health (all the key policy areas).Taxes were at the top of the agenda; the debate was just hours after the National Party released their tax policy.Don Brash said that the nuclear freeze policy of New Zealand (which bans nuclear powered US warships from its ports) and Helen Clark's criticism of the war in Iraq have both contributed to her failure to secure a free-trade pact with the United States.Helen Clark was confident and aggressive and she often forced Don Brash into defensive explanations of National's policies.A power outage at Japan's Fukushima 1 nuclear plant on Tuesday has seen eight water transfer pumps shut down, hindering efforts to collect leaked radioactive water before it can reach the sea.Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), which runs the plant, said the affected pumps pull radioactive water out of a drainage channel, sending it through another channel to an enclosed artificial bay. This transfer began on April 17, following an official report released in February by TEPCO, revealing high concentration of radioactive materials found in the plant's drainage water.This latest news from the nuclear plant, which sits on the eastern edge of the island nation, alongside the North Pacific Ocean, comes four years after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, on March 12, 2011. This disaster saw the nuclear plant subjected to the combined force of an earthquake and tsunami, which caused an explosion at the plant. Since then, the site has remained unstable.The Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution found small amounts of radioactive caesium isotopes along the coast of North America, reported early this month. Along with these caesium substances, TEPCO reports indicate up to 10 trillion becquerels of strontium-90 and 40 trillion becquerels of tritium have contaminated sea water as a result of, and in the aftermath of, the 2011 disaster.Russian expedition Arktika 2007 made the first descent to the ocean bottom below the North Pole, and planted a titanium flag of Russia on the seabed.Submarines have in the past traveled below the Arctic ice cap, but this is the first time man has reached the seabed below the North Pole. The Mir-1 and a second Mir-2 submarine face the challenge of diving 13,980 feet (4,261 metres) deep, and then having to resurface at the exact location where they've submerged, because they are not strong enough to penetrate the ice themselves. The nuclear ice-breaker vessel Rossiya is keeping the ice open for the research ship and the submarines.The expedition ship Akademik Fyodorov is carrying over 100 scientists to the North Pole. "Apart from the purely scientific goal of a comprehensive study of the climate and seabed at the North Pole, this expedition may help Russia to enlarge its territory by more than one million square kilometers," the Russia's Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute said. The mini-submarine Mir-1 has successfully reached the Arctic seabed. "Our mission is to remind the whole world that Russia is a great polar and research power," said expedition leader and deputy speaker of the Russian parliament Artur Chilingarov, who has been named presidential envoy to the Arctic by Russian President Vladimir Putin.The Indian navy yesterday began their ten-year lease of the nuclear submarine K-152 Nerpa, agreed with Russia several years ago, and secured at a cost in-excess of 900 million USD. Reporting on the addition to India's fleet, the Times of India announced the boat had been renamed to INS Chakra II.Indian naval officers assumed control of the submarine at the port town of Bolshoi Kamen, near Valdivostok. Ajai Malhotra, India's ambassador to Russia, Roman Trotsenko, head of United Shipbuilding Corporation, and Konstantin Sidenko, Eastern Military District commander, were amongst the officials attending yesterday's ceremony.Initially planned for the lease to begin in 2009, testing failures delayed the handover — including the death of 20 sailors in a Sea of Japan exercise where toxic gasses were accidentally released by the fire-suppression systems.The submarine can attain a peak speed of 30 knots and has a 8,140/12,770 tonne displacement. It can be equipped with both torpedoes and Granat cruise missiles.India previously operated a Russian Charlie class submarine, returned in 1991. With the acquisition of Nerpa, India becomes the sixth country operating nuclear submarines; previously only the United States, Russia, France, United Kingdom, and China counted such vessels as part of their fleets.According to a report by Thailand's The Nation, the Science Ministry has ordered a halt to work on the much-delayed Ongkharak reactor.The reactor, first commissioned from U.S. firm General Atomics in 1997 by Thailand's Office of Atomic Energy for Peace (OAP) has had prolonged delays in the project and faced threats from activists.Despite calls in 2002 for the reactor to be completed within two years, the reported position of the government now is to seek advice from the office of the Attorney General on how to proceed.  Irregularities uncovered by the State Audit Commission may lead to cancellation of the contract and legal action taken against people believed to have been involved in corruption or abuse of authority.Police have found the body of a man they had been hunting in Cumbria, United Kingdom for a series of shootings. Police later confirmed that twelve people had been killed with a further thirteen injured, three critically. Shots were fired in Whitehaven, Seascale and Egremont, with a total of thirty different crime scenes. The Sellafield nuclear reprocessing plant was locked down for the first time in its history. The prime suspect was named as 52 year old local man Derrick Bird, a taxi driver.  The first of Bird's victims was a fellow taxi driver shot in Whitehaven at about 10.30 local time, with the following victims being shot at random as Bird drove down the west coast.  Originally driving a Citroën Picasso, he was later said to be on foot when he crashed his vehicle. Members of the public were advised by police to stay indoors, and for those who saw him not to approach him, but to call them.  The manhunt covered the Boot or Scafell Pike area, and at 14:04 BST (13:04 UTC) the Deputy Chief Constable of Cumbria reported that a body believed to be Bird was found in a wood near Boot with a firearm, and that he had turned the weapon on himself.The affected area is popular with walkers and hikers, and currently, many schools across England are on half term, meaning the pupils have no classes.British news network BBC News spoke to several eye-witnesses in relation to the incidents, from each of the areas, including Peter Watson of Whitehaven. "When I first got here it must have just happened. There was a man lying on the ground with police stood over him and a jacket on him," he reported.Home Secretary Theresa May is due to make a statement on the incident to the House of Commons tomorrow.Radioactive water has been leaking from the damaged Fukushima nuclear plant following damage caused by Typhoon Etau. The plant's drainage system has been inundated by a surge of sea water brought in by the typhoon, which reached Japan on Wednesday. A spokesperson for TEPCO, the company that runs the plant, yesterday said they were investigating the leaked water but it did not present a significant danger.This comes after authorities in eastern Japan ordered over 100,000 people to leave the area as a precautionary measure as the typhoon proceeded to flood the town of Joso. Up to 25 people are still missing and at least three are dead as a consequence of the flooding. Hundreds of thousands more people in the region have been encouraged to evacuate as well. Rescue efforts are being hampered by the floods, with some people being plucked from roofs and cars by teams in helicopters.The Fukushima nuclear plant was damaged after a huge earthquake and tsunami in March 2011. As recently as April this year there were concerns about leakages as a result of electrical problems with water pumps that caused contaminated water to escape into the Pacific Ocean. A large volume of water used as part of the cooling mechanism before the reactors were damaged has since been stored in numerous steel drums.A UN (UNCHR) committee on the Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) found the the US government in violation of Native Americans' land rights and the international anti-racism convention.The committee of 18 independent experts said in a press release that it had received credible information alleging that Western Shoshone peoples were being denied their traditional right to land. The decision details US actions against the Western Shoshone and calls upon the United States to immediately:Respect and protect the human rights of the Western Shoshone peoples.Initiate a dialogue with the representatives of the Western Shoshone peoples in order to find a solution acceptable to them, and which complies with their rights.Adopt the following measures until a final decision or settlement is reached on the status, use and occupation of Western Shoshone ancestral lands in accordance with due process of law and US obligations under the Convention.Freeze all efforts to privatize Western Shoshone ancestral lands for transfer to multinational extractive industries and energy developers.Desist from all activities planned and/or conducted on Western Shoshone ancestral lands.Stop imposing grazing fees, livestock impoundments, and hunting, fishing and gathering restrictions; and rescind all notices already given.Bernice Lalo, Western Shoshone delegate, said, "The mines are polluting our waters, destroying hot springs and exploding sacred mountains—our burials along with them—attempting to erase our signature on the land. We are coerced and threatened by mining and Federal agencies when we seek to continue spiritual prayers for traditional food or medicine on Shoshone land." Mr. Lalo continued, "We feel the decision will be helpful by opening the door. We will continue this struggle to give our children a better chance."Joe Kennedy, a Western Shoshone, said, "We have rights to protect our homelands and stop the destruction of our land, water, and air by the abuses of the United States government and the multinational corporations. He said, "The situation is outrageous, and we're glad the United Nations Committee agrees with us."Laura Inouye, Oxfam America, said, "This is a tremendous victory for the Shoshone people; the UN decision acknowledges the U.S. government's violations of Shoshone civil, political, economic, and cultural rights." Inouye concluded, "Hopefully, they will now be granted the justice that the US government has denied them for years." Oxfam America is a human rights organizaition which has backed the Western Shoshone.A UN official said, according to the AP, that the US mission to the UN in Geneva had no immediate response to the decision.The Western Shoshones' rights to the land, 60 million acres stretching across Nevada, Idaho, Utah and Califonia, were recognized by the US under the 1863 Treaty of Ruby Valley, which was signed by President Ulysses S. Grant a few years later. It was questioned by the US Supreme Court, 1979; the land was labeled 'government trusteeship' and much was claimed as federal territory. President Bush signed a bill in July 2004 that gave approval to distributing more than $145 million as compensation after the Shoshones voted to accept the distribution in a disputed election. Jim Manley, a spokesman for Sen. Harry Reid (D. Nevada) and a proponent of the bill, said "The tribe twice has voted decisively in favor of the distribution."Mass-walkouts took place today in cities throughout the United Kingdom, as students campaigned against rising tuition fees and government cuts. Protests took place for the second time in as many weeks in places such as Aberystwyth, Cambridge, Southampton, Liverpool, and Brighton. Events included a 'study-in' at the Edinburgh Liberal Democrat headquarters, a 10am protest in Trafalgar Square attended by thousands, and a 'dress in red' march in Manchester.In Cardiff, at least a hundred students rallied outside the main gates of Cardiff University's main building, in an event organised by a group named Actions Against Cuts Cardiff, with the support of a member of the National Union of Students executive committee. Occupations of university buildings have also begun in Birmingham, Plymouth, and the Royal Holloway. In London, students are infuriated by what they say is London South Bank University's decision to ban anti-cut related meetings from their campus earlier this month. One student described it as "undemocratic and scandalous" as, according to the students, they were forced out of their booked room by security guards, and prevented from partaking on any on-campus meetings -- but South Bank University maintains that it was a "misunderstanding" due to a double-booked room. Dr. Phil Cardew, Pro Vice-Chancellor of LSBU, maintained that "freedom of speech lies at the very heart of the higher education community whether it is academic, political or social debate", and that "the students were encouraged to continue their discussions in the Students Union".Not all the demonstrations were peaceful. Central London saw two officers injured as the police attempted to hold back the protesters, a police van attacked and vandalised, and three arrests were made. Police, keen to make sure that the 30 Millbank occupation was not repeated, were out in force, clashing with students in Cambridge, where two arrests were made, and kettling protesters of up to a thousand, according to protest organisers, as dusk approached.The group that organised the protests, the "National Campaign Against Fees And Cuts" (NCAFAC), told students in the run-up to the protests to not "be afraid of blocking traffic if you have enough people". On their blog, they stated that "[they] would like to see university students planning to march around their campus, bursting into lecture theatres and spreading the word", a move that would breach many University codes of conduct. When contacted by Wikinews, the group did not respond to requests for clarification.Universities are facing more than £900m ($1.4bn) cuts in the next three years. This protest comes as, earlier this month, 50,000 students and lecturers took to the streets in a National Union of Students organised rally, which culminated in the violent occupation of the Conservative Party campaign headquarters at 30 Millbank. In Westminster, a student suspected of throwing a fire extinguisher off the headquarters' roof pleaded guilty in court today, under the charge of violent disorder, and will appear in Southwark Crown Court at a later date for sentencing, the maximum of which is five years imprisonment. Some protesters involved in the 30 Millbank occupation led an 'energising meeting' in Cardiff yesterday, prior to today's demonstration.Many students do not understand the reasoning behind the cuts. The Trotskyist student group, Cardiff University Socialist Students, wonder why, compared to the "£120 billion the government throws away every year on evaded, avoided and uncollected taxes", the "few billion" required to pay tuition fees is "tiny". The group also advocates cutting the Trident nuclear deterrent in order to pay for fees, and wonder why the vice-chancellor of the university was awarded a 4% pay rise (to £275k p.a.) compared to last year, whilst during the economic recession.Last week, three hundred sixth-formers marched in Finchley, Margaret Thatcher's old constituency, throwing shirts at the local Tory headquarters, echoing the phrase "They ripped the shirts of our backs". Lower income college students are hit badly by the budget cuts, as plans to abolish Educational Maintenance Allowance (EMA), the up-to £30 a week subsidy for 16-19 year-old full-time students with household incomes of £30,810 or less.The protests were primarily organised on the popular social networking site, Facebook. One Facebook user said earlier this week that the protests were "a perfect opportunity for students to show how disappointed we are with Nick Clegg", who was advised by security officers earlier to desist from cycling from his home in Putney to Downing Street over fears that he could be pounced upon by angry students en route.The Ulysses spacecraft has been retired from service today, following a successful 17-year mission. The probe was launched aboard Space Shuttle Discovery, in October 1990. Following separation from Discovery, Ulysses was boosted into a Heliocentric orbit by an Inertial Upper Stage, and a Payload Assist Module.Ulysses was a joint venture between the European Space Agency (ESA), and the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Its primary mission was to study the Sun. It made several significant discoveries, including that the density of dust particles in the solar wind was over 30 times what scientists had expected, and that the solar magnetic field was weaker, and more complex, than expected.Over the last few years, the spacecraft has started to show its age, and several major systems have failed. When one of the high-band communications antenna was shut down to conserve power, technicians were unable to restart it, and from January onwards, the low-band antenna had to be used to relay all data to and from the probe. When the main power system started to fail, the decision was taken to retire the spacecraft before its propellant froze, making it completely inoperable.Ulysses operated for over three times its design life. It was originally planned to survive for five years, and make a single orbit of the Sun. Its seventeen year mission duration made it one of the oldest spacecraft in service at the time of its retirment, along with the Hubble Space Telescope, which was launched just six months earlier, the Voyager probes, and the much older Pioneer Solar probes. It was also one of a handful of spacecraft to use a nuclear radioisotope thermoelectric generator to generate power.Three men were arrested Wednesday following a police raid in Slovakia near the Hungarian border. A Ukrainian citizen and two Hungarians were arrested while trying to sell nearly half a kilogram of enriched uranium, Slovak police said.The 481.4 grams of powdered material seized were examined by experts who determined that it was comprised of the fissile isotope uranium-235 and the common isotope uranium-238. Uranium-238 is the most abundant naturally occurring form of uranium while uranium-235 occurs naturally at approximately 0.72%. Authorities revealed preliminary results that suggest the material recovered contained 98.6% uranium-235. Uranium is considered to be weapons-grade when the uranium-235 content is at a minimum of 85%.Photographs of the radioactivity measurements taken by police were shown to nuclear experts who have suggested that the uranium recovered was not likely as dangerous as authorities believe. Former UN weapons inspector David Albright downplayed the effectiveness of uranium-235 for use in a "dirty bomb". "Uranium is not very radiotoxic," said Albright. "The net effect of dispersing half a kilo of uranium -- who cares? Each person would get so little it would have no effect." Slovak police official Michal Kopčík suggested, however, that the uranium recovered would have been useful in preparing a dirty bomb. "The radioactive uranium was even more dangerous because it was in powder form," said Kopčík at a news conference following the arrests. "It was possible to use it in various ways for terrorist attacks."The investigation and surveillance of the suspects had reportedly been going on for months. "Police were watching the sellers as well as the buyers," said Kopčík, although the identity of the buyers was not revealed.Police said the material originated from an unspecified location in the former Soviet Union.The exercises are planned to focus on anti-submarine patrols, as well as improving both country's ability to detect shipments of nuclear material, which are currently banned.  According to analysts, the patrols are not intended to serve to intimidate North Korea; rather, they are considered a gesture of support towards the South.  The announcement marks the first response from the US military to the incident, although economic measures were announced earlier today.  Several hours before the announcement of military patrols, South Korean President Lee Myung-bak announced economic measures against North Korea in response to the attack.  The measures, endorsed by the US government, include the following:Ending trade between the two Koreas;Preventing North Korean vessels from entering South Korean ports or waterways;The resumption of a Cold War tactic known as "psychological warfare," including propaganda broadcast at the border and the dropping of leaflets from balloons;Requesting the intervention of the United NationsThe moves are considered the most aggressive steps South Korea could take short of war.  In a statement, President Lee said that "[w]e have always tolerated North Korea’s brutality, time and again.  But now things are different. North Korea will pay a price corresponding to its provocative acts. Trade and exchanges between South and North Korea will be suspended."The United States has not said what measures it will take in response to the incident beyond the announced naval patrols.  Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is to meet with President Lee on Wednesday, after which she will announce the US response.Clinton did say, however, that "[t]he Republic of Korea can continue to count on the full support of the United States.  Our support for South Korea’s defense is unequivocal."  She is currently in China, for talks between the US and Chinese governments.North Korea has continually denied its involvement in the warship's sinking, and the country's military released a statement warning that "[i]f [South Korea] sets up new tools for psychological warfare such as loudspeakers and leaves slogans for psychological warfare intact, ignoring our demands, we will directly aim and open fire to destroy them."  A North Korean military commander told the state newspaper that "[m]ore powerful physical strikes will be taken to eradicate the root of provocation if [South Korea] challenges to our fair response."A South Korean 1,200 tonne Pohang-class corvette of the Republic of Korea Navy (ROKN), the ROKS Cheonan, sank March 26, 2010 near the disputed maritime border with North Korea.  Of the 104 aboard, 46 seamen went down. The multi-national Joint Civilian-Military Investigation Group (JIG) investigation determined that a shockwave and bubble effect from a non-contact underwater horning North Korean torpedo explosion caused the naval vessel to split apart and sink.On March 31, 2006 the AMSAT-DL/IUZ team in Bochum, Germany managed to receive a signal by the American space probe Voyager 1 using the 20m antenna. It is the first time that a group of radio amateurs has successfully attempted this. The team included: Freddy de Guchteneire, James Miller, Hartmut Päsler and Achim Vollhardt. Voyager 1 had been launched on September 5, 1977 by NASA and was the first spacecraft to transmit close-up pictures of Jupiter and Saturn. In 2004 Voyager 1 entered the termination shock region, the region where the solar wind has weakened enough to mix with the interstellar medium, thereby leaving the Solar System.Voyager 1 is now 98 AU from Earth (14.7 billion km or three times the distance from Earth to Pluto). It is the most distant human-made object. The nuclear powered probe continues to measure the properties of the interstellar magnetic field.U.S. Republican Party presidential candidate and former Governor Buddy Roemer of Louisiana took some time to answer a few questions from Wikinews reporter William S. Saturn.Roemer served four terms in the U.S. House of Representatives in the 1980s as a member of the Democratic Party. He was elected governor as a Democrat in 1987 before switching to the Republican Party ahead of the 1991 election for governor. That year, he lost the party's primary to state legislator David Duke. After his governorship, Roemer worked as CEO of Business First Bank in Baton Rouge.Roemer announced his candidacy for president back in July after exploring a bid for several months.  He has focused his campaign on the issue of campaign finance reform, refusing to accept money from political action committees (PACs) and limiting individual campaign contributions to $100.  He raised a total of $126,500 in the third quarter of 2011, far short of the $14.2 million raised by former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.  For his campaign, Roemer has adopted the slogan 'Free to Lead'.  He rails against corruption, special interests, and money in politics, and has expressed support for the Occupy Wall Street protests.  Furthermore, he has taken issue positions in favor of fair trade, a balanced federal budget, and a strengthened national defense.Roemer has not been invited to any national presidential debates.  He has focused largely on the first-in-the-nation primary state of New Hampshire, and recently signed up to appear on the state's primary ballot.  However, a recent University of New Hampshire Survey Center poll shows him with less than one percent support in the state. Pearson Cross of the University of Louisiana at Lafayette commented, "If Buddy can exceed expectations in New Hampshire or even sneak in and steal third — that would give a boost that he could build on".File:Robert Kelly File Photo.JPGA group of volcanologists from the UK and USA have traveled to North Korea to assist them with conducting scientific investigations and installing equipment near the volcano Mount Paektu.Wikinews interviewed Dr. Robert Kelly of Pusan National University (PNU) in South Korea, who specialises in security and diplomacy and Dr. Jim Gill from the University of California who has visited the Chinese side of Mount Paektu.Zach Johnson won the 2007 Masters Golf Tournament in Augusta, Georgia Sunday. His score of +1 over par (289) is the second highest score ever recorded for the Masters. He was two strokes ahead of three runners up, Tiger Woods, Retief Goosen, and Rory Sabbatini.This is Johnson's first win in a Major Championship, and second PGA win. He finished in 17th place in the 2005 PGA Championship, but was cut from the British Open three years in a row. Johnson netted $1,305,000 USD for this win.Tiger Woods, four-time Masters winner and score record holder for the tournament, said "This one's not disappointing, I threw this tournament away on two days when I had two good rounds and I [finished] bogey, bogey. So four bogeys in the last two holes basically cost me the tournament." Woods failed to finish any of the four rounds below par.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.