28 July 2014: Scientists analyse effects of global warming, atmospheric ozone on crops 25 September 2013: 2012 Report on Gender Equality and Development looks at women's issues in India 15 June 2013: Gubernatorial candidate Tom Tancredo comments on North Colorado proposal 11 June 2013: Colorado counties consider forming new U.S. state 9 July 2012: Drought conditions hit much of US again in 2012 25 November 2011: Scientists sequence small genome of a pest: spider mite 19 November 2011: EU increases 2012 budget by two per cent 14 August 2011: Texas continues to suffer record-breaking drought 4 April 2011: Genetically modified dairy cows produce 'human milk' 31 March 2011: British haulage managing director Edward Stobart dies at age 56 30 August 2010: Tobacco attracts predators with chemicals in response to caterpillars, a study finds 30 July 2010: Former USDA employee Shirley Sherrod to sue blogger Andrew Breitbart 24 December 2009: UK Wikinews Shorts: December 24, 2009 22 October 2009: UN says more investment in agriculture needed to tackle world hungerAfter "Taiwan Flower Tourist Train" started at Kaohsiung Station on Oct. 30, the main show - 2007 Taipei International Flower Exhibition (2007 TIFE), supervised by Council of Agriculture, Executive Yuan, R.O.C. (COA Taiwan) and organized by Taiwan Floriculture Development Association (TFDA), opened from yesterday (Oct. 31) at Taipei World Trade Center Exhibition Hall (TWTC). This show had more than 200 participating companies and organizations exhibiting products, solutions, and international specialists in flower industry.At the opening ceremony yesterday, Chia-chuan Su (Commissioner of COA Taiwan) encouraged the export market in Taiwan's flower industry and mentioned applications on arts and cultural decorations. "After 12 years' suspension and Taiwan Orchid Exhibition held in Tainan several months ago, This show (TIFE) finally located at TWTC and gathered flower industry and application companies in several countries including Taiwan. We (organizers) also set a special pavilion for orchids to promote 2008 Taiwan Orchid Exhibition, if we successfully hold this exhibition, we'll expand exhibition space next year.""Taiwan had some unique creations and diversifications especially flower seeds and materials in the flower industry, with those conditions above, the good quality and its excellence can be shown in its industry in Taiwan." Shui-bian Chen (President of Republic of China, Taiwan) remarked at Opening Ceremony.In the international pavilions, some of participants like the Netherlands, Japan, Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand, and Australia showed their own style with booth decoration, national culture, and unique products like planting. By the way, TFDA will invite entertainer from 1st season "Taiwan Million Star" finalist Judy Ting-wei Chou and zodiac professional in Taiwan Yung-heng "the Zodiac Sign Prince" Yen for the "Stage of Floral Show Zone" performances separately on Nov. 2 & 3 with night hours.According to TFDA, 2007 TIFE is a professional trade show in the flower industry, the opening day is only available for trade and industrial visitors and medias, public people should enter with tickets on next four days from today. And night hours will be available on Nov. 2 & 3. With security and quality issue, minors under 120 cm aren't permitted to enter the showground.Yesterday, World Bank released its 2012 World Development Report on Gender Equality and Development.  India was mentioned over 300 times in the report, many more times than more developed countries like Spain which was mentioned 48 times, New Zealand which was mentioned 15 times, and Canada which was mentioned 22 times.The report mentions the importance of gender equality for national development as it ties into improve productivity, improved outcomes for the next generation, and more representative decision making.  Across the board for India, improved gender equality on the local level led to improvements in sanitation, water supplies, irrigation, and schools. Nationally, the report found that a woman's income correlated positively with the number of years her children spent in school. There is no gender gap in male/female school attendance for the richest 20% of Indian families, but males outnumber females by a ratio of 5 to 1 for the poorest 20% of Indian families. Girls in the bottom 20% on average only finish Grade 1 while males finish Grade 6. By age 15, according to Young Lives, Indian parents from Andhra Pradesh prioritize family outcomes for their male children over their female ones.Indian women earn $0.64 for every $1 earned by their male counterparts. They fare better proportionally than their female German counterparts who earn $0.62 and Georgia who earn $0.60. In the developing world, they lag behind Malawi where women earn $0.90 for every $1 earned by men, Egypt where women earn $0.82, and Benin and Mexico at $0.80. A fifth of married Indian women, including those with their own income, do not make decisions on household spending. The 18% average puts Indian female control of their earnings equal to their counterparts in Mozambique. India is between Nigeria at 14%, and Zambia and Rwanda at 20%.Indian women are having fewer children.  The report found that while it took 100 years for the average woman in the United States to go from having six children to having three, it took India only 35 years. Women still have high maternal mortality rates, especially when compared to neighboring Sri Lanka.  India's rate is six times as high. Very young females still die at very high rates in India, especially in North India, because of gender preferences for male children. While according to the report this trend is spreading nationally, the overall number of excess females deaths dropped by 8,000 from 265,000 in 1990 to 257,000 in 2008.  In China, the total excess female deaths grew by 202,000. The report cites improved access to ultra-sound and similar technologies as a cause for the very high rates in both India and China because it allows parents to select the sex of their child. In a national exception, the height of North Indian women increased more slowly and they had worse anthropometric outcomes proportional to their male counterparts.Estimates by the World Bank report writers based on Demographic and Health Surveys suggest 15% of Indian women think it is acceptable for a husband to beat his wife if she refuses to have sex with him, 20% if she burns food and 30% if she argues with him.Economic well being plays a role in the number of children a woman has.  The richest 20% of women average around 1.5 total children.  The poorest 20% average about 4 children. India's poorest 20% is comparable to Colombia and the Dominican Republic.  The number is much lower than many Afrian countries including Niger, Mali, Zambia, Malawi, Liberia, Nigeria, Tanzania and Kenya where the poorest 20% average over 7 children.The Indian gains highlighted include several local ones.  This includes using women's self-help groups focused on taking best practices from research and applying them in farming in the state of Orissa.  The Self Employed Women’s Association has assisted women in Gujarat by providing childcare.  Quotas for women elected in local governments led to changes in underlying beliefs about the effectiveness of women in government.  The creation of an all-women's police force in Tamil Nadu led to increased reporting of crimes against women and general comfort in going to the police to report a problem.The report offers several pieces of advice for Indian policy makers, including trying to change current role models to include more women who do not follow social norms. It advises laws be created and enforced to prevent sex selection of children. The report also encourages strengthening ownership and land rights, which should also address the agricultural productivity gender-gap.University of Chicago, Illinois biologists Dr. Benjamin Voight, Dr. Sridhar Kudaravalli, Dr. Xiaoquan Wen and Dr. Jonathan Pritchard have identified regions of human DNA showing the strongest marks of natural selection within the last 5,000 to 15,000 years.They found that many recent genetic changes are related to the development of agriculture.  In particular, the genes for digestion of milk into adulthood occurred only after some level of domestication of animals.  Most mammals drink milk only in infancy.The work may shed light on the genetic factors involved in various human medical conditions, including high blood pressure and alcoholism.The Chicago finding also contradicts the tacit assumption of much social science that human evolution "ground to a halt" in the distant past.  Even evolutionary psychologists have tempered their claims based upon this assumption.The study is based upon DNA changes found in three populations examined by the HapMap project: Africans, East Asians and Europeans.The study has been published in PLOS-Biology.Honey-bee decline has accelerated in North America beyond the steady attrition of the past 25 years according to scientists and farmers.  A relatively new term - "Colony Collapse Disorder" is being used to describe this poorly understood phenomenon. Colony Collapse Disorder (or CCD) is a syndrome evidenced by massive die-off affecting an entire insect population.  The cause of the syndrome is not yet well understood. CCD may be caused by mites or associated diseases or unknown pathogens. CCD is possibly linked to pesticide use though several studies have found no common environmental factors between unrelated outbreaks studied. According to Dennis vanEngelsdorp, a bee specialist with the Pennsylvania State Department of Agriculture, "We are pretty sure, but not certain, that it is a contagious disease."Honey-bees are responsible for approximately one third of the United States crop pollination including such species as: peaches, soybeans, apples, pears, pumpkins, cucumbers, cherries, raspberries, blackberries and strawberries.From 1971 to 2006, approximately one half of the U.S. honey-bee colonies vanished. The rate of attrition reached new proportions in the year 2006, which were alarming to many farmers and honey-bee scientists.At least eleven different states as well as portions of Canada are known to have been affected by colony collapse disorder.  The disorder has been identified in a geographically diverse group of states including Georgia, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and California.  In some states the loss of honey-bee colonies is estimated as high as 75 percent of the population.  The phenomenon is particularly important for crops such as almond growing in California, where honey-bees are the predominant pollinator and the crop value is $US 1.5 billion.  Total U.S. crops that are wholly dependent on the honey-bee are known to exceed $US 15 billion. In a related development on January 17, 2007, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has drastically tightened use rules on some of the chief pesticides used on apples, blueberries, grapes, peaches, pears and other fruits pollenized by honey-bees.  Citing general environmental protection and farmworker safety, the EPA recently announced the tightening of use or phaseout of the highly toxic pesticides phosmet and Azinphos methyl.  Under these rule changes the use of these organophosphate pesticide would be allowed continued use for five years but have somewhat reduced dosage limits. Azinphos methyl is a dangerous neurotoxin derived from nerve agents used during World War II.The usually inhibited desert locust Schistocerca gregaria, which wiles away the months as a solitary, insignificant grasshopper can shift into horrifying swarms due to a chemical commonly found in people’s brain, a research showed. The solitary and gregarious phases of locusts are so different that they were considered distinct species until 1921.  Scientists have known for several years that touching a solitary desert locust on the hind legs, or allowing it to see or smell other locusts, is enough to transform it into the gregarious phase. This week, Science magazine published strong scientific evidence that the behavioural and physical makeover is effected by serotonin, a carrier of nerve signals in virtually all animals.Researchers from the University of Sydney, University of Oxford, and University of Cambridge have pinpointed a single neurochemical - serotonin - as the cause of an instinctive behavioural change from the locusts' solitarious phase to become gregarious and form disastrous swarms of millions. Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, or 5-HT) is a monoamine neurotransmitter synthesized in serotonergic neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) and enterochromaffin cells in the gastrointestinal tract of animals including humans. Serotonin is also found in many mushrooms and plants, including fruits and vegetables.In the central nervous system, serotonin plays an important role as a neurotransmitter in the modulation of anger, aggression, body temperature, mood, sleep, human sexuality, appetite, metabolism, as well as stimulating vomiting. Keeping serotonin levels high is the aim of many anti-depressant drugs. "Serotonin profoundly influences how we humans behave and interact," said co-author Dr Swidbert Ott, from Cambridge University. "So to find that the same chemical is what causes a normally shy, antisocial insect to gang up in huge groups is amazing," he explained.Prior to swarming, the locusts undergo a series of physical changes - their body colour darkens and their muscles grow stronger. The 'Phase change' is at the heart of the locust pest problem, for locusts are one of the world's most destructive insect pests, affecting the livelihoods of 1 in 10 people on the planet. "To effectively control locust swarms, we must first understand exactly how it is that a single shy locust becomes a highly social animal that swarms," said University of Sydney Professor Steve Simpson who led the research for almost 20 years.The 'phase change' was caused by stimulation of sensory hairs on the hind leg of locusts. Professor Simpson's team began to investigate the neurological and neurochemical basis of this effect. Dr Michael L. Anstey, of the University of Oxford, supervised by Professor Simpson, and Dr Stephen M. Rogers, part of Professor Malcolm Burrows' team at Cambridge, led the research investigating this novel field. "Here we have a solitary and lonely creature, the desert locust. But just give them a little serotonin, and they go and join a gang," said Malcolm Burrows.Of 13 neurochemicals in locusts that were gregarious (swarming form) and solitarious (non-swarming), the only neurochemical that showed a relationship with social behaviour was serotonin. "It was clear that as locusts switched from solitarious to gregarious, the amount of serotonin in their central nervous systems also increased," explained Professor Simpson. "The next step was to determine if this relationship actually meant that serotonin was the cause of gregarious, and thus swarming, behaviour in locusts," he added.To do this, the researchers either added serotonin or prevented the production of serotonin in locusts. The results show unequivocally that serotonin is responsible for the behavioural transformation of locusts from solitarious to gregarious. Serotonin was also found to be involved in social behaviour of species across the animal kingdom, including crustaceans, rats, and humans. The team has found that swarm-mode locusts had approximately three times more serotonin in their thoracic ganglia, part of the central nervous system, than their calm, solitary peers. "The question of how locusts transform their behaviour in this way has puzzled scientists for almost 90 years," said co-author Dr Michael L. Anstey, from Oxford University. "We knew the [physical] stimuli that cause locusts' amazing Jekyll and Hyde-style transformation. But nobody had been able to identify the changes in the nervous system that turn antisocial locusts into monstrous swarms. Now we finally have the evidence to provide an answer," he added. "The fact that serotonin causes the transition from a shy, antisocial animal into a party animal means that pharmacologically, gregarious locusts are on Ecstasy or Prozac," said Professor Simpson, who also explained that "(whilst a very good idea, in reality) it would be difficult to create a locust control agent that interferes with serotonin."Professor Simpson's team has significantly discovered that "locusts offer an exemplar of the how to span molecules to ecosystems - one of the greatest challenges in modern science." He also offered an explanation on the problem of using a locust control agent: "Because social behaviour in so many animals depends on serotonin, if we used unspecific serotonin antagonists in the environment, we run the risk of affecting other processes in locusts, as well as severely impacting animals other than locusts. We would need to be sure that locusts have a unique serotonin receptor that causes phase change, which we haven't identified yet. Any locust control agent would have to be specific for this serotonin receptor in locusts."This study, which was sponsored by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council of England, England's Royal Society, the Australian Research Council Federation, and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada. The scientists that the conclusions of the study will provide a hint as to how to solve the problem of locust infestations, which affect China, Africa, and Australia. Dr. Rogers said the landmark discovery has opened a new area of study into ways of blocking specific serotonin receptors, “something that would allow us to break apart these swarms before they develop.”Charles Valentine Riley, Norman Criddle, and Sir Boris Petrovich Uvarov were also involved in the understanding and destructive control of the locust. Research at Oxford University has earlier identified that swarming behaviour is a response to overcrowding. Increased tactile stimulation of the hind legs causes an increase in levels of serotonin. This causes the locust to change color, eat much more, and breed much more easily. Green locusts turn bright yellow and gain large muscles. The transformation of the locust to the swarming variety is induced by several contacts per minute over a four-hour period. It is estimated that the largest swarms have covered hundreds of square miles and consisted of many billions of locusts."Locust" is the swarming phase of short-horned grasshoppers of the family Acrididae. The origin and apparent extinction of certain species of locust—some of which reached 6 inches (15 cm) in length—are unclear. These are species that can breed rapidly under suitable conditions and subsequently become gregarious and migratory. They form bands as nymphs and swarms as adults — both of which can travel great distances, rapidly stripping fields and greatly damaging crops. Though there are about 8,000 currently known species of grasshoppers, only 12 form locust swarms. In the history of the insect Desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria) is probably the most important because of its wide distribution (North Africa, Middle East, and Indian subcontinent) and its ability to migrate widely. Adult Desert Locusts grow to between 2-2.5 inches in length, can weigh 0.05-0.07 oz, and are excellent fliers. In religious mythology, the eighth Plague of Egypt in the Bible and Torah, a swarm of locusts ate all the crops of Egypt. "The gregarious phase is a strategy born of desperation and driven by hunger, and swarming is a response to find pastures new," Steve Rogers from Cambridge University emphasises.The extinction of the Rocky Mountain locust (Melanoplus spretus) in the late 19th century has been a source of puzzlement. Recent research suggests that the breeding grounds of this insect in the valleys of the Rocky Mountains came under sustained agricultural development during the large influx of gold miners, destroying the underground eggs of the locust. That species of locust had some of the largest recorded swarms.In the 1915 locust plague, which lasted from March to October 1915, locusts stripped areas in and around Palestine of almost all vegetation. This invasion of awesome proportions seriously compromised the already-depleted food supply of the region and sharpened the misery of all Jerusalemites. The plague resulted in several increases to the price of food. On April 25, 1915, the New York Times described the price increases: "Flour costs $15 a sack. Potatoes are six times the ordinary price. Sugar and petroleum are unprocurable and money has ceased to circulate."In the 2004 locust outbreak, the largest infestation of Desert Locust happened in Western and Northern Africa, affected a number of countries in the fertile northern regions of Africa. These infestations covered hundreds of square miles and involve billions of vegetation-munching insects, which repeatedly devastated agriculture, and cost huge amounts of money to control.In November, a locusts swarm 3.7 miles (6km) long devastated parts of Australia. Along the process of their active phases, these insects can eat their own bodyweight daily, and can fly swiftly, in swarms of billions covering 60 miles in five to eight hours in search of food. Researchers are now considering the development of sprays that convert swarming locusts back into solitary insects. “We hope that this greater understanding of the mechanisms causing such a big change in behaviour will help in the control of this pest, and more broadly help in understanding the widespread changes in behavioural traits of animals.” Malcolm Burrows said. However, according to Paul Anthony Stevenson of Germany's University of Leipzig, the discovery will not likely to a short-term pest control solution. "To be effective, antiserotonin-like chemicals would need to be applied when the animals are solitary locusts and scarce targets in vast expanses of desert -- about three locusts per 100 square meters (1,076 sq ft)," Stevenson explained. "Current serotonergic drugs are not designed for passing through the insect cuticle and sheath encasing the nervous system, nor are they insect-selective, hence their use is ecologically unjustifiable," he added.Edward Stobart, famed for his construction of the Eddie Stobart truck empire and being its chief executive officer for over thirty years, has died at the age of 56. In a statement, the Stobart Group commented: "It is with great sadness and regret that Stobart Group shares the news that Edward Stobart, son of Eddie Stobart, passed away at 8:10 AM this morning at University Hospital Coventry, after heart problems yesterday."When Eddie Stobart — Edward's father, who is aged over eighty — created the company during the 1950s in Cumbria in northern England, it originally involved itself in the business of agriculture. In the 1970s, the business was given the name Eddie Stobart Limited and became a haulage service. Eddie Stobart then handed over the company to his son. The enterprise subsequently became the most popular of that industry within the United Kingdom, according to BBC News Online; it extended to include transportation by air and railways, as well as warehousing and management of logistics.Due to the cult following that they had achieved via a fanbase of 'Stobart spotters', which involves the observation of their company's uniquely named vehicles, the Stobart Group decided to create an official followers' group, which now has in excess of twenty-five thousand members. Eddie Stobart-branded merchandise has also been released.William Stobert — the brother of Edward Stobart — and Andrew Tinkler purchased the business from Edward in 2004. Edward subsequently relocated to the Midlands and took over what was to become an unsuccessful truck trailer building firm in 2009.Edward Stobart experienced his death in Coventry, England at 0810 BST (0710 UTC) on Thursday. The Stobart Group have expressed their condolences to "Edward's wife Mandy, his children and family at this difficult time."Haulage firm Preston's of Potto's chairwoman Ann Preston described Edward as "the most iconic figure that has ever been in this industry" and that the death of a man who "was very passionate about road transport" and "didn't want to do anything else" since he was a child was "a massive loss". The Stobart Members' Club have stated: "The club's members will certainly have fond memories of the man who started the phenomenon off, created the iconic Eddie Stobart brand and made it cool to spot lorries. Stobart Spotting will continue and the legacy of Edward Stobart will live on."Neil Parish, a Member of the European Parliament and the chair of the Agricultural committee of the European Parliament, was recently interviewed by Wikinews on the subject of biofuels and renewable transport. The interview was held after a workshop was held in the European Parliament on the subject of biofuels."I believe that the mixing of biofuels with mineral oils can provide us with significantly cleaner fuel," said Mr. Parish.In a press release by the European Parliament about the workshop, the legislative body stated some possible disadvantages to biofuels:In the interview Parish also said that encouraging public transport was an important method of combating climate change. Below is the relevant quote:Mr. Parish also mentioned road pricing in the interview. Biofuels are often used because they provide a way of limiting the emissions  of carbon dioxide. Many people do, however, note that rainforest are destroyed to make space for the production of biofuels.Citing anger over state policies, commissioners from the northeastern Colorado counties of Weld, Morgan, Logan, Sedgwick, Phillips, Washington, Yuma, and Kit Carson expressed interest, at a meeting last week, in withdrawing from Colorado to form a new U.S. state, named "North Colorado".Commissioners from each county met at the Colorado Counties, Inc. Conference Wednesday, and discussed the proposal. It stems from rural Colorado's perceived isolation from the rest of the state as a result of such Denver policies as stricter gun control laws, agricultural regulation, and oil and gas regulation. According to the commissioners, the "[s]traws that broke the camel's back" in support of secession, included Colorado Statute S.B. 252, which Governor John Hickenlooper signed last week to increase renewable energy standards in rural Colorado. Local energy companies consider the statute too costly to their industry. In addition, Weld County commissioner Sean Conway, who proposed the idea, argues that though revenue from his county's agricultural and oil and gas sectors account for 70 percent of Colorado's state budget, state funds for the county's schools and road improvements remain low.The counties could place the idea on the ballot as soon as the November 2013 elections. According to Tom Norton, Mayor of Greeley, the largest city in what would be North Colorado, many people in his city are upset over the state government. A poll on the city's The Tribune newspaper website shows 49.66 percent support the idea of seceding from Colorado, while 44.15 percent oppose it, and 6.19 percent believe the counties should instead secede from the U.S. Nevertheless, seceding from a U.S. state requires permission from both the U.S. Congress and the original state legislature. Steve Mazurana, a former professor of Political Science at the University of Northern Colorado, sees this as the death of idea: "All the rest of the states are not going to want to share their federal aid with this new state...And the state is not going to give up oil and gas money on a whim."Since the 1863 secession of West Virginia from Virginia, no state has successfully seceded. The three most recent efforts all failed in 2011. Chicago was unable to secede from Illinois, Florida could not be split in half, and the southern part of Arizona could not break away to create Baja Arizona.In an effort to boost its troubled agricultural sector, Cuba announced a major shift in the management of the country's farms, which are to be placed under the control of over 150 local delegations rather than the national government. The move was announced in Granma, the official newspaper of the Cuban Communist Party.On Thursday, Granma reported that the management of the farms has moved from the national government's Agriculture Ministry to the municipal level. The decision-making will now be handled by 169 new local delegations. The reform also involves the elimination of 104 departments which have been deemed unnecessary.  "The municipal agriculture delegations — an organizational process that has just concluded — will assume the responsibility for the functioning, development and control ... of agricultural production," Granma said. The move is intended to "stimulate agricultural production, perfect its sale and increase the availability of food and, in this way, substitute imports."President Raúl Castro, who succeeded his brother Fidel in February, has made agriculture one of the top priorities for Cuba. At a meeting with Communist Party leaders earlier this week, Raúl called food production "a matter of maximum national security." In past weeks, Raúl has said he wants to promote the decentralizing of food production, which he believes will decrease the country's dependency on foreign imports.Officials estimate that government mismanagement has resulted in 51 percent of Cuba's arable land becoming underused or uncultivated. Also, Cuba imported $1.7 billion worth of food in 2007, a number that is expected to reach over $2 billion this year.The announcement came as hundreds of thousands took to the streets in Havana for the annual May Day parade. Raúl Castro attended the parade, but did not speak, instead choosing to smile and wave from a podium as marchers streamed past. The event lasted only 2 hours, a large departure from previous years. Before Raúl's presidency, Fidel Castro's speeches themselves sometimes lasted close to 2 hours, and the parades often featured singing or skits.Although Raúl did not speak at the parade, Salvador Valdés Mesa, head of the Cuban Workers Confederation, used his speech as an opportunity to promote economic efficiency and productivity. "It is fundamental to concentrate efforts on increasing production and productivity, above all of food," he said.Giving a cow a name and treating her as an individual with "more personal touch" can increase milk production, so says a scientific research published in the online "Anthrozoos," which is described as a "multidisciplinary journal of the interactions of people and animals".The Newcastle University's School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development's (of the Newcastle University Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering) researchers have found that farmers who named their dairy cattle Ermintrude, Daisy, La vache qui rit, Buttercup, Betsy, or Gertrude, improved their overall milk yield by almost 500 pints (284 liters) annually. It means therefore, an average-sized dairy farm's production increases by an extra 6,800 gallons a year."Just as people respond better to the personal touch, cows also feel happier and more relaxed if they are given a bit more one-to-one attention," said Dr Catherine Douglas, lead researcher of the university's School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. "By placing more importance on the individual, such as calling a cow by her name or interacting with the animal more as it grows up, we can not only improve the animal's welfare and her perception of humans, but also increase milk production," she added.Drs Douglas and Peter Rowlinson have submitted the paper's conclusion: "What our study shows is what many good, caring farmers have long since believed. Our data suggests that, on the whole, UK dairy farmers regard their cows as intelligent beings capable of experiencing a range of emotions." The scientific paper also finds that "if cows are slightly fearful of humans, they could produce [the hormone] cortisol, which suppresses milk production," Douglas noted. "Farmers who have named their cows, probably have a better relationship with them. They're less fearful, more relaxed and less stressed, so that could have an effect on milk yield," she added.South Norfolk goldtop-milk producer Su Mahon, one of the country's top breeder of Jersey dairy herds, agreed with Newcastle's findings. "We treat all our cows like one of the family and maybe that's why we produce more milk," said Mrs Mahon. “The Jersey has got a mind of its own and is very intelligent. We had a cow called Florence who opened all the gates and we had to get the welder to put catches on to stop her. One of our customers asked me the other day: 'Do your cows really know their names?' I said: I really haven't a clue. We always call them by their names - Florence or whatever. But whether they really do, goodness knows,” she added.The researchers' comparative study of  production from the country's National Milk Records reveals that "dairy farmers who reported calling their cows by name got 2,105 gallons (7,938 liters) out of their cows, compared with 2,029 gallons (7,680 liters) per 10-month lactation cycle, and regardless of the farm size or how much the cows were fed. (Some 46 percent of the farmers named their cows.)"The Newcastle University team which has interviewed 516 UK dairy farmers, has discovered that almost half - 48% - called the cows by name, thereby cutting stress levels and reported a higher milk yield, than the 54% that did not give their cattle names and treated as just one of a herd. The study also reveals cows were made more docile while being milked."We love our cows here at Eachwick, and every one of them has a name," said Dennis Gibb, with his brother Richard who co-owns Eachwick Red House Farm outside of Newcastle. "Collectively, we refer to them as 'our ladies,' but we know every one of them and each one has her own personality. They aren't just our livelihood, they're part of the family," Gibb explained."My brother-in-law Bobby milks the cows and nearly all of them have their own name, which is quite something when there are about 200 of them. He would be quite happy to talk about every one of them. I think this research is great but I am not at all surprised by it. When you are working with cows on a daily basis you do get to know them individually and give then names." Jackie Maxwell noted. Jackie and her husband Neill jointly operate the award-winning Doddington Dairy at Wooler, Doddington, Northumberland, which makes organic ice cream and cheeses with milk from its own Friesian cows.But Marcia Endres, a University of Minnesota associate professor of dairy science, has criticized the Newcastle finding. "Individual care is important and could make a difference in health and productivity. But I would not necessarily say that just giving cows a name would be a foolproof indicator of better care," she noted. According to a 2007 The Scientist article, named or otherwise, dairy cattle make six times more milk today than they did in the 1990s. "One reason is growth hormone that many U.S. farmers now inject their cows with to increase their milk output; another is milking practices that extend farther into cows' pregnancies, according to the article; selective breeding also makes for lots of lactation," it states.Critics claimed the research was flawed and confused a correlation with causation. "Basically they asked farmers how to get more milk and whatever half the farmers said was the conclusion," said Hank Campbell, author of Scientific Blogging. In 1996, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs provided for a complex new cattle passport system where farmers were issued with passport identities. The first calf born under the new regime were given names like "UK121216100001."Dr Douglas, however, counters that England doesn’t permit dairy cattle to be injected hormones. The European Union and Canada have banned recombinant bovine growth hormone (rGBH), which increases mastitis infection, requiring antibiotics treatment of infected animals. According to the Center for Food Safety, rGBH-treated cows also have higher levels of the hormone insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1), which may be associated with cancer.In August 2008, Live Science published a study which revealed that cows have strange sixth sense of magnetic direction and are not as prone to cow-tipping. It cited a study of Google Earth satellite images which shows that "herds of cattle tend to face in the north-south direction of Earth's magnetic lines while grazing or resting."Newcastle University is a research intensive university in Newcastle upon Tyne in the north-east of England. It was established as a School of Medicine and Surgery in 1834 and became the "University of Newcastle upon Tyne" by an Act of Parliament in August 1963.The School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development is a school of the Newcastle University Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering, a faculty of Newcastle University. It was established in the city of Newcastle upon Tyne as the College of Physical Science in 1871 for the teaching of physical sciences, and was part of Durham University. It existed until 1937 when it joined the College of Medicine to form King's College, Durham.Over half of the contiguous United States is experiencing drought conditions, according to a report released Thursday by the National Weather Service. The report, addressing the period through this coming September, predicted many states will see these conditions persist, or worsen.Further government reports indicate that high temperatures have played a role in the drought. Additionally, food supplies are being negatively impacted. 22 percent of the corn and soybean crop in key states is reported in "poor or very poor condition"; other crops have also been reduced in the wake of the conditions.Only days ago, over one million residences in the greater Washington D.C. area were without air-conditioning following a rash of storms and high winds. Reports indicate that temperatures reached at least 100 degrees Fahrenheit (about 38C) during that period. Overall, 18 deaths were attributed to those conditions which extended to several states. Two Tennessee brothers, ages 3 and 5 died after playing outside, according to one report. When asked about weather conditions, a Texas woman told Wikinews, "This heat has been dreadful. I can hardly stand to be outside for more than 10 minutes."The National Weather Service's report noted that, in the southeastern US, some weather improvements are expected across certain portions of Georgia and South Carolina. An Arkansas woman told Wikinews, "...it's horrible. We're not used to these kinds of temperatures. It's so miserable outside right now. It doesn't normally get this hot here...this is unbelievable." Sources are referring to this drought as the worst since 1988.The Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation, Embrapa, which is linked to the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Supply, has created two  clones from a Junqueira cow. The Junqueira is an endangered species.  It is estimated that there are less than 100 of them on Brazilian territory.The cloned calves were created using cells from the ear of a nine year old cow. The first clone, called "Porã" was born on April 10, weighing 55 lbs. (25 kg), after 292 days of gestation.  "Potira", the second cloned calf was born, weighing 64 lbs. (29 kg), on April 24, after a 290-day gestation period. The clones are healthy, and are being monitored by Embrapa researchers.The breed Junqueira is popular for meat and milk production. In addition, they are used as work animals. The first cows were brought to Brazil by Spanish and Portuguese settlers. The breed developed inside São Paulo, during the 18th and 19th centuries. The cows' long horns are their most prominent identifying characteristic. The horns were originally used to make "berrante", a Brazilian instrument used by cowboys to call cattle.The Embrapa researcher, Arthur da Silva Mariante said that the research will continue and that other wild animals threatened by extinction may also be cloned.The clones are part of the doctorate thesis of Lílian Iguma, a member of the research team.The European Union budget for 2012 has been increased by two per cent, despite European authorities targeting a budget increase of approximately five per cent for next year. The budget will now stand at €129,000,000,000 (US$174,000,000,000 or £110,000,000,000).Negotiators at the EU reached this decision after fifteen hours of discussions on the matter. The European Commission had wished for a budget increase of 4.9% for 2012. At the same time, the European Parliament was aiming to achieve an increase of 5.2%. Such targets were objected to by the governments of various EU member countries; they were considered "unrealistic". The UK government welcomed the result, describing it as "excellent". British Financial Secretary to the Treasury Mark Hoban explained: "We have stopped the European Commission and European Parliament's inflation-busting proposals and have delivered on the government's promise to freeze the EU budget in real terms". One argument the British government has maintained for objecting to the European Commission and European Parliament's requests is, "with member states facing tough decisions on spending at home, we could not afford these unrealistic demands", according to Hoban.Janusz Lewandowski, EU Budget Commissioner, has described the outcome as "clearly an austerity budget" and has expressed concern about the "serious risk that the European Commission will run out of funds in the course of next year, and will therefore not be able to honour all its financial obligations towards beneficiaries of EU funds".Now, concern should be given towards the discussions about the long-term budget of the EU between the years 2014 and 2020, Hoban believes. BBC News Online has reported that the British government is anticipated to reject proposals from the European Commission to raise the long-term budget by five per cent. According to the Press Association, the Commission wants to increase the budget by eleven per cent in comparison to the seven years prior.A grocer in Bristol has been told that, under regulations brought in by the European Union, he is not allowed to sell a recently imported batch of kiwi fruit because they are too small. A spokesperson for the UK's Rural Payments Agency said that they failed the EU standards for fruit. Tim Down, the grocer involved, responded angrily to the action taken by government. "I was given 24 hours to think about it and my outrage grew." He continued "They are perfectly fit to eat. These regulations come at a time when rising food prices are highlighted and we're being forced to throw away perfectly good food."Down then claimed that there was no problem with the food. "There is nothing wrong with its palatability, it's purely because it is slightly less than the prescribed minimum size."The government officials found that some of the Kiwis weighed only 58 grams, four grams below the required level. The EU has said that it plans to lessen the restrictions imposed by the regulation, potentially stopping an incident like this occurring in the future."The inspector's decision is consistent with RPA's commitment to protect consumers, who must feel confident that the produce they are buying is of the right quality," said a spokesperson of the Rural Payments Agency, explaining the move.Under the Agriculture and Horticulture Act 1964, selling undersized fruit, or providing them at no cost, is an offence which can carry a penalty of £5,000. The Food Standards Agency has said that the act "provides for the application and enforcement in Great Britain of European Community Regulations specifying the grading, marketing and labelling requirements for certain fresh fruit and vegetables and makes certain acts or omissions that contravene those rules punishable offences. "Cattle at a farm in Surrey, UK have tested positive for foot-and-mouth disease. After symptoms were reported late on 2 August, the farm was isolated. Following testing, officials from Defra (Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs) confirmed the outbreak on 3 August.A three kilometre exclusion zone and a ten kilometre surveillance zone have been put into place around the farm, near Wanborough. All livestock on the farm have been slaughtered and incinerated. Any movement of livestock in the UK has been banned and the EU has banned exports under emergency measures, expected to be confirmed on Monday. Farmers are urged to watch their animals carefully for symptoms, and report any to Defra officials.The government's emergency committee Cobra met to discuss the situation before the announcement, with Prime Minister Gordon Brown participating via telephone. Brown cut short his holiday in Dorset to return to London on Saturday, when another meeting of Cobra was held. Environment Secretary Hilary Benn also returned from holiday in Italy.The last outbreak of foot-and-mouth in the UK was in 2001. It resulted in the slaughtering of up to 7 million animals, and losses estimated at £8 billion.In France, the government has asked for all the animals imported during the last ten days to be tested. All meetings including animals have been forbidden on the French territory.A report released tonight by the Health and Safety Executive has confirmed that there is a "strong possibility" that the cause of the recent foot-and-mouth outbreak is contamination, most probably by human movement, from a nearby research facility in Guildford, Surrey, UK.The labs in Pirbright, where both private firm Merial and the governmental Institute for Animal Health operate, have been subject to ongoing investigations since the discovery of a new foot-and-mouth outbreak on Friday. The strain of the disease had already been identified as an O1 BFS67-like virus, which was isolated in a 1967 outbreak and was being used at the labs for research and the production of vaccines. It is not yet known whether the virus escaped from the Merial or the IAH lab.Since foot-and-mouth was confirmed in cows at a Surrey farm, more than 200 cattle have been culled as a preventative measure. A protection zone has been set up around the affected areas and rules preventing the movement of livestock have been introduced throughout the country, with the aim of stopping further spread of the contagious disease. Restrictions on the import of English beef have already been imposed.The last outbreak of foot-and-mouth in the UK, in the spring and summer of 2001, resulted in total losses estimated at £8bn. Seven million animals were slaughtered, and tourism was also badly hit.Shirley Sherrod, an African-American employee of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) who was ousted last week, has said that she will "definitely sue" conservative blogger Andrew Breitbart over a video clip posted online at BigGovernment.com, operated by Breitbart, that made her appear racist.Formerly the director of rural development in Georgia, Sherrod was referred to on Breitbart's site as a "racist govt employee," and the video had been edited to make her appear to have discriminated against Caucasians. Sherrod spoke in March of this year at an NAACP meeting. The clip edited from the original video footage of this meeting misrepresents Sherrod as deliberately failing to support a white farmer because of his race. In reality, the full video revealed that Sherrod was speaking about racial reconciliation and the lessons she learned after the episode. However, the USDA asked Sherrod to resign before the full video was released. The farmer mentioned in the video and his wife later stated that Sherrod had actually helped to save their farm, and after the full video was made public, US Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and US President Barack Obama apologised and Vilsack offered Sherrod a new job with the USDA. However, Sherrod said that she has not decided whether to accept the new position.Breitbart said that he posted the edited clip to prove that the NAACP has racist elements, and has not apologised to Sherrod. Shortly before the video clip was posted, the NAACP had demanded that the Tea Party, a conservative activist group that Breitbart is active in, remove racism from parts of that group. However, Sherrod says that she no longer wants an apology. "He had to know that he was targeting me," the 62-year-old said at a convention of the National Association of Black Journalists.A team from the China Agricultural University is reporting success after transferring human genes into a herd of 300 dairy cows. The cows now produce milk containing proteins associated with human breast milk.Human milk is beneficial to infants due to its high nutrient concentration. Formula milk offers an alternative to breastfeeding, but critics feel it is inferior and the research team hopes genetically modified cows could provide a solution. "Within 10 years, people will be able to pick up these products at the supermarket," claims Professor Ning Li, research leader and head of the university's State Key Laboratory for AgroBiotechnology. "We aim to commercialize some research in this area in coming three years."The new research, published in the journal Public Library of Science One, named three human proteins present in the cows' milk. Lysozyme protects babies from bacteria, lactoferrin boosts the cells in an infant's immune system and alpha-lactalbumin was also present. All are found in human breast milk."Our study describes transgenic cattle whose milk offers the similar nutritional benefits as human milk," Li wrote in the journal. "The modified bovine milk is a possible substitute for human milk. It fulfilled the conception of humanising the bovine milk." The cows are otherwise identical to normal cows and were produced by introducing the genes to cloned embryos, which were then reared by surrogate mothers.The laws surrounding genetically modified food research are tighter in Europe than China, but similar products have been sold legally in the United States for years. European consumers often avoid genetically modified foods, and therefore some supermarkets avoid stocking them.European campaigners are concerned about food safety and animal welfare; the Chinese team performed two studies on a total of 42 transgenic calves. Ten died soon after birth and six more did not survive beyond six months. It is not fully understood why survival and development is affected by cloning, which is used in the genetic modification process, but researchers concede it does happen.The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, a UK organisation, said it is "extremely concerned" by the development. A spokesperson for the organisation said: "Offspring of cloned animals often suffer health and welfare problems, so this would be a grave concern. Why do we need this milk — what is it giving us that we haven't already got?" A University of Nottingham professor specializing in genetic modification, Keith Campbell, rejected food safety concerns. "Genetically modified animals and plants are not going to be harmful unless you deliberately put in a gene that is going to be poisonous," he said. "Why would anyone do that in a food?" The Chinese team says cow welfare will be improved as they will be better able to fight udder infection with human proteins.The New Zealand Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) is investigating how genetically modified (gm) seeds of sweet corn was knowingly cleared to enter New Zealand in October 2006.The two consignments totaling 1,800 kilogram of gm sweetcorn originating from the United States was cleared by the quarantine service run by MAF. Each consignment had a certificate that showed that the seeds had not been gm but there was documentation available that showed that the two consignments had a presence of gm. Jeanette Fitzsimons, spokesperson for genetic engineering and the leader of the Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand, said: "I am absolutely shocked and angered that 1.8 tonnes of sweet corn seeds crossed our border, even though the accompanying testing documentation showed that it was contaminated with GE."MAF said that the presence of any GM seeds is extremely low because of the combination of the two results.The amount of seeds of sweetcorn that entered New Zealand could amount of 400 hectares of sweetcorn.MAF is checking where the seeds were planted and will contact the affected parties. Conclusions from the discussions will determine the outcome of the seeds and or the plants.Ms Fitzsimons said: "This is an indication that too many people in MAF still don't take the issue seriously. There needs to be a major shake up among the people who constitute our first line of defence."MAF is also conducting an investigation on how they can increase border security so it never happens again. Ms Fitzsimons said: "It is extremely disturbing to learn that our border is still not secure against GE contaminated seeds. It is even worse that it has taken two months to discover that.""Our markets still show no sign of accepting GE foods or GE contamination and it would be suicidal not to listen to them. Nor do New Zealanders want to eat GE foods," Ms Fitzsimons said.A farming town in California claims that it may disappear due to the United States federal government shutting off water pumps, though the government states the actions are necessary to save several marine species.In July 2009, action by the Federal Bureau of Reclamation to protect threatened fish stopped irrigation pumping to parts of the California Central Valley causing canals leading into Huron, California and the surrounding areas and the farms that rely on them to lose their primary irrigation source. Unemployment has reached 40% in some areas as the farms have dried up.California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger stated the action is putting the fish "above the needs of millions of Californians."Highlighting the city's plight, Huron Police Chief Frank Steenport stated, "A year from now, [Huron] may not be here."In an interview in Huron on Tuesday, comedian Paul Rodriguez, whose mother owns a farm in the area, criticized the actions of the government and called for President Barack Obama to review the decision. "This used to be an almond orchard. Now all that is left is firewood."Laura King Moon, assistant general manager of the State Water Contractors, a nonprofit association of 27 public agencies from across California that purchase water from the government under contract, said "these cuts are crippling on our people and businesses — especially in the Central Valley where farmers are being forced to fallow their land and workers are being laid off. Rather than piecemeal restrictions, we need to balance the needs of the environment and the needs of people with a collective plan for the Delta."The National Marine Fisheries Service, an agency within the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, states the water pumping inside central California threatens several species, including Chinook salmon, Central Valley steelhead, North American green sturgeon, and Southern Resident killer whales, which rely on Chinook salmon runs for food. In the Huron area, the delta smelt is specifically targeted.In defense of the actions, Rod McInnis, the southwest regional director for NOAA's Fisheries Service stated, "What is at stake here is not just the survival of species but the health of entire ecosystems and the economies that depend on them. We are ready to work with our federal and state partners, farmers and residents to find solutions that benefit the economy, environment and Central Valley families."Wikinews reached out earlier this week to former U.S. Congressman and 2014 Colorado gubernatorial candidate Tom Tancredo for his response to the secessionist proposal of eight Northern Colorado counties. Tancredo maintains he is better suited to repair the geopolitical gulf at the root of the proposal than Governor John Hickenlooper.The secession idea came about last week as the commissioners from the northeastern Colorado counties of Weld, Morgan, Logan, Sedgwick, Phillips, Washington, Yuma, and Kit Carson expressed interest in withdrawing from Colorado due to differences with the state government over gun control and the perceived overregulation of agriculture and the oil and gas industries. The commissioners proposed the formation of a new state named, "North Colorado".  In response to the proposal, Governor Hickenlooper's spokesman Eric Brown conceded that "[n]ot everyone agrees" with the administration's policies, but declared "background checks on gun sales, increasing renewable energy and supporting responsible development of oil and gas are popular with rural and urban voters".Hickenlooper, a Democrat, was elected governor in 2010 over Tancredo, the then-Constitution Party gubernatorial candidate. Tancredo has since switched back to the Republican Party, under which he served as Congressman for Colorado's 6th congressional district from 1999 to 2009. Tancredo officially announced his 2014 candidacy last month.According to Tancredo, Hickenlooper's policies impose barriers on rural Coloradans that he plans to remove if elected governor. In addition, Tancredo feels he can better address the rural-urban rift because, "I do not believe that rural Coloradans are, as Governor Hickenlooper has called them, 'backward thinkers'." Tancredo refers to Hickenlooper's 2010 comments, which accused rural Coloradans and other westerners of "backwards thinking" for their views on LGBT issues.Wikinews requested, but did not immediately receive, response to Tancredo's comments from Governor Hickenlooper's spokesman.Over 2,000 cattle died throughout eight counties in Nebraska last week as a result of an unexpected heat wave. Officials estimate that number could grow as other counties report in. According to Tim Reimer of the United States Farm Service Agency, cattle nearing slaughter are difficult to keep cool due to their large size, and thus more vulnerable to heat. The animals are provided large quantities of water, but they sometimes stop drinking under the effects of the high temperatures. The deaths worsened the situation for farmers, who were already struggling with high feed costs. "There were some that took some pretty substantial hits financially", Reimer said. Temperatures in eastern portions of the state soared into the mid 90s. The heat wave was preceded by an unusually cool spring, so the animals didn't have a chance to acclimatise. Terry Mader, a professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, reported that "Cattle, as well as other animals and humans, usually need two to four weeks to adapt to the changes in environmental conditions we observed last week. Sunny days with temperatures above the mid-80s can be stressful, particularly if there is no wind and humidity is above 50%." Similar heat waves occurred during the 1990s, when thousands of cattle were lost. Mader noted, "There's no opportunity for them to get prepared [...] Normally, you'll have one to two days in a heat wave to get prepared."Mature cattle are generally worth US$1,000 apiece.Beginning in 2006, all horses in the EU will be required to have passports, according to new rules from the European Union. Two thirds of all horses in Sweden are estimated to not have passports, Britta Lundström at the Swedish Ministry of Agriculture (Jordbruksverket) told news agency TT.If the owner of a horse doesn't get a passport for their animal before the end of the year, they will be breaking the law. The Ministry of Agriculture has had problems reaching horse owners who don't read horse magazines. Because of this, the ministry is planning a campaign this autumn.The passport contains information on the owner, the race and number. A photograph isn't mandatory but a description of the horse's appearance is required.The oldest known gold artifact in the Americas is a necklace from Peru, according to University of Arizona anthropology professor Mark Aldenderfer.  The necklace comes from a village in the Jiskairumoko range near Lake Titicaca and consists of gold that had been hammered and rolled into nine cylindrical beads, then strung with turquoise on a wool string.Radiocarbon dating places the manufacture of the necklace from 2155 to 1936 B.C., which makes this item about 600 years older than the next oldest gold artifact that has been discovered the Americas and the oldest example of metalworking of any kind in the Americas. Gold metallurgy is almost always associated with agricultural societies.  Since the materials used in the necklace are not found in the Titicaca basin, the existence of the necklace implies the region had trade routes and a hereditary elite.Although this discovery was made in 2004, Professor Alenderfer and his team delayed publication in order to have the gold chemically analyzed and to minimize the risk of looters damaging the site before excavation was complete.A suspected case of BSE, better known as mad cow disease, has been discovered in Sweden at a farm near Västerås some 80 kilometres west of Stockholm.The affected farm has been quarantined and no ruminants from the farm are allowed to be sold or transported. The cow was destroyed earlier after symptoms of calving paralysis had been discovered, and the tests where carried out in accordance to rules set by the European Union (EU).The Swedish Board of Agriculture (Jordbruksverket) analysed a specimen from the cow at the farm this weekend. The tests confirmed the presence of BSE and the specimen was sent for further analysis at a United Kingdom laboratory.If the British analysis confirms BSE in the specimen, it will be the first case of BSE in Sweden. The affected farmer told the Swedish public service radio: "As my father said, if we have to make history it would be a pity to do it this way."BSE isn't transmitted directly between animals, but rather from feedstuffs containing tainted tissues from infected ruminants to healthy animals. Such cattle feeds have been prohibited in Sweden for many years, but as the affected cow was born in 1994 she might have been given such food in her early life.The disease has been declining in the EU after restrictions and regulations were put in place or tightened following an epidemic of the disease in humans in the UK. In that outbreak 150 people died. Sweden has been considered a low-risk country. Ten previous tests have all proven to be false alarms.BUCHAREST, Romania —The average production of genetically-modified (GM) soy grew by 50 tonnes to 250 tonnes per square kilometre last year, said Constantin Sin from the Romanian Ministry of Agriculture. Soy is the only GM crop allowed in Romania for commercial purposes. Additionally, the area cultivated with the modified soy increased from 396 km² in 2003 to 581 km² in 2004. GM soy is mainly farmed in southeastern Romania, in the counties of Brăila, Călăraşi and Ialomiţa.In 1996, the European Union endorsed the import of transgenic soy, and, in 2004, the green light was given for the sale of new genetically-modified products which were used for animal breeding. Globally, the largest producers of genetically-modified soy are the United States of America, Argentina and Brazil.A research team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Colorado State University of the US and the University of Sheffield of the UK has analysed effects of global warming and ozone pollution over 2000–2050 on the worldwide production of wheat, rice, maize and soybean. The study was published in journal Nature Climate Change yesterday.The scientists found reduction of crop yields by 2050 exceeded 10% of 2000 levels, substantially decreasing food security, in all cases examined. Several scenarios were considered because of uncertainty of future levels of ozone pollution.They estimated by 2050, increasing population and changing diet would increase world food needs by 50 percent.As coauthor Colette Heald told The Huffington Post, "The climate projections are quite consistent [...] the future of ozone pollution is very different [...] leading to either offsetting or reinforcing effects [of climate change] on crops".By 2050, undernourishment would increase by either 49 percent or by 27 percent, depending on the scenario.The study focuses on ozone–temperature covariation: ground-level ozone increases with temperatures.Heald said although temperature and ozone are separately known to impact crop yields, "nobody has looked at these together".Depending on region and crops, the yields may be primarily sensitive to ozone —in the case of wheat— or heat —in the case of maize— alone, providing a local estimation of relative benefits of climate change adaptation versus ozone regulation.The U.S. Department of Agriculture notes, "Ground-level ozone causes more damage to plants than all other air pollutants combined", highlighting the importance of air quality for agriculture. Results of NCLAN studies, published in a paper by AS Heagle in 1989, show dicot species, such as soybean, cotton, and peanut, lose more yield from ozone than do monocot species such as sorghum, field corn, and winter wheat.The researchers found that ozone pollution caused 46 percent of previously heat-attributed damage to soybean crops.The model does not include the effect of rising carbon dioxide concentration, which has complex and potentially offsetting impacts on global food supply.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says some crops may have higher yields with increased levels of carbon dioxide.However, global warming also increases probability of extreme crops-damaging weather events such as floods, droughts, and extreme temperatures. Climate change affects distribution of weeds, pests, and diseases.Heald noted the findings show pollution reduction is also important. "An air-quality cleanup would improve crop yields [...] Ozone is something that we understand the causes of, and the steps that need to be taken to improve air quality."As Heald told The Huffington Post, US surface ozone has dropped partly due to the Clean Air Act. "Despite an increase in vehicle miles driven and energy consumption, surface ozone has declined by 25 percent on average across the U.S. from 1980 to 2012 [...] However, the future of ozone air quality in the U.S. and around the world will depend on local emissions, the use of pollution control technology, regulations, and air quality policy."The study was supported by the Croucher Foundation, US National Science Foundation, and US National Park Service.A group of scientists at the Assam Agricultural University of Assam, India has claimed the Bhut Jolokia, once recorded as the hottest chilli in the world by the Guinness World Records, is losing its characteristic hotness with time. The scientists suggested changing agricultural patterns in Assam and cross-pollination as the main reasons.The scientists said according to their study the hotness of the chilli has reduced greatly in the past eight years. The hotness, which measured 1.5 million Scoville heat units (SHU) in 2008, now measures only 0.4 million SHU.With this, the Bhut Jolokia loses its status as the world's hottest chilli, left behind by, reportedly, Carolina Reaper of the US and the Trinidad Moruga Scorpion of Trinidad and Tobago.The scientists suggested cross-pollination and changing farming patterns in Assam were likely the causes. However, they still have to check other possible influences such as changing agro-climatic conditions.Dr Hazarika of the team said, "We are now taking up some scientific works to maintain the original degree of pungency of bhot jolokia which we found eight years back".A team of 55 researchers led by University of Western Ontario biologist Miodrag Grbic has sequenced the genome of the spider mite Tetranychus urticae, a pest that costs over USD 1 billion to control annually. Their results were published in the journal Nature yesterday.  The genome is the smallest arthropod genome sequenced so far.The study was funded by the US Depeartment of Energy Joint Genome Institute programme, Genome Canada, and the European Union.The pest is resistant to major plant toxins, and it takes a spider mite from two to four years to become resistant to new pesticides. University of Utah assistant professor of biology Richard M. Clark, a study co-author, said, "One key thing that makes spider mites unique is they can eat many, many different plant species... These mites are ... a major cause of people's house plants turning yellow and getting sick. They also are a major problem for agricultural nurseries and greenhouses, and for field crops. ... [the spider mite] has been found to rapidly develop resistance to multiple types of pesticides, often within a couple of years after a pesticide is introduced."The study found the mite's genome includes a variety of genes responsible for digestion and toxin degradation, possibly including some genes from bacteria and fungi. Because these bacterial/fungal genes are peculiar to spider mites, they appear to be a rare example of lateral gene transfer — gene transfer between distant species.The study also found 17 web-production genes. The spider mite's webs provide weather- and predator-protection and are somewhat stronger than webs of other species.Seven months after suspicions were first raised, United States Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns confirmed that a second American cow has tested positive for BSE (also known as 'mad cow disease'), as determined by a lab in Weybridge, England. The department believes that this cow was born in the United States.The delay in confirmation followed two conflicting test results from last November.  The "Western blot" test, which is a more sophisticated test, could have helped reach a final determination, but the U.S. refused to perform it in November. The department's inspector general, Phyllis Fong, ordered the Western blot test in June without advising Johanns and by the time Johanns found out about it, the testing was under way.Johanns was annoyed that the round of testing which confirmed "Mad Cow" had been ordered without him being consulted first."I was asked by the Senate and the president to operate the department," Johanns said. "I believe, in this area, very clearly, the secretary should be consulted, whoever the secretary is, before testing is undertaken. From my standpoint, I believe I was put there to operate the department and was very disappointed."A senior research associate with Consumers Union, Michael Hansen, said USDA officials "almost sound like some Keystone Kops."Johanns reassured Americans that they should not be afraid of eating beef, saying: "This animal was blocked from entering the food supply because of the firewalls we have in place. Americans have every reason to continue to be confident in the safety of our beef."On June 17, the Associated Press reported: "American cattle are eating chicken litter, cattle blood and restaurant leftovers that could help transmit mad cow disease — a gap in the U.S. defense that the Bush administration promised to close nearly 18 months ago."John Stauber, co-author of "Mad Cow USA: Could the Nightmare Happen Here?" said: "Once the cameras were turned off and the media coverage dissipated, then it's been business as usual, no real reform, just keep feeding slaughterhouse waste. The entire U.S. policy is designed to protect the livestock industry's access to slaughterhouse waste as cheap feed."Critics of the U.S. testing regimen said the fumbles this time increase their concerns about America's screening process."How can we be sure they were really negative?" Craig Culp, a spokesman for the Center for Food Safety asked; "After all, (here is a cow that was) negative in November that is positive in June."The companies which render slaughter waste say new restrictions are not warranted. "We process about 50 billion pounds of product annually — in visual terms, that is a convoy of semi trucks, four lanes wide, running from New York to L.A. every year," said Jim Hodges, president of the American Meat Institute Foundation.The Svalbard Global Seed Vault, a vault containing millions of seeds from all over the world, saw its first deposits on Tuesday. Located 800 kilometers from the North Pole on the Norwegian island of Spitsbergen, the vault has been referred to by European Commission president José Manuel Barroso as a "frozen Garden of Eden". It is intended to preserve crop supplies and secure biological diversity in the event of a worldwide disaster."The opening of the seed vault marks a historic turning point in safeguarding the world’s crop diversity," said Cary Fowler, executive director of the Global Crop Diversity Trust which is in charge of collecting the seed samples. The Norwegian government, who owns the bank, built it at a cost of $9.1 million. At the opening ceremony, 100 million seeds from 268,000 samples were placed inside the vault, where there is room for over 2 billion seeds. Each of the samples originated from a different farm or field, in order to best ensure biological diversity. These crop seeds included such staples as rice, potatoes, barley, lettuce, maize, sorghum, and wheat. No genetically modified crops were included. (Beyond politics they are generally sterile so of no use.)Constructed deep inside a mountain and protected by concrete walls, the "doomsday vault" is designed to withstand earthquakes, nuclear warfare, and floods resulting from global warming. Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg called it an "insurance policy" against such threats.With air-conditioned temperatures of -18 degrees Celsius, experts say the seeds could last for an entire millennium. Some crops will be able to last longer, like sorghum, which the Global Crop Diversity Trust says can last almost 20 millenniums. Even if the refrigeration system fails, the vaults are expected to stay frozen for 200 years.The Prime Minister said, "With climate change and other forces threatening the diversity of life that sustains our planet, Norway is proud to be playing a central role in creating a facility capable of protecting what are not just seeds, but the fundamental building blocks of human civilization." Stoltenberg, along with Kenyan Nobel Peace Prize laureate Wangari Maathai, made the first deposit of rice to the vault."It is very important for Africa to store seeds here because anything can happen to our national seed banks," Maathai said. The vault will operate as a bank, allowing countries to use their deposited seeds free of charge. It will also serve as a backup to the thousands of other seed banks around the world."Crop diversity will soon prove to be our most potent and indispensable resource for addressing climate change, water and energy supply constraints and for meeting the food needs of a growing population," Cary Fowler said.A sheep has been sold for £231,000 (US$377,223) at an auction in Lanarkshire, Scotland. Farmer Jimmy Douglas bought the sheep for 220,000 guineas — the equivalent of roughly £231,000. The name of the sheep is 'Deveronvale Perfection' and it was bred in Banffshire by Graham Morrison, who eventually sold it. The sheep has a Texel ribbon attached to it and is a tup. In farming terms, a tup is an uncastrated male.Graham Morrison stated that "He's [the sheep] the best lamb I've ever bred and the price surpassed my wildest dreams." Morrison mentioned that the sheep lives up to its name and that it was "perfection" when he was breeding it.This is reported to be a new world record for the most amount of money paid for a sheep. It beats the previous record of the equivalent of £205,000 ($334,765) set in Australia in 1989. Eventually, its semen could be sold as well.Experts state that the lengthy drought conditions seen all over Texas this summer will effect the state's economy and ecosystems for years.  Climatologist John Nielson-Gammon told reporters that July was the hottest month ever on record in the state and that the 12-month period ending July 31st represented the worst drought year in Texas in at least 116 years. He was also quoted as saying that Texas has entered a "vicious cycle" where drought and heat aggravate each other. According to the U.S. Drought Monitor, 94 percent of Texas is suffering either extreme or exceptional drought. Travis Miller, professor of soil and crop sciences at Texas A&M University, has estimated that this year farmers and ranchers in the state will lose $8 billion, "the largest agriculture loss we have ever experienced." Miller also suggested that the worse outcomes may not even be here yet.  "Climatic models show there is another La Nina system, which is blamed for this drought, coming our way this fall," Miller said. "That is not a good thing."Tom McAlley, a rancher in Tatum, stated, "It's a big problem. People don't understand—this drought effects domestic and wild animals, the economy, everything." Texas ranchers complain of feeding their cattle this summer, which is extremely rare as cattle normally consume natural grasses and vegetation during summer months. Tim Jenkins, a rancher near Athens, stated during an interview, "I have three ponds on my [ranch] — they're all dry now. They should be teeming with frogs, insects. Small animals would normally go there to drink. I've got hundreds of dead fish in those ponds. I've paid huge sums of money just to feed my cattle this summer. If my parents were alive, they wouldn't believe what we're going through right now. I may see the effects of this for the remainder of my life."Ian Baldwin, of the Max Planck Institute for Chemical Ecology in Jena, Germany, and colleagues have discovered a multi-step protective mechanism of tobacco plants against Manduca sexta  caterpillars. In response to a chemical in the caterpillars' larvae, the plants release an odorous substance into air to attract  another species of insects, called "big-eyed bugs" (Geocoris). These carnivores come to the scene and attack the caterpillars. The response is triggered within 24 hours, which is a relatively short period of time. The discovery occurred as a result of field studies in a nature preserve in southwestern Utah.The phenomenon starts with the recognition of the caterpillars by the plant. As a PhD student in the Department of Molecular Ecology Silke Allmann explained, "The plant cannot see its attacker, but plants can sense the digestive substances that attacking larvae have in their oral secretions when these substances come into contact with the leaves." To test that, the scientists coated some of caterpillars' eggs on two groups of tobacco plants and glued them. On one of the groups, the glue was mixed with caterpillars' split. The latter got more attention of the attackers, getting 25% of eggs destroyed against 8% for the other group.Allmann supposed that "The simplest assumption is that the larval oral secretions contain a special enzyme, probably an isomerase, which rearranges the Z:E ratio of the aldehyde in favor of (E)-2-hexenal." The researchers heated the oral secretion to destroy the enzyme,  and applied it to wounded leaves. No plant response related to the studied process was observed, confirming the hypothesis.(E)-2-hexenal is a strong antibiotic agent. The food consumed by a caterpillar typically includes hundreds of microorganisms together with leaf tissue, which are mostly unneeded and killed by the above-mentioned substance quickly. Because of this important role of this substance, the caterpillars can't change their metabolism easily enough to prevent the subsequent events from happening.To find out what happens after a caterpillar's presence is noted by the plant, Silke Allmann, a graduate student in Baldwin's group, examined the green leafy volatiles (GLVs), the substances responsible for the smell of fresh-cut plant parts. These substances are released into air if a plant is damaged. As the study released, the tobacco plant GLVs typically have a major share of Z isomers with very small amount of E isomers present. But the shares are distributed equally during a caterpillar attack. In a study with varying amount of different isomers present, E isomers turned out to be the ones attracting the predators to come to the scene and to attack the caterpillars.What is surprising, Silke Allmann found that the caterpillars are the direct stimulus of this change: caterpillar saliva converts the Z-isomers of the GLV molecules to E-isomers.  Prof. Ian Baldwin commented, "That's where it got really weird. Why would a caterpillar do this to itself?" He suggested that the E-GLVs could have anti-biotic effect in the caterpillar's digestive system.The speed of the triggered reaction is relatively fast, it taking about one hour for the GLV isomers ratio change, and about 24 hours for the predators to be attracted by the substance released into the air. As Prof. Ian Baldwin, who was leading the research, said, "Other indirect defense mechanisms of plants require the activation of new metabolic pathways for the release of odorant signals, and these responses are much slower."The multi-step intricate approach involved is attracting the attention of scientists, who are looking forward to its application in agriculture. Baldwin noted that "in effect, the caterpillar calls the police on itself", and suggested to genetically modify crops to release similar signals to defend themselves against pests.Relentless drought and record-high temperatures are taking their toll on trees in and around Houston, Texas. Experts estimate as much as 10% of all trees in the area are either dead or dying. Urban Forester Victor Cordova said, "We water in the morning. We go back and check and it's like we didn't even water. The air, the humidity, the heat just sucks up the moisture." Officials say young trees are in greatest danger; approximately 20,000 trees planted since January are at risk. Along portions of the North Freeway, workers have been removing dry trees. "At a point we have to go back to the survival of the fittest. Whatever makes it, makes it and whatever doesn't, doesn't", Cordova reported.Last year's Hurricane Ike may have also played a role in killing the plants. Up to 64,000 trees in the Houston area might be lost by the end of this year. However, those planted by the Texas Department of Transportation are still under warranty, and are replaced at no cost to taxpayers.A truck on the Trans-Canada Highway in New Brunswick, Canada, carrying 12 million bees has overturned. The truck was carrying 330 crates of bees when it tipped on a ramp in Saint-Léonard. The bees were used to help pollinate blueberries, and were heading back to Ontario.The accident happened in the morning hours. Bee experts were called in to control the bees, and they were helped by the rain as bees dislike it, with the bees staying close to the truck. However, by midday, the sun came out and the bees became much more agitated. The beekeepers had to douse them with smoke, while firefighters attempted to hose the bees down to try to get them back near the truck. There were no serious injuries from the incident, but some reporters at the scene got stung repeatedly. Anyone with an allergy to bees has been advised to stay at least 200 metres away from the scene.The highway was first reduced to three lanes from four, before being completely closed, to prevent curious onlookers from being endangered by the swarms of bees angered and agitated by the incident.This accident was the first of its kind in New Brunswick.The director general of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization is calling for more investment in agriculture in the developing world to tackle the problem of food insecurity. Jacques Diouf told Parliamentarians attending the 121st Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union that more than one billion people are going hungry because of under-investment in agriculture during the past two decades.  A recent study by the Food and Agriculture Organization and World Food Program finds most of the more than one billion hungry people in the world live in developing countries. It says no region is immune and hunger is expected to increase everywhere, even in the developed world. Jacques Diouf, Director General of the Food and Agriculture Organization, says 30 countries were in a situation of grave food crisis, requiring emergency assistance. He says 20 of them are in Africa and 10 in Asia and the Near East. "The events of the last three years, triggered by soaring food prices and followed by the financial and economic turmoil, have demonstrated how fragile our global food system is. This year's increase in hunger is not the result of poor harvests or a shortfall in supplies, but rather is caused by the economic crisis which has reduced the incomes and job opportunities for the poor," he said.  Diouf says under-investment in agriculture and rural development is one of the root causes of the recent global food crisis and the difficulties encountered by the majority of developing countries in dealing with it effectively. "If people go hungry today it is not because the world is not producing enough food but because it is not produced in the countries where 70 percent of the world's poor live and whose livelihoods depend on farming activities. The challenge is not only to ensure food security for the one billion hungry people today, which is certainly an enormous task, but also to be able to feed a world population that is expected to reach 9.1 billion in 2050," he said. He has urged nations to increase food production by 70 percent by 2050, and remarked that "Where there's a will, there's a way."The FAO chief says studies show GDP growth originating in agriculture is at least twice as effective in reducing poverty as GDP growth originating in other sectors of the economy. He says the solution to food insecurity lies in boosting agricultural production and productivity in poor countries where food shortages are chronic. Diouf says production has to be increased in the most needy areas, by the most needy people. These are smallholder farmers in rural households. He says investment in agriculture in developing countries would amount to $44 billion in official development assistance a year. He says the returns from that investment in tackling world hunger would be enormous.A three-day United Nations (UN) summit, bringing together leaders from 181 countries, has wrapped up with a pledge by all attending countries to address the global food shortage crisis. Key actions cited include doubling the world's food production by 2030, providing resources for farmers in poor countries and increasing humanitarian aid in times of crisis.Protests and violent riots have resulted in parts of the world in recent months due to increasing unaffordability, and sometimes unavailability, of food. It is estimated that 862 million people, or just over one eighth of the world's population, are malnourished.According to UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, up to US$20 billion will be required annually to avert crises in the most hard-hit areas. The UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has put the figure closer to US$30 billion. Pledges made just at the summit amounted to more than US$5 billion, according to the UN.Despite the largely positively-received outcome of the summit, held in Rome, Italy, there were some who felt that the proceedings could have gone better. Several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) pointed to the fact that they were not invited to partake in the discussions. Food and hunger policy adviser Magda Kropiwnicka of ActionAid commented on the strength of the final pledge: "There were no quantifiable financial commitments. Apart from the existing UN Food and Agriculture Organisation funds, no money has been given to address the key problem of boosting capacity."While most delegates agreed that biofuels have been one of the causes of the food crisis, no actions were agreed upon to address this hot topic. Biofuels have been increasingly in demand in recent years, meaning that many crops that would have previously been used for food are now being used as fuel.The impact that biofuels has goes further than simply increasing the demand of food crops. As fuel prices increase, so do the costs of fertilisers, farm vehicle use and the transport of foods. All of this adds up to a large increase in the cost of food.Some UN officials say that biofuel use has caused up to 30% of the global food price inflation of late. The United States estimates that figure to be closer to just 3%. The Globe and Mail newspaper indicates that some estimates go as high as 60%. The only consensus that could be reached on biofuels is that they provide both "challenges and opportunities", and need to be looked into further for a conclusive analysis on their impact on food production.Other factors increasing food prices are increased consumption of meat and dairy products in developing nations like China and India. Argentina noted that subsidies granted to farmers from the US, the European Union and other Western countries have also been a major player in the increase.The number of hungry people in the world is projected to reach an all-time high of 1.02 billion this year, according to a report published by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO). The report blames this latest spike in world hunger chiefly on the global economic recession, which has increased unemployment and reduced incomes among the poor, leading to greater food insecurity.The report, published on Friday, estimates that over 1 billion people will go hungry each day in 2009, a first in human history. This is a significant increase over last year's estimate of 915 million hungry people. According to the FAO, this increase of around 100 million people is not a result of poor harvests, as in the past, but rather a poor economy."A dangerous mix of the global economic slowdown combined with stubbornly high food prices in many countries has pushed some 100 million more people than last year into chronic hunger and poverty," said Jacques Diouf, Director-General of the FAO. "The silent hunger crisis — affecting one sixth of all of humanity — poses a serious risk for world peace and security."Although food prices have declined from their record high levels in mid-2008, the report states that global food prices are still high compared to previous years, and that domestic prices remain prohibitively high in developing countries. In Mauritania, for example, a staple food such as wheat still costs over 600 USD per tonne, whereas in the United States the price has fallen below 300 USD.The current economic situation has intensified the problem created by high food prices. Many sources of income for developing countries, including remittances, foreign direct investment, foreign aid, and international trade, are expected to undergo severe declines. In addition, because of the global nature of the economic crisis, previously-used mechanisms such as currency depreciation and borrowing from international credit markets are more limited in their scope, according to the FAO.In developing countries, the report says, the urban poor are likely to be most affected by the economic slowdown, as their ability to find work is most dependent on factors like foreign investment and export demand. However, rural areas could also be affected, as an urban back-migration to the farms would put more pressure on an already strained rural job market. Budget constraints would lead families to purchase more grain products, which are cheaper than meat, dairy products, and other foods rich in protein. The result of such diet changes is often malnutrition.Investment in agriculture, according to Director-General Diouf, is the key to overcoming poverty and hunger in poorer countries. These countries "must be given the development, economic and policy tools required to boost their agricultural production and productivity", he said. Kanayo F. Nwanze, President of the International Fund for Agricultural Development, says that investment in agriculture is not only essential for overcoming hunger, but also for promoting economic growth in developing countries. "To unleash this potential and reduce the number of hungry people in the world," he said, the international community must ensure that farmers "have access not only to seeds and fertilisers but to tailored technologies, infrastructure, rural finance, and markets."However, the economic slowdown has forced the UN’s World Food Programme to shut down some of its operations, as it receives less financial aid from donor countries. Out of a required yearly budget of 6.4 billion USD, the agency currently has less than one-fourth of that amount.As Zimbabwe's rainy season approaches, farmers in the Wedza district, Mashonaland East province, are worried that again this year they won't be able to locate or afford the seed, fertilizer, and other inputs needed to get a maize crop in the ground.Aiming to relieve such shortages of inputs, Christian Care is among the non-governmental organizations working with the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and the European Union to implement an agricultural inputs support scheme. Christian Care said it is now providing farmers in the Midlands with fertilizer and seeds. Experts said most farmers are struggling to obtain inputs because the government has cut back on programs to finance planting, instead urging farmers to borrow from banks. But banks insist on land as collateral, though all farmland has been nationalized. Even farmers resettled under land reform since 2000 have only so-called offer letters granting them working rights, but banks will accept neither these nor livestock as collateral. Christian Care Director Forbes Matonga reported that his is one of seven organizations reaching out to small farmers under the FAO program. As the rainy season begins, cholera is also now a growing concern. Residents of Zimbabwe, fearing a repeat of the 2008 epidemic that killed thousands, are struggling to complete precautionary measures.Robert Mugabe, former president of Zimbabwe, has died, according to current president Emmerson Mnangagwa on Friday. He was 95. Mugabe was hospitalized in Singapore for several months this year and according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs he died at Gleneagles Hospital in the morning. Mugabe was considered the founding father of Zimbabwe.Robert Gabriel Mugabe was born in 1924 in Kutama, Zimbabwe, when the country was a British colony called Southern Rhodesia. Mugabe's first career was as a teacher. He taught and studied in various sub-Saharan countries in Africa.  He embraced Marxism.  He later returned to Rhodesia, which within a few years thereafter declared independence from the United Kingdom, but still under white rule.Mugabe co-founded the Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU) to oppose the white minority rule, but was arrested in 1963 and was imprisoned until 1974. After his release, Mugabe led a militant guerrilla movement against Ian Smith's government; successful, Mugabe was hailed a national hero. He was also praised in the West.Mugabe ruled Zimbabwe, serving as its first prime minister, 1980–1987; then as president, 1987–2017; for 37 years. He supported education, healthcare, and peasant farming, and a few years into his tenure, Zimbabwe had a strong economy and rising literacy rates and, according to CNN, was called the "breadbasket" of southern Africa But during these early years, Mugabe also became known for his violent treatment of opponents; the Gukurahundi massacres saw thousands if not tens of thousands of ethnic Ndebele killed.When Mugabe assumed the presidency in 1987, he also became head of the armed forces and had successfully consolidated consolidated power over Zimbabwe. In the 1990s, he instituted a policy of confiscating land from white farm-owners and redistributing it. Some of those seizing the land were ostensibly veterans of the war and they would sometimes kill the farmers and the black laborers who worked there. Agricultural production decreased sharply and inflation inversely rocketed.In 2000, a new threat to Mugabe's rule emerged in the form of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC). Mugabe won a presidential election over Morgan Tsvangirai of the MDC, but amid reports of violence and fraud, neither the European Union nor the United States would endorse the result. At the next elections in 2008, the MDC won a majority in the House of Assembly and both Mugabe and Tsvangirai claimed victory in the presidential vote, which again was marred by allegations of fraud and tampering. Refusing to give up power, Mugabe agreed to power-sharing in which Tsvangirai became prime minister. "Only God who appointed me will remove me — not the MDC, not the British," he declared.The following election in 2013 saw a substantial victory for Mugabe, and despite Tsvangirai's allegations of widespread fraud, Mugabe ended the power-sharing. Soon after, however, rumors circulated he was preparing his wife — four decades his junior — to become his successor. Grace Mugabe was already unpopular for her penchant of flaunting an extravagant lifestyle in a country which was becoming increasingly poor.After Mugabe fired his vice president, ahead of the 2018 elections, the army moved on November 15, 2017, having first placed Mugabe under house arrest. Nevertheless, Mugabe was able to negotiate immunity from prosecution, full diplomatic status and a fully staffed state-funded 25-room home, known as the "Blue House", in exchange for his official resignation on November 21."It is with the utmost sadness that I announce the passing on of Zimbabwe's founding father and former President, Cde [comrade] Robert Mugabe. [...] Cde Mugabe was an icon of liberation, a pan-Africanist who dedicated his life to the emancipation and empowerment of his people. His contribution to the history of our nation and continent will never be forgotten. May his soul rest in eternal peace", wrote President Mnangagwa.Vladimir Putin, president of Russia, said in a statement: "Many important dates in Zimbabwe’s modern history are tied to the name of Robert Mugabe. He made a great personal contribution to the battle for your country’s independence, to the building of Zimbabwean State institutions.""For my generation, Mr Robert Mugabe should be remembered for what he was to us. He was a dictator. He was ruthless. He is the author of the current economic and political challenges we're facing as a nation", said Ashton Bumhira, director of Youth Forum Zimbabwe.On Monday, the Commonwealth of Nations Secretary-General, Patricia Scotland, confirmed receipt of a formal request from Zimbabwe's President Emmerson Mnangagwa to re-join the bloc.Zimbabwe, which had been a member of the Commonwealth since its independence from British rule in 1980, had its membership suspended in 2002 for a disputed presidential election as well as cases of land grabbing from white farmers. Then Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe withdrew the country from the bloc in 2003. Mugabe, who had been Zimbabwe's president since 1980, was overthrown by a de facto military coup in November 2017.In the application letter dated May 9, President Mnangagwa invited officials of the Commonwealth to observe the general elections in Zimbabwe which are scheduled to take place in July. British foreign secretary Boris Johnson tweeted, "Zimbabwe must now show commitment to Commonwealth values of democracy and human rights".Patrica Scotland said, "Zimbabwe's eventual return to the Commonwealth, following a successful membership application, would be a momentous occasion, given our shared rich history". Currently, there are 53 nations in the Commonwealth. Previously, Ireland and Maldives had left the group in 1949 and 2016 respectively. No country has joined the bloc since Rwanda joined in 2009. Four former British territories — South Africa, Pakistan, Fiji as well as Gambia have re-joined the Commonwealth after quitting. Gambia rejoined in February, after five years. The then-President of Gambia Yahya Jammeh had left the Commonwealth in 2013.Roy Bennett, a key Zimbabwean opposition leader, died on Wednesday evening in a helicopter crash that also killed four other people in the northeastern part of New Mexico, United States. Bennett was 60 years old. His death was confirmed Thursday by some of his friends and family members. The helicopter, a Bell UH-1 Iroquois, went down after darkness had fallen. The fatal accident happened in a remote and mountainous area about fifteen miles (about 24 km) east of the small town of Raton. The New Mexico State Police has confirmed, four others were killed in the accident: Bennett's wife Heather, pilot Jamie Coleman Dodd, co-pilot Paul Cobb, as well as the wealthy businessman Charles Burnett III. According to friends, Bennett and his wife were on their way to the Emery Gap Ranch, a ranch in New Mexico which Burnett purchased last year, in order to spend their holiday over there. In total, six people were aboard. Only the co-pilot's daughter managed to escape in time from the burning helicopter. Bennett was a prominent member of the Movement for Democratic Change – Tsvangirai (MDC-T) party. He was very critical of former President Robert Mugabe's reign. Bennett fled Zimbabwe for some time but returned to it in 2009, after which he was arrested on the accusation of illegal weapon possession. He was eventually acquitted from this.Several Zimbabwean opposition leaders have expressed their grief about Bennett's death. Obert Gutu, a spokesman for MDC-T, spoke of a "huge and tragic loss". Former Minister of Finance Tendai Biti calls it "a blow to our struggle".  According to David Coltart, both Bennett and his wife belonged to "Zimbabwe’s greatest patriots". On Friday, Zimbabwean lawyer Alex Magaisa described Bennett as "part of a small group of white Zimbabweans who joined the democratic movement and demonstrated that whites do still have a place in Zimbabwe".On Tuesday, Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe resigned, after ruling Zimbabwe for 37 years, in the wake of a military coup following his ouster of Vice President Emmerson Mnangagwa and shortly after the start of an impeachment hearing against him. His letter of resignation was read in parliament and reports indicate the ruling ZANU–PF party is to appoint Mnangagwa in his place.Mugabe had been president since the Patriotic Front, predecessor of ZANU-PF, won elections against the white minority administration of the former Rhodesia in 1980; with Joshua Nkomo, he had led the guerilla war for control of the country by the black majority, and returned from exile weeks before the vote. The oldest of the world's leaders at 93, he dismissed Mnangagwa earlier this month, in what was reportedly widely believed to be a plan to secure the succession for his 52-year-old wife, Grace Mugabe. This aroused the anger of both the party and the army, who placed him under house arrest on November 14 and launched a coup the following day. One week later, after he failed to resign, parliament began impeachment proceedings against him. He then submitted his letter of resignation.Celebrations broke out in parliament and in the streets of the capital, Harare, where the Christmas lights in Africa Unity Square were turned on ahead of schedule. Mugabe's political opposition described him as a tyrant.Constitutionally, Phelekezela Mphoko, who succeeded Mnangagwa as vice president, would succeed Mugabe as president. However, Lovemore Matuke, chief whip of ZANU-PF, in remarks to Reuters said Mnangagwa would succeed Mugabe instead. On Wednesday, Mnangagwa returned from exile in South Africa and gave a speech in which he declared: "Today we are witnessing the beginning of a new and unfolding democracy." The next general election is required to be held by next September.According to a study published on Monday in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus), is down to 7,100 individuals remaining worldwide, most of them in Africa and, rarely, in Asia. The number establishes cheetahs as much less commonplace than just over one hundred years ago. There are now scientists calling for the largest cheetah subspecies to receive "endangered" status on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)'s Red List of Threatened Species.The US National Wildlife Federation reports an estimated worldwide population of 100,000 cheetahs in the late 19th century. The new study, led by Zoological Society of London (ZSL) researcher Sarah Durant, with contributors including the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) and Panthera Corporation, indicates a decline of more than 91%. Most of the remaining cheetahs live in most of Africa, more than half in southern Africa, while a subspecies is found in Asia, including a small part of Iran, though these are seen much more rarely.According to the study's authors, the habitat preservation strategy that can be so effective in other species does not work on cheetahs because of their wide range. About 77% of wild cheetah's ranges are outside protected areas. According to Cheetah Conservation Project Zimbabwe, Zimbabwe's cheetah population dwindled from an estimated 1,500 in 1999 to 150–170 in 2013–2015, a roughly 85% decline. The group based its survey on such resources as photographs, tourist sightings, safari guides, cattle herders, and village chiefs.The Asiatic cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus venaticus) has been nearly eliminated in Asia; under 50 Iranian cheetahs remain. The cheetah subspecies went extinct in India more than fifty years ago, says International Business Times.The new study asks the IUCN to change the status of cheetah from "vulnerable" to "endangered" in an effort to protect cheetahs. The IUCN lists both the Northwest African cheetah (Acinonyx jubatus hecki) and the Asiatic cheetah as "critically endangered" in their Red List.Causes of cheetah decline have been mostly habitat loss, killings of cheetahs by humans, human hunting of cheetah's resources such as antelope, illegal fur trade, illegal cub trafficking, and roadkill. According to the Cheetah Conservation Fund, about 85% of an estimated 1,200 trafficked cheetah cubs have died within the past ten years, perishing en route.Their exotic aesthetic renders cheetah very valuable. A trafficked cub can fetch $10,000, according to the BBC. According to DW, cheetah skin and meat are valuable as well.Complicating conservation efforts, cheetahs are carnivores and difficult to maintain in captivity. According to one report, the 77% of wild cheetah habitat is outside the range of protected wildlife areas and reserves.  The cheetahs' secretive nature makes finding conclusive evidence on cheetahs difficult, says Durant.Cheetah is the world's fastest springing species and predator. One cheetah was recorded sprinting at 29 meters (95.1 ft) per second. They slow down if needed to hunt, and can maintain high speeds for hundred of metres. The running speed of cheetahs has not prevented their decline.Five deaths from cholera have been reported in the past week in the Zimbabwean provinces of Mashonaland West and Midlands, raising fears that the onset of the rains could lead to a repeat of the cholera epidemic that claimed thousands of lives in the past year.The five deaths resulted from 117 cases reported in the Mashonaland West, Manicaland and Midlands provinces since last month. The provinces of Masvingo province has also reported cases. The Zimbabwean Health and Child Welfare Secretary, Gerald Gwinji, said on Tuesday that most of the deaths and cases occurred among religious sects that do not accept medical treatment. "Most of the cases were recorded [...] among religious objectors, who for a long time have been reluctant to seek medical attention," he said. Health experts have warned that with the rainy season just beginning around the country, cholera could get out of hand if safe water is not made widely available.Aid agencies have been warning that another outbreak of the disease was very likely, as the heavy summer rains cause cholera, which is water-borne, to be transmitted more easily.  “The fundamentals of the last  epidemic are still there. Water is only sporadically available, and sewerage  reticulation and refuse collection are only partially working,” a spokeswoman for the UNICEF said.Officials from aid agencies predicted that the number of current cholera infections in Zimbabwe will decline to around 60,000. “It’s not the catastrophe that it was last year but  it’s still a big epidemic of an easily preventable disease that should never  have been allowed to happen,” an unnamed agency doctor said. The decrease has been anticipated after large amounts of water purification tablets, communal water  tanks, and boreholes were installed in water systems as part of an operation to make water safer to drink.Spokeswoman Tsitsi Singizi of the United Nations Children's Fund told the Voice of America news agency that the government and international or non-governmental aid agencies have been doing all they can to prevent a repeat of last year's deadly epidemic.A recent cholera epidemic in Zimbabwe claimed 4,288 lives from late 2008 to mid-2009, the worst outbreak seen on the African continent for fifteen years after the collapse of sanitation and water systems throughout the country.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.