In findings published on Wednesday in the journal PLOS ONE, an international team of scientists report ancient Egyptians captured sacred ibises (Threskiornis aethiopicus) from the wild for use in ritual sacrifice rather than domesticating the birds.Millions of mummified ibis birds have been found in Egyptian tombs and catacombs in Saqqara and Tuna el-Gebel, and Egyptologists have reported they were sacrificed to the god Thoth, who is often depicted with the head of an ibis, the way Horus is shown with the head of a falcon and Bast with the head of a cat.Lead author Sally Wasef of Australia's Griffith University explained to the press, "The ibis was considered [to represent] the god Thoth, the god of wisdom, the god of magic, the god of judgment, writing all sorts of things [...] If you had a boss that annoys you and you don't feel like you are getting a good judgment from him or you want fairness and justice, you go and ask Thoth to interfere and in return you promise to offer him an ibis, a mummified ibis, in his annual feast."Some scholars have suggested Egyptians raised or farmed the birds to make them available in the necessary numbers.  While some ancient Egyptian writers made passing mention of feeding bread and plants to ibises, according to Wasef archaeologists have not yet turned up any hatchery structures.The team collected DNA samples from mummified birds collected from six separate catacombs including sites at Abydos, Saqqara, and Tuna el-Gebel with permission from the Egyptian Ministry of State for Antiquity, and several museums offered to send tissue samples from the mummified ibises in their collections.  They were able to extract complete mitochondrial DNA sequences from fourteen.  These they compared to those of 26 modern ibises from different parts of Africa — ibises of this species disappeared from Egypt itself during modern times.  They found the DNA sequences from the ancient birds to be relatively diverse.  If the birds had been domesticated or even heavily farmed, they reasoned, the Egyptian specimens would have shown only a little genetic diversity.Wasif suggested, in likelihood, "next to each temple there was like a lake or a wetland — it is a natural habitat for the ibis to live in and if you are giving them food they will keep coming[.]"According to the researchers, sacrifice and mummification of sacred ibises was common in Egypt from about 664 b.c.e. to 250 c.e., from the twenty-sixth dynasty into the early period of Roman Egypt.Brazil has located an isolated group of indigenous, uncontacted people  in the Brazilian Amazon rainforest, the Brazilian National Foundation of Indians (FUNAI) announced today.FUNAI, a state agency, uses aerial expeditions to avoid impacting uncontacted people and invading their land. The agency's policy is to avoid maintaining any human contact with untouched tribes.Clearings in the Javari river valley reservation were first identified by satellite; the group's existence was only verified later by air flights over the area. The flights established the existence of three clearings with four straw-roofed buildings, known as malocas, which may shelter over 200 Indians. Also visible were areas where  crops such as bananas,  maize and perhaps peanuts were apparently being grown.FUNAI's Javari valley coodinator told the Brazilian news agency Estado that both the croplands and the malocas "are new" and are estimated to have been used "for at most one year". Amorim said, "[T]he Amazon region contains the majority of untouched tribes without any contact with the exterior in the World." And he said the recent findings highlight that the Javari valley holds, "the greatest concentration of isolated groups in Amazonia".The newly identified group is located close to Brazil's border with Peru in the huge Vale do Javari reservation.   Fourteen known uncontacted tribes have been spotted there and up to eight more are suggested by aerial evidence. Altogether, there are about 2,000 individuals in the reservation, according to Amorim. He said that their culture and their very  survival is threatened by illegal removal of the area's natural resources, as well as many other intrusions of civilization, but  most of Brazil's indigenous groups have not changed their languages or  traditions. FUNAI estimates that the recently discovered tribe likely belongs to the pano language group.Brazil's indigenous peoples have tenaciously fought for their legal right to reclaim their traditional lands which were allotted to them in  Brazil's 1988 constitution stating that all indigenous ancestral lands were to have their boundaries clearly marked  and returned to tribes within five years.A team of scientists has announced remains of a human girl from about 50 thousand years ago had one Neanderthal parent and one Denisovan parent, two different species of humans, both species now extinct. The results, from genomic tests in Leipzig, Germany of fossil bone from Siberia, Russia, were published on Wednesday in scientific journal Nature.  The researchers said this is the first discovery of a child with parents of different human species.The single fossilized bone fragment, about two centimetres (less than an inch) long, which researchers said was from a girl at least 13 years old, was found in 2012 in the Denisova Cave in Siberia.  The Denisovan species of humans is only directly known from the same cave, where it was discovered in 2011; the cave is also the only site where both Nenderthal and Denisovan remains have been found.  Neanderthals have been found in Europe and Asia.  Traces of genes from both species occur in some modern humans.  Researchers found the nuclear DNA in this bone fragment was split fairly evenly between both species, while the mitochondrial DNA was Neanderthal; nuclear DNA comes from both parents, while mitochondrial DNA comes only from the mother, so they concluded the girl's mother was Neanderthal and her father Denisovan.Lead author on the study Viviane Slon, of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology (MPI-EVA) in Leipzig, said "We knew from previous studies that Neanderthals and Denisovans must have occasionally had children together [...] But I never thought we would be so lucky as to find an actual offspring of the two groups."  The team rechecked the findings several times.  Scientist Johannes Krause, of the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Jena, called the finding "sensational".  Study coauthor Svante Pääbo, of MPI-EVA, remarked on the improbability of discovering such a hybrid when only two dozen human genomes over 40 thousand years old — when the other species of humans were still around — have been done: "The fact that we stumbled across this makes you wonder if the mixing wasn't quite frequent [...] Had it happened frequently, we would not have such divergence between the Denisovans and Neanderthal genomes."  The researchers also noted the girl's father, though Denisovan, had a trace of Neanderthal DNA, from perhaps as much as several hundred generations earlier. They also reported the mother's DNA was not closely related to that of other Neanderthals found in the cave, suggesting multiple migrations of Neanderthals between Siberia and Europe.A large hoard of Anglo-Saxon gold has been found in a field in Staffordshire, England.The hoard, which was found in a private field over the course of five days in July 2009, is in fact the most Anglo-Saxon gold that has ever been unearthed at one site in the United Kingdom.  Roughly 1,500 gold and silver pieces were found and the hoard contains roughly 5kgs of gold and 2.5kgs of silver — far more than the previous record of 2.5kgs of gold which was found at Sutton Hoo, near Woodbridge.The big haul in Staffordshire was found by 55-year-old Terry Herbert, while he was using a metal-detector.  He had asked a local farmer's permission to search the land beforehand.  Terry is unemployed, and has been in the hobby of metal-detecting for the last 18 years.  He said: "People laugh at metal detectorists."I've had people go past and go 'beep beep, he's after pennies'. Well no, we are out there to find this kind of stuff and it is out there."It is estimated to take over twelve months before the value of the hoard can be valued specifically.  South Staffordshire Coroner Andrew Haigh declared it "treasure". That means that it belongs to the Crown.  Archaeology experts have predicted that it could be worth "a seven-figure sum" and that the treasure may date back to the 7th century. The exact location where the hoard was found is currently being kept secret.Academic journal Science published research this week claiming that modern Indo-European languages originated in Turkey, around 9,000 years ago. Over 400 languages, spoken by in excess of 3 billion people, are traced back to Anatolia, now part of modern-day Turkey.The paper, "Mapping the Origins and Expansion of the Indo-European Language Family", contradicts the established view that the Indo-European group of languages originated in the Pontic steppes of south-west Russia around 6,000 years ago. Researchers used techniques originally developed to track the spread of viral epidemics to give new insights into the development of languages. They say that "Both the inferred timing and root location of the Indo-European language trees fit with an agricultural expansion from Anatolia beginning 8,000 to 9,500 years ago."The hypothesis that Indo-European languages came from Anatolia was first proposed in the 1980s by archaeologist Colin Renfew, Baron Renfew of Kaimsthorn.Archaeologists Timothy Darvill of Bournemouth University and Geoff Wainwright, President of the Society of Antiquaries, claimed to have found evidence that Stonehenge was once a center of healing. In an excavation conducted at the site, a large number of human remains were found that display signs of physical injury or disease. Study of the teeth from the skeletons indicates that about half of them were from outside the area.A large number of bluestone or spotted Preseli dolerite chips found during the excavation led the researchers to conclude the stones were venerated for their healing properties. It is believed that about 80 of such bluestone blocks were transported from the Preseli Hills in Pembrokeshire, Wales to the Salisbury plains. The inner circle of bluestones are the earliest stone structures found in this site. Later bluestones were encircled by the imposing  sandstone monoliths of sarsen stones. "It could be that people were flaking off pieces of bluestone, in order to create little bits to take away... as lucky amulets," said Professor Darvill.Radiocarbon dating indicates that the original bluestone circle was built around 2300 BC. This date coincides with the burial of "Amesbury Archer", whose tomb was discovered near Stonehenge. The skeleton of this man reveals that he had serious knee injury and tooth problems. Researchers therefore conclude that the Archer came to Stonehenge to be healed.Dating of charcoal fragments revealed that the site was inhabited as early as 7200 BC by groups of hunter-gatherers. This is more than 3500 years earlier than previously known.Human brains cannot manage more than 150 friendships – even with the advent of social networking websites like Facebook, Bebo and Myspace.  This is the conclusion of Robin Dunbar, Professor of Evolutionary Anthropology at the University of Oxford. Dunbar originally carried out research in this area in the 1990s, looking at social groups from modern offices back to ancient villages. He found that the neocortex in the brain, used for thinking and language, cannot cope with more than 150 friends – a conclusion known as "Dunbar's number". Groups of people tend to be limited to about 150 as, beyond that, social cohesion suffers. Revisiting the topic, Dunbar's view is that this number has not increased even with online methods of keeping in touch with friends, like Facebook.Dunbar compared the online activity of those with thousands of internet friends and those with hundreds, before concluding that there was no appreciable difference in their levels of activity.  He defined a friend as someone that the individual cared about and made contact with at least yearly. "The interesting thing is that you can have 1,500 friends but when you actually look at traffic on sites, you see people maintain the same inner circle of around 150 people that we observe in the real world. [...] People obviously like the kudos of having hundreds of friends but the reality is that they’re unlikely to be bigger than anyone else’s", he observed. Another conclusion of his study was that women were better at keeping friendships going on Facebook than men – "girls are much better at maintaining relationships just by talking to each other. Boys need to do physical stuff together". The full results of his study are due to be published later in 2010.Dunbar, 52, has been an Oxford professor since 2007, having previously been Professor of Evolutionary Psychology at the University of Liverpool.  He is a Fellow of the British Academy and a fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford.The oldest known gold artifact in the Americas is a necklace from Peru, according to University of Arizona anthropology professor Mark Aldenderfer.  The necklace comes from a village in the Jiskairumoko range near Lake Titicaca and consists of gold that had been hammered and rolled into nine cylindrical beads, then strung with turquoise on a wool string.Radiocarbon dating places the manufacture of the necklace from 2155 to 1936 B.C., which makes this item about 600 years older than the next oldest gold artifact that has been discovered the Americas and the oldest example of metalworking of any kind in the Americas. Gold metallurgy is almost always associated with agricultural societies.  Since the materials used in the necklace are not found in the Titicaca basin, the existence of the necklace implies the region had trade routes and a hereditary elite.Although this discovery was made in 2004, Professor Alenderfer and his team delayed publication in order to have the gold chemically analyzed and to minimize the risk of looters damaging the site before excavation was complete.It has now emerged that in the past four to five years, approximately thirty thousand silver Roman coins were discovered in the city of Bath, in Somerset, England.Archaeologists discovered the coins, which are thought to date back to the year 270, on the site of a new hotel on Beau Street in the city as work was underway 150 metres away from the Roman Baths. The hoard, named as the Beau Street Hoard, is understood to be the fifth largest ever uncovered in the United Kingdom and the greatest one found at a Roman town in the country.Speaking on behalf of Roman Baths, Stephen Clews stated: "We've put in a request for a formal valuation and then hope to buy the coins to display them at the baths. At the time there was a lot of unrest in the Roman Empire so there may be some explanation for why the coins were hidden away." This discovery was "unusual as it was discovered by professional archaeologists as opposed to an amateur using a metal detector," according to Clews.The discovered coins were found to be in a large block joined together, increasing the difficulty of establishing what exact kind of coins these are, as well as the total number of them. The hoard has been sent to the British Museum in the capital London where conservators are anticipated to take twelve months or more to analyse the coins.The Roman Baths is now attempting to accumulate £150,000 (€180,000 or US$237,000) in funding so as to allow them to acquire the coins and place them on display.Some of the notable pieces from the gold and silver hoard which was found in a private field in Staffordshire, England by a metal-detector user have been put on display in the British Museum in the city of London. Approximately 1,500 pieces were found in July of this year; the discovery was reported by news sources in September.  The value of the hoard itself is still being checked.  18 of the pieces have now gone on display in the museum in London, England, and can be seen by members of the public.Fred Johnson, who is the owner of the land in which the hoard was found, said:  "It's been an incredible experience.  I'm overwhelmed by it all.  They say this will change the history books; it's a strange thought that came from something lying in my field all this time.  I'm trying to keep a level head about it.  I'm trying not to think at all about the value of it."  Johnson will share the sum of the value of the hoard with Terry Herbert, who found the pieces.  The hoard is believed to date back to the 7th century."People laugh at metal detectorists," Herbert said in late September. "I've had people go past and go 'beep beep, he's after pennies'. Well no, we are out there to find this kind of stuff and it is out there." Michael Lewis is the deputy head of the Department of Portable Antiquities in the British Museum. Speaking to BBC News about this event, he said: "The view is that it was probably in some sort of container but that has not survived and it was deliberately hoarded, put into the ground, what is unclear is why, and I suppose what we find is they would have been objects that had been stripped from the enemies' weapons."What is interesting about the hoard as a whole is all the objects are associated with war to some or a greater extent. What the hoard consists of is mainly gold objects, there are some silver ones, basically they have been stripped from whatever they were on for instance sword fittings. What it demonstrates is that the Anglo-Saxons as a people were very able to do amazing things with objects and I reckon people nowadays attempting to make these objects would have great difficulty in doing so."On Wednesday Australian archaeologists published an analysis of a previously discovered axe fragment which indicates it is up to 49,000 years old.The axe fragment was originally discovered in Western Australia's Kimberley region in 1991 by Professor Sue O'Connor of the Australian National University but was only recently examined. The recent analysis and dating published in journal Australian Archaeology indicates the fragment came from the head of a hafted axe 46,000 to 49,000 years old. This is currently the world's oldest known hafted axe fragment.According to coauthor Professor O'Connor, this predates all other known evidence of axe hafting, as in Japan where evidence of hafted axes around 35,000 years old has been found. Professor O'Connor said, "Nowhere else in the world do you get axes at this date [...] in most countries in the world they arrived with agriculture after 10,000 years ago."Analysis by coauthor Professor Peter Hiscock of the University of Sydney showed the axe-head was made of basalt, a hard volcanic rock. Axe-heads like this one would have been ground against a softer rock to shape and polish them. This recent discovery indicates the early inhabitants of Australia developed and used complex tools soon after they arrived in Australia 50,000 to 55,000 years ago.What is believed to be the world's oldest leather shoe, over 5,500 year old, has been found in a cave in Armenia by a team of archaeologists.The Armenian shoe is in a perfectly preserved condition and is a few hundred years older than the one found on Ötzi the Iceman, making it the oldest piece of leather footwear in the world, and the oldest footwear yet found in Europe. Researchers published details in the journal PLoS ONE.The leather shoe was found in a cave dubbed Areni-1, near the village of Areni in the Vayots Dzor province of Armenia, on the Iranian and Turkish borders.  "I was amazed to find that even the shoe-laces were preserved," recalled Diana Zardaryan, the Armenian PhD student who made the discovery.According to researchers, the shoe, made of cow-hide, consists of only one leather piece and was probably customised to the wearer's foot. It was relatively small, measuring the corresponding to European size 37 or US size 7 women, however, it could have been worn by a man.It was kept in excellent condition by a thick layer of sheep excrement, which acted as a seal, helping it survive the millennia. The shoe contained grass, although the archaeologists were uncertain as to whether this was to used to maintain the shape of the shoe and/or prepare it for storage."We thought initially that the shoe and other objects were about 600-700 years old because they were in such good condition," said  co-author Dr. Ron Pinhasi from the University College Cork in Ireland. "It was only when the material was dated by the two radiocarbon laboratories in Oxford and in California that we realised that the shoe was a few hundred years older than the shoes worn by Ötzi the Iceman".The shoe and the cave will continue to be researched. "We do not know yet what the shoe or other objects were doing in the cave or what the purpose of the cave was", said Pinhasi, "We know that there are children's graves at the back of the cave but so little is known about this period that we cannot say with any certainty why all these different objects were found together".Currently, the oldest known footwear are sandals made from sagebrush bark, found in Fort Rock Cave, Oregon in the United States.  These shoes were discovered in 1938, and have been dated to about 10,000 years before present.Discoveries within the cave move early bronze-age cultural activity in Armenia back by about 800 years. Additional discoveries yielded an extensive array of Copper Age artifacts dating to between 6,200 and 5,900 years ago.On Thursday, Polish striker Robert Lewandowski surpassed Włodzimierz Lubański's goal scoring record for the country in a qualifying match against Armenia for next year's FIFA World Cup. Lewandowski equalled Lubanski's record of 48 goals in the eighteenth minute of the game, and became new top-scorer after scoring another in the 25th minute. Lubanski had scored 48 goals for Poland in 75 matches.Poland's Kamil Grosicki opened the scoring just two minutes after the kick-off. Lewandowski scored his 48th goal via a free-kick in the eighteenth minute and 49th goal in the 25th minute. Hovhannes Hambardzumyan scored a header, the only goal for Armenia, in the 39th minute. The first half ended in a 3–1 lead for Poland in Yerevan. In the second half, Jakub Błaszczykowski scored the fourth goal for Poland. Lewandowski, who was playing his 90th international match, completed his hat-trick when he scored his 50th international goal in the 64th minute. Just minutes before final time, Rafał Wolski scored the sixth goal for Poland.Lewandowski has now scored fifteen goals in the qualification matches, setting up a new record of most goals scored in European Qualifiers. The previous record was set by Yogislavian Predrag Mijatović, who scored fourteen goals. Portuguese forward Cristiano Ronaldo equalled Mijatović's record in August, scored a goal yesterday and became the joint top-scorer with Lewandowski in European Qualifiers.With the 6–1 victory over Armenia, Poland has won 22 points in nine qualification matches, and sits on the top of the Group E table. They need just one point to earn direct qualification for the World Cup. Their next game is against Montenegro in Warsaw, scheduled for today.On the same day, defending world champions Germany defeated Northern Ireland 3–1 in Belfast and qualified for the World Cup with nine victories in nine qualification matches. England defeated Slovenia 1–0 and qualified for the World Cup too. On Friday, Spain defeated Albania 3–0 and joined Germany and England to qualify.In association football signings this week, on Wednesday English football club Manchester United F.C. announced the signing of Armenian midfielder Henrikh Mkhitaryan from German club Borussia Dortmund; and on Thursday Spanish club Málaga CF announced signing striker Sandro Ramírez from FC Barcelona.A bus explosion in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, on Monday killed two Armenians and reportedly injured at least seven others. Deputy head of the rescue service at the Ministry of Emergency Situations Major-General Grigoryan said the blast was reported on Monday at 10:00pm local time (1800 UTC). In remarks to News.am, Armenian Health Minister Armen Muradyan said six injured were transported to a local medical centre. One passenger was revealed to be pregnant, and News.am reported at least five others were in critical condition.Reportedly the blast destroyed nearby houses' windows, and could be heard for miles.While authorities are still investigating the incident, the Emergencies Ministry said the bus was using diesel fuel so it wasn't a gas explosion.  In remarks to Associated Press (AP), investigative committee member Sona Truzyan said they have considered and rejected a terrorist explanation. Truzyen reported the committee is currently investigating a party to a domestic dispute.  An investigator told AP the suspect had threatened to give them a bomb, which could have exploded accidentally en route to its intended target.The suspect's telephone SIM card was recovered from the scene,. A detonator, TNT, and other electronics were found at his residence, and evidence of TNT was discovered on the bus.A 2016 study by crowdsourced site Numbeo says Armenia has the 93rd highest crime rate in the word. It's behind a number of other countries, including the United States and many European countries.General Prosecutor's Office of Armenia said they would give the public regular updates on the ongoing investigation.An unidentified assailant shot at politician and Armenian presidential candidate Paruyr Hayrikyan and wounded him on Thursday just before midnight on a street in Yerevan, the capital city of Armenia. Hayrikyan was transported to hospital and his state is stable.The presidential elections are scheduled for February 18, although Armenian constitution allows to postpone elections for up to 40 days if any candidate is unable to participate in the race for reasons he is not responsible for.The deputy chairman of the parliament Eduard Sharmazanov also said the act was a "provocation against democratic, free and transparent elections". A parliament speaker Hovik Abrahamyan admitted the election can be postponed.Following a press-conference on Friday, REGNUM News Agency reported that analyst Sergei Shakariants said the attackers could have wanted to delay the elections. He said that Paruyr Hayrikyan was not expected to win, and merely removing him from the race would not change the essence of the elections; elections were the real target. Sergei Shakariants also said the attackers may want to move the elections closer to March 1 to remind the public of previous troubles on this day in 2008 when the current president, Serzh Sargsyan, was elected.Former dissident Hayrikyan leads the National Self-determination Union, which opposes ruling president Serzh Sargsyan. Sarkisian is expected to win the elections. Together eight candidates run for election. Hayrikyan, 63, was held in prison for years under the Soviet regime and later left the country for exile, but he returned to Armenia in the 1990s. He received only a small support in the pre-election polls. He had already participated in elections in 2003 but was not elected.Political violence is not new to the country. In 1999, eight politicians and officers, including prime minister Vazgen Sargsyan and parliament speaker Karen Demirchyan, were assassinated inside the parliament hall.Following Hungary's release and repatriation of convicted Azeri axe-murderer Ramil Safarov, who Azerbaijan subsequently pardoned, Armenia announced it is "ready for war".The declaration is in-response to Safarov's pardon and promotion, despite the Azeri officer having been given a life sentence — with a minimum jail term of 30 years, by Hungarian authorities in 2006. Safarov was found guilty of the 2004 murder of Armenian officer Gurgen Margaryan in Budapest, when both Safarov and Margaryan were attending a NATO Partnership for Peace programme. Safarov killed Margaryan in his sleep with an axe; the attack allegedly stemming from a desire to avenge Azeris killed during the Nagorno-Karabakh War and being mocked by Margaryan and another Armenian.On his return home, Safarov was met with a hero's welcome, given a pardon by president Ilham Aliyev, promoted to the rank of major, awarded eight-years of back-pay and given a house. Armenia sees these acts, when it was expected that Safarov would serve out his prison term in Azerbaijan, as highly provocative. Armenian President Serzh Sarkisian declared: "We don't want a war, but if we have to, we will fight and win. We are not afraid of killers, even if they enjoy the protection of the head of state" .Historically both Armenia and Azerbaijan lay claim to some of the same territories, an issue complicated by the intermingling of ethnic populations so some areas have no clearly demarcated Azeri and Armenian border; these potential sources of conflict remained quiescent whilst both nations were subsumed by greater powers. However, the collapse of the Ottoman and Russian Empires in the wake of the First World War led to the Armenian–Azerbaijani War. With the demise of the short-lived Armenian-Azerbaijan-Georgia Transcaucasian Democratic Federative Republic, fighting broke out which only ended when the two nations were annexed by the expanding Soviet Union.With the USSR's collapse, Armenia and Azerbaijan re-emerged as independent states — as-did old rivalries over territory. Between 1988 and 1994 over thirty thousand people died, and a million were displaced in bitter ethnic fighting between Armenians and Azeris over the enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh; despite an Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe brokered ceasefire, no final armistice has been signed and intermittent violence between them the two states continues. Nagorno-Karabakh remains legally part of Azerbaijan, but under effective Armenian control. On multiple occasions president Ilham Aliyev has stated his willingness to resort to force in order to assert Azeri rule, with oil wealth tipping any local arms race in favour of Azerbaijan.On Friday, The National Security Council of Armenia decided to break ties with Hungary during an emergency summit, describing the Hungarian actions as a "grave mistake". In turn, the Azeri ambassador was summoned by Hungary on Monday regarding the breach of Azeri assurances that Safarov would serve out the remainder of his sentence in Azerbaijan.I like this news topic. Well, I can't understand how they come to know that the object found is the oldest? Any answers?--Sainsf (talk) 14:38, 10 June 2010 (UTC)If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.