The School of Mathematics, University of Manchester finished moving in to its new building Monday. The building is named after one of its most widely known academics, Alan Turing, one of the founders of computer science and a Reader in Mathematics at Manchester.Although Turing is one of the city and university's most famous sons, there are very few things named in his honour. The city council was criticised for naming an uninspiring piece of by-pass Alan Turing Way, and a statue erected by public subscription bears a plaque pointing out the failure of the computing industry to contribute.The new building deliberately attempts to provide a conducive atmosphere for mathematical collaboration with a design that aims to promote chance encounter in public spaces. It also aims to save energy with solar panels fitted to the roof.The building also houses the Astronomy and Astrophysics Group, and the Photon Sciences Institute.Colin A. Norman, Professor of Physics and Astronomy at Johns Hopkins University, testifying before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science February 2nd, presented the Hubble Origins Probe (HOP) as a replacement for the Hubble Space Telescope.Concerning the shuttle's estimated one billion dollar cost and 65 monthtime-frame for deployment to earth orbit, Norman said: "Thegroundbreaking science, the cutting edge technology generated inthe development of new instrumentation, the ability of Hubblescience to engage the interest of the public, and its impact onthe imagination of students, make it worthwhile to invest thissum of public funds to complete the last chapter of Hubble'sremarkable legacy."HOP will tackle three of the most central intellectual issues ofour age; the nature of dark energy, the natureand distribution of dark matter, and theprevalence of planets, including earths, around other stars.Norman noted during the testimony that HOP would be, essentially,a lighter copy of the Hubble Space Telescope and would includetwo instruments that were scheduled for installation on theHubble: the Cosmic Origins Spectrograph (COS), the Wide Field Camera 3 (WFC3), plus the new Very Wide Field Imager (VWFI) to be paid for and provided by Japan.The VWFI has a field of view 17 times greater the advancedcamera on board the Hubble now, and is 3-4 times more sensitiveat critical wavelengths. This will provide for mapping 20 timesfaster than achievable by the Hubble at present.The COS would make possible the identification of the invisibleportion of "ordinary matter," potentially residing in giganticgas clouds discovered by theChandra X-ray Telescope."The WFC3 has greatly enhanced power for discovery in the blue andthe red region of the spectrum and will significantly enhancestudies of galaxies and stars. Its infrared capability isessential to studies of dark energy," Norman added."The decision is obvious. We must continue with theHubble adventure to explore these great questionsfurther, to understand more fully our remarkableUniverse and our place in it. We must do this withintense determination and energy and thus continue toinspire new generations with the wonder and thrill ofexploration and discovery," concluded Norman.Colin Norman was educated at the University of Melbourne andOxford University. He has been a professor of physics andastronomy at Johns Hopkins University and astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute since 1984.Astronomers have discovered a planetary system that could contain between five and seven planets, located about 127 light-years from Earth.Only fifteen planetary systems are known to contain more than three planets. The newly discovered system is centered around star HD 10180, whose properties may be similar to those of our own Sun. The researchers who made the discovery say that the system is arranged in a more compact way than our own; it is believed that the year of one of the inner planets could be equal to as little as just over one Earth day.It is believed that up to seven planets may be present in this system; two, however, are subject to ambiguity. One of these is believed to have a mass that may be relatively close to Earth's. This planet, if confirmed, may prove to be the smallest world yet discovered outside our solar system.This system, however, is not the first to be discovered outside our solar system. Astronomers have been spotting these systems for several years. Christophe Lovis, lead researcher on the project, shares his thoughts about the discovery: "This also highlights the fact that we are now entering a new era in exoplanet research - the study of complex planetary systems and not just of individual planets."Martin Dominik, an astronomer from the University of St. Andrews, warns against describing the system as the "richest yet discovered," as it is unclear whether other systems with more planets have been discovered in the past. Dominik elaborates: "Like most discoveries in science, the findings come with more questions than answers; but in my opinion, this is what really advances a field."European astronomers have discovered the most massive star yet on record; it is approximately 300 times the mass of our sun, beyond the previously accepted limit of 150 solar masses.Paul Crowther, professor of astrophysics at the University of Sheffield, led the team of researchers that discovered the star. The team used the Very Large Telescope (VLT) in Chile, and data archived from the Hubble Space Telescope. The newly discovered star, designated R136a1, was discovered in the R136 star cluster.The researchers estimate that the current mass of the star is about 265 solar masses, and could have been about 320 solar masses just after its birth."Unlike humans," says Crowther, "these stars are born heavy and lose weight as they age.  Being a little over a million years old, the most extreme star R136a1 is already middle-aged, and has undergone an intense weight loss programme, shedding a fifth of its initial mass over that time, or more than 50 solar masses."Astronomers not involved in the discovery, while still impressed, warn of the small possibility that the team could have mistaken two relatively close stars for one large one."What they're characterizing as a single massive star," Mark Krumholz told the Associated Press, "could in fact be a binary system too close to be resolved."  Krumholz is an astronomer at the University of California.Another astronomer, Phillip Massey from the Lowell Observatory in Arizona, also warns that this may be the case. Massey explained that the star's weight had been inferred using scientific models that were subject to change.The R136 star cluster, the star's location, is in the Tarantula Nebula in the Large Magellanic Cloud, a neighboring galaxy about 165,000 light-years away. The Large Magellanic Cloud, located between the constellations Dorado and Mensa, is visible as a faint cloud in the southern hemisphere. Astronomers are still struggling to understand how these stars form."Either they were born so big or smaller stars merged together to produce them," Crowther explained.  The researchers believe that the stellar heavyweight record could be held by this star for quite some time.  Crowther elaborates: "Owing to the rarity of these monsters, I think it is unlikely that this new record will be broken any time soon."On Wednesday, astronomers at the University of Cambridge in England announced the discovery of a dwarf star, known as EBLM J0555-57Ab, which is slightly bigger than Saturn and smaller than Jupiter.  It was found using data from an array of automated telescopes called the Wide Angle Search for Planets (WASP). The study was published in the journal Astronomy & Astrophysics.The star belongs to the Milky Way galaxy and is approximately 600 light years away from Earth. Its mean radius is about 80 percent the size of the largest planet in the Solar System, Jupiter, but despite its small size it is very dense. Its mass is almost 85±4 times the gas giant, the study said. The star's surface gravitational pull is about eleven times stronger than the Sun's — 300 times the strength by which the Earth attracts matter.  It is part of a binary star system, meaning it moves around the galaxy with another star, both orbiting around the same central point. However, it stays so close to its companion star, that it takes about 7.8 days to orbit around the pair's shared centre. The distance between the two stars is less than between Mercury and the Sun, and about eight percent of an astronomical unit, in stark contrast to the 100–1000 astronomical units that typically separates two stars in such a system.It was discovered by the method called "astronomical transit". This method is used to discover planets or satellites, and the astronomers initially thought it was merely an exoplanet. During a planet's revolution, when it crosses its parent star, there is a dip in the brightness of the light coming from the parent star. The companion of this dwarf is the size of the Sun, and it is brighter than the dwarf, making the discovery more difficult. "Indeed, until we measured the mass it looked just like a transiting planet", Amaury Triaud, co-author of the paper, told Popular Mechanics. With a brightness 2000 to 3000 times fainter than the Sun, it was the mass that indicated it was actually a dim star.According to lead author of the study, Alexander von Boetticher, their "discovery reveals how small stars can be." He added, "Had this star formed with only a slightly lower mass, the fusion reaction of hydrogen in its core could not be sustained, and the star would instead have transformed into a brown dwarf". A brown dwarf converts hydrogen to deuterium, a hydrogen isotope, rather than helium, which is the usual result of such a process from most stars including the Sun.The tiny star's temperature is lesser than most known gas giant exoplanets. "That star likely represents the smallest natural fusion reactor that we know of[...] We're trying to replicate fusion on Earth in labs, but that's basically as small as it gets in nature", Triaud told CBC News. The size of the star makes it difficult to study, but the brightness of its companion star also makes it more challenging. "It's like trying to look at a candle beside a lighthouse," Triaud said.Astronomers have discovered that Saturn's D ring, the innermost of Saturn's 15 rings, has grown dimmer in the past 25 years and sections have moved up to 125 miles inward toward the planet. This discovery was made after astronomers compiled results predominantly from the Voyager 2 spacecraft, which passed Saturn in 1981, and the Cassini-Huygens probe which entered Saturn's orbit last year. Other rings were found to be rotating slower than had previously been estimated with computer models.  It was also discovered that the matter composing the rings is of far more widely varying temperatures than had been expected. Sections of Saturn's F ring were also recognised as breaking apart and reforming, depending on the location of one of Saturn's moons.The rings, which are now iconic to Saturn, and known to be common to all Jovian planets in general, were first observed in 1610 by Galileo. The rings have recently become a subject of scientific interest to modern astronomers who believe they are similar in structure to the dust which orbited the Sun, in a similar pattern, and formed the planets some 4.5 billion years ago.This, and other Cassini-related discoveries, were discussed at a meeting of the American Astronomical Society's division of planetary sciences on Monday.In findings reported on Tuesday, an international team of astronomers discovered an exoplanet, called NGTS-1b, revolving around M-dwarf star NGTS-1, that the team said does not fit existing notions of how stars and planets form.  NGTS-1b is a gas giant, similar to Jupiter and of comparable volume and mass, but its parent star is about half the diameter and mass of the Sun, making this the most massive planet orbiting an M-dwarf ever discovered.NGTS-1b, about 600 light years from the Earth, is so extremely close to its star that a revolution around its star takes only about 2.6 Earth days — 2.647298 ± 0.000020 — and its surface temperature is about 800 K. The planet was discovered by observing periodic fluctuations in the star's apparent brightness as NGTS-1b passed in front of it. NGTS-1b's mass is less than Jupiter, about 0.812 MJ (mass of Jupiter), but it has greater volume, with radius about 1.33 RJ (radius of Jupiter). Its density was reported to be 0.42 g cm-3 (with error: +0.59 to -0.28), meaning Jupiter, whose density is 1.326 g cm-3, is likely around thrice as dense as the exoplanet."The discovery of NGTS-1b was a complete surprise to us," said lead author Doctor Daniel Bayliss of the University of Warwick, in England. "[S]uch massive planets were not thought to exist around such small stars. This is the first exoplanet we have found with our new NGTS facility and we are already challenging the received wisdom of how planets form."The existing understanding of planetary formation, the team explained, says small stars can produce rocky planets but cannot pull in enough mass for larger, gaseous ones like NGTS-1b. Based on the observations, NGTS-1's radius is 0.573±0.077 R☉ (solar radius) and using that value, astronomers calculated its weight to be about 0.598 M☉ (solar mass). The star's density is almost ten times of the gas giant, 4.4 (with error: +2.4 to -1.4) g cm-3. In comparison, the Sun's density is 1.409 g cm-3.The research team discovered NGTS-1b using the Next-Generation Transit Survey (NGTS), an array of telescopes physically located in Chile, which was designed to search for planets around bright stars.  NGTS-1 is a relatively dim red M-dwarf, which are very common in the universe, of apparent magnitude 15.52 ± 0.08. University of Warwick professor Peter Wheatley, who runs the NGTS, said, "NGTS-1b was difficult to find, despite being a monster of a planet, because its parent star is small and faint. Small stars are actually the most common in the universe, so it is possible there are many of these giant planets waiting to be found."To date, scientists have discovered only three gas giants which revolves around M-dwarf stars. The other two are Kepler-45b and HATS-6b which have masses 0.505 MJ and 0.32 MJ respectively.On Monday, astronomers at the Ohio State University, Columbus, revealed the discovery of an exoplanet, named KELT-9b and according to the university's astronomy professor Scott Gaudi, it is "the hottest gas giant planet that has ever been discovered". The discovery was reported online in the Nature journal.The astronomers say the planet's surface temperature is more than 4000°C (7232°F), nearly as hot as the Sun. The planet takes about 36 to 48 hours to orbit around its star, KELT-9. KELT-9 is about two and a half times larger than the Sun and nearly twice its temperature. The star is about 650 light years from the earth, but it is about 300 million years old. KELT-9 is a blue A-type star, which shines brightly but, unlike some other stars such as our own Sun, their life span is on the order of millions rather than billions of years. About a year ago, NASA reports, at the Winer Observatory in Arizona, observers using the KELT-North telescope noticed a minute drop in KELT-9's brightness — about 0.5%. This pattern was observed once every one and a half days, implying the planet comes in between the line of sight of the star from Earth, meaning the planet completes one revolution in that time period. Observations using the Hubble telescope could reveal whether the planet possesses a comet-like tail, which could help the astronomers estimate how long the planet may live. Professor Gaudi told the BBC the planet KELT-9b "is about three times the mass of Jupiter and twice as big as Jupiter." He said the team discovered the planet in 2014. He added, "it took us this long to finally convince ourselves that this truly bizarre and unusual world was in fact a planet orbiting another star". Much like the Moon is to the Earth, KELT-9b is tidally locked to its star; with one side of the planet always exposed to its star. Due to tidal locking, the planet's surface temperature facing the star is roughly 4300°C (7772°F), more than the surface temperature of an average Red Dwarf star.  Its close proximity to its parent star exposes it to ultraviolet radiation, and according to the calculations, the planet loses planetary material anywhere between ten billion to ten trillion grams each second. Professor Gaudi said, "It's a planet by any of the typical definitions of mass, but its atmosphere is almost certainly unlike any other planet we've ever seen just because of the temperature of its dayside".According to Keivan Stassun, a professor of physics and astronomy at Vanderbilt University, Tennessee, "KELT-9 will swell to become a red giant star in a few hundred million years". Professor Stassun directed the study with Gaudi. The discovery was a collaboration between Ohio State University, Vanderbilt University, Lehigh University, and the South African Astronomical Observatory. They operate a dual-location system, one location in each hemisphere, called the Kilodegree Extremely Little Telescope. Professor Gaudi told the BBC that it was named "as a joke".Scott Gaudi, Professor of Astronomy, Ohio State University‍:"It's a planet by any of the typical definitions of mass"Astronomers have discovered an asteroid that is approximately 160 feet long, that may be on a collision course for Mars and may hit the planet sometime in early 2008. Since the discovery of asteroid 2007 WD5 on November 20, 2007, scientists at NASA's Near-Earth object Office have been tracking it, and say that the asteroid could come within 48,000 kilometers of the planet around January 30, 2008."Right now asteroid 2007 WD5 is about half-way between Earth and Mars and closing the distance at a speed of about 27,900 miles per hour. Over the next five weeks, we hope to gather more information from observatories so we can further refine the asteroid's trajectory," said Don Yeomans, manager of the Near Earth Object Office at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.It may also hit near the area where the Opportunity Rover is currently exploring, but scientists say that the rover is outside of the zone of possible impact.The current odds of the asteroid hitting the planet are 1 in a 75 chance that it will make its impact on or around that date."These odds are extremely unusual. We frequently work with really long odds when we track...threatening asteroids. We know that it's going to fly by Mars and most likely going to miss, but there's a possibility of an impact," said Steve Chesley, an astronomer with the Near Earth Object Office.The International Astronomical Union (IAU) has offered up a new definition of the word "planet" that could potentially increase our solar system's nine planets to at least twelve. According to the proposed definition, "A planet is a celestial body that (a) has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape, and (b) is in orbit around a star, and is neither a star nor a satellite of a planet." Roughly speaking, the former includes objects over 5 x 1020 kilograms (1/12,000th of Earth's mass) and 800 kilometers in diameter, but all borderline cases would require confirmation by observation of their shape.According to this new definition, Ceres (an asteroid in the asteroid belt, between Mars and Jupiter), 2003UB313 (an astronomical object beyond Pluto which has previously been called the tenth planet), and Pluto's moon Charon may be dubbed planets. A dozen other candidates, like Sedna, Orcus, Quaoar, 2003 EL61 etc., along with the asteroids Vesta, Pallas and Hygiea are awaiting evaluation by the IAU.The draft resolution also introduces the term "pluton", which refers to a growing subcategory of planets that have orbits around the sun that take at least 200 years to complete - effectively this will mean planets that orbit beyond Neptune. Plutons differ from classical planets: their orbit is highly tilted, eccentric and not circular, which suggests they have a different origin, the main reason why astronomers are interested in them.The word "planet" comes from the ancient Greek word for "wanderer", because it was known in ancient times that certain lights in the sky moved in relation to other stars. However, since then no formal definition of the word planet was agreed upon. With the advent of powerful telescopes on the ground and in space, knowledge about heavenly bodies became more complex, stressing the need for unambiguous definitions. The issue came to a head in 2005 with the discovery of the trans-Neptunian object 2003UB313 (unofficially termed Xena by its discoverer, Michael E. Brown). 2003UB313 is a body larger than the smallest accepted planet, Pluto.The suggested definition is not universally popular: some astronomers would like to draw the line at Neptune, and wouldn't classify icy dwarfs like Pluto as a planet, but as a trans-Neptunian object (similar to the plutons in the draft resolution) part of the Kuiper belt. Robin Catchpole, from the Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge, said in an interview: "The public are very clear about what they understand by "planets". Those are the big, dominant bodies in the Solar System that we're all familiar with, the eight - or nine if you include Pluto. I think including more is going to add confusion to the public, but not really be particularly useful for astronomers."Pluto is now being considered to be moved off the list of classical planets, but as the prototype of the new plutons category. The ninth planet (as it is termed, but maybe not for long), discovered in 1930, is a curiosity among planets for more than one reason: because Charon is so big in comparison, both are considered twin planets by some.The current proposal is the result of two years work of the Planet Definition Committee of the IAU, which is responsible for the naming of astronomical objects. The 26th IAU General Assembly in Prague plans to vote on the proposal on Thursday, August 24 of 2006. When asked if he was confident the proposal would get the necessary two thirds of the votes, Professor Owen Gingerich, Chair of the IAU Planet Definition Committee, replied: "I'm sure it will be controversial to those with a stake in some other solution, but I hope we will get an overwhelming endorsement."Scientists using NASA's Swift Satellite and other telescopes have observed a supernova in near real time occurring in the constellation of Aries. The explosion is said to be the most powerful explosion known to scientists, which consists of a gamma-ray burst or an x-ray blast. Scientists say that bursts signal the beginning of a star's death.Swift first detected the explosion on February 18 (it was given a designation GRB 060218), which allowed telescopes and satellites to watch the event as it happened. The blast lasted for more than 2,000 seconds (33 minutes)."This is totally new and unexpected. This is the type of unscripted event in our nearby universe that we hoped Swift could catch," said Neil Gehrels, Swift principal investigator at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland."Those observations capture the time when the star collapsed, ejected its outer envelope and most of its mass and left a compact remnant behind. And we think that compact remnant is a neutron star," said an author writing for journal Nature, where the report will be published on Thursday.Scientists are also planning on using the Hubble Space Telescope and the Chandra X-ray Observatory in an attempt to get more images of the event.The star is at least 440 million light years from Earth. The group of scientists was led by Sergio Campana of the Italian National Institute for Astrophysics and Alicia Soderberg, a graduate student at Caltech in Pasadena, California.Swift was launched in November of 2004.Brazilian astronomers have proposed a new model to explain the structure of our galaxy, the Milky Way. The new model suggests that our galaxy may have one more arm than previously thought and that these arms are more straight than curved.The astronomers, led by Jacques Lepine at the University of Sao Paulo, used data from clouds of gas to develop their new proposed model.In order to study the structure of the Milky Way, the astronomers studied spectra created by Carbon monosulphide clouds, contrary to the common method of analyzing spectra from clouds of ionized hydrogen. This method was used in hopes of producing an accurate 'face-on' map of our galaxy.The postulated extra arm, if indeed actual, will increase the number of known arms from two to three. Previously, in 2008, the number was changed from four to two. This new arm is estimated to be about 30,000 light-years from the center of the Milky Way and is thought to have a "strong inward curvature".The new model also suggests that our Solar System is in one of the straightest parts of an outer arm of our galaxy.Recent images from the Chandra X-Ray Observatory reveal details of the nature of the star that became Supernova 1987A.  In the time just before the star exploded, solar winds created a cavity in a cloud of cool gas that surrounded it.  The explosion first lit up the cooler gas with a burst of ultraviolet light, then created a shock wave that started travelling through this cavity."In 1999, Chandra imaged this shock wave, and astronomers have waited expectantly for the shock wave to hit the edge of the cavity, where it would encounter the much denser gas deposited by the red supergiant wind, and produce a dramatic increase in X-radiation. The latest data from Chandra and the Hubble Space Telescope indicate that this much-anticipated event has begun." an article on the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics' Chandra website states.These events confirm scientists' understanding of stars.  As the shock wave continues it will travel through less understood material, hopefully allowing scientists to further their research into the birth and death of stars, and the overall behaviour of the universe.Scientists have announced that the largest radio telescope array in the world, the Square Kilometer Array (SKA) is to be built in either Africa or Australia and will be composed of thousands of antenna arrays that will be capable of detecting the first galaxies and stars formed in our universe. The control center for the array is announced to be located in the United Kingdom in Manchester, England at the Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics."The next generation radio telescope - the Square Kilometer Array – will carry on this tradition of innovation. The goal is to construct a network of antennas working at centimeter to meter wavelengths with 100 times the sensitivity of the largest existing arrays. This telescope will play a major role in the following decades, alongside other next generation facilities in the millimeter, optical/IR, X-ray and so on, in further exploring the content and evolution of the universe," said a press released on SKA's website.Construction will begin in 2012 and cost over US$2 billion (£1 billion, €1.4 billion) to build. The array will reportedly begin operation by the year 2020. SKA decided to release the details of the array plans on the 50th anniversary of the launch of Sputnik. At least 17 different countries and 55 schools, universities, engineers and astronomers are expected to take involvement in the project.The array will be built in one of two locations. The first option is in Mileura, Australia. According to SKA's website, the location is ideal because "only 100,000 people inhabit the five million square kilometers of the interior" area of western Australia, making it one of "the most radio-quiet locations on Earth."The second option is in South Africa in Northern Cape Province because of the "dry climate, a good existing infrastructure of roads and power reticulation, a low Radio Frequency Interferences (RFI), low land prices and low operating costs" and "has a appropriately skilled workforce and a well-established telecommunications infrastructure," says SKA's website.The array is going to be more than 50 times as powerful as the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico, which is currently the largest radio telescope on the planet.Astronomers claim they have discovered the first galaxy made entirely of dark matter. The galaxy was found 50 million light years away using the University of Manchester's Lovell Telescope in Cheshire and confirmed with the Arecibo telescope in Puerto Rico. While it contains mass that rotates like a normal galaxy, it contains no stars. Rather, it appears to entirely comprise dark matter, mysterious matter that differs greatly from the normal (baryonic) matter with which we're familiar. The discovery came from a five-year project to study the distribution of hydrogen atoms throughout the Universe. Hydrogen gas releases radiation that can be detected by radio telescopes. In the cluster of galaxies known as Virgo, an international team from the UK, France, Italy and Australia led by researchers at Cardiff University found hydrogen atoms amounting to 100 million times the mass of the Sun. They have named the find VIRGOHI21. The find is considered incredibly important because cosmological models suggest that dark matter is five times more abundant than baryonic matter in the Universe yet is difficult to study from Earth because of the planet's proximity to the Sun."The Universe has all sorts of secrets still to reveal to us, but this shows that we are beginning to understand how to look at it in the right way," says Jon Davies of Cardiff. "It's a really exciting discovery."Scientists have made two major discoveries in the search for other Earth-like planets. British astronomers say they have discovered the smallest known Earth-like exoplanet orbiting a living star called Gliese 581 e and also discovered that a nearby planet called Gliese 581 d, discovered in 2007, is in the much sought after 'habitable zone'. Astronomers also believe there is a possibility that 581 d could have liquid oceans on its surface, calling the find "extraordinary.""The Holy Grail of current exoplanet research is the detection of a rocky, Earth-like planet in the 'habitable zone'," said astrophysicist at Switzerland's Geneva University, Michel Mayor.Astronomers say 581 e is 20.5 light years away from Earth and that it's roughly 1.9 times larger than Earth, making it the smallest exoplanet discovered to date. It was found using the High Accuracy Radial Velocity Planet Searcher (HARPS). It orbits too close to its parent star, Gliese 581, which would make it too hot, unable to support life as we know it. It takes just over 3 days for it to orbit the star.Exoplanet 581 d, however, is another story. Astronomers say this makes it possible to not only support life, but have liquid water in the forms of oceans. 581 d is approximately 7.7 times larger than Earth. Astronomers originally thought it was too cold to have liquid water thus would not be able to host Earth-like life."It is very exciting that such a promising candidate for an Earthlike planet has been found so close to us. It means there are likely to be many more when we search further," added Mayor.NASA is awaiting the arrival of very precious cargo from space.The Stardust Spacecraft is scheduled to land at around 5:12am (eastern time) on Sunday January 15, 2006. Onboard are dust particles that have been collected from the comet Wild 2. When the capsule gets to Earth and enters the atmosphere, at about 5am (eastern time), it is expected to put on quite a light show for folks in Northern California, Oregon, Nevada, and Utah. The capsule will look much like a shooting star going across the sky. The capsule will be traveling at about 12.8 km or 8 miles per second, fast enough to go from San Francisco to Los Angeles in one minute. Stardust will set a new all-time record for being the fastest spacecraft to return to Earth, breaking the previous record set in May of 1969 during the return of the Apollo X command module. “It will move over the west coast of northern California and will light the sky from California through central Oregon and on through Nevada and Idaho and into Utah,” Tom Duxbury, Stardust's project manager said.The capsule will then release a parachute approximately 32 km (105,000 feet) and descend into the Salt Flats of Utah. If weather is permitting, it will be recovered by helicopter teams and taken to a cleanroom at the Michael Army Air Field, Dugway Proving Ground, for initial processing.The capsule itself, only weighs 45.7 kilograms (101 pounds) and resembles a mini Apollo capsule.Not only will it break the record for the fastest spacecraft to return to earth, Stardust Principal Investigator Don Brownlee of the University of Washington, Seattle, says “We are nearing the end of quite a fantastic voyage – our spacecraft has traveled further than anything from Earth ever has – and come back. He also added that “We went half-way to Jupiter to meet the comet and collect samples from it. But the comet actually came in from the outer edge of the solar system, out beyond the orbit of Neptune, out by Pluto."If the capsule makes it safely back to earth, scientists hope to unlock many secrets about the formation of our universe. "Locked within the cometary particles is unique chemical and physical information that could be the record of the formation of the planets and the materials from which they were made," said Dr. Don Brownlee, Stardust principal investigator at the University of Washington, Seattle."Comets are some of the most informative occupants of the solar system. The more we can learn from science exploration missions like Stardust, the more we can prepare for human exploration to the moon, Mars and beyond," said Dr. Mary Cleave, associate administrator for NASA's Science Mission Directorate.Stardust is bringing back the first samples of contemporary interstellar dust ever collected, and is also the first mission to return samples from a comet, as well as the first sample return mission from the Galaxy. Not one grain of contemporary interstellar dust grain has ever been examined in a laboratory before."We think a significant fraction of comets will be stardust particles actually older than Earth and older than the Sun, and for drama the stars, and the way you identify those is by their isotopic ratios," Stardust Principal Investigator Don Brownlee said. "There are fabulous tools now to analyze these and a very anxious group of scientists waiting for these samples."Stardust's main mission was to capture dust particles from comet Wild 2, but it is also believed to have captured dust from distant stars, perhaps created in supernova explosions less than 10 million years ago.The dust can only be found using using a high-magnification microscope with a field of view smaller than a grain of salt. But now they have the difficult task of trying to find all these millions of particles, which takes more time and man power that NASA has. That's where NASA decided to try Distributed Computing.Distributed computing has been a huge success. Most of the credit of the success of distributed computing, can be given to the scientists at the University of California, Berkeley. Scientists there have had and continue to have huge success with a program they created called SETI@home, which now uses the distributing platform BOINC.With the success of BOINC and other distributed computing platforms, NASA hopes to achieve its goal in half the time with the public's help by creating the project Stardust@home"Like SETI@home, which is the world's largest computer, we hope Stardust@home will also be a large computer, though more of a neural network, using brains together to find these grains," said Bryan Mendez of the Center for Science Education at the Space Sciences Laboratory. But, the project is not for everyone. First, you will go through a web-based training session and then you must pass a test to qualify to register and participate. In the test, the volunteer is asked to find the track in a few test samples. To judge the reliability of the user, they also plan to throw in some ringers with and without tracks. If at least two of the four volunteers viewing each image report a track, that image will be fed to 100 more volunteers for verification. If at least 20 of these report a track, UC Berkeley undergraduates who are expert at spotting dust grain tracks will confirm the identification.After passing the test and registering, you will be able to download a virtual microscope (VM). The VM will automatically connect to their server and download so-called "focus movies" -- stacks of images that we will collect from the Stardust Interstellar Dust Collector using an automated microscope at the Cosmic Dust Lab at Johnson Space Center. The VM will work on your computer, under your control. You will search each field for interstellar dust impacts by focusing up and down with a focus control.The other neat thing is that there are no limitations and the more images you examine, the better chance you have at finding an interstellar dust grain.Any interstellar dust particles that you find, then you will appear as a co-author on any scientific paper by the Stardust@home collaboration announcing the discovery of the particle.Currently the project is only accepting pre-registration and will be available to the public in mid-March, even before all the scans have been completed in a cleanroom at Houston's Johnson Space Center. In all the project is expected to need at least 30,000 person hours, to go through all the images, at least 4 times by 4 different participants.Berkeley will host and maintain the project, but it is unlcear as to whether or not the project will use the BOINC platform.The virtual microscope was developed by computer scientist David Anderson, director of the SETI@home project, along with physics graduate student Joshua Von Korff.The Stardust spacecraft was launched on February 7, 1999, from Cape Canaveral Air Station, Florida, aboard a Delta II rocket. The Stardust project is expected to cost $170-million-dollars with a journey that will have lasted over 7 years and actually went around the Sun three times, and "back in time to 4.5 billion years in time to gather these primitive samples that just were released from a comet’s nucleus," Duxbury later added.The Herschel Space Observatory and Planck Satellite were both launched Thursday by an Ariane 5ECA rocket at around 1pm (UTC) by the European Space Agency (ESA) from the Guiana Space Centre. The two telescopes valued at €1.9 billion (£1.7bn) were launched from Kourou, French Guiana, a department of France in South America.File:Planck satellite.jpg"The technology onboard these satellites is unique, and the science these satellites will do is fantastic," said Jean-Jacques Dordain director-general at the ESA, "This is the result of many years' hard work by thousands of scientists and engineers across Europe." Herschel was released 26 minutes after launch to continue on its trajectory. Two minutes later, the Planck observatory separated. The Planck telescope is a survey telescope using Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) measurements of the microwave portion of the electromagnetic spectrum."It [Planck] will allow us to pin down all the basic characteristics of the Universe with very high accuracy - its age, its contents, how it evolved, its geometry, etc." said Dr Jan Tauber, project scientist at ESA.The larger space telescope is named after William Herschel who discovered the planet Uranus in 1781. The Herschel telescope will use infrared radiation and its main reflector mirror at a diameter of 3.5 meter (11.5 ft) is one-and-a-half-times larger than that on the Hubble Telescope.The Heterodyne Instrument for the Far Infrared (HIFI) will also be able to detect carbon, water and oxygen in star-forming areas of space and examine the chemical composition of comets. The Photodetector Array Camera (PACS) and Spectrometer and the Spectral and Photometric Imaging Receiver (SPIRE)  will correlate the images. The Herschel will also be equipped with heat detecting instrumentation. The Herschel space telescope will be operational for three to five years. "These space missions are outstanding feats of engineering. Herschel is the largest telescope we have ever put into space and the instruments on Planck will operate at just a tenth of a degree above absolute zero," said Lord Drayson, the United Kingdom's science minister, "This is really cool science happening at mind-blowingly low temperatures, helping to answer some of the basic questions about the history of the universe.""Herschel is going to help us understand much, much better how stars form right now and how they have been forming throughout billions of years of cosmic history"  said Göran Pilbratt, Herschel's project scientist at ESA, "We're going to see the [star] embryos, the ones that are not born yet. We're going to see right into the wombs where stars are born."A telescope designed to find earth-like planets outside our solar system was launched on a Soyuz rocket from Baikonur Cosmodrome inside the country of Kazakhstan. The project, which is known as COROT or COnvection ROtation and planetary Transits, is led by the French."Our Corot satellite has been put into orbit today perfectly by a Soyuz rocket," said president of National French Space Studies Center, Yannick d’Escatha.The telescope will remain in space for at least 2 years to hunt down and find other planets. The telescope will begin to first monitor the Milky Way. After approximately 150 days of monitoring, the telescope will then begin to watch the constellation Orion. Every 150 days the telescope is expected to monitor a new area of space.The telescope will take images of light that a star puts off and then watch for the brightness of that star to dim, which usually means a planet has crossed in front of the star. Scientists hope to find at least 10-40 planets, and additional gas giants. "These create a 'starquake' that sends ripples across the star’s surface, altering its brightness. The exact nature of the ripples allows astronomers to calculate the star’s precise mass, age and chemical composition," said a European Space Agency spokesman."Such planets would represent a new, as yet undiscovered, class of world that astronomers believe exists. With Corot, astronomers expect to find between 10-40 of them, together with tens of new gas giants," said a spokesman for the E.S.A..The telescope contains a camera, equipment to communicate with the scientists, direction controls and temperature detection."Corot will be able to find extra-solar planets of all sizes and natures, contrary to what we can do from the ground at the moment. We expect to obtain a better vision of planet systems beyond the solar system, about the distribution of planet sizes. And finally, it will allow us to estimate the likelihood of there existing planets resembling the Earth in the neighbourhood of the sun or further away in the galaxy," said one researcher on the project, Claude Catala.The telescope weighs nearly 1,500 pounds.Scientists say that floating inside Saturn's rings are pieces of what they believe to be a "shattered moon," according to images captured by NASA's spacecraft Cassini–Huygens.The scientists from the University of Colorado at Boulder looked at the images which were captured in 2004, and found what they call "moonlets" or large pieces ranging from the size of a stadium to a semi truck, of what they say are the remains of a large moon which was likely destroyed when a comet or asteroid slammed into it."This is the first evidence of a moonlet belt in any of Saturn's rings. We have firmly established these moonlets exist in a relatively narrow region of the "A" ring, and the evidence indicates they are remnants of a larger moon that was shattered by a meteoroid or comet," said one of the researchers, Miodrag Sremcevic.The Cassini spacecraft captures eight new propeller-like features within Saturn's A ring in what may be the propeller "hot zone" of Saturn's rings. Propeller features form around small moonlets that are not massive enough to clear out ring material, but are still able to pull smaller ring particles into a shape reminiscent of an airplane propeller. Scientists believe that propellers represent moonlet wakes, which are denser than the surrounding ring material and appear bright in the images. The length of the belt in which the moonlets were discovered is almost 2,000 miles long.Scientists estimate that the size of the moon was relative to the size of Pan, the innermost moon of Saturn. It only measures 20 miles wide at its widest point.Following the return of the Stardust space capsule from its encounter with the Comet Wild 2, NASA scientists have come up with a novel approach to dealing with the samples of "interstellar dust" that have been collected; they want help from the public.The Stardust spacecraft carried an aerogel-based dust collector, which was exposed to space in varying orientations during different phases of the mission.Only one side of the collector was exposed towards the stream of particles coming off the Comet Wild 2 during the encounter in 2004, while the other side was used to collect interstellar dust at an earlier point in the spacecraft's journey.Although scientists have seen the particles captured from comet Wild 2 when they examined the aerogel, they have not examined any of the particles expected on the other side of the collector due to their smallness. They will be examined after they are found with the help of Stardust@home. It is believed that on the order of 50 interstellar dust particles impacted the aerogel, each now resting inside a tiny crater. Stardust traveled nearly three billion miles and its mission lasted seven years. At times it was traveling at 8 miles a second. Thats fast enough to go from San Francisco to Los Angeles in one minute. Stardust set a new all-time record for being the fastest spacecraft to return to Earth, breaking the previous record set in May of 1969 during the return of the Apollo X(10) command module. Don Brownlee of the University of Washington, Seattle said "our spacecraft has traveled further than anything from Earth ever has – and came back. We went half-way to Jupiter to meet the comet and collect samples from it. But the comet actually came in from the outer edge of the solar system, out beyond the orbit of Neptune, out by Pluto."In a move similar to some distributed computing projects, the analysis work for the project will be spread among volunteers on the Internet, who are being asked to participate in this scientific undertaking.Wikinews reporter Jason Safoutin investigated the Stardust@home project, and discussed its goals with one of its founders. Via email, he interviewed David P. Anderson, a founder of the SETI@home project, and one of the creators of the Virtual Microscope which will be used to search for captured particles from interstellar space.I was wondering If I could get some questions answered or if you could give me some "insider" info for the project. I am aware that you are taking place in the development of the VM (Virtual Microscope)...Could I know more about that?The 'virtual microscope' lets you scan through a set of images as if you were turning the focus knob on a microscope. The images are fairly large (about 100 KB each) so it's important to pre-load the images. While you're looking through one set of images, the VM is busy downloading the JPEG files for the next set.At first we thought we'd have to do this with a Java applet or Flash program - something tricky and complicated. My contribution was to point out that it could be done fairly easily using Javascript, and I wrote a prototype of this.Will this project use the BOINC Platform/Program? No. We thought about using some parts of BOINC (like the database and web pages for creating "accounts") but it was easier just to do this from scratch.How long will the project take?It depends how many volunteers participate, and how fast they look at the 'focus movies'. It will probably be just a month or two.Anyone can join but they have to take a test before they can participate. What will the test include?Looking at some focus movies and deciding whether they contain a dust particle. Participants see a lot of training examples before they take the test.  It's easy, not like a test in school.How many will be allowed to participate?No limit as of now.When will the project start?I think in about 2 months. It will take that long to transport the aerogel to the laboratory, and photograph it with the microscope. The software is ready to go.Will the VM project analyze any of the particles or just look for them?Stardust@home will only locate the particles. When they are located, they will be cut out of the aerogel and physically analyzed.Thank you for your time David. And great work on the upcoming project and SETI@home.The Cassini space probe, currently in orbit around the planet Saturn, has returned extraordinary pictures from the Saturnian satellite Iapetus.It has long been known to astronomers that Iapetus's surface is divided into two hemispheres, one dark, one light. Now a narrow ridge of massive proportions, 20 km high and 1,300 km long, has been found around the equator of the moon. The height rivals Olympus Mons on Mars-- but Mars is five times bigger than Iapetus.The origin of this feature is currently unknown. Cassini will next fly by Iapetus in September 2007. The images returned from that pass will have over 100 times greater resolution than the current ones, and scientists hope they will help unravel the mystery.Iapetus, Saturn's third largest moon, has a diameter of about 1,436 km (892 miles).  Jean-Dominque Cassini discovered the moon in 1672; it was also Cassini who determined the color difference on Iapetus.The Cassini-Huygens mission, named after Giovanni Domenico Cassini (Jean-Dominque Cassini), is a collaborative project with the European Space Agency, the Italian Space Agency, and NASA.Astronomers have discovered an extrasolar planet that may eventually collide into its sun. The planet, called WASP-18b, orbits its star in under one day, and is 10 times larger than Jupiter. Its star is 1,000 light years from Earth. The discovery was made by British astronomers. The planet's name is derived from the group that discovered it, WASP (Wide Angle Search for Planets).The planet is approximately one billion years old. Tidal interactions between the planet and its star are pulling them together, and it will likely crash into its star in under one million years. The planet is relatively much closer to its star than Earth is to the Sun. Earth is a distance of 93 million miles from the sun, whereas WASP-18b is only 1.4 million miles from its star.Professor Andrew Collier Cameron of St. Andrew's University commented on the inherent problems with the planet: "The problem with this planet is that it's very massive and very close to its star. It should be creating tidal bulging that makes it spiral into its star."Coel Hellier of Keele University led a group of researchers that discovered the planet. Their study of WASP-18b was published in the August 27 issue of the journal Nature. Scientists had a 1 in 2,000 chance of discovering the planet. There are 300 planets which are known to orbit stars other than the Sun.On Sunday, China announced the attachment of the final panel to its telescope named Five hundred meter Aperture Spherical Telescope (FAST). This piece marks the end of a five-year-long US$180 million (CNY¥1.2 billion) construction project.FAST comprises about 4,500 panels and spans a diameter of 500 meters (about 1640 feet). The telescope is part of a series of ventures into space exploration by China, including planning another robotic Moon mission and creating a Chinese space station, with its core module set to be launched into space in 2018. With the country's founding centenary coming in 2049, Chinese President Xi Jinping said during a Beijing conference, "great scientific and technological capacity is a must for China to be strong".In order to achieve optimal electromagnetic performance for FAST with minimal signal interference, it was built in the South China Karst. This ultimately forced the relocation of about 9,100 inhabitants within a 3.1-mile (5km) radius of the telescope. The residents received about US$1,800 (CNY¥12,000) in reimbursement, with those experiencing difficulties with housing receiving about US$1,500 (CNY¥10,000) in extra compensation. The Chinese government supports the resettlement, with senior party official Li Yuecheng saying the relocation would provide a "sound electromagnetic wave environment". The telescope is now the largest-diameter single-dish radio telescope. It took the spot from the 305-meter diameter Arecibo Observatory telescope in Puerto Rico. Russia's RATAN-600 multi-element radio telescope has a diameter of 576 meters. This adds to China's record-defying achievements; it contains the world's largest bridge and the world's longest wall, the Great Wall of China.The telescope is set to be ready for use in September.  Its possible uses include exploration for pulsars, a special type of neutron stars detected through their emission of radio pulses. Scientists have also described the telescope's potential to explore alien civilization, with NAO Radio Astronomy Technology Laboratory director Peng Bo saying FAST's "potential to discover an alien civilization will be 5 to 10 times that of current equipment, as it can see farther and darker planets".The first images of Mercury taken from orbit around the planet have been received from NASA's MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry and Ranging (MESSENGER) probe. The images come after the spacecraft entered an orbit around the closest planet to the sun on March 17.After various system examinations, the first images from the spacecraft were sent at 0520 EDT (0920 UTC).Before arriving in orbit around Mercury, the MESSENGER spacecraft was launched in 2004, passed by Mercury twice in 2008 and once more in 2009. MESSENGER is the first artificial satellite to be placed in orbit around Mercury. Because Mercury is the innermost planet in the Solar System, the sun's gravitational attraction altered the spacecraft's approach to the planet. Because of this, a series of several maneuvers over three years was required to put the probe in orbit.Although MESSENGER is the first probe to enter orbit around Mercury, it is not the first to fly by. Mariner 10 was the first to do this when it made three passes during the 1970s.NASA is continuing to release images taken by the spacecraft as they arrive at Earth. MESSENGER is scheduled to begin it's primary mission on April 4, consisting of various scientific and visual observations of the planet. Some of the scientific goals the probe is to accomplish are: determination of the geologic composition of Mercury, study of the planet's magnetic field and internal composition, and transmission of more than 75,000 images back to Earth.Scientists confirmed today for the first time ever, that astronomers photographed a planet orbiting a sun other than our own. Photographs were taken late last year by the European Southern Observatory (ESO) in Chile, but it has taken since then to confirm that the body is indeed a planet — five times the size of Jupiter, the largest planet that orbits our own sun. Extra-solar planets such as this have been detected before, but never by direct observation — their presence has always been inferred from aberrant behaviour of the star they circulate around."Among the most essential quests of modern astronomers, taking direct images of planets outside of our solar system is certainly up there among chart-toppers," says the ESO, in a press release given to verify the status of the object.The newly imaged planet orbits a brown dwarf star known to scientists as 2M1207, at a distance that is nearly twice as far as that of Neptune from our own sun — making the planet much too cold for lifeforms such as those on Earth. Detection of Earth-like planets is still years away, according to the ESO, because they are too faint for current equipment to detect.The scientists say that the planet presents a valuable opportunity nonetheless, as it is much younger than those in our own system, at only "a few tens of millions of years old"."Moreover, as the first tens of millions of years are considered to have been a critical period in the formation of Earth and of our own solar system, the study of nearby young planetary systems provides astronomers with invaluable insight on our own origins."Suns are understood to form when matter collapses strongly under its own gravity, while planets form later by accretion, in matter orbiting a sun.Photographs of what was thought to be an extra-solar planet were announced earlier this month. However scientists now state that the size of that planet might be much larger than originally announced, thus allowing a chance that the object might instead be a small star.Astronomers have for the first time watched a supernova explosion break out of the surface of the parent star.  Previously only the remnants after an explosion have been found.  The new object, SN 2008D, is in another galaxy.Alicia Soderberg, a Hubble and Carnegie-Princeton Fellow at Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey, explained the significance:  "For years we have dreamed of seeing a star just as it was exploding, but actually finding one is a once in a lifetime event... This newly born supernova is going to be the Rosetta Stone of supernova studies for years to come."Observations were being made of a different supernova in galaxy NGC 2770 when Soderberg noticed a new X-ray ray source had appeared.  A burst of X-rays is produced when the explosion of a supernova reaches the surface of the exploding star.  Because the SWIFT orbiting telescope was being used, which provides images as they are received, there was no delay in getting the images and an alert was sent to other major telescopes.Other observers who joined the watch were the 3.5-meter telescope at the Apache Point Observatory in New Mexico, the Chandra X-ray Observatory, the Gemini North telescope in Hawaii, the Hubble Space Telescope, the Keck I telescope in Hawaii, the 200-inch and 60-inch telescopes at the Palomar Observatory in California, and the Very Large Array in New Mexico.The primary task of SWIFT is rapid detection of gamma ray bursts, and because of their short duration the observatory requires constant monitoring.  The observations of galaxy NGC 2770 were being done while the satellite was not busy with its major task.NASA has announced that the Cassini spacecraft has found what seem to be geysers spewing water on the moon Enceladus. The find raises the possibility of life on other planets, as liquid water is believed to be a requirement for life. "This marks the first time that scientists have seen evidence of water in liquid form so close to the surface on another body beyond Earth," said Cassini scientist Torrence Johnson. Although life may be found on the moon, most scientists concede that if Enceladus does harbor life, it probably consists of microbes or other robust organisms capable of living in extreme conditions. This latest discovery shows that life in other parts of the universe may be more probable than previously thought."We realize that this is a radical conclusion — that we may have evidence for liquid water within a body so small and so cold," said Dr. Carolyn Porco, Cassini imaging team leader at the Space Science Institute, Boulder, Colorado. "However, if we are right, we have significantly broadened the diversity of solar system environments where we might possibly have conditions suitable for living organisms."File:HD149026Corecomparison.jpgHD 149026b, a newly found planet in the constellation Hercules is dense, gassy and the hottest planet found to date.  HD 149026b is smaller than the typical gas giant and its atmosphere is much heavier, contributing to its staggering temperature of 2,310 K (2,037°C, or 3,700°F), scientists said.Scientist Joeseph Harrington described the planet as looking "like the evil eye." "This planet is off the temperature scale that we expect for planets," said Drake Deming of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.Harrington said for a planet to get so hot, it must be absorbing most of the light that reaches it. This energy is radiated back in the infrared spectrum.HD 149026b is located 279 light-years from Earth with a light-year being the distance light travels in a year — about 9.46 trillion kilometres.By peering some 20,000 light years into the star-swarms of the Milky Way's central bulge, astronomers using the Hubble Space Telescope have turned up 16 possible new planets crossing the faces of their stars, two of which have been confirmed. Each one of the candidates is a roughly Jupiter-size body that orbits its host star in just 4 days or less. Five of the possible discoveries whip around their stars in less than an Earth day — causing the astronomers to group them into a new class of "ultra-short-period planets."In results published in this week's edition of the journal Nature the team of astronomers, headed by Kailash Sahu (Space Telescope Science Institute), used Hubble's Advanced Camera for Surveys to monitor a portion of the galactic bulge in Sagittarius continuously for seven days, shooting one picture every six minutes. Over 180 planet candidates were identified, making the task of arriving at only 16 quite difficult. The biggest source of false alarms was transits by Jupiter-size red dwarf stars. Processing the data took an entire year. "This was the most complex project I have worked on," says Sahu.This discovery now allows scientists to be relatively certain planets need elements heavier than hydrogen and helium to form. These are typically found in stars that formed after others died, creating a dependence on location and formation. A previous search in 2000 by Dr. Ron Gilliland turned up no planets, even though he assumed they would find as many as 17. The currently accepted reason is that Gilliland's study focused on a stellar nebula, where all of the stars had formed at the same time, and therefore there was a very low abundance of heavier elements.Sahu knew some scientists would be skeptical of his findings and so he confirmed two of the planets by using the Very Large Telescope (VLT) in Chile to measure the movements of the stars caused by their orbiting partner, a technique known as measuring the radial velocity of the star. Although Sahu believes that at least fifty percent of the candidates have to be planets, he cannot be completely certain. "I think a lot of people will take issue with that," says Dr. Sara Seager, Staff Scientist of the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism at the Carnegie Institution of Washington, on Sahu's uncertainty. "There are lots of nasty tricks nature can pull on us."More rigorous confirmation will have to wait for new technology, specifically NASA's James Webb Space Telescope, to be launched in 2013. Even so, Seager believes this is still "tremendously exciting. It doubles the amount of transiting planets found!"With two other transiting extrasolar planets announced in September, the confirmed SWEEPS finds brings the number of known — and confirmed — transiting planets to 14.American and European scientists say the upgraded Hubble space telescope has spotted the oldest galaxies ever seen. The images were taken with the telescope's new Wide Field Camera 3 (WFC3) in August this year.The galaxies are about 13 billion light years from Earth, meaning they formed less than one billion years after the Big Bang — the cosmological model of the initial conditions and subsequent development of the universe.WFC3 was installed in May this year, during a mission by the space shuttle Atlantis to repair and upgrade Hubble. Experts say the new instrument will let them peer even further back in time, to when the universe was in its infancy. The more distant a galaxy is, the more its light is "redshifted" due to expansion of the universe. Light from the furthest galaxies is shifted to infrared wavelengths invisible to the human eye, but WFC3 can detect these.The new image was taken in August, in the same region as a 2004 visible light image known as the Hubble Ultra Deep Field. The 2004 photo previously showed the most distant galaxies, but the new infrared pictures from the WFC3 allow even more remote galaxies to be seen.Capturing the image took four days, and the total exposure lasted 173,000 seconds. In the three months since, twelve scientific papers have been submitted on it. On Tuesday one of these confirmed the galaxies as the furthest ever seen.They are also the oldest, with the light from them having taken around 13 billion years to reach Earth. "At these distances, you're really looking back in time, like you have a time machine," said Ray Villard, of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore. "Those things don't exist anymore."The photo could be one of the ultimate achievements of the Hubble telescope, now almost twenty years old. "These new observations are likely to be the most sensitive images Hubble will ever take," said Professor Jim Dunlop of the University of Edinburgh.The servicing mission in May extended the telescope's life by around five years, but it is scheduled to be replaced by the James Webb Space Telescope in 2014. This will use infrared imaging and have a greater collecting area than Hubble, and it is thought that it may be able make out objects from just 100 million years after the Big Bang."We've really pushed Hubble to its limits," said Villard, "and we need a bigger space telescope to go back even farther. It shows us there are really exciting things to look for with the Webb telescope."Astronomers at Sloan Digital Sky Survey have announced the discovery of a huge star cluster, the Virgo super star cluster 10 kiloparsecs (32,600 light years) away from the solar system (roughly the same distance as the galactic centre), in the constellation of Virgo.  Many of the stars have been known to astronomers for centuries, but only now have they realized the existence of the cluster.In a presentation to the American Astronomical Society, Princeton University graduate student Mario Juric, the principal author of the findings, explained: "Some of the stars in this Milky Way companion have been seen with telescopes for centuries, but because the galaxy is so close, its stars are spread over a huge swath of the sky, and they always used to be lost in the sea of more numerous Milky Way stars. This galaxy is so big, we couldn't see it before."The large overpopulation of stars was discovered by researchers analyzing SDSS-I and SDSS-II data.  SDSS has, to date, imaged roughly one-quarter of the northern sky.  The method used was the photometric parallax method.  "We used the SDSS data to measure distances to 48 million stars and build a 3-d map of the Milky Way." explained Zeljko Ivezic of the University of Washington, a co-author of the study.This discovery is one in a series of such discoveries made within the last decade by a new generation of sky surveys.  The Saggitarius dwarf galaxy was discovered in 1994 using photographic sky images.  Since then, analysis of photographs by large digital cameras has identified several streams and clumps of stars, some of which (astronomers believe) are Milky Way companions and others of which are shreds of the Saggitarius dwarf or other dwarf galaxies that are also dissolving into the Milky Way.  An earlier SDSS discovery was the Canis Major Dwarf Galaxy.  "With so much irregular structure in the outer Galaxy, it looks as though the Milky Way is still growing, by cannibalizing smaller galaxies that fall into it," said Juric.The first indication that the Virgo super star cluster existed was in 2001, when the Quasar Equatorial Survey Team (QUEST) survey, using a 1-metre telescope in Llano del Hato National Astronomical Observatory in Venezuela, found a clump of five RR Lyrae variable stars, which astronomers speculated might belong to a small galaxy being canibalized by the Milky Way.  Kathy Vivas of the Centro de Investigaciones de Astronomia in Venezuela, the author of the QUEST paper on the discovery, commented that "In light of the new SDSS results, it appears that the stellar stream we detected is itself part of the larger structure identified by Juric and collaborators."In a letter to the Astrophysical Journal the QUEST has presented further evidence for Vivas' interpretation, by measuring the motions and chemical compositions of stars in the region.Astronomers say that in approximately 20 to 40 million years, a giant cloud of hydrogen gas, known as Smith's Cloud, will slam into the Milky Way galaxy, resulting in the formation of countless stars, which could make for the biggest fireworks display in the Local Group. The front edge of the cloud has already begun to hit the galaxy."The leading edge of this cloud is already interacting with gas from our Galaxy. This is most likely a gas cloud left over from the formation of the Milky Way or gas stripped from a neighbor galaxy. When it hits, it could set off a tremendous burst of star formation. Many of those stars will be very massive, rushing through their lives quickly and exploding as supernovae. Over a few million years, it'll look like a celestial New Year's celebration, with huge firecrackers going off in that region of the Galaxy," said Felix J. Lockman of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO), one of the astronomers who headed a study to research the cloud. The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater also participated in the study.Astronomers used the Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope (GBT) to study the cloud, which was first discovered by an astronomer in 1963. The study found that as many as a million new stars, much like our own Sun, could form from the gas when it does collide with our galaxy. Currently it is 8,000 light years away from full impact of our galaxy, and is traveling at over 150 miles a second. It is 2,500 light-years wide and over 11,000 light-years long. Astronomers believe it will strike the Milky Way's disk at a 45-degree angle.It was earlier believed that the cloud was traveling away from the Milky Way or might have been part of the galaxy itself but, due to the technology at the time, images were not clear enough to see what was really happening. Using the highly sensitive GBT, astronomers have now been able to capture over 40,000 different images of the cloud. The researchers now believe that the cloud is, in fact, moving toward the Milky Way and pushing the gases of the galaxy up onto itself as it progresses."If you could see this cloud with your eyes, it would be a very impressive sight in the night sky. From tip to tail it would cover almost as much sky as the Orion constellation. But as far as we know it is made entirely of gas -- no one has found a single star in it," added Lockman.NASA's IBEX (or Interstellar Boundary Explorer) satellite, released into orbit last October, has provided the data for the first "all sky map" showing the boundary between the Solar System and Interstellar Space. IBEX mapped the sky using two sensors, gathering information about the particle structure within the Milky Way. This map should help researchers better understand relationships between the Sun and our Galaxy.The particles which IBEX looks for are energetic neutral atoms, atoms with a neutral charge that release large amounts of energy in most directions. The best place to find these particles is in the Sun's Heliosphere, where forces from outside our solar system interact with the Sun's magnetic field, causing these particles to become highly energetic. Two sensors on IBEX detect and catalog this. After six months of repeating this cycle over the entire night sky, IBEX acquired enough data to create the all sky map.This map goes beyond the capacities of the Voyager missions, giving an insight into the Sun's interaction with the rest of the galaxy. As Cosmic rays approach the solar system, the heliosphere prevents them from crossing into the heart of the solar system, thereby effectively stopping these harmful rays from reaching Earth. This new energy is released from electrically neutral atoms, and when scientists look at the energy given off by these atoms they have a general view of what energy is coming from what area.Knowing the place in the galaxy where certain rays come from help scientists understand the way our galaxy functions, from star positioning to globular clusters. "For the first time, we're sticking our heads out of the sun's atmosphere and beginning to really understand our place in the galaxy," said David J. Comas of NASA.NASA's Cassini orbiter has sent back remarkable images from Saturn, revealing that the planet's famous rings are far more bumpy than expected.Astronomers previously thought that the rings were almost completely flat, with changes in height of only a few metres. However analysis of the new images show ridges up to 4 kilometres tall, similar in height to the Rocky Mountains or the Alps.The images were taken around the planet's equinox on August 11, when the Sun was directly over Saturn's equator and caught the rings edge on. A similar equinox occurs today (September 22) on Earth. But whilst equinoxes occur twice a year on Earth, Saturn takes around 29.7 Earth years to orbit the Sun so the events are much rarer.With the light from the Sun reaching Saturn's rings at such a low angle, scientists were able to measure the shadows cast by bumps on the rings and discover their surprising height. As Cassini project scientist Bob Pappalardo put it: "It's like putting on 3-D glasses and seeing the third dimension for the first time. This is among the most important events Cassini has shown us."Some of the ring features are known to be caused by Saturn's moons, but others are harder to explain. "To understand what we are seeing will take more time, but the images and data will help develop a more complete understanding of how old the rings might be and how they are evolving," said Linda Spilker, Cassini deputy project scientist.Cassini was launched in 1997, and entered orbit around Saturn in 2004. It is part of the Cassini-Huygens joint mission between NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency.The planet Jupiter will be at its closest to the Earth since 1963 tomorrow and Tuesday, scientists say. This will cause the planet's appearance to peak at a brightness and size not seen since then. The planet Uranus will also make a close approach, but will be more difficult to spot, as it is much farther away.Scientists say that Jupiter will rise at about the time of sunset and will be nearly directly overhead at midnight. The only brighter object that will be in the sky at that time will be the moon. NASA scientist Tony Phillips said "Jupiter is so bright right now, you don't need a sky map to find it." It will not appear this bright again until 2022.Jupiter will pass within 368 million miles of Earth at the time of closest approach. Although this will occur on Monday and Tuesday, it will remain large and bright for approximately another month.During this event, the planet will be located in the sky not far from the moon. Some of the planet's own moons will be visible with the aid of a telescope or binoculars.According to NASA scientists, Earth-Jupiter encounters occur about every 13 months. Since both planets' orbits are slightly elliptical, meaning they are not perfect circles around the Sun, the distance varies in each encounter.Jupiter, the largest planet in the Solar System, is the fifth planet from the Sun and is more massive than all of the other planets combined, about 318 times as massive as the Earth.A Kuiper Belt object just outside our solar system is on its way to becoming a new comet, possibly a very bright-looking one.The object, 2003 EL61, is currently in the shape of a potato, is roughly the size of Pluto, and rotates on its axis every 4 hours. The top layer of the object is covered in a thin layer of an ice like substance and has a rocky center. Simulations show that the object is in an unstable orbit.According to California Institute of Technology Professor Mike Brown, the object may enter Neptune's gravity, causing 2003 EL61 to be shot into interstellar space, or the inner solar system to become a comet. In the latter case, the object, because of nearing the sun, will begin to melt and a tail would form behind it."If you came back in two million years, EL61 could well be a comet. When it becomes a comet, it will be the brightest we will ever see," said Brown.Brown also says that nearly 4.5 billion years ago, the object was made of half rock and half ice. Sometime after the object's birth, an object slammed into it causing most of the ice inside it to be broken off. The pieces to be broken off then became satellites, which are believed to be made of very pure water-ice.Pieces of the object may currently be inside our solar system, already forming to become comet material."It's a bit like the story of Mercury. Mercury got hit by a large object early in the Solar System. It left mostly a big iron core, with a little bit of rock on the outside. This is mostly a rock core with a little bit of ice on the outside," added Brown.But don't expect to get a light show from this object in the near future. Brown estimates that the comet will form in about 2 million years, but will be visible from Earth.A large object, possibly an asteroid or a meteor, hit the planet Jupiter Thursday, resulting in a large fireball.The fireball was seen on June 3 at 2031 UTC by two independent amateur astronomers, Christopher Go in the Philippines and Anthony Wesley in Australia. Wesley, who posted the news onto an Internet forum, is known for having also spotted last July's Jupiter impact event. Go caught Thursday's impact on video, which showed a fireball the size of Earth after the object hit. It could be the first time someone has recorded a meteor crashing into a planet.This latest strike came only hours after a team from the Space Science Institute, led by astronomer Heidi Hammel, announced that last year's event was the result of an asteroid 1,640 feet (500 metres) wide. That asteroid caused a scar the size of the Pacific Ocean when it hit Jupiter with the force of several thousand nuclear bombs on July 19, 2009.The planet last experienced a major impact in July 1994, when it was hit by Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 (SL9), resulting in large scars as well. Scientists originally thought that there would not be any more Jupiter strikes for several centuries following SL9, but have now been proved wrong twice in as many years.Now, astronomers around the world are trying to figure out what kind of mark Thursday's collision left on the planet, as well as determine exactly what hit it. Although the impact is believed to be relatively small, a dark debris field may soon appear in the clouds around Jupiter, which is what occurred in 2009.The largest extrasolar planet or exoplanet has been discovered orbiting the star GSC 02620-00648, around 1,435 light years away. The planet, named TrES-4, after the Transatlantic Exoplanet Survey (TrES) is 1.7 times the size of the planet Jupiter. TrES-4 also has a lower mass than Jupiter and an extremely low density of 0.2 grams per cubic centimetre, which is less than a wine cork. Georgi Mandushev of the Lowell Observatory in Arizona said, "It's way lower than the density of water."TrES-4 orbits its star at a distance of only 7 million km (4.5 million miles), meaning that the temperature of the planet is estimated at 1,327°C (approximately 1,600K or 2,300°F).Mandushev went on to say, "Because of the planet's relatively weak pull on its upper atmosphere, some of the atmosphere probably escapes in a comet-like tail."Due to the planet's size, current theories about superheated giant planets find it hard to explain why it is so large. Francis O'Donovan, a graduate student in astronomy at the California Institute of Technology which operates one of the TrES telescopes said, "We continue to be surprised by how relatively large these giant planets can be. But if we can explain the sizes of these bloated planets in their harsh environments, it may help us better understand our own Solar System planets and their formation."A main belt asteroid, No. 274301, has been named after Wikipedia, a free encyclopedia. The information became available on the Minor Planet Center's website yesterday. The decision of the Committee for Small Body Nomenclature to assign the name "Wikipedia" to the asteroid was published in the Minor Planet Circular of January 27, published online yesterday, page 82403. Wikimedia Ukraine board member Andriy Makukha proposed the name. It was submitted to the Committee by the head of the Andrushivka Astronomical Observatory in Ukraine, Yuri Ivashchenko.The official dedication of the name says:The asteroid 274301 Wikipedia was discovered by the team of astronomers of Andrushivka Astronomical Observatory. At first it was observed by that team on August 25, 2008 at 22:47 (UTC). It was also observed on the next night and two weeks later on September 6.  It received provisional designation 2008 QH24. Accurate calculation of its orbit showed asteroid 2008 QH24 is the same as 1997 RO4 and 2007 FK34.  The asteroid had been previously spotted by observatories including Caussols-ODAS in France, and Mt. Lemmon Survey and Steward Observatory in Arizona, US. On April 18, 2011 the minor planet received the number 274301.European astronomers discovered a very young and huge star cluster within our Milky Way galaxy using European Southern Observatory telescopes. The discovery was made at the La Silla Observatory in Chile.Hidden behind a veil of dust and gas, the super star cluster, known as Westerlund 1, is1000 times closer than any other known clusters. These Super star clusters were previously known to exist as pairs or groups of interacting galaxies located at immense intergalactic distances.  It is so close--within 10,000 light years--scientists will be able to examine its structure in detail.  Until now, super clusters were far too distant for individualstars to be distinguished.Initial observations have led scientists to conclude the group contains at least 100,000 times the mass of the Sun, with some single stars shining with a power of 1,000,000 suns and 2000 times larger than our own.  All the stars are in a region less than six light years across.The existence of Westerlund 1's has been known since 1961. Discovered by Swedish astronomer Bengt Westerlund while in Australia, the cluster is located in the Southern constellation Ara (the Altar). It was a dimming factor of more than 100,000 caused by the gas and dust between us and the cluster that prevented the actual structure and nature of the phenomenon to be determined.Using a variety of instruments, including the Wide Field Imager (WFI)attached to a 2.2 meter scope and the Superb-Seeing Imager 2 (SuSI2) cameraon the ESO 3.5 meter New Technology Telescope(NTT), 200 cluster member stars were identified. These and otherobservations have revealed the cluster contains young stars on theorder of 30-40 times more massive than our own Sun.  The age range has beendetermined at 3.5 to five million years old, making this cluster very youngcompared to the Galaxy itself at around 13.5 billion years.The research will appear in the leading research journal Astronomy and Astrophysics, and is titled "On the massive stellar population of the Super Star ClusterWesterlund 1", by J.S. Clark and colleagues.  A second paper, "FurtherWolf-Rayet stars in the starburst cluster Westerlund 1", by IgnacioNegueruela and Simon Clark will also be published in the same journal.United States - According to NASA's Near Earth Object Program, 2004 MN4's assessed risk has been corrected downward to zero on the Torino scale.  The Torino scale is the current method by which astronomers classify the likelihood of an impact with a near-Earth object.  A score of zero means that the possibility of a collision between the asteroid and Earth has been ruled out of consideration.  2004 MN4 was once tentatively estimated as having the highest potential of any asteroid to hit the Earth.  Its risk was first calculated as 2 out of 10 on the Torino scale.  This rank was upgraded to Level 4 Dec. 24, giving it the highest score ever for a near-Earth asteroid. It was considered to have a 1 in 37 chance of striking the Earth.  Upon discovery of previously recorded sightings of the same asteroid, its estimated flight path was corrected and found to miss the Earth entirely, outside of the margin of error.  The asteroid will, however, make one of the closest passes of Earth ever seen.  It will pass close enough to the Earth's for the planet's gravitational field to influence the asteroid's orbital pattern. However, NASA's current risk analysis for the asteroid indicates that "no subsequent Earth encounters in the 21st century are of any concern."Data from recent detailed analyses of samples collected on NASA Apollo moon missions, released Sunday, show that Lunar water may originate from comets that collided with the moon early in its geologic history.A team of astrophysicists led by James Greenwood of Wesleyan University in Connecticut analyzed samples collected on the Apollo 11, 12, 14, and 17 missions and found that the chemical properties of traces of lunar water in these samples differ from water typical of Earth."The values of deuterium/hydrogen (D/H) that we measure in apatite in the Apollo rock samples", Greenwood told Space.com, "is clearly distinguishable from water from the Earth, mitigating against this being some sort of contamination on Earth." Greenwood and his team of researchers studied in particular the variations of hydrogen in the mineral apatite.The newfound data show that the chemical properties of water in the apatite samples resemble data from the comets Hale-Bopp, Halley, and Hyakutake, suggesting that the water present on the moon could have originated from these comets or others.According to Greenwood, the results of this study could also provide evidence as to the origin of water on Earth.On Wednesday, a team of over 200 scientists led by astronomer Tabetha Boyajian announced the mysterious dim-and-recover behavior of stellar object KIC 8462852, also called "Boyajian's Star" or "Tabby's Star," is likely to be due to clouds of color-warping space dust and not a planet, another star or, as some astronomers have hypothesized, a giant structure built by a distant civilization. "If a solid, opaque object like a megastructure was passing in front of the star, it would block out light equally at all colors," Dr. Boyajian told the press. "This is contrary to what we observe." And, in a separate statement, "Dust is most likely the reason why the star's light appears to dim and brighten. The new data shows that different colors of light are being blocked at different intensities. Therefore, whatever is passing between us and the star is not opaque, as would be expected from a planet or alien megastructure."The research team analyzed 22 months of data collected by an array of ground-based telescopes that covered many wavelengths of light.  The study period lasted from March 2016 to December 2017, which included a number of decreases in brightness. The first dip started on the night of Thursday May 18. A robotic 14-inch Celestron telescope at Fairborn Observatory in Arizona watched Tabby's star lose brightness by a dramatic 3% by Friday, confirming a prediction the star would undergo its unusual dimming events once every 750 days. Other major telescope projects and citizen astronomers confirmed these findings. That dip was complex and continued through to the following Sunday, after a brief rise in brightness over the weekend. It ended a few days later, with Boyajian and fellow astronomer and co-author of the recent paper Jason Wright discussing the phenomena with the public via Twitter: "will we have a flurry of dips to come? Stay tuned!"  "Tabby's star[...] went through a lot of very strange dimming events that got up to 22% dimmer during the Kepler Mission, and since then we've been eagerly awaiting another dip. And the reason that we’ve been waiting for that is that whatever is causing the star to get dimmer will leave a spectral fingerprint behind," said Dr. Jason Wright of Pennsylvania State University, after the May event, now a co-author of the current work. "So if it's a lot of dust between us and the star that's passing by, it should block more blue light than red light. If there's gas in that dust, that gas should absorb very specific wavelengths. So we've been eager to see one of these changes, these dips in the star, so we can take the spectra." He also addressed space fans at the time via Twitter: "ALERT:@tsboyajian's star is dipping This is not a drill. Astro tweeps on telescopes in the next 48 hours: spectra please!"The primary mission of the Kepler project monitored more than 150,000 stars with the primary goal of detecting exoplanets.  If a star gets dimmer but then recovers, a planet may have passed in front of it.  But Tabby's star has shown something else.  An exoplanet can cause its sun to dim by perhaps 1% and not for very long.  Some of Tabby's dips have been this mild, but others have hit 20% and lasted weeks.  It also tends to recover only partially, slowly showing a net dimming over the years.The plethora of hypotheses behind Tabby's star has made it a favorite among space fans and both professional and amateur astronomers.  Space dust was one of the many hypothesized explanations, but if that's the reason, its origin was and remains a mystery with stargazers speculating many giant comets could be on elliptical orbits or breaking up in front of it or the dips in brightness could be aftereffects of the star consuming a planet. Some even hypothesized alien civilizations might have been harvesting the sun's energy using a Dyson sphere. The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) devoted some observation time to Tabby's star in the fall of 2016 as part of the Breakthrough Listen project. No radio or laser pulse signals were detected."This latest research rules out alien megastructures, but it raises the plausibility of other phenomena being behind the dimming," said Dr. Wright. "There are models involving circumstellar material — like exocomets, which were Boyajian's team's original hypothesis — which seem to be consistent with the data we have [...] some astronomers favor the idea that nothing is blocking the star — that it just gets dimmer on its own — and this also is consistent with this summer's data."This study is a departure from many previous works in that it relies heavily on the work of citizen scientists, volunteers who help examine the great quantities of data produced by NASA's Kepler mission. The follow-up observations after the Kepler project were funded by a $100,000 Kickstarter to continuously monitor Tabby's star. The unusual behavior of Tabby's star was discovered in 2011 by volunteers for the Planet Hunters citizen science project, which was implemented to search for planets in the Kepler data."It's exciting. I am so appreciative of all of the people who have contributed to this in the past year — the citizen scientists and professional astronomers. It's quite humbling to have all of these people contributing in various ways to help figure it out," Dr. Boyajian said in a statement.NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope made news this week when it was announced that the space observatory had, for the first time, captured enough light to detect molecules in the atmospheres of planets outside the solar system.The planets are too far away to be observed directly with current technology, but by measuring the spectra of each planet when visible with its star, and again when the planet was hidden behind its star, the teams were able to determine the measurements of the planets spectra.In a paper published in the February 22 issue of  Nature,  Dr. Jeremy Richardson of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center presented measurements of HD 209458 b, a hot, Jupiter-like planet located 153 light-years from Earth, in the constellation Pegasus.  Richardson's team found a peak in the infrared spectra and was able to determine that the atmosphere of HD 209458 b likely consisted of clouds of silicate dust.  Dr. Mark Swain of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory led another study of HD 209458 b, and found similar results.Another team, led by Dr. Carl Grillmair of Spitzer Science Center at Caltech, performed a similar study of HD 189733b, 63 light-years away, in the constellation Vulpecula.  Dr. Grillmair discusses the results:  “It was believed to be fairly straightforward that these planets would have a lot of water in them, for one thing, very hot water. These planets, these hot Jupiters very, very close in to their parent stars are 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit or so, so it's not a pleasant place to live. And what we found instead and what the other group found for this completely different planet around another star, is that the spectrum is essentially flat. It really doesn’t show any of the features we would have expected from water.”"The theorists' heads were spinning when they saw the data," adds Dr. Richardson. "It is virtually impossible for water, in the form of vapor, to be absent from the planet, so it must be hidden, probably by the dusty cloud layer we detected in our spectrum."Dr. Grillmair: "The observations are showing us that things are not the way we expected them. And so there'll be a big push to get a lot more data while Spitzer is still alive. I think this will ultimately be one of the most important legacies of the Spitzer Space Telescope, unanticipated as it was before launch. I think it will become extremely important in the future." The telescope was launched in August of 2003 with a maximum expected life cycle of 5 years. "With these new observations, we are refining the tools that we will one day need to find life elsewhere if it exists," said Swain. "It's sort of like a dress rehearsal."Dr. Swain's and Dr. Grillmair's studies are pending publication in Astrophysical Journal Letters.NASA have revealed that a flyby of its probe Cassini past Titan, a moon of Saturn, has produced a historic image: the first photograph showing liquid on a world other than our own.The picture shows a "specular reflection" from an extremely smooth surface, in this case a liquid. Cassini has been trying to spot one since arriving in 2004, and in 2008 used infrared data to prove that there were liquid methane lakes down there. The northern hemisphere has only been visible since August 2009, as before then it was covered by winter weather. Most of Titan's lakes are in the north."This one image communicates so much about Titan — thick atmosphere, surface lakes and an otherworldliness. It’s an unsettling combination of strangeness yet similarity to Earth," said Bob Pappalardo, a Cassini scientist with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Titan's atmosphere is, like Earth's, mainly nitrogen, but temperatures on the icy world are around -180°C. This reduces the prospect of life, although the presence of liquid does increase the likelihood.The lake seen in the photograph is called Kraken Mare, and at 150,000 square miles (400,000 square kilometers), it isn't the largest basin on north Titan, but it is bigger than the Earth's biggest lake, the Caspian Sea.Ralf Jaumann, another Cassini scientist, spoke of the team's hopes for the future. "Next, we want to find out more about Titan's liquid. Do we have some kind of weather there? Do we have changes with seasons? Does it rain? How does the liquid methane run across the surface?"A team of scientists are due to propose to NASA that the agency drop a boat into a Titan lake, with Kraken Mare and the similarly sized Ligeia Mare being hot candidates. The Titan Mare Explorer (TiME) is projected to be relatively low-cost at US$400 million and would investigate the composition, density and shape of a Titan lake. If launched in 2016 it could arrive in 2023 and spend several years floating on the moon. However, several other projects are also keen to get themselves the next opportunity NASA is offering for the launch of a new project other than its own.NASA launched the Lunar Precursor Robotic Program space probes, the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO) and the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (LCROSS) on board the Atlas V rocket at 5:32 p.m. EDT (2132 GMT) from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.  Due to nearby thunderstorms the launch was delayed about 20 minutes from the scheduled launch time of 5.12 p.m. EDT (2112 GMT).  The mission will be NASA's first unmanned rocket expedition to the moon in a decade.The aim of the LRO mission is to spend at least a year in a low polar orbit above the surface of the moon to gather neccesary data for future missions and longer lunar expeditions. It will be orbiting approximately 30 miles (48 km)s above the moon, trying to find safe landing sites, locating potential resources, characterizing the radiation environment and testing new technology.The 2,300 pounds (1,043 kg) spent upper stage Centaur motor of the Atlas V launch vehicle will strike the surface of the moon at 9,000 km/h (5,600 mph) resulting in a 350 ton (317 metric ton) plume of debris rising between 6 to 30 miles (10 to 48 km) above the moon's surface. From this impact, scientists hope to be able to detect any water ice or vapor using the LCROSS satellite which will crash land nearby four minutes later. Astronomers who own amateur-class telescopes with apertures as small as 10 to 12 inches may be able to sight the ejecta cloud as it will have a period of brightness about one minute after impact.The launch was originally planned for yesterday, but delayed for the launch of the Space Shuttle Endeavour, which was itself later delayed again due to another hydrogen fuel leak.SN 2006gy was the brightest and largest supernova ever discovered, scientists announced. The star was in the NGC 1260 galaxy, in the same direction as the constellation Perseus and may be a type of supernova previously predicted by theory but not observed. The conclusion was reached after extended observations of the supernova by both optical telescopes and X-ray telescopy. Currently, there are two possible explanations for the supernova's brightness, but both require the star in question to have been at least a hundred times as massive as the sun. Although the supernova is brighter than SN 1987A, which was bright enough to be seen by the naked eye, SN 2006gy is too far away to be seen by the naked eye.NASA cancelled a media briefing on its Stardust mission, expected to provide an update about analysis of both the "Comet Wild 2" particles and interstellar particles gathered during the nearly seven year mission.  In "MEDIA ADVISORY: M06-016," issued earlier today, the space agency announced postponement of the briefing, originally scheduled for Tuesday, January 24, 1 p.m. EST.  No announcement has been made about when the briefing will be re-scheduled.  NASA's stated reason for delay was to, "allow the Stardust science team additional time to assess and distribute cometary samples."NASA is beginning the final preparations for next Wednesday's launch of the Dawn probe, aboard a Delta II rocket. The Dawn probe, costing over US$250 million, will visit the dwarf planet Ceres and the asteroid Vesta. The launch was originally planned for mid-June, however due to a damaged crate, shipping delays, and a damaged solar panel, NASA chose to delay it until now. Last week the spacecraft was delivered to the launch pad, and engineers performed tests to ensure that it is ready for launch. Today, the payload fairings were installed, and the probe is ready for its launch next week onto its 5 billion kilometer (3.2 billion mile) mission.As the Delta II launches, three stages of rockets will propel the probe towards its first target. With the help of ion thrusters, it will reach Mars in mid-2009. Using Mars' gravity, the probe will speed up and proceed towards the first asteroid, Vesta, in late 2011. After orbiting for seven months, it will leave Vesta in mid-2012, and arrive at Ceres in 2015. After making scans of Ceres, it will enter an orbit around Ceres that will ensure that it does not impact the asteroid for half a century. This is required due to the United Nations' “Outer Space Treaty”, which states that “harmful contamination” of these asteroids must be avoided.The targets of this mission, Ceres and Vesta, couldn't be less alike. Ceres (diameter 975 km, 600 miles) is larger than Vesta (578 km, 350 miles). This makes Ceres approximately the size of Texas. NASA believes Ceres could contain water beneath its outer crust because, like Earth, its inner layers are heavier than the outer layers, and Ceres' outer layer is lighter than water. Vesta, on the other hand, is the size of Arizona, and has a surface of volcanic rock, which astronomers believe came from its hot inner layers. Vesta also has a large crater – almost 500 km (300 miles) across – on its southern pole. The collision that caused this likely blasted enough rock into space to fill a container 160 by 160 by 80 km (100 by 100 by 50 miles).The probe will make several observations of these asteroids: it will compare the makeup, shape, size, and densities, analyze craters, and determine mass, gravity, rotation. To determine the makeup, the probe carries a mapping spectrometer, and tools to map emissions of neutrons and gamma rays. Using this information, NASA can compare the formation of these bodies to learn more about our solar system, for example, to test a theory which states that a number of stony meteorites may be debris from Vesta.There's one more piece of equipment aboard the probe: A small silicon chip containing the names of 350,000 people who submitted their names to the “Send Your Name to the Asteroid Belt” campaign. After next week's launch, the spacecraft will deploy its solar panels and undergo two months of testing before it begins the cruise to Mars.NASA scientists have stated that an "earth-like" planet is currently forming in a star system's 'habitable zone' just over 400 light-years from Earth. The new discovery was made by NASA's Spitzer Space telescope.According to scientists, dust and rock orbiting a ten million year old star in the system HD 113766 contains "enough [material] to build a Mars-size planet or larger.""The timing for this system to be building an Earth is very good. If the system was too young, its planet-forming disk would be full of gas, and it would be making gas-giant planets like Jupiter instead. If the system was too old, then dust aggregation or clumping would have already occurred and all the system's rocky planets would have already formed," said NASA scientist Carey Lisse from the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory located in Baltimore, Maryland.File:Habitable zone-en.svgLisse states that the dust and rock, which was examined by the telescopes infrared spectrometer instrument, is more processed than the snowball-like stuff that makes up infant solar systems and comets, which are considered cosmic "refrigerators" because they contain pristine ingredients from the early solar system, but he also says that the material is not quite ready to form an actual planet, meaning that the material is currently in a "transitional phase" or in a phase just before a planet begins to form.The dusty material Lisse says, does not contain "any water ice, carbonates, or fragile organic materials," making the star system a fairly young celestial body."The material mix in this belt is most reminiscent of the stuff found in lava flows on Earth. I thought of Mauna Kea material when I first saw the dust composition in this system - it contains raw rock and is abundant in iron sulfides, which are similar to fool's gold," said Lisse. Mauna Kea is a well-known volcano in Hawaii.Scientists remain excited knowing that they have the chance to observe a planet forming right before their eyes. "It is fantastic to think we are able to detect the process of terrestrial planet formation. Stay tuned - I expect lots more fireworks as the planet in HD113766 grows," added Lisse.NASA's Kepler Telescope, which will search for planets orbiting other stars, was successfully launched by a Delta II rocket from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station at approximately 10:51 p.m. (EST). NASA regained the rocket's signal at 12:11 a.m. EDT Saturday, shortly after confirming the satellite's separation from the rocket.According to the Kepler Mission page on NASA's website, the telescope "is specifically designed to survey our region of the Milky Way galaxy to discover hundreds of Earth-size and smaller planets in or near the habitable zone and determine how many of the billions of stars in our galaxy have such planets." The telescope is named after Johannes Kepler, an astronomer, astrologist and mathematician from Germany in the late 1500 and early 1600s.The Kepler Telescope will use the 'Transit Method' of detecting planets. When planets pass in front of their parent star, a small black dot is cast over the star, called a transit. Transits by terrestrial planets produce a small change in a star's brightness of about one part in ten thousand (.01%), lasting for 2 to 16 hours.Kepler's view is 105 square degrees and will be focused on one area all the time. It will orbit around our Sun, maintaining a constant distance from Earth of 950 miles. It will continuously and simultaneously monitor the brightnesses of more than 100,000 stars for the life of the mission, which is expected to be three and a half years."Even if we find no planets like Earth, that by itself would be profound. It would indicate that we are probably alone in the galaxy," said William Borucki, the mission's science principal investigator.Although planets orbiting stars other than the Sun had been theorized for centuries, it was only in 1988 that a team of Canadian astronomers made the first detection of extrasolar planets orbiting the star Gamma Cephei. Now over 300 extrasolar planets are said to have been discovered.The launch comes just weeks after NASA's failed launch of the Orbiting Carbon Observatory, which crashed into the ocean off Antarctica's coast. It would have been the first spacecraft dedicated to studying atmospheric carbon dioxide, the most significant human-produced greenhouse gas and the principal human-produced driver of climate change. The cost of the project was US$273 million.For the first time since the discovery of planets outside the solar system, light from two of the 145 confirmed extrasolar planets has been directly captured by NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope.Astronomers Dr. David Charbonneau of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and Dr. Drake Deming of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC), working separately on one each of the two planets used a simple technique to gather the infrared glow that the planetary bodies emit.The planets, designated HD 209458b and TrES-1, are classified as "hot Jupiter" planets.  These types of extrasolar planets orbit closely around their suns, absorbing the starlight and brightly radiating in the infrared wavelengths.Using the Spitzer telescope, the astronomers first collected and measured the total infrared output from both the stars and planets. The stars alone were again measured when the planets disappeared behind them during their natural orbits. By comparing the differences between the two measurements, the scientist were able to determine how much infrared light each planet emits."In visible light, the glare of the star completely overwhelms the glimmer of light reflected by the planet," Charbonneau said. "In infrared, the star-planet contrast is more favorable because the planet emits its own light."The data obtained indicates the planets are at least 1,340 degrees Fahrenheit, justifying the classification of "hot Jupiter".  More observations from Spitzer could provide information about the planets winds and atmospheric compositions."Spitzer has provided us with a powerful new tool for learning about the temperatures, atmospheres and orbits of planets hundreds of light-years from Earth," said Dr. Deming."It's fantastic," Dr. Charbonneau said. "We've been hunting for this light for almost 10 years, ever since extrasolar planets were first discovered."Dr. Deming's paper on his findings appears today in Nature's online publication; Dr. Charbonneau's paper will be published in an upcoming issue of the Astrophysical Journal.The Spitzer telescope was launched August 25, 2003 and is scheduled to be de-orbited sometime in 2008.  Spitzer was named for Dr. Lyman Spitzer who, in the mid-1940s, first proposed placing telescopes in space.The Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.The Goddard Space Flight Center is located in Greenbelt, Maryland.NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory manages the Spitzer Space Telescope mission for NASA's Science Mission Directorate. Science operations are conducted at the Spitzer Science Center, Pasadena, California.Houston — NASA's Near Earch Object Program Office has recently announced that the asteroid named 2004 MN4, discovered last June, has the highest risk of earth impact to date. In the December 23 annoncement, NASA advised that the 400-meter wide asteroid has a 1 in 300 chance of colliding with earth.  As scientists gather more data on 2004 MN4, the probability of collision with earth is expected to decrease.The level of impact risk is measured in terms of Torino Impact Hazard Scale, and the MN4's score was initially 2 out of 10. 2004 MN4 is expected to come closest to the Earth on April 14, 2029.For the next few days, a newly discovered, green-tinted comet will be visible by the naked eye in most parts of the Northern Hemisphere. Comet Lulin, with the official designation of C/2007 N3, was discovered in 2007 and astronomers say that this is the first time it has visited our solar system and may well be the last.As it makes its way around the Sun, an astonishing 800 gallons (3 m3) of water will evaporate from the comet every second. In each 15 minute period, it will shed enough water to fill an Olympic sized swimming pool. It will come within 38 million miles of Earth at its closest pass, making it visible to the naked eye and even clearer with binoculars or a telescope. The best viewing time for people living in the northern hemisphere is after midnight when Lulin will be at its highest point in the sky, or 40 degrees from the morning horizon. Current estimates peg the maximum brightness at 4th or 5th magnitude, which means dark country skies would be required to see it. No one can say for sure, however, because this is Lulin's first visit.Astronomers from NASA and the United Kingdom will use the Swift Telescope to study the comet and its composition. Astronomers also say to see it while you can because this could be the first and only time it passes through our solar system. It's estimated that if it returns, it will not be for another 1,000,000 years."We won't be able to send a space probe to [the comet], but Swift is giving us some of the information we would get from just such a mission," said Jenny Carter, at the University of Leicester in England, who is leading the study.The comet was discovered using the Lulin Observatory in Taiwan by astronomers Ye Quanzhi and Lin Chi-Sheng.Earlier today, an Atlas V rocket carrying the New Horizons unmanned spacecraft probe lifted off from Pad 41 at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station bound for the last unexplored planet in the solar system, Pluto, at 11 am EST, after two scrubbed liftoffs the past two days because of bad weather.The probe will take a nine-year, 3-billion-mile (5-billion-km) journey to Pluto, the ninth and final planet in the solar system. It is expected to take photos of the planet that are of the highest resolution ever, since current photos of Pluto are not of the highest quality, even those taken from Hubble Space Telescope. It will also attempt to characterize the global geology and morphology of the planet and study the atmosphere of the planet.After accelerating to 36,000 mph, it will pass the moon in nine hours. The probe will pass by Mars in April and then head on to Jupiter where it will pass by in February 2007 and continue on. Around July 14, 2015, the probe is expected to fly by Pluto and its moon Charon, after which the probe could possibly make a flyby of one or more Kuiper Belt objects. (KBOs).New Horizons is powered by an onboard nuclear electric generator, known as a radioisotope thermoelectric generator, using 24 pounds (10.8kg) of plutonium as its radioactive "fuel" source. Some anti-nuclear activists feared that the launch could end in an accident with radioactive material being spread over a wide area. The chances of such a disaster were calculated by the United States Department of Energy at 1 in 350.The Tuesday liftoff was postponed because of high winds at the launch site. The Wednesday launch was stopped after a severe storm near Laurel, Maryland knocked out power at the Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory, which hosts the flight control center for the mission.As a side note, the probe is also carrying some of the ashes from Clyde Tombaugh, the discoverer of Pluto.Astronomers at the University of California at Santa Cruz have discovered a new planet which is considered to be in the middle of the  Habitable Zone of its parent star, a discovery which has raised the possibility of finding life on another planet. Researchers found the planet while conducting the Lick-Carnegie exoplanet survey of Gliese 581, a red dwarf. The planet, named 'Gliese 581 g', is approximately 20 light years away from Earth and is hypothesised to have a generally rocky landscape with enough gravitational pull to accumulate an atmosphere.Steven Vogt of the University of California stated that Gliese 581g potentially has a gravitational pull similar to that of Earth, which would allow humans to walk around upright on its surface although human inhabitation of the planet is in no foreseeable future. Vogt observed that there is a significant possibility that life exists on Gliese 581 g."Personally, given the ubiquity and propensity of life to flourish wherever it can, I would say, my own personal feeling is that the chances of life on this planet are 100 per cent," Vogt said. Only lichen, bacteria and other micro-organisms are expected to exist on the planet.Gliese 581 g is thought to have a temperature range from extremely hot to freezing cold depending on the side with respect to its star. The average temperature is expected to range from −31 to −12 degrees Celsius.Prior to this discovery, two other planets were discovered in the low or "cold" end and the high or "hot" end of the 'Habitable Zone', respectively, orbiting the same star.Astronomers have found a huge new ring around the planet Saturn. The faint dust ring extends up to 7.4 million miles (12 million km) from the planet and could fit over a billion Earths inside it, making it the largest in the Solar System. It could also solve a mystery about one of Saturn's moons that has puzzled scientists for centuries.The ring was found with the help of NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope, with details published today in the journal Nature. It is thought to consist of ice and dust from Saturn's moon Phoebe, which is kicked up by collisions with comets and then drifts in towards the planet. The ring and moon both orbit in a plane inclined at 27 degrees to the other rings."This is one supersized ring," said Dr Anne Verbiscer of the University of Virginia, one of the authors of the paper. Of Saturn's other rings, the largest is the E-ring, a mere 150,000 miles (240,000 km) in diameter. Jupiter also has "gossamer rings" of a similar diameter to the E-ring. If the Phoebe ring was visible from Earth, it would appear twice as large in the sky as the full Moon.However the newly found ring is extremely faint. It is made up of dust particles around 10 microns (thousandths of a millimetre) in size, and according to Verbiscer, "In a cubic km of space, there are all of 10-20 particles." This explains why it has evaded discovery until now. "If you were standing in the ring itself, you wouldn't even know it."The Phoebe ring does not reflect much visible light, but the Spitzer telescope was able to pick up the dust's faint infra-red glow. The telescope, launched in 2003, orbits the Sun and is roughly 66 million miles (107 million km) from Earth. It is one of NASA's four Great Observatories.The discovery could also finally account for the unusual appearance of Iapetus, another of the planet's moons. When Iapetus was first observed in 1671 by astronomer Giovanni Cassini, its leading side was seen to be much darker than the other. Until now scientists had been unsure why this was. Now it is thought that the moon orbits in the opposite direction to the ring, and as Iapetus moves through the ring, dust builds up on its front surface. Verbiscer likens it to "bugs on a windshield.""Astronomers have long suspected that there is a connection between Saturn's outer moon Phoebe and the dark material on Iapetus," said Douglas Hamilton, another author of the paper. The material has been found to have a similar composition to Phoebe's surface. "This new ring provided convincing evidence of that relationship."This is the second major discovery for astronomers studying Saturn in the past month. In September, evidence from the Cassini orbiter showed that Saturn's other rings were far less flat than expected.A new Earth-like planet, called Gliese 876 d, has been discovered orbiting a star called Gliese 876 about 15 light years from Earth.  It is the first rocky planet to be discovered orbiting a star, although three other rocky planets have in the past been discovered in orbit around a pulsar.  There are two other gaseous, Jupiter-like planets in orbit around the same star."This is the smallest extrasolar planet yet detected and the first of a new class of rocky terrestrial planets," said Paul Butler of the Carnegie Institution, one of the teams that discovered the new planet. "It's like Earth's bigger cousin."The newly discovered world has about 7½ times the mass of Earth.  Its orbital period, or "year", is a mere 2 days in length and its path takes it 10 times closer to its star than the closest planet is to our Sun.  The temperature on the surface is estimated between 400 to 750 degrees Fahrenheit (200 to 400 degrees Celsius), and is too hot for life forms that are similar to those found on Earth."A planet seven and a half times the mass of the Earth could easily hold onto an atmosphere," explained Gregory Laughlin, an assistant professor of astronomy at the University of California in Santa Cruz. "It would still be considered a rocky planet, probably with an iron core and a silicate mantle. It could even have a dense steamy water layer. I think what we are seeing here is something that's intermediate between a true terrestrial planet like the Earth and a hot version of the ice giants Uranus and Neptune."Astronomers are continuing to advance the science of detecting extrasolar worlds.  "We are pushing a whole new regime at Keck [Observatory in Hawaii] to achieve one meter per second precision, triple our old precision, that should also allow us to see Earth-mass planets around sun-like stars within the next few years," Butler said.New stars have been recently discovered in the Southern Cross, or Crux, by scientists in the United States. This discovery could affect the flags of New Zealand, Australia, Papua New Guinea, Samoa and Brazil, although the new star is located very close to the westernmost star and invisible to the naked eye.The American scientists found the new stars in the Southern Cross by using the Chandra X-ray Observatory, a space satellite run by NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) which uses x-rays.When the scientist team, led by David Cohen of Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, were using the Chandra telescope, they, to their surprise, saw two x-ray glows, each representing stars, where they expected to see one. The new star appears to be orbiting Beta Crucis, the westernmost star in the Southern Cross, once every 2,000 years. Doctor Nick Lomb, an astronomer at the Powerhouse Museum, Sydney, Australia, said that the reason the star had not been found before was because the glare from Beta Crucis is too great and "It would be like looking for a glow worm next to a floodlight." Before the recent discovery, it was already known that Beta Crucis had a partner, which is invisible to the human-eye.Mr Cohen said that they found it by accident, as they were really trying to get information about the x-rays emitted by Beta Crucis. "We were interested in how the highly supersonic stellar winds of hot, luminous stars produce X-rays."The star found at the bottom of the Southern Cross, Alpha Crucis "Acrux", also has a partner star, which is also invisible to the human-eye. This invisible partner is not featured on any flags.Dr Lomb said the apparent separation between each star is like looking at two headlights from 100 kilometres away, even though the two stars are actually 60 billion kilometres away from each other.Dr Lomb said that if Australia was to put all eight stars in the Southern Cross onto the Australia flag then "the flag would have to be huge, probably the size of Sydney." Astronomer Alan Gilmore from University of Canterbury's Mount John observatory, also agreed that flags should not be altered because it is not about how many stars there are in the Southern Cross, but the magnitude of the stars. Mr Gilmore said: "What you see by eye is what you see on the flag. If you wanted to add more stars, there's no end of stars you can put on if you go down in order of brightness. It would get very confusing."Mr Gilmore has said that in 20,000 years that Southern Cross will be different anyway, because the top star, Gamma Crucis is 90 light years away from Earth, while Alpha Crucis, Beta Crucis and Delta Crucis are all around 350 light years away and they are all moving in different directions. And Dr Lomb said that Alpha, Beta and Delta Crucis will die in a few million years.These findings were presented to the American Astronomical Society, Seattle, Washington, by an undergraduate of Mr Cohen's team, Michael Kuhn.A planet 50% greater in radius and with about 5 times earth mass orbiting the red dwarf Gliese 581 has been discovered inside the constellation of Libra. A 2005 search revealed that the star Gliese 581 possessed a Neptune sized planet, prompting astronomers to take a closer look.Gliese 581 c, as the planet is aptly named, has an estimated surface temperature between 0 and 40°C (32 and 104°F). Scientists claim the planet is likely to have an atmosphere and liquid water. A second planet, about 8 times the mass of earth, was also discovered not too far from Gliese 581 c.A team of scientists from France, Switzerland and Portugal discovered the planets using the ESO 3.6-m telescope from the High Accuracy Radial Velocity Planet Searcher or HARPS, located at the European Southern Observatory (ESO) in La Silla, Chile."The separation between the planet and its star is just right for having liquid water at its surface," said team spokesperson Stephane Udry of the Observatory of Geneva in Versoix, Switzerland. "That's why we are a bit excited.""Liquid water is critical to life as we know it and because of its temperature and relative proximity, this planet will most probably be a very important [focus] of future space missions dedicated to the search for extra-terrestrial life. On the treasure map of the Universe, one would be tempted to mark this planet with an X," added Xavier Delfosse, from Grenoble University in France.The newly discovered planet is 20.5 light-years away from the Earth.Polish astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus was buried for the second time yesterday, in the Catholic church of Frombork, Poland. Copernicus is considered the founder of modern astronomy, and known for declaring that the Earth revolved around the Sun, contrary to popular belief at the time.His body was discovered and exhumed in 2005 by Polish archaeologists in a nameless tomb in the same church. After the extraction, the body was sent for DNA testing, which confirmed it was Copernicus, who died in 1543.His funeral was presided over by Archbishop Józef Kowalczyk. In his time, Copernicus was considered a heretic due to his theory, which was published shortly before his death.He studied in the Kraków University and in the Bologne University.  In his work De Revolutionibus Orbium Coelestium he demonstrated, through mathematical and astronomical calculations, that the planets –including Earth– rotated around the Sun.Forecasters predict that northern lights could be visible to the naked eye late tonight and early tomorrow morning across Canada, northern parts of the U.S., and possibly the United Kingdom. Solar storms caused a large ejection of plasma from the Sun's surface on Sunday, and the plasma is heading directly towards Earth. The plasma, a cloud of rapidly moving hydrogen gas atoms and subatomic particles, is expected to reach us late Tuesday. The plasma will interact with the Earth's magnetic field and atmosphere, which will cause northern lights, or aurora borealis, to be visible much further south than is usual. Northern lights usually appear as green or red rivers of lights across the sky."It's the first major Earth-directed eruption in quite some time" said astronomer Leon Golub of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. The eruption was detected by NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory, which was launched in February 2010, and is currently orbiting the Earth. The Sun goes through approximately eleven-year long activity cycles, with the last maximum occurring in 2001. Sunday's eruption is a sign that the many years of inactivity is over, and the Sun is heading towards another maximum.A rare, but normal, astronomical event occurred today as the planet Mercury passed in front of the Sun from the perspective of the Earth. The event, called a transit was at least partially visible from most of the planet, except from Europe when the transit happened during local nighttime.Visible as a perfectly round dot only 1/195th the diameter of the Sun, Mercury took about an hour and a half to move across the southern limb of the Sun, starting at 7:12PM UTC and ending at 9:41PM UTC.From the point of view of the Earth, transits of this type can only occur with the two innermost planets - Mercury and Venus. Due to the orbital inclination of Mercury - 7° relative to the Earth - transits do not happen every time Mercury passes the Earth every 116 days. Only once every 23 times does a transit happen. The last time Mercury transited the Sun was May 7, 2003. The next transit will occur on May 9, 2016.Such rare events have fascinated astronomers since the invention of the telescope first allowed them to view them. Captain Cook, for example,  found Australia's east coast while on a voyage to track the transit of Venus in 1769. Recording these transits allowed astronomers to make the first accurate calculations of the distance between the Sun and the Earth.While not scientifically used for this purpose anymore, transits provide a glimpse into one way  astronomers can currently search for extra-solar planets. Astronomers using this method of searching will monitor other stars to see if the star dims ever so slightly as an extra-solar planet passes between the star it is orbiting and the Earth. Being able to detect such a small, temporary drop in brightness may indicate the presence of such a planet.Viewing solar transits are fascinating, but only if done safely. People must never look directly at the Sun at any time! The safest way of viewing a transit is to project the image of the Sun as seen through a telescope onto a screen. It may also be viewed with properly made and placed solar filters.Stargazers in Massachusetts will get a rare show on Sunday night, just before the local Sunrise.The planets Mars, Mercury and Jupiter will line up and will be seen in clear skies at least 45 minutes before sunrise, and will be seen each morning until December 14, 2006."Jupiter will be very bright and it will look like it has two bright lights next to it, and they won't twinkle because they're planets. When I look at something like this, I realize that all the powers on Earth, all the emperors, all the money, cannot change it one iota. We are observers, but the wonderful part of that is that we are the only species on this planet that can observe it and understand it," said television show host of Star Gazer, Jack Horkheimer. He is also director of the Space Transit Planetarium in Miami, Florida.This will be the closest planet-lineup to Earth until 2053. The previous closest viewing occurred in 1925.File:Pluto Earth size comparison.jpgToday, astronomers have endorsed a proposal about the definition of the word "planet". As a consequence, our solar system now counts only 8 planets. They are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Pluto no longer meets the criteria and loses its planet status, but becomes the prototype of a distinct class of dwarf planets.Ceres and 2003 UB313 also have been recognised as dwarf planets. Charon, which was previously in the run for promotion, did not meet the final criteria for a dwarf planet.Some 2500 astronomers from over 75 countries gathered this week in Prague at the Congress of the International Astronomical Union (IAU) to decide on several issues like a formal definition of a planet. Previously, there was no definition and with the discovery of new objects beyond Pluto there was much need for a clear criterion. The scientists also discussed new research findings in their field.Louis Friedman, the executive director of the Planetary Society in California said: "The classification doesn't matter. Pluto — and all Solar System objects — are mysterious and exciting new worlds that need to be explored and better understood."The final draft states: "A planet is a celestial body that is in orbit around the Sunhas sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shapehas cleared the neighbourhood around its orbit.A dwarf planet is a celestial body thatis in orbit around the Sun,has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape,has not cleared the neighbourhood around its orbit,is not a satellite.All other objects except satellites orbiting the Sun shall be referred to collectively as Small Solar-System Bodies."Pluto did not meet one of the criteria for planet: its orbit is highly eccentric, causing it to overlap with Neptune's. The IAU has a dozen other objects similar to Pluto on its "watchlist" and is expected to announce new dwarf planets in the coming months and years.Ever since its discovery by American Clyde Tombaugh in 1930, Pluto has been considered a planet, though its status has been questioned many times after it was discovered to be far less massive than earlier calculations suggested, and because of its many other eccentricities. As a consequence of the vote, many textbooks, encyclopedias and other sources will need rewriting.The two recently discovered moons of the planet Pluto were officially named Hydra and Nix by the International Astronomical Union, the internationally recognized authority for assigning designations to celestial bodies. The moons were discovered in May last year by the Pluto Companion Search Team, a team of scientists from the Southwest Research Institute (SwRI), the Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory (APL), the Space Telescope Science Institute and Lowell Observatory, using images taken from the Hubble space telescope. The moons were  designated as S/2005 P1 (Hydra) and P2 (Nix) upon discovery. Their discovery comes 27 years after the discovery of Pluto's largest moon Charon. The two moons are roughly 5000 times fainter than Pluto and two to three times farther from Pluto, compared to Charon. The two bodies are roughly 50 km in diameter. The names are derived from Greek mythology, where Hydra is a monster with the body of a serpent and nine heads and Nix is the goddess of darkness and night. Nix is also the mother of Charon, an allusion to the giant impact which is believed to have created the three satellites of Pluto, with Charon borne of the material from which Nix formed. Pluto himself is the god of the underworld.German and American scientists have announced that the recent planet, Gliese 581c is too hot to host any life that would be found on Earth. It orbits around the star Gliese 581."It’s just too hot. I would not recommend mankind to move to that planet right now," said Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research astronomer who was part of the study, Dr. Manfred Cuntz who also said that the same system that Gliese 581c is in may have another planet that could be comfortable for humans.The planet, Gliese 581d orbits the same star as Gliese 581c but at a distance of 23 million miles. The researchers say that the planet could have a "greenhouse" effect and that water that may be present on the planet would be liquid. If no greenhouse effect is present, the planet would have frozen water."We cannot cool down an atmosphere of a planet, but we can heat it up. Despite the adverse conditions of this planet, at least some primitive forms of life may be able to exist on its surface," added Cuntz.Some scientists disagree and say that Gliese 581 is very old and that its light is dimmer than that of a newer star.Scientists began to monitor Gliese 581c right after the announcement of its discovery in April for six weeks using the Microvariability and Oscillations of STars (MOST), operated by the Canadian Space Agency."Gliese 581 seems remarkably stable over the six weeks it was monitored by MOST. The brightness of the star changed by only a few tenths of a percent over that time. This level of stability means that it provides a stable source of light -- hence heat -- to the surface of planet Gliese 581c. The climate there should not be a wild rollercoaster ride that would make it difficult for life to get a foothold," said astronomer at the University of British Columbia, Jaymie Matthews.Matthews says that Gliese 581 is much older than the Sun and Earth and that life should have already evolved on the surface."So if Gliese 581 has been around for at least that long, it’s more encouraging for the prospects of complex life on any planet around it," added Matthews.A team of European and American astronomers say that a recently discovered extrasolar planet, located not far from Earth, contains oceans and rivers of hot solid water.The team discovered the planet, Gliese 436 b, which is roughly the size of Neptune, using the Geneva Observatory and it is roughly 33 light-years away from Earth."The water is frozen by the pressure but it's hot. It's a bit strange -- we are used to water changing conditions because of temperature, but in fact water can also be solidified by pressure. It's not a very welcoming planet," said one of the astronomers who discovered the planet, Frederic Pont.Scientists say that there is not likely to be any life on the planet, but that if there is such a large amount of water on it, then it is likely that other planets will also have water. It orbits closely around the Red M-dwarf star Gliese 436 which is significantly smaller and cooler than the Sun. The planet's surface temperature is believed to be near 540 degrees Fahrenheit (250 degrees Celsius). It circles Gliese 436 every 2.6 days at a small fraction of the distance between the Sun and Earth, or 4.1 million kilometers (2.6 million miles)."It shows there are many ocean planets. From the size and the mass we get the density," added Pont who wrote in a report about the planet saying "the mass and radius that we measure for GJ 436b indicate that it is mainly composed of water ice. It is an 'ice giant' planet like Uranus and Neptune rather than a small-mass gas giant or a very heavy 'super-Earth."American astronomers first discovered GJ 436b back in 2004, but no clear indication was found on what it might contain on its surface.The same team of astronomers were made famous when they discovered the first "earth-like planet" Gliese 581 c in April.The Cassini Spacecraft has taken images from July 22, 2006 that show rivers and lakes present on Saturn's moon Titan."At the time we first announced it, we were like, 'Well, we think these are probably lakes,’ but that was about our level of confidence. I would say at this point, we've analyzed the data to the extent that we feel very confident that they are liquid-filled lakes," said University College London and Caltech and Cassini team member, Ellen Stofan.The rivers and lakes are likely to contain ethane or methane in a liquid form, but the liquids are said to "act like water" and are "clear" like water. Both ethane and methane are organic gases on Earth. "Dark surfaces are smooth and most likely liquid, rock, ice or organics. More than 75 radar-dark patches or lakes were seen, ranging from 3 kilometers (1.8 miles) to more than 70 kilometers (43 miles) across. Some lakes appear partly dry, while others seem liquid-filled. Some of the partly filled lakes may never have filled fully, or may have partly evaporated at some point in the past. The dry lakes have margins or rims and a radar brightness similar to the rest of the surrounding terrain, making them appear devoid of liquid," said a statement by NASA on their website."It's going to behave like water. It's transparent just the way water is. So if you were standing by the shoreline, you would be able to see down to whatever pebbles or gunk that was on the bottom. As far as we know, there is only one planetary body that displays more dynamism than Titan, and its name is Earth," added Stofan.Cassini will be performing at least 22 more flybys of Titan. The next flyby is expected to take place this month.Recent scans on the planet Saturn by the space probe Cassini–Huygens have shown that the planet's rings are much older than previously thought. Recent data says they may be as old as the solar system itself.The new scans have indicated that the rings are likely three to five billion years old, and will probably be around for billions of years longer. Scientists previously thought the rings to be only about 100 million years old."Despite what was thought after the [1970s] Voyager investigations of Saturn - that Saturn's rings might be very youthful, perhaps only as ancient as the dinosaurs - we have results that show the rings could have lasted as long as the Solar System and maybe will be around for billions of years. Recycling allows the rings to be as old as the solar system although continually changing," said researcher Professor Larry Esposito.The determination was made when Cassini's Ultraviolet Imaging Spectrograph (UVIS) analyzed the light from the Sun reflecting off particles in the rings of all different sizes. The data had shown that there was a lot more clumpy material and as much as three times more mass than what was previously  found in the Voyager missions.Scientists assumed that particles from an exploding comet may have caused the rings to form, but the new data says that it is unlikely to be the case, because the particles are all of different ages."Although the Voyager observations indicated Saturn's rings were youthful, Cassini shows even younger ages; and because we see such transient, dynamic phenomena in the rings we are able to reach the paradoxical conclusion - because the rings appear so young, they may actually be as old as the Solar System," added Esposito.Cassini is operated jointly by NASA and the European Space Agency.A study of the amount of dark matter in the universe suggests that the universe itself may continue to expand indefinitely. Researchers say that the universe will likely then become a cold, dead cosmic wasteland.The study was conducted by an international team of researchers led by Professor Eric Jullo at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California. The researchers used data from the Hubble Space Telescope showing the way that light was distorted, known as a gravitational lens, from a large galactic cluster known as Abell 1689 to estimate the amount of dark energy to be about three quarters of the universe.Dark energy is a completely invisible force that is constantly acting upon the universe. Its existence is known only because of its effects on the expansion of the universe.As the universe expands and cools, the temperature will approach absolute zero.Jullo says that scientists can now say, for the first time, that the universe "will continue to accelerate and the universe will expand forever".An international group of 73 scientists using 4 projects (PLANET led by Jean-Philippe Beaulieu and Martin Dominik, RoboNet led by MichaelBode and Keith Horne, OGLE led by Andrzej Udalski, and MOA led by Phil Yock) from 32 institutions in 12 countries have discovered the smallest Earth-like planet yet.The new planet is about 25,000 light years away and is close to the center of the Milky Way.The discovery was announced in the journal Nature. The journal also states the planet was found using a method called gravitational microlensing, which detects small planets with a mass like that of Earth.Gravitational microlensing is where a light from a distant star is bent and magnified by the gravitational field of a foreground star. The presence of a planet around the foreground star causes light from the distant star to become momentarily brighter.However, scientists say that the cold temperatures on the planet make the chance of finding any life on it "unlikely.""We may predict with reasonable probability that microlensing will discover planets with masses like that of Earth at a similar distance from their stars and with comparable surface temperature," said study co-author Bohdan Paczynski from Princeton University.So far the planet only goes by OGLE-2005-BLG-390Lb, and takes about ten years to orbit its parent star, a red dwarf, a star that is smaller and much cooler than our own Sun.Scientists say the new planet, which is about five and a half times the mass of Earth, could either have a rocky core and a thin atmosphere, or be a small ice/gas world like Neptune , but in either case, its "very large orbit and cooler parent star, makes it a very cold world."The predicted surface temperature is -220° Celsius (-364° F), which means that should it have a rocky core, the planet may more closely resemble a massive version of Pluto with a surface of frozen liquids and gas. Otherwise the planet would be a liquid mass, wrapped in clouds of ice crystals and gas, much like Neptune."This is very exciting and important," said Professor Michael Bode from Liverpool John Moores University, a principal investigator for the RoboNet project which helped to collaborate on the research. "This is the most Earth-like planet we have discovered to date, in terms of its mass and the distance from its parent star. Most of the other planets that have been discovered are either much more massive, much hotter or both."This is the third planet in two years that scientists have found using gravitational microlensing.In the past, more than 150 planets outside our solar system were found using a technique known as the radial velocity method. This method observes a wobble in stars caused by the planet's gravitational effects.New research identifies cracks over the moon's crust that may have been created by the cooling and shrinking of it over the past billion or so years. Scientists have discovered landforms littered across the moon's surface called lobate scarps that have apparently resulted from the moon's shrinking very slowly. These scarps were found all over the moon and appear to be minimally weathered, indicating that the geologic events that created them were fairly recent. This theory contradicts the claim that the moon is completely devoid of geologic activity.Over the past billion years, about a quarter of the moon's 4.5 billion-year lifespan, it has shrunk about 200 meters (700 feet) in diameter. The scarps that are thought to have resulted from the contraction scenario were first identified near the lunar equator by cameras aboard the Apollo moon missions of the early 1970's.NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter recently photographed similar landforms in other locations on the moon, further supporting the theory that Earth's closest neighbor in space may in fact be shrinking.The concept, however, is not a recent one. Scientists know that the moon's core was once very hot, causing it to expand. As the core cools, the moon naturally begins to contract.For nearly half a century the world's largest telescope, the Arecibo Observatory in Arecibo, Puerto Rico, has been observing our solar system and the universe around it. Completed by Cornell University along with the National Science Foundation (NSF) in 1963, Arecibo's enormous size gives it the ability to collect more light than any other telescope, allowing it to observe objects that are  too faint for other radio telescopes to see. Its main purposes are radio astronomy, aeronomy and radar astronomy, but is probably most famous for its continuing use to search for and attempt to communicate with extraterrestrial life outside our solar system and beyond.Now Arecibo is facing severe budget cuts which could ultimately close the facility. In an in depth exclusive report, Wikinews examined how much of the observatory's budget was at risk, and what the possible outcomes could be for the programs currently relying on Arecibo as their main research tool. Wikinews spoke to several individuals closely affiliated with projects and facilities who use significant time at the observatory.Currently, the NSF funds the operations of Arecibo with just over US$10 million every year. By 2011 they plan to drastically cut that funding to only $4 million a year, nearly 65% less than the current budget. To counter that loss, the United States House of Representatives passed a bill that would authorize NASA to spend at least 2 million dollars of their nearly $21 billion budget to fund portions of Arecibo until 2009. But that still leaves more than half of the loss to be recovered, and if something isn't done soon the facility will be closed by 2011 — or sooner if additional cuts are made.Arecibo is 305 meters in diameter and 300 meters tall at its highest point. It also has an on-site remote sensing LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) system to detect light and range of a given object in space. Construction began in 1960 and the observatory officially opened on November 1, 1963. Since then, several projects, programs and discoveries were made possible because of the telescope. Its platform also received a fresh coat of paint in late 2007, the first since it was built.In 1989, the first images of an asteroid named 4769 Castalia were captured using Arecibo. In 1992 Aleksander Wolszczan, an astronomer from Poland used Arecibo to discover pulsar PSR B1257+12 which then led him to discover the first three extrasolar planets in history, and possibly a comet. Scientists with the Near Earth Object Program also use the observatory to track possible meteors and asteroids that have the potential to strike the Earth. Arecibo is also part of the Express Production Real-time e-VLBI Service (EXPReS) project which is aimed at connecting telescopes from Africa, Europe and North and South America to create a 6,000 mile wide telescope. This allows all connected telescopes to observe the exact same spot in the sky giving scientists images 100 times better than any single telescope on Earth. A successful test of this system was completed on May 22. The observatory was also featured in the movie Contact starring Jodie Foster and several James Bond films.Perhaps the most well known use of Arecibo is its ongoing attempt to find and or communicate with extraterrestrial life. The popular distributed computing SETI@home project launched in 1999 (started by scientists at the University of California, Berkeley), uses Arecibo on a daily basis to record radio data. SETI@home users from around the world can then donate computer time to analyze the data for potential artificial signals, and maybe some day find a message from another intelligent civilization."If this occurs [budget cuts], all projects using Arecibo would stop, including uncompleted surveys looking for pulsars, mapping Galactic hydrogen and of course our SETI surveys (SETI@home and SERENDIP V)," stated Eric Korpela, the project scientist for SETI@home, to Wikinews. This would also include the NEO Program. Currently the NEO is mandated by Congress to keep a record of all near-Earth objects that are more than 1 kilometer in diameter.According to Korpela, the cuts began several years ago when United States senators earmarked funds for other observatories located in West Virginia and New Mexico. He says that those actions "diverted money away from the rest of astronomy" causing the NSF to take the shortfall from the Arecibo budget."About two years ago, NSF decided that because of additional funding problems Arecibo wouldhave to close in 2011 with substantial budget cuts before then," added Korpela who also said the he is sure that SETI@home and SERNDIP V could find an alternative science source, but nothing as powerful and as sensitive as Arecibo. Korpela also adds that there is not yet any planned move of SETI@home, and no agreements between them and other observatories."I'm certain the both SETI@home and SERENDIP V would find another telescope to use.  But no other telescope comes close to the sensitivity of Arecibo, with the next largest telescopes having afactor of 10 less collecting area and therefore a factor of 10 less sensitivity.  The same is true for the pulsar searches.  For the hydrogen mapping Arecibo has 3 times the angular resolution of thenearest competitors," added Korpela but also stated that "there currently aren't any plans" to move SETI@home and that they don't "have any agreements from any of the telescopes" to host SETI@home; there are several possible telescopes SETI@home could use adds Korpela."Of course we'd like the largest telescopes available if we could get them. Parkes (a 64m telescope in Australia) would be a good candidate. Effelsberg (a 100m dish in Germany) or the 100m Green Bank Telescope in the U.S. would also be good candidates, but as I said much discussion would need to take place before a change could happen," said Korpela.In June, former U.S. President Bill Clinton and his daughter Chelsea visited the observatory in an effort to bring awareness to the importance of Arecibo; he called the funding for the facility "gravely inadequate." He also stated that his wife, and former 2008 U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, supports the need for "basic science", and notes Hillary's continued support for a defeated congressional bill that would have given Arecibo the funding it needed.The bill, named H.R. 2862 'Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill', was rejected by the House of Representatives because "it exceed[ed] the President's request by $1.4 billion." The House stated that the need for more funding for the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina was more important."The Administration shares the priority the Senate Committee affords basic research and fundamental science and education at NSF, but is concerned that the bill does not fully support the President's request," stated the bill which also added that "the Committee has identified areas, such as facilities oversight, that need increased investment to maintain NSF's efficient operations" and that the NSF didn't "provide [a] full request for salaries and expenses that would allow NSF to continue to perform to high standards." A new bill was then resubmitted and reintroduced as H.R. 3737 on October 3, 2007. It is specifically aimed at providing  the "National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) utilization of the Arecibo Observatory.""[This bill will] ensure that the Arecibo Observatory is fully funded to continue its research on Earth's ionosphere, continue its research in radio astronomy, and continue research on the solar system; and coordinate with the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to ensure that the capabilities of the Arecibo Observatory continue to be available for National Aeronautics and Space Administration research in characterizing and mitigating Near Earth Objects, and other research as needed," states the Bill.If Arecibo were to close, Korpela states that it would take only a short time for SETI@home to move its project elsewhere, but that any agreements made with other observatories will take a much longer time to work out. "Setting up the equipment at a new telescope would be a matter of days, arranging an agreement to do so would take much longer. If we can't find an alternative telescope after an Arecibo shutdown, the project would end once the existing data was analyzed. We're still hoping that Arecibo will be spared," added Korpela. He calls for more support of bill H.R. 3737 to continue Arecibo's science, and SETI@home urges individuals to write to Congress to show support for the bill.As for the NEO Program, packing up and moving to another location is not possible. There are no other observatories sensitive or large enough to perform the task of tracking near-Earth objects, especially ones at great distances. If Arecibo were to close, the NEO Program, despite a U.S. Congressional mandate and recognition from the Astronomical Science Senior Review Committee, would come to a screeching halt. Wikinews contacted the NSF for a statement, but a Dan MacMillan directed us to the Committee's report."The SR endorses its future discovery potential and archival value. The SR recognizes the significant and unique scientific contributions that the Arecibo Observatory has made to astronomy and astrophysics and it congratulates NAIC and Cornell on operating the facility so effectively," said the Committee in a 94 page report on the NSF's budget."However, the committee was not persuaded of the primacy of the science program beyond the end of the decade and found that the case for long term support at the present level was not as strong as that for other facilities. The SR recommends that NAIC plan either to close Arecibo or to operate it with a much smaller AST budget. The SR recommends closure after 2011 if the necessary support is not forthcoming. It recommends that operation of the Angel Ramos Visitor Center continue," added the Committee which also said that "that there were no reliable de-commissioning estimates and recommends that AST engage an independent study to advise on the viability and cost of decommissioning the telescope."In an attempt to cover the budget shortfall Arecibo faces, Don Campbell, Professor of Astronomy at Cornell's Department of Astronomy, who specializes in radio and radar astronomy, tells Wikinews that the university is looking at all possible sources of funding to keep Arecibo open."Cornell/NAIC is looking at all possibilities for raising the funds needed to keep the Observatory operating as a forefront institution for research in astronomy and atmospheric sciences. This includes funding from federal agencies, from within Puerto Rico, via international agreements and from private sources," said Campbell who added that "the NSF's Division of the Senior Review (SR) panel recommended that NAIC's budget - NAIC is head quartered at Cornell University and manages the Arecibo - from NSF/AST be reduced from about $10.5M to $8M in FY 2010. It also recommended that there be a further 50% reduction in FY 2011 and that Cornell must find the additional funds needed to operate Arecibo from other sources."Campbell also adds that Arecibo is so unique and sensitive, closing it makes no sense."Closing Arecibo would be closing the world's largest and most sensitive single dish radio telescope. It is  4 to 5 times more sensitive, and has a higher resolving power at the same frequencies, than the next largest single dish radio telescope, the 100 m Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope," said Campbell."Arecibo is also, of course, the source of the data that is processed by all the volunteers working with the SETI@home project. Given its relatively small operating budget, closing Arecibo makes no sense," added Campbell.A close encounter with the supermassive black hole at the center  of the Milky Way has set a star on a one way trip into intergalactic space.  The star, detected at the MMT Observatory in Tucson, Arizona, is zipping outward at a speed of 1.5 million miles per hour. Rocketing along at twice the galactic escape velocity, the Milky Way's gravitational attraction doesn't have the holding power to keep the star from disappearing into the emptiness between galaxies."We have never before seen a star moving fast enough to completely escape the confines of our galaxy," Warren Brown of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA) said.  "We're tempted to call it the outcast star because it was forcefully tossed from its home.  Only the powerful gravity of a very massive black hole could propel a star with enough force to exit our galaxy."Using measurements of the star's line-of-sight velocity, the scientists have concluded the star, cataloged as SDSS J090745.0+24507, is moving almost directly away from galactic center.  Composition and age of the star also provide evidence of the star's origin and ultimate fate. "Because this is a metal-rich star, we believe that it recently came from a star-forming region like that in the galactic center," said Brown. Less than 80 million years were needed for the star to reach its current location, which is consistent with its estimated age.Margaret J. Geller, Michael J. Kurtz and Scott J. Kenyon, along with Brown, will publish their find in an upcoming issue of The Astrophysical Journal.The Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics is based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where scientists study the origin, evolution and ultimate fate of the universe.After three years working on a new television series for the Discovery Channel, Stephen Hawking concludes that aliens are "almost certain to exist" and could even be dangerous.Hawking says that it is rational to assume that intelligent life exists somewhere in the universe, and mathematically unlikely that life is unique to the Earth, given the existence of a hundred billion galaxies, each of them containing hundreds of millions of stars.Hawking imagines nomadic aliens, having exhausted their home's resources, could attempt to take control of other planets, invading with "massive ships", and draws a comparison with Christopher Columbus discovering America, resulting in similar devastating consequences. With this in mind he advises "intelligent life might develop into something we wouldn't want to meet." However, he believes that the most likely forms of life would be microbes or simple animals on planets, in the centre of stars or drifting through space.His declaration comes in the month of the 20th anniversary of the Hubble Space Telescope's launch into space.The Drake equation, created in the 1960s, estimates the probability of extraterrestrial civilizations; feeding in modern research gives a high likelihood. The contradiction between this and actual discovery is known as the Fermi paradox.Sir Martin Rees, the Astronomer Royal, supports efforts to search for transmissions that might be artificial in origin. "Even if we couldn't make much sense of it, we'd have learnt that 'intelligence' wasn't unique to the hardware inside human skulls, and had emerged elsewhere," he said.Into the Universe with Stephen Hawking will begin on May 9 on the Discovery Channel.Stephen Hawking, 68, retired as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge in 2009. Known for his research into cosmology, quantum gravity and black holes, he became a household name following the publication of his 1988 book A Brief History of Time, which remained on the Sunday Times bestseller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks.According to Dutch astronomers at Leiden University, a distant star is "shooting" water bullets into space. Astronomers say the amount of water released from the young sun-like Protostar is 100 million times what the Amazon Rainforest produces every second. "If we picture these jets as giant hoses and the water droplets as bullets, the amount shooting out equals a hundred million times the water flowing through the Amazon River every second. We are talking about velocities reaching 200,000 kilometers (124,274 mi) per hour, which is about 80 times faster than bullets flying out of a machine gun," said lead scientist and author of the study, Lars Kristensen.The discovery was made by the Herschel Space Observatory, of the European Space Agency. The astronomers studied the lights of particles they saw while looking through the clouds of a young star in the constellation Perseus, about 750 light years from earth. Both oxygen and hydrogen atoms were detected and are believed to be created inside the star. When the drops of water are pushed out by the star's gases, they are released as a superheated steam, before they are cooled by the surrounding space, just enough to condense them into water."We are only now beginning to understand that sunlike stars probably all undergo a very energetic phase when they are young," added Kristensen. "It's at this point in their lives when they spew out a lot of high-velocity material—part of which we now know is water."In findings published Friday in Science, a multinational team of scientists led by Antoine Strugarek of the University of Montreal announced the Sun may not be the cosmic oddball amongst solar-type stars some astronomers had believed it to be. They found that, although the Sun's cycles appear to differ from those of other stars of its type, they are governed by the same laws working in the same way.The Sun has long been known to go through eleven-year cycles of high and low activity, including sunspots, which Strugarek likened to solar volcanoes. Times of high activity are also the most likely time for coronal mass ejections, which often emanate from sunspot regions. On rare occasions these eruptions of plasma may hit the Earth's magnetic field, setting it oscillating. It then releases previously trapped particles as the Aurora Borealis and Australis. Occasionally, the effects are so intense that these charged particles and magnetic effects can ding the performance of satellites and power grids. The poles flip at the time of high activity, and the intensity of the magnetic field peaks when the Sun is least active. A hypothetical heat-proof compass on the surface of the Sun would point toward one pole during one eleven-year period but toward the other during the next.To predict and explain this activity, Strugarek and colleagues developed a model of the plasma, high-energy matter, inside the sun and examined how its flow and change could create magnetic fields.  To build this model, they incorporated data from 27 different stars. .They found the Sun operated on the same basic principles as other stars: The activity of all stars in the system was found to be driven by their luminosity, their rotation, and nothing else.  The luminosity and rotation are used together to determine a star's Rossby number, which is related to plasma flow.  The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.On Tuesday, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced the winners of the 2019 Nobel Prize in Physics in Stockholm, Sweden. The prize was shared between James Peebles and the duo of Didier Queloz and Michel Mayor. They are to share a monetary award of SEK9 million (approximately GBP738 thousand or USD910 thousand) from the Nobel Foundation.Canadian-US scientist James Peebles won his half of the prize for his work in predicting cosmic microwave background and creating a theoretical framework from which other scientists have been able to calculate the age and structure of the universe, including the calculation that the universe is 95% dark matter and dark energy. He is a professor at Princeton University.Queloz and Mayor, both from Switzerland, won their prize for discovering the first known exoplanet in 1995. The planet they found was 51 Pegasi b, a Jupiter-like gas giant some 50 light years away from Earth. Since their discovery, according to the academy, over four thousand other exoplanets have been discovered. Both are professors at the University of Geneva; Queloz is also a professor at the University of Cambridge."Both these prizes [...] tell us something essential, something existential about our place in the Universe", said selection committee member Ulf Danielsson. "The first one, tracing the history back to an unknown origin, is so fascinating. The other one tries to answer these questions about: 'are we alone — is there life anywhere else in the Universe?' "On Friday–Saturday —depending on observer's timezone— a total lunar eclipse occurred as the Moon was in the shadow of the Earth. As normal during such an eclipse, the Moon became faint and turned completely red as bluer light was scattered by the Earth's atmosphere.  Totality of 1 hour and 43 minutes was the longest in the 21st century.People were able to observe the eclipse from Australia, Africa, Asia, Europe, and South America.  A volunteer named José Jiménez uploaded a photo of the incident today from Alt Empordà in Girona, Catalonia, Spain, featuring the Moon, Mars, and the milky way on the same photo.German astronaut Alexander Gerst took photos of the Moon from the International Space Station and uploaded them to Flickr on the same day.According to timeanddate.com, the timeline of the eclipse was as follows.Mars was also visible near the Moon; coming this week, reported 9News, closer to Earth than at any time since 2003.																								File:The Moon Before Eclipse in 20180727, Fuzhou 01.jpgAstronomers at the University of Hawaii Institute for Astronomy today announced their discovery of twelve further moons of Saturn, bringing the total number of moons discovered so far to 46.  The initial discovery of the satellites was on December 12, 2004, and was made using the 8.2 metre Subaru telescope at the Mauna Kea Observatory.  Confirmational observations were then conducted throughout January, February, and March from the Subaru telescope and from the Gemini North telescope.Similar teams at the university led by David Jewitt discovered 11 moons of Jupiter in 2001, and a further 11 in 2002, before turning their attentions to Saturn.11 of the newly discovered moons are in retrograde orbits, leading astronomers to hypothesize that they were originally asteroids, attracted out of the asteroid belt by Jupiter's gravity and then captured by Saturn.  All of the moons are in inclined elliptical orbits, that range from 16 million to 22 million kilometres in distance from Saturn.  As a point of reference, Earth's moon is an average of 384,403 kilometres from the Earth.  The new moons of Saturn are provisionally named S/2004 S07 through to S/2004 S18.On Tuesday, astronomers of the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington, DC, United States, announced the discovery of ten small satellites orbiting Jupiter. With this discovery, Jupiter now has 79 known satellites.The team led by Scott Sheppard had discovered twelve of the 79 Jovian satellites, including Tuesday's ten, mostly using a Blanco 4-meter telescope of Chile's Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory. The observatory is operated by the National Optical Astronomy Observatory in the US. The tiny satellites, none more than five kilometres in diameter, were first observed in 2017. Orbits of these new Jovian satellites were calculated by International Astronomical Union's Minor Planet Center's Gareth Williams. Williams explained, "It takes several observations to confirm an object actually orbits around Jupiter [...] So, the whole process took a year."The astronomers were looking for planets much farther out than Pluto. Sheppard said, "Jupiter just happened to be in the sky near the search fields where we were looking for extremely distant Solar System objects, so we were serendipitously able to look for new moons around Jupiter while at the same time looking for planets at the fringes of our Solar System".Of the twelve satellites discovered by the team, nine were found to be retrograde, revolving around the gas giant in the direction opposite to the planet's spin. These nine new retrograde satellites take about two years to complete one revolution around Jupiter.The remaining three satellites were prograde, spinning in the same direction as Jupiter's rotation. One of the prograde satellites, newly announced on Tuesday, took about one-and-half years to complete one revolution around Jupiter, and its orbit intersected with the outer retrograde satellites. Sheppard said, "Our other discovery is a real oddball and has an orbit like no other known Jovian moon [...] It's also likely Jupiter's smallest known moon, being less than one kilometre in diameter". The astronomer also said, "This is an unstable situation [...] Head-on collisions would quickly break apart and grind the objects down to dust."Sheppard said of the composition of those satellites, they "started orbiting Jupiter, instead of falling into it. So we think they are intermediate between rocky asteroids and icy comets. So they are probably half ice and half rock.""Valetudo" is the name suggested for the "oddball" satellite. Valetudo was the Roman god Jupiter's great-granddaughter, regarded as the goddess of health and hygiene.Sheppard said, "Jupiter is like a big vacuum cleaner because it is so massive". Jupiter is the largest planet in the Solar System, with a diameter about 142,984 kilometres. The largest known satellite in the Solar System is Jupiter's Ganymede, whose diameter is approximately 5268 kilometres. Saturn has the second-most known satellites: 62, while Uranus has 27.A team of researchers from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, has confirmed that near-Earth asteroid (29075) 1950 DA is primarily held together by van der Waals forces rather than gravity. They have shown that the rotation rate of the 1.1 km asteroid is higher than could be possible if only gravity and friction were responsible for holding it together. Cohesive forces prevent large scale shedding of material and breakup of the asteroid. Their study was published Wednesday in Nature.The researchers found that the bulk density 1.7±0.7 g/cm³ of the asteroid is approximately two times lower than the value required for self-gravity to balance out the centrifugal forces caused by rotation. As Ben Rozitis, a planetary scientist and a co-author of the study, told Space.com: "I was expecting to find a high-density metallic asteroid, as such an asteroid wouldn't require cohesive forces to hold itself together under its fast rotation. Instead we found the opposite! [...] We knew from previous work that this asteroid was rotating faster than it should be, and we wanted to know why".Spectral observations of 1950DA indicated that it is either an E- or M-type asteroid in the Tholen classification. However, its low optical albedo and low radar circular polarization ratio (a very smooth surface at centimetre to decimetre scales) showed that it cannot be an E-type asteroid.Unusually for an M-type asteroid (which are mostly metallic), 1950DA has low radar albedo. It would have been puzzling, if it was not for the Rosetta observations of 21 Lutetia, which is also an M-type asteroid with very similar low radar albedo. Researchers have used for 1950DA the same meteorite analogue which was earlier found to fit best 21 Lutetia: enstatite chondrite with grain density of 3.55 g/cm³. It allowed to calculate macro-porosity of 51±19%, indicating that 1950DA is a rubble-pile asteroid.Taking into account thermal-infrared measurements of thermal inertia, presence of a fine-grained regolith is implied, primarily around 1950DA's equator. Negative ambient gravity near the equator of the asteroid (48±24% of its surface) requires existence of cohesive forces to prevent loss of material. This is similar to an effect noticed between the fine grains of regolith on the Moon. Lunar regolith was found to be highly cohesive because of van der Waals forces between grains by the Apollo 17 expedition in 1974.As Ben Rozitis explained: "We found a low-density rubble pile that traditionally would be unable to hold itself together unless cohesive forces were present. It's exciting because we've provided the first evidence that cohesive forces are important for small asteroids, which had only been predicted up until now."The balance between cohesion and negative gravity requires small grain sizes consistent with the grain size distribution on 1950DA, and similar to that of another rubble-pile asteroid, (25143) Itokawa. Unlike Itokawa, 1950DA does not have large boulders on the surface; they may have been lost as 1950DA's rotation accelerated due to YORP effect. This effect results in a change of the rotation rate of an asteroid (either faster or slower), and is caused when the Sun heats up an object unevenly, due to asymmetric surface topography. As the heat escapes, the rotation rate is slowly changed due to an uneven rate of cooling. The researchers find that a rubble-pile asteroid may have a high rotation rate, if it is held together by cohesive forces between the grains. But as the spin rate increases due to YORP effect, the centrifugal force may cause the rubble pile to eventually separate as it happened with P/2013 R3.The findings may have implications for asteroid impact avoidance. A very small impulse may break one potentially hazardous object into several pieces. As Ben Rozitis said: "You'd want to avoid interacting with the asteroid directly. An alternative is to use a 'gravity tractor,' or a heavy spacecraft placed near the asteroid, which uses the force of gravity to pull the asteroid off course". Bong Wie, an aerospace engineer at Iowa State University in Ames, noted: "I just hope that an asteroid on a collision course with Earth will not be spinning rapidly and it will not be a rubble-pile asteroid".According to Daniel Scheeres, an aerospace engineer at the University of Colorado, Boulder, understanding such cohesive forces may also be important for future asteroid mining. Ben Rozitis clarified: "Mining missions intend to visit small asteroids about 10 meters (33 feet) or less in size, as it is thought that they are predominantly solid bodies. However, cohesive forces enable such small asteroids to be rubble piles instead. A small rubble-pile asteroid would be harder to interact with and collect, as it can easily deform or break up when subject to external forces."The study was supported by Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology and the NASA.Yesterday, Roscosmos, the Russian space agency, announced the death of cosmonaut Alexei Leonov. Leonov was famous for performing the first human spacewalk as part of the Soviet Union's Voskhod 2 mission. He was 85.Leonov, also known as "cosmonaut No. 11", was part of the Soviet Union's original team of cosmonauts. On March 18, 1965, he performed the first manned extravehicular activity (EVA), or "spacewalk", remaining alone outside the spacecraft for just over twelve minutes. He received the "Hero of the Soviet Union", the Soviet Union's highest honor, for his work. Ten years later, he led the Soviet part of the Apollo–Soyuz mission symbolizing that the Space Race was over.NASA interrupted its live coverage of an International Space Station spacewalk to mourn Leonov's passing. It also credited Leonov with making the spacewalk possible, noting on Twitter "[h]is venture into the vacuum of space began the history of extravehicular activity".Sputnik News reported Leonov, who died in Moscow, will be buried at the Federal Military Memorial Cemetery on Tuesday. He was the last surviving member of the Voskhod programme crew.On Tuesday, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced the winners of the 2019 Nobel Prize in Physics in Stockholm, Sweden. The prize was shared between James Peebles and the duo of Didier Queloz and Michel Mayor. They are to share a monetary award of SEK9 million (approximately GBP738 thousand or USD910 thousand) from the Nobel Foundation.Canadian-US scientist James Peebles won his half of the prize for his work in predicting cosmic microwave background and creating a theoretical framework from which other scientists have been able to calculate the age and structure of the universe, including the calculation that the universe is 95% dark matter and dark energy. He is a professor at Princeton University.Queloz and Mayor, both from Switzerland, won their prize for discovering the first known exoplanet in 1995. The planet they found was 51 Pegasi b, a Jupiter-like gas giant some 50 light years away from Earth. Since their discovery, according to the academy, over four thousand other exoplanets have been discovered. Both are professors at the University of Geneva; Queloz is also a professor at the University of Cambridge."Both these prizes [...] tell us something essential, something existential about our place in the Universe", said selection committee member Ulf Danielsson. "The first one, tracing the history back to an unknown origin, is so fascinating. The other one tries to answer these questions about: 'are we alone — is there life anywhere else in the Universe?' "In findings published Tuesday in Cornell University's arXiv by a team of scientists from the University of Montreal and a separate report published Wednesday in Nature Astronomy by a team from University College London (UCL), the presence of water vapour was confirmed in the atmosphere of K2-18b, a planet circling a star in the constellation Leo.  This is the first such discovery in a planet in its star's habitable zone — not too hot and not too cold for liquid water to exist.The Montreal team, led by Björn Benneke, used data from the NASA's Hubble telescope to assess changes in the light coming from K2-18b's star as the planet passed between it and Earth.  They found that certain wavelengths of light, which are usually absorbed by water, weakened when the planet was in the way, indicating not only does K2-18b have an atmosphere, but the atmosphere contains water in vapour form.  The team from UCL then analyzed the Montreal team's data using their own software and confirmed their conclusion.This was not the first time scientists have found signs of water on an exoplanet, but previous discoveries were made on planets with high temperatures or other pronounced differences from Earth."This is the first potentially habitable planet where the temperature is right and where we now know there is water," said UCL astronomer Angelos Tsiaras. "It's the best candidate for habitability right now.""It's a good sign", said Ryan Cloutier of the Harvard–Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, who was not one of either study's authors. "Overall," he continued, "the presence of water in its atmosphere certainly improves the prospect of K2-18b being a potentially habitable planet, but further observations will be required to say for sure."K2-18b was first identified in 2015 by the Kepler space telescope.  It is about 110 light-years from Earth and larger but less dense.  Its star, a red dwarf, is cooler than the Sun, but the planet's orbit is much closer, such that a year on K2-18b lasts 33 Earth days.According to The Guardian, astronomers were optimistic that NASA's James Webb space telescope — scheduled for launch in 2021 — and the European Space Agency's 2028 ARIEL program, could reveal more about exoplanets like K2-18b.On Sunday, the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule successfully docked with the International Space Station in orbit around the Earth.  Although the Crew Dragon was carrying only cargo and a mannequin equipped with sensors, this was the first time since the retirement of the space shuttles in 2011 a United States spacecraft capable of carrying humans has made it to the station.Most of the docking process was automatic by the capsule, though the crew of the ISS were able to send the capsule commands to perform simple movements.  Previous SpaceX pods have relied on the station's own robotic arm apparatus to take hold of them.At 2:49 a.m. local time (7:49 a.m. UTC) on Saturday morning, the Crew Dragon was launched via a Falcon 9 rocket from the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Florida in the southeastern United States.Crew Dragon has enough room for seven people but on this occasion carried only a mannequin, nicknamed "Ripley" for Sigourney Weaver's character in the film Alien.  The Crew Dragon is scheduled to remain at the station during the week and return to Earth on Friday.Bill Gerstenmaier of NASA spoke of the collaboration between his agency and SpaceX: "It's fun working with a new partner that approaches the problem in a slightly different way. They don't carry the same background that we did in NASA, and they don't approach the design exactly the same way we do. [...] And that's cool. I mean, that's really neat.""To be frank I'm a little emotionally exhausted because that was super stressful. But it worked — so far," SpaceX founder Elon Musk told the press after the launch. "We have to dock to the station, and we have to come back, but so far it's worked. [...] We've passed some of the riskiest items." The short-term goal of NASA's Commercial Crew Program is to restore NASA's ability to send humans into orbit, which it has been unable to do since retiring the space shuttles in 2011.  Longer term, according to NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine, the goal is to render space accessible to many customers and, through commercial competition, do so at a lower cost than the space shuttle missions, which ran about US$1.5 billion apiece. Currently, NASA pays for Russian spacecraft to carry living people, at roughly US$80 million per astronaut.NASA has selected two astronauts, Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken, for Crew Dragon's first manned mission, which NASA said might take place this summer.The Boeing airframe company is also collaborating with NASA on human-crewable spacecraft and its Starliner craft is scheduled to undergo flight test this spring.  NASA's contract with Boeing is currently valued at US$4.2 billion.  The contract with SpaceX is valued at US$2.6 billion.Last year, SpaceX tested its Falcon Heavy rocket by launching company founder Elon Musk's personal Tesla convertible into space.Planetary scientist Vlada Stamenković of the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory and colleagues have developed a new chemical model of how oxygen dissolves in Martian conditions, which raises the possibility of oxygen-rich brines; enough, the work suggests, to support simple animals such as sponges. The model was published in Nature on October 22. Wikinews caught up with him in an email interview to find out more about his team's research and their plans for the future.The atmosphere of Mars  is far too thin for humans to breathe or for lungs like ours to extract any oxygen at all. It has on average only around 0.6% of the pressure of Earth's atmosphere, and this is mainly carbon dioxide; only 0.145% of the thin Martian atmosphere is oxygen. The new model indicated these minute traces of oxygen should be able to enter salty seeps of water on or near the planet's surface at levels high enough to support life forms comparable to Earth's microbes, possibly even simple sponges.  Some life forms can survive without oxygen, but oxygen permits more energy-intensive metabolism. Almost all complex multicellular life on Earth depends on oxygen."We were absolutely flabbergasted [...] I went back to recalculate everything like five different times to make sure it's a real thing," Stamenković told National Geographic."Our work is calling for a complete revision for how we think about the potential for life on Mars, and the work oxygen can do," he told Scientific American, "implying that if life ever existed on Mars it might have been breathing oxygen". Stamenković et al cite research from 2014 showing some simple sponges can survive with only 0.002 moles of oxygen per cubic meter (0.064 mg per liter). Some microbes that need oxygen can survive with as little as a millionth of a mole per cubic meter (0.000032 mg per liter). In their model, they found there can be enough oxygen for microbes throughout Mars, and enough for simple sponges in oases near the poles.In 2014, also suggesting multicellular life could exist on Mars, de Vera et al, using the facilities at the German Aerospace Center (DLR), studied some lichens, including Pleopsidium chlorophanum, which can grow high up in Antarctic mountain ranges. They showed those lichens can also survive and even grow in Mars simulation chambers. The lichens can do this because their algal component is able to produce the oxygen needed by the fungal component. Stamenković et al's research provides a way for oxygen to get into the Martian brines without algae or photosynthesis.Stamenković et al found oxygen levels throughout Mars would be high enough for the least demanding aerobic (oxygen-using) microbes, for all the brines they considered, and all the methods of calculation. They published a detailed map[3] of the distributions of solubility for calcium perchlorates for their more optimistic calculations, which they reckoned were closer to the true case, with and without supercooling. The lowest concentrations were shown in the tropical southern uplands. Brine in regions poleward of about 67.5° to the north and about 72.5° to the south could have oxygen concentrations high enough for simple sponges. Closer to the poles, concentrations could go higher, approaching levels typical of sea water on Earth, 0.2 moles per cubic meter (6.4 mg per liter), for calcium perchlorates. On Earth, worms and clams that live in the muddy sea beds require 1 mg per liter, bottom feeders such as crabs and oysters 3 mg per liter, and spawning migratory fish 6 mg per liter, all within 0.2 moles per cubic meter, 6.4 mg per liter.((Wikinews))   Does your paper's value of up to 0.2 moles of oxygen per cubic meter, the same as Earth's sea water, mean that there could potentially be life on Mars as active as our sea worms or even fish?Stamenković: Mars is such a different place than the Earth and we still need to do so much more work before we can even start to speculate.Stamenković et al studied magnesium and calcium perchlorates, common on Mars. They found the highest oxygen concentrations occur when the water is colder, which happens most in polar regions.((WN))   The temperatures for the highest levels of oxygen are really low, -133 °C, so, is the idea that this oxygen would be retained when the brines warm up to more habitable temperatures during the day or seasonally? Or would the oxygen be lost as it warms up? Or — is the idea that it has to be some exotic biochemistry that works only at ultra low temperatures like Dirk Schulze-Makuch's life based on hydrogen peroxide and perchlorates internal to the cells as antifreeze?Stamenković: The options are both: first, cool oxygen-rich environments do not need to be habitats. They could be reservoirs packed with a necessary nutrient that can be accessed from a deeper and warmer region. Second, the major reason for limiting life at low temperature is ice nucleation, which would not occur in the type of brines that we study.Stamenković et al's paper is theoretical and is based on a simplified general circulation model of the Mars atmosphere — it ignores distinctions of seasons and the day / night cycle. Stamenković's team combined it with a chemical model of how oxygen would dissolve in the brines and used this to predict oxygen levels in such brines at various locations on Mars. When asked about plans for a future model that might include seasonal timescales, Stamenković told Wikinews, "Yes, we are now exploring the kinetics part and want to see what happens on shorter timescales."Stamenković et al's model also takes account of the tilt of the Mars axis, which varies much more than Earth's does.  Wikinews asked Stamenković if he had any ideas about whether and how sponges could survive through times when the tilt was higher and less oxygen would be available:((WN))   I notice from your figure[4]  that there is enough oxygen for sponges only at tilts of about 45 degrees or less. Do you have any thoughts about how sponges could survive periods of time in the distant past when the Mars axial tilt exceeds 45 degrees, for instance, might there be subsurface oxygen-rich oases in caves that recolonize the surface? Also what is the exact figure for the tilt at which oxygen levels sufficient for sponges become possible? (It looks like about 45 degrees from the figure but the paper doesn't seem to give a figure for this.)Stamenković: 45 deg is approx. the correct degree. We were also tempted to speculate about this temporal driver but realized that we still know so little about the potential for life on Mars/principles of life that anything related to this question would be pure speculation, unfortunately.((WN))   How quickly would the oxygen get into the brines — did you investigate the timescale?Stamenković: No, we did not yet study the dynamics. We first needed to show that the potential is there. We are now studying the timescales and processes.((WN))   Could the brines that Nilton Renno and his teams simulated, forming on salt/ice interfaces within minutes in Mars simulation conditions, get oxygenated in the process of formation? If not, how long would it take for them to get oxygenated to levels sufficient for aerobic microbes? For instance could the Phoenix leg droplets have taken up enough oxygen for aerobic respiration by microbes?Stamenković: Just like the answer above. Dynamics is still to be explored. (But this is a really good question 😉).Wikinews also asked Stamenković how their research is linked to the recent discovery of possible large subglacial lake below the Martian South Pole found through radar mapping. ((WN))   Some news stories coupled your research with the subglacial lakes announcement earlier this year. Could the oxygen get through ice into layers of brines such as the possible subglacial lakes at a depth of 1.5 km?Stamenković: There are other ways to create oxygen. Radiolysis of water molecules into hydrogen and oxygen can liberate oxygen in the deep and that O2 could be dissolved in deep groundwater. The radiolytic power for this would come from radionuclides naturally contained in rocks, something we observe in diverse regions on Earth.((WN))   And I'd also like to know about your experiment you want to send to Mars to help with the search for these oxygenated brines.Stamenković: We are now developing at "NASA/JPL-California Institute of Technology" a small tool, called TH2OR (Transmissive H2O Reconnaissance) that might one day fly with a yet-to-be-determined mission. It will use low frequency sounding techniques, capable of detecting groundwater at depths down to ideally a few km under the Martian surface, thanks to the high electric conductivity of only slightly salty water and Faraday's law of induction. Most likely, such a small and affordable instrument could be placed stationary on the planet’s surface or be carried passively or actively on mobile surface assets; TH2OR might be also used in combination with existing orbiting assets to increase its sounding depth. Next to determining the depth of groundwater, we should also be able to estimate its salinity and indirectly its potential chemistry, which is critical information for astrobiology and ISRU (in situ resource utilization).((WN))   Does your TH2OR use TDEM like the Mars 94 mission — and will it use natural ULF sources such as solar wind, diurnal variations in ionosphere heating and lightning?Stamenković: The physical principle it uses is the same and this has been used for groundwater detection on the Earth for many decades; it’s Faraday’s law of induction in media that are electrically conducting (as slightly saline water is).Stamenković: However, we will focus on creating our own signal as we do not know whether the EM fields needed for such measurements exist on Mars. However, we will also account for the possibility of already existing fields.A main belt asteroid, No. 274301, has been named after Wikipedia, a free encyclopedia. The information became available on the Minor Planet Center's website yesterday. The decision of the Committee for Small Body Nomenclature to assign the name "Wikipedia" to the asteroid was published in the Minor Planet Circular of January 27, published online yesterday, page 82403. Wikimedia Ukraine board member Andriy Makukha proposed the name. It was submitted to the Committee by the head of the Andrushivka Astronomical Observatory in Ukraine, Yuri Ivashchenko.The official dedication of the name says:The asteroid 274301 Wikipedia was discovered by the team of astronomers of Andrushivka Astronomical Observatory. At first it was observed by that team on August 25, 2008 at 22:47 (UTC). It was also observed on the next night and two weeks later on September 6.  It received provisional designation 2008 QH24. Accurate calculation of its orbit showed asteroid 2008 QH24 is the same as 1997 RO4 and 2007 FK34.  The asteroid had been previously spotted by observatories including Caussols-ODAS in France, and Mt. Lemmon Survey and Steward Observatory in Arizona, US. On April 18, 2011 the minor planet received the number 274301.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.