The paper "Guidelines for a space propulsion device based on Heim's quantum theory" by Walter Dröscher (Austrian patent officer; retired) and Jochem Häuser (University of Applied Sciences in Salzgitter, Germany; Physicist & Professor of Computer Science) has won an American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) annual award for the best papers presented at its conferences (nuclear and future flight category).The paper proposes experiments aimed at using intense magnetic fields to produce a gravitational field, which then propels a space craft.  The work is based upon ideas developed by Burkhard Heim in the 1950s.  Heim's theories are not widely accepted in the physics community.  They do, however, pass many experimental tests, such as accurately predicting masses of fundamental particles within current experimental limits.  Dröscher says Heim's theories predict two additional forces, one is a repulsive anti-gravity consistent with the dark energy that appears to be causing the universe's expansion to accelerate, and one capable of producing acceleration of a spacecraft without expending mass, i.e. rocket fuel.  NASA has investigated possible anti-gravity applications of Heim's theories before, but Dröscher & Häuser say their proposed experiments differ significantly.The U.S. Air Force has expressed interest in the idea.  Experiments are expected to proceed if the idea survives further scrutiny in the physics community.The X Prize Foundation announced it is offering a US$20 million prize to the first team that lands a rover on the Moon, roves more than 500 meters and transmits back to Earth high definition images and video. The goal of the Google Lunar X PRIZE, like that of the previous Ansari X PRIZE, is to motivate private investment in space exploration and technology. In addition to the $20 million first prize, there is a $5 million dollar second prize and $5 million in potential bonuses prizes.The X Prize Foundation is a Santa Monica-based nonprofit institute that hosted the Ansari X PRIZE contest, which led to the first private manned spaceflight in 2004. Google co-founder Larry Page is a trustee of the X Prize Foundation, and has held a charity auction for the institute earlier this year.NASA has stated that a three inch gouge has been found in the heat shield on one of Space Shuttle Endeavour's wings. The gouge was spotted as the shuttle approached the International Space Station (ISS) and captured on camera by ISS astronauts.According to NASA, the gouge was found on a six-inch thick tile on the starboard wing of the heat shield and that it may have been caused by ice and not foam. NASA is worried because the hole appears to be deep."What does this mean? I don’t know at this point. There are three prongs to our assessment, first we will conduct a thermal analysis based on the damage, check the flight history and test the area. We would never take it lightly to send astronauts to the underside of the vehicle to do anything," said the mission management team chairman, John Shannon who also said that until the damage is inspected, "it's way too early to determine whether any repairs are required."If the damage is found to be irreversible and cannot be fixed, the crew of Endeavour would stay on the ISS. NASA says that supplies would last until a rescue mission could be launched October 8 by sending up Discovery.During lift off of Endeavour on August 8, cameras had shown moisture which had gathered on the camera's lens, but NASA states that the object which caused the damage was not caught on camera. At least nine pieces of debris were reported to have been filmed while the shuttle took off, but NASA says that only three of those pieces of debris had a possibility of hitting the shuttle.Astronauts are expected to use a laser that is attached to the shuttle's robotic arm to measure the exact depth and size of the gouge on Sunday. The tile could be repaired by affixing a metal plate over the tile, filling it with putty, or sealing the gouge.On Wednesday night people in the Bahçelievler district of Yenibosna in Istanbul, Turkey, claimed that they had seen a UFO flying in the sky, the Turkish newspaper Sabah reports. They said that the UFO was glowing with white lights and that it revolved around itself. Istanbul has had previous UFO incidents in the past, and in 2002, the Istanbul UFO Museum was opened to the public.A small asteroid passed just under the orbit of geostationary satellites (22,300 miles - 36,000 kilometers) Dec. 19.  The asteroid, named 2004 YD5, was roughly 16 feet (5 meters) wide.  If it had entered Earth's atmosphere, scientists believe it would have most likely exploded before impact.2004 YD5 approached Earth from the direction of the sun, and as such was impossible to detect before it had passed.John C. Mather of NASA and George F. Smoot of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory shared the 2006 Nobel Prize for Physics for "their discovery of the blackbody form and anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background radiation."The Nobel Prize Committee cited the physicists for their work on the Cosmic Background Explorer (COBE) project. COBE revealed fluctuations in faint microwave signals from space that are thought to be remnants of the Big Bang.Although the precise origin of the fluctuations in the cosmic microwave background is not yet clear, they may represent clumps in the very early universe that led to the galaxies seen today. Prior to the COBE map of the universe, it was unclear why the universe contained stars and galaxies rather than an evenly distributed dust cloud. Theorists had predicted that a sensitive measurement of microwaves from the sky would reveal minute temperature fluctuations, which represent variations in the density of matter in the early universe. The denser portions served as seeds for galaxies that formed later. COBE was the first experiment sensitive enough to confirm the predicted temperature variations encoded in the map of the microwave background.The initial discovery of the Cosmic Microwave Background by Arno Penzias and Robert Wilson led to their award of the 1978 Nobel Prize in physics. Although they measured the approximate temperature of the universe to be about 3.5 kelvins, their ground-based microwave telescope could not pick out the detail available to COBE.An Ariane 5ECA rocket has successfully launched two satellites. The European carrier rocket lifted off from ELA-3 (Launch Area 3) at the Guiana Space Centre in French Guiana, South America, at 21:47 GMT this evening, carrying the ProtoStar-1 and Badr-6 spacecraft.ProtoStar-1 is the first satellite to be operated by ProtoStar Corporation, a Bermuda-based US/Asian communications company. It will be positioned at 98.5° East longitude, in a geosynchronous orbit, around 36,000 kilometres above the Equator. It was built by Space Systems Loral, based on the  LS-1300 bus. It will provide direct-to-home high definition broadcasting and internet services to South-East Asia. The satellite was originally named ChinaSat-8, and intended for launch on a Long March 3B carrier rocket by the Chinese satellite operator ChinaSat; this was cancelled due to US ITAR export regulations, with the uncompleted satellite being transferred to ProtoStar.Badr-6 will be operated by Arabsat, a Saudi Arabian company. It will be positioned at 26° East, from where it will be used to provide direct-to-home television broadcasting services to the Persian Gulf. It was built by EADS Astrium and Thales Alenia Space, based on the Eurostar 2000+ bus. Badr is Arabic for "full moon". Badr-6, which is also designated Arabsat-4C, was built to replace the Arabsat-4A satellite which was lost in a Proton launch failure during early 2006.A 17-metre long payload fairing was used to encapsulate the two satellites, and a Sylda dual-payload adapter, used to allow the rocket to carry two satellites. There are several different types of adapter; the Sylda-5 configuration was used on this launch. ProtoStar-1 was launched in the upper position, mated to the Sylda adapter, whilst Badr-6 was in lower position, directly integrated onto the second stage of the carrier rocket. ProtoStar-1 separated from the carrier rocket just over 27 minutes after launch, followed by the Sylda adapter about 90 seconds later, and Badr-6 just under 36 minutes into the flight.Following confirmation of successful deployment of the satellites, Jean Yves Le Gall, the Chairman and Chief Executive of Arianespace, thanked the launch team for the successful launch. He also thanked the European Space Agency, who "by their continuous support of space policy guarantee [Arianepace's] success". Phillip Father, the President of ProtoStar, thanked Arianespace for the launch, and also thanked the "many people who have touched us and helped us out". He also said that he "would like to take this opportunity to thank the families, spouses, and significant others who have supported us". The Badr-6 programme manager stated that "this is a moment of sheer joy and excitement". He also referred to an unofficial Arianespace slogan, "launches speak louder than words", saying that "we heard you loud and clear".The launch had previously been scheduled for late June, however delays with the previous Ariane launch caused it to be rescheduled for last Friday evening, from where it was delayed in order to replace part of an electrical connection between the rocket and mobile launch platform. This was the 34th launch of 2008, and the fourth to be conducted by an Ariane 5. This marked the 40th launch of an Ariane 5, and the 15th of the ECA configuration. The next Ariane launch is scheduled for early August, with the Superbird 7 and AMC-21 spacecraft.On Wednesday, NASA announced the confirmed discovery of 715 new exoplanets orbiting just over three hundred stars; this confirmed using data from the orbiting Kepler telescope. Scientists made the discoveries by analyzing data from the first two years of the Kepler Telescope's operation, from May 2009 to March 2011. These findings have nearly doubled the total number of known exoplanets. It is also the largest number of exoplanets ever confirmed at once, exceeding any previous discovery by a factor of 20. In addition to vastly increasing the number of known exoplanets, it has now been established that solar systems with multiple planets are common, and approximately Earth-sized exoplanets are relatively common.Nearly all the newly discovered planets are smaller than Neptune; with several only 2.5 times the diameter of Earth, and located within their star's habitable zone. Significant planets found include Kepler-296f, which is twice the size of earth and may have liquid water on the surface, although it is also possible it could be more similar to Neptune. Most of the planets, however, are too close to their star and thus too hot to be in the habitable zone.The number of exoplanets confirmed via the Kepler telescope has increased nearly fourfold with this discovery.The findings are to be published in the The Astrophysical Journal on March 10. It is expected many more planets will be confirmed as scientists continue to examine the Kepler mission's data.NASA released yesterday the first coloured pictures of Pluto's blue atmosphere and water ice on the surface taken by the space probe New Horizons.NASA said the haze particles may be grey or red in colour, but the scattering of light producing blue colour indicates the size of the particles. Smaller particles results in the scattering of the blue light. Scientists calls those soot like grey-red particles tholins.The scientists suggest nitrogen and methane in the upper atmosphere, exposed to the Sun's ultraviolet radiation, break and combine to form more complex macromolecules similar to a  process first observed on Titan, Saturn's satellite.  Some of them grow to tholins. Eventually they are coated with volatile gas frost and fall to the surface, contributing to its red color.The data collected from the probe's Ralph spectral composition mapper shows several small zones of water ice on Pluto. Alex Parker from Southwest Research institute (SwRI) tweeted, "We expected water-ice to be there, but we've searched for water-ice in Pluto's spectrum for decades and not seen it before now"."Who would have expected a blue sky in the Kuiper Belt?", New Horizons principal investigator Alan Stern of SwRI remarked; "It's gorgeous."  "This world is alive [...] It has weather, it has hazes in the atmosphere, active geology."The space probe has traveled over 100 million km (over 60 million miles) further since gathering the data on its Pluto flyby of July 14.NASA and Roscosmos have chosen the crew for a year long stay at the International Space Station. Data collected may help in future manned exploration of the solar system.Scott Kelly and Mikhail Korniyenko have been chosen by NASA and Roscosmos respectively. The two are veterans of ISS spaceflight and were chosen for their station experience and skill."Their skills and previous experience aboard the space station align with the mission's requirements. The one-year increment will expand the bounds of how we live and work in space and will increase our knowledge regarding the effects of microgravity on humans as we prepare for future missions beyond low-Earth orbit" said NASA administrator William Gerstenmaier. The pair are to launch sometime in the spring of 2015 from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan and return in spring 2016. Possible NASA deep space mission destinations include near earth asteroids, the Moon, and Mars.Approximately twenty flight routes for various airlines are to be modified to avoid the path of a rocket scheduled to be launched from North Korea later this month, the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines said yesterday.Amongst the affected companies are Delta Air Lines, Garuda Indonesia, Japan Airlines, Korean Airlines, Cebu Pacific, Philippine Airlines and All Nippon Airways, all of which are to reroute their flight paths between April 12 and April 16, in which time the North Korean government says launch is scheduled, with the specific date being subject to weather conditions.The North Korean government has stated the launch is to celebrate the 100th birthday of Eternal President of the Republic Kim il-Sung.A statement from Japan Airlines clarifies four of their flight paths are to be modified in direct response to these rocket launch plans, including three from the Japanese capital Tokyo to the Filipino capital Manila, Singapore, and Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia, causing anticipated flight timings to rise by between five and twenty minutes. No modifications to domestic flights are planned for the airline.All Nippon Airways has stated that five of its flight routes are to vary at this time, with flights between similar locations affected. The flights will be otherwise unaffected, according to the company's statement.On April 12, 1961, Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin lifted off on Vostok 1, the first human spaceflight in history, completing one orbit of the Earth in just under two hours. Tuesday marks the anniversary of Gagarin's flight and fifty years of human space travel.Celebrations were to take place all over the world and aboard the International Space Station. Yuri's Night, started in 2001 for fortieth anniversary celebrations, is a global celebration of the history of spaceflight, including the first Space Shuttle launch on April 12, 1981, the twentieth anniversary of Gagarin's flight. There were to be more than 400 events in 71 countries celebrating Yuri's Night this year.Gagarin's flight lasted 108 minutes, just under two hours, and consisted of one full orbit around the Earth. His trip to orbit came just four years after the launch of Sputnik 1 and the beginning of the space race between the United States and the Soviet Union (USSR).The crew on board the International Space Station (ISS) also marked the fiftieth anniversary by delivering a message from space. While addressing viewers, station commander Dmitry Kondratyev referred to the portrait of Gagarin floating next to him as a representation of the achievement of "humankind at large".A movie, entitled First Orbit, was filmed in parts in space when the orbit of the ISS matched that of Gagarin's flight. The movie, produced by filmmaker Christopher Riley, was filmed by ESA astronaut Paolo Nespoli and matches the radio communications, times, and views of the flight. The film is freely available to the public and made its debut on Tuesday to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the human race becoming a space-faring species.The peak of the Perseids meteor shower occurred last night during the new moon, bringing both amateur and professional astronomers out in full force. Low moonlight on Saturday and none at all on Sunday night made this year a brilliant opportunity for astronomers and stargazers. An added bonus was the presence of Mars, which shone bright red near the constellation Taurus. The show started between 9:00 and 10:00 Sunday night. Sightings grew more frequent until the peak just before sunrise when as many as 80 meteors per minute could be seen in clear skies.Perseids, which gets its name due to its appearance close to the constellation Perseus, a major feature of the night sky, occurs every year and is one of the most reliable meteor showers to watch in the northern hemisphere.A meteor shower occurs when the Earth's orbit intersects debris in the tail of a comet. Every meteor shower has an associated comet. In the case of the Perseids meteor shower, the associated comet is Swift-Tuttle.The magnetic tapes of the first moon landing that was beamed to the world via three tracking stations and those of other 5 Apollo missions have gone missing. There will be a search for these tapes in the hope that they may be found before they deteriorate.The missing tapes contain original recordings of five Apollo Moon Landings. Due to the format incompatibility between the Apollo recordings and the commercial TV, the public transmissions were projected onto a screen from which they were filmed using conventional TV cameras which substantially degraded the quality of the picture. These were digitized and can be seen in the Apollo Lunar Surface Journal website, where all the graphic documentation of the Apollo Moon landings is maintained.The tapes were originally stored at Goddard Space Flight Center, but, without any explanation, were taken to the US National Archives in 1970. A few years after, in 1984, about 700 hundred boxes of tapes were returned to Goddard along with documents stating that the tapes were withdrawn."We have the documents to say they were withdrawn, but no one knows exactly where they went," said John Sarkissian, a CSIRO scientist.Mr. Sarkissian who has been working at the Parkes Observatory for more than decade, initiated a study about the participation of Australia in the Apollo Mission. He requested the tapes from NASA and they told him the tapes were missing."We are working on the assumption they still exist," Mr Sarkissian said, "Your guess is a good as mine as to where they are.""People may have thought 'we have tapes of the moon walk, we don't need these',""We want the public to see the way the moon walk was meant to be seen,"Mr Sarkissian proposes that if the tapes are found that they be digitised and stored.The Goddard centre, home to the only known piece of equipment that decodes the  analogue tapes, is set to be closed in October raising fears that, even if they are found, it might not be possible to decode and copy them.Only a few people saw the original high-quality broadcast. One of these people is David Cooke, a Parkes control room engineer in 1969."I can still see the screen," Mr Cook, 74, said. "I was amazed, the quality was fairly good."The launch of the Ariane 5 ECA rocket has been postponed due to a technical hitch. The rocket, which has a record payload of 10,000 kg, was due to launch in the 45 minute window opening at 4.35PM (23:45 GMT) on November 12th, 2005 from a base at Kourou, French Guiana. Officials have not yet given a new date for launch.The rocket is the ECA version of the Ariane 5 rocket, which has been modified to enable it to carry a heavier payload. This rocket is carrying the Spaceway 2 for customer DIRECTV and Telkom 2 for customer PT Telkom Indonesia, both telecommunications satellites to be released into a geosynchronous orbit.The maiden flight of the Ariane 5 ECA ended in disaster in 2002 when the rocket veered off course over the Atlantic Ocean and self-destructed, dumping two satellites worth 600 million euros into the sea. A second flight successfully launched in February, 2005, releasing two satellites into orbit. This will be the rocket's third flight.An Ariane 5ES rocket has launched the first Automated Transfer Vehicle or ATV. The spacecraft, named Jules Verne, and also known as ATV-001, has been described as the most advanced ever built in Europe. It will now begin about a month of testing, prior to its scheduled docking with the International Space Station (ISS) in early April. The launch of the ATV marks the culmination of a thirteen-year development programme, and the start of a six-month mission to test the spacecraft and resupply the ISS. Arianespace conducted the launch on behalf of the European Space Agency, who will be responsible for the ATV's operation. A second burn of the upper stage was performed at around 05:06 GMT. Launch operations concluded with spacecraft separation from the carrier rocket at 05:09, and control of the ATV was transferred to the French space agency, CNES, who will control it from a centre in Toulouse. Deployment of the spacecraft's solar arrays was confirmed at around 05:40 GMT.The Ariane 5ES rocket, which was making its maiden flight, lifted off from ELA-3 at the Guiana Space Centre at 04:03:04 GMT this morning. The Ariane 5ES was designed primarily to be used for European government programmes, such as the ATV, and Galileo. It uses the first stage of a heavy-lift Ariane 5ECA, with a restartable upper stage from the Ariane 5GS. It will replace the Ariane 5GS, which is scheduled to retire later this year. It is the first European launch of the year, with the next, using an Ariane 5ECA, scheduled for early April, with Brazillian satellite Star One C2 and Vinasat-1, the first Vietnamese spacecraft. The next ATV is scheduled for launch in late 2009.The ATV will remain in orbit for around six months, before being replaced at the ISS by a smaller Russian Progress spacecraft. When this happens, the ATV will be de-orbited, and will burn up on re-entry. The launch is the culmination of thirteen years of planning and preparation, and the programme is already three years behind schedule. The launch of Jules Verne had previously been delayed from July, September and November 2007, and from February 2008. A further delay, from Saturday, was caused by a problem with the system that the ATV uses to separate from its carrier rocket. Speaking after the launch, Arianespace chairman Jean-Yves Le Gall remarked that the launch was "perfect", and that the launch shows that Europe is a "major player" in manned spaceflight. ESA administrator Jean-Jacques Dordain commented that ESA was "embarking on an extraordinary voyage", and that "as of today ESA is an essential partner...of the International Space Station". He also said that Europe was "on [its] way to becoming a major partner in the ISS", and that the successful launch "would not have been possible the support of ESA's member states".The ATV's launch comes two days ahead of the scheduled launch of the next mission to visit the Space Station, Space Shuttle Endeavour, which will begin mission STS-123 at 06:28:12 GMT on Tuesday. Endeavour will deliver the first pressurised section of the Japanese Experiment Module, and  the Canadian-built Dextre component for the Space Station's robotic arm.Several hours after launch, a problem was reported to have developed with the number two Propulsion Drive Electronics (PDE) unit. This is responsible for control over a quarter of the ATV's manoeuvring thrusters. All engine burns have been delayed or cancelled whilst the fault is investigated.This is the eighth orbital launch of 2008. The 20-tonne ATV is the heaviest spacecraft ever launched by a European rocket.At 20:44 GMT on Thursday, an Ariane 5ECA rocket lifted off from ELA-3 (Launch Area 3) at the Guiana Space Centre in French Guiana, carrying the Superbird 7 and AMC-21 satellites for the Space Communications Corporation (SCC) of Japan and SES Americom respectively. Just under thirty minutes later, AMC-21 separated from the upper stage of the carrier rocket into a geostationary transfer orbit, marking the successful completion of the launch.Superbird 7 was constructed by Mitsubishi, and will provide multimedia broadcasting to Japan, and other parts of Asia. It is the first commercial satellite to be built using the DS-2000 bus, although three DS-2000 satellites have already been launched for the Japanese Government. It will be placed in a geostationary orbit at a longitude of 144° East. It is the last satellite to be launched for SCC, prior to its planned merger into the SKY Perfect JSAT GroupAMC-21 will be used for television broadcasting to North America. It will be placed into a geosynchronous orbit with two degrees of inclination, at a longitude of 125° West. AMC-21 was constructed by Thales Alenia Space, based on a STAR-2 bus produced by Orbital Sciences Corporation. It will be operated by SES Americom, a United States based subsidiary of Luxembourgian company SES S.A.. It is the first SES satellite to be launched since  the AMC-14 satellite was lost in a launch failure on a Proton rocket earlier. AMC-14 has since been sold to the US Government for technology development experiments including radar targeting.The satellites were enclosed in a long payload fairing, which separated shortly after the rocket reached space, around three minutes and ten seconds after launch. A SYLDA-5 dual payload adapter was used, with Superbird 7 located in the upper position, and AMC-21 underneath. The launch was conducted by Arianespace, a French Launch Service ProviderSpeaking after the launch, Jean-Yves Le Gall, the CEO of Arianespace said that he was "very happy to share this new success". Yukata Nagal, the Chief Executive of SCC, said that he was "very glad" that the launch was successful. Rick Starkovs, one of the Vice Presidents of SES said that he felt felt "very good" watching the successful launch.This was the 39th launch to orbit so far this year, and the 38th to reach orbit. It is the fifth of seven planned Ariane 5 launches this year, and the 41st Ariane 5 launch overall. The next Ariane 5 is scheduled to launch in October, with the Hot Bird 9, NSS-9, and Spirale satellites.An Ariane 5ECA rocket has successfully placed two communications satellites into Geosynchronous transfer orbit. Liftoff, from ELA-3 at the Guiana Space Centre occurred at 22:05:02 GMT this evening. The satellites launched were Skynet 5C, which will be used to relay secure communications for the British armed forces, and Turksat 3A, which will be used for commercial communications. Paradigm Secure Communications will operate Skynet 5C on behalf of Britain's Ministry of Defence, whilst Turksat 3A will be operated by Turksat, an organisation based in Turkey.The launch was conducted by French company Arianespace. It was originally scheduled to occur in May, but was delayed when an incorrect guidance programme was found to have been installed on the rocket. It is believed that several commands intended for use by the Ariane 5ES, a variant of the Ariane 5 used to launch spacecraft such as the Automated Transfer Vehicle, had been installed by mistake. Skynet 5C and Turksat 3A separated from the carrier rocket 26 and 31 minutes after launch respectively, into a Geosynchronous transfer orbit. They will perform burns of onboard engines to raise the perigees of their orbits, and inject into Geosynchronous orbits, approximately 35,000 kilometres above the equator. Turksat 3A, which was constructed by Thales Alenia Space, will be positioned at a longitude of 42°E, where it will replace the older Turksat 1C satellite. Skynet 5C, which was originally constructed as a backup spacecraft, will be placed at 17.8°W. It was built by EADS Astrium.This is the 30th orbital launch of 2008, and the third to be conducted by an Ariane 5 rocket. Overall, it is the 39th flight of an Ariane 5, and the 14th flight of the ECA variant. It is also the 25th successful launch of an Ariane rocket. The flight designation for the launch was V184, and the serial number of the rocket used was 540. The next Ariane 5 launch will occur in early July, with the Badr 6 and ProtoStar-1 satellites.Speaking before launch, Arianespace Chairman Jean-Yves Le Gall described the mission as a "very important launch for us". Following launch, he said that he was "very happy to share this success with you", and that Arianespace could make a "guarantee to Europe's governments of their assured access to space". He commented on the fact that this was Arianespace's 25th consecutive successful launch, saying that this achievement "truly demands respect".Patrick Wood, the Skynet 5C programme director at Paradigm Secure Communications described the launch as "another great achievement, and another major milestone", and that "we are extremely proud of it". Jean-Marie Robert,  the manager of satellite programmes at Thales Alenia Space said that his company was "proud to have contributed" to the Turksat programme. Binali Yildirim, Turkey's Minister of Transportation, made a speech via telephone, thanking Arianespace for the launch.At 22:17 UTC this evening, Vietnam's first satellite, Vinasat-1 was launched aboard an Ariane 5ECA rocket, from the Guiana Space Centre in Kourou, French Guiana.  The launch was conducted by the European organisation Arianespace, and a Brazillian satellite, Star One C-2, was also launched on the same flight. The satellites will be placed into geosynchronous orbits, 35,000 kilometres above the equator, from where they will provide telecommunications services to various parts of the world. Star One C-2 separated from the carrier rocket 26 minutes after lift-off, and Vinasat-1 separated 31 minutes into the flight, completing a successful ascent.Vinasat-1 will be operated by the Vietnam Posts and Telecommunications Corporation. It was constructed by Lockheed Martin, and is based on the A2100A satellite bus. It will provide C and Ku-Band communications. It will be positioned in a geosynchronous orbital slot at 132°E longitude, high above Vietnam. It has an expected on-orbit lifetime of 15 years and weighs 2637 kilograms. The programme was started in 1998, and launch was originally scheduled for 2005, but was delayed due to political issues concerning the communication frequencies that it was to use.The other satellite being launched is Star One C-2, which will be operated by Star One. It is based on the SpaceBus 3000B3 satellite bus, and was constructed by Thales Alenia Space. It has a mass of 4100 kilograms, and is equipped with C, Ku, and X-band transponders. It will be positioned in a geosynchronous orbit at 65°W longitude, to provide services to the Americas.This was the 18th orbital launch of 2008, and the second to be conducted by an Ariane 5. It was the 182nd launch to be conducted by Arianespace, and the 38th launch of an Ariane 5. The next Ariane launch is scheduled for late May, with Skynet 5C for the British Ministry of Defence, and Turksat 3A for Turksat.Speaking after the launch had been confirmed to be a success, Jean-Yves Le Gall, the CEO of Arianespace remarked that he was "delighted to share...this new success", and that he appreciated the customers' trust. Jean-Marie Robert, of Thales Alenia Space, thanked Star One for trusting in their ability to deliver the satellite, and said that he hoped the satellite would have very long lives. Lincoln Oliveira, the CTO of Star One, thanked Arianespace and Thales Alenia Space for the success of his company's satellites. He also congratulated Vietnam on its first satellite launch. Lindsey Thompson, the Vice President for programmes of Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems, thanked her company's employees for the success of the mission, and wished Vinasat-1 well. Doan Hop Le, Vietnam's Minister of Information Technology and Communications said that the successful launch was important for "confirming sovereignty of Vietnam in space", that it had "great technical and socio-economic significance", and that it brought "Vietnam's communication industry up to a new height".Asteroid 2004 XP14, a half-mile wide chunk of hard rock travelling at 40 000 miles an hour, will miss the Earth by a few hundred thousand miles, Monday.Dr David Asher from the Armagh Observatory in Northern Ireland said if the rock, discovered in 2004, were to hit the Earth the result would be devastating. "It would probably be big enough to wipe out a small country," he said. Amateur astronomers with 6-inch telescopes would be able to follow the speeding space debris in Europe and North America at its closest approach to the planet at 0425 UTC. At this time it would be at a safe distance of 268,624 miles from Earth - closer to the Earth than the Moon would be at its farthest extent in its orbit.2004 XP14 is named as a Potentially Hazardous Asteroid (PHA), along with 782 known others by Astronomers at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory at Harvard. Zipping about in the solar system no PHAs have yet been found on direct collision course with the Earth.  Still, "For something of this size to come this close is unusual," said Don Yeomans, the head of NASA's Near Earth Object Program."An expert at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California said it was the closest approach by such a massive object for over 80 years - since 1925.Before 2004 XP14's exact orbital path around the sun was known with more precision, there were concerns it would hit the Earth. In the near future Jon Giorgini said such cosmic uncertainty would be much less and the public less alarmed. "In the next 20 to 30 years, we'll have a complete catalog of hazardous objects," Giorgini said. Edward Lu and Stanley Love, of Johnson Space Centre, Houston, also have allayed fears about a collision. In a 2005 article in Nature they theorised a "gravity tractor" could move any known threat within a year.An asteroid the size of Pluto that slammed into the Northern hemisphere of Mars created the Borealis basin, based on the latest survey of NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter and Mars Global Surveyor.The report released by the magazine Nature explains the 1984 observation of the unusual shape of Mars terrain in the northern hemisphere against the southern hemisphere.An asteroid with a body of 1,900 kilometers (1,200 miles) smashed into the planet some 3.9 billion years ago, creating the vast Borealis basin (measuring 8,500km [5,300 miles] by 10,600km [6,600 miles] across), which occupies nearly 40 per cent of the Martian surface.The new data has convinced a lot of scientists, but the theory will need further proof before being accepted by the wider scientific community.On January 29, 2008, an asteroid that is between 500 and 2,000 feet in diameter (150 - 600m) will pass within 1.4 lunar distances (334,000 miles or 535,000 km) of Earth according to NASA's Near Earth Object program (NEO). For a brief time the asteroid will be observable in dark and clear skies with amateur telescopes of 3 inch apertures or larger.Asteroid 2007 TU24, discovered by the Catalina Sky Survey on October 11, 2007 is expected to reach a brightness magnitude of 10.3 on Jan. 29-30 before quickly becoming fainter as it moves further from Earth. To compare the asteroid's distance from Earth, the Moon is only 239,228 miles away from the planet.It is estimated that nearly 7,000 asteroids of this size, both discovered and undiscovered are flying around space within a reasonable distance of Earth. An asteroid this big usually passes Earth about every five years or so. The average interval between actual Earth impacts for an object of this size would be about 37,000 years."If it [were to] hit in the ocean, which is more likely because two thirds of the Earth is ocean, it would create a tsunami, which would be devastating for the coastlines that happen to be nearby. It would be a huge local problem and the tsunami would be extraordinary if it hit in the ocean," said NEO manager Don Yeomans.2007 TU24 will be the closest currently known approach by a potentially hazardous asteroid of this size or larger until 2027. Plans have been made for the Goldstone planetary radar to observe this object Jan 23-24 and for the Arecibo Observatory to observe it Jan 27-28 and then Feb 1-4. High resolution radar imaging is expected, which may permit later 3-D shape reconstruction.The Canadian PM Stephen Harper spoke with  astronaut Steve MacLean over the phone yesterday from Ottawa. MacLean was on the STS-115 (space shuttle Atlantis). He is also the second Canadian to walk in space.Harper congratulated MacLean and asked him questions, including one from Harper's son, Ben. The question was: "What time do the astronauts go to bed?" "On our mission, with where the sun is, we have 55 minutes of daylight followed by 75 minutes of darkness ... and that does affect your circadian rhythm," MacLean replied. The astronauts' sleep pattern "is driven by the rendezvous that we do with the station. That time is the key milestone and then we arrange our sleep schedules around that." "But you can tell your son that sleeping in space is wonderful. We all sleep down on the main deck, some of us right side up, some of us are on the side and some of us are upside down. There's more orientations up here, basically."Harper told MacLean that the country is proud of his achievements. "I'm sure it's an adventure of a lifetime and ... I expect your mission will inspire millions of Canadians, young people, and even some who are talking to you today to become interested in space and science and technology," Harper said.Harper wished MacLean well as the mission winds down. "I know you said ... you wanted to bring home a gold medal for Canada, from everything I've seen on your performance yesterday, you are well on your way," Harper said.Canadian school children also got a chance to ask MacLean about his time aboard the shuttle.MacLean walked in space on Wednesday. MacLean, with fellow Atlantis crew member Dan Burbank started their six-hour spacewalk at the international space station at 5:05 am ET. They are focusing their attention and tools on a ferris-wheel-like rotary joint that will allow two solar arrays, once unfurled, to always face the sun as the space station circles Earth. The solar arrays will supply a quarter of the space lab's power when it is completed by 2010.American astronaut, Randolph Bresnik, is in orbit over 200 miles above the Earth, where he learned of the birth of his daughter Abigail. Lieutenant Colonel Bresnik becomes only the second man to have become a father while in space.Onboard Atlantis this morning, the crew were woken by mission control playing Butterfly Kisses, a song chosen by Bresnik's wife Rebecca. Prior to launch, Bresnik joked about the birth expected while on his eleven day mission with the Shuttle, "this is a pretty good excuse [for missing the birth] and hopefully she will forgive me later on".The first-ever father in space was astronaut Mike Fincke in 2004.Atlantis's current mission is scheduled to return to Earth this coming Friday, having resupplied the International Space Station and carried out two separate spacewalks. This will be the first time astronaut Bresnik gets to see the newest addition to his family. The couple live in Houston with their adopted three year-old son from Ukraine.Astronauts on NASA's Space Shuttle Atlantis have repaired a 4 inch tear in the shuttle's Thermal Protection System (TPS).At 1:00 p.m. ET astronauts began their third spacewalk to repair the tear by using medical staples to seal the torn area. Astronauts tucked the material back into place and then stapled up the seams where the material was torn. But the repair did not go without flaws. Astronauts repairing the tear say that the tear line was "higher than expected," according to radio transmissions heard live on NASA TV. Astronauts also report that the area where the tear was present is "well worn away" and because of that, no staples were able to be placed on the top side of the blanket near the top of the tear, leaving a small "gap" between the seams.Two rows of staples were placed along the tear to hold the blanket in place.Atlantis received the 4 inch tear on its TPS on one of the Orbital Maneuvering System pods near the thrusters during take-off on June 8.Two astronauts have performed a spacewalk, or EVA, to replace a depleted nitrogen tank in the Integrated Truss Structure of the International Space Station. The Space Station's Nitrogen Tank Assembly (NTA), was successfully replaced with a new one, launched aboard Space Shuttle Atlantis, which is currently visiting the station, on mission STS-122. The old tank will be returned to Earth aboard the Shuttle. The NTA forms part of the Space Station's cooling system.The spacewalk was successful, and the primary task of changing the tank was completed ahead of schedule, allowing the astronauts to perform several secondary tasks, which included the installation of thermal covers on the newly installed Columbus module, and inspection of micrometeoroid shields on the Destiny module.American astronaut Rex Walheim and German astronaut Hans Schlegel, both of the STS-122 crew, left the ISS Quest airlock at 14:27 GMT, and re-entered it at 21:12, after six hours and 45 minutes of extra-vehicular activity. This is the 103rd spacewalk to be made as part of the International Space Station programme, and the second of three planned for the STS-122 mission.Meanwhile, NASA have announced that the STS-122 mission has been extended by one day. Landing is now scheduled for next Wednesday, at 13:59 GMT. The extension will give the astronauts extra time to finish activating the Columbus module, a process which has been delayed due to computer problems aboard the module.Colin A. Norman, Professor of Physics and Astronomy at Johns Hopkins University, testifying before the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science February 2nd, presented the Hubble Origins Probe (HOP) as a replacement for the Hubble Space Telescope.Concerning the shuttle's estimated one billion dollar cost and 65 monthtime-frame for deployment to earth orbit, Norman said: "Thegroundbreaking science, the cutting edge technology generated inthe development of new instrumentation, the ability of Hubblescience to engage the interest of the public, and its impact onthe imagination of students, make it worthwhile to invest thissum of public funds to complete the last chapter of Hubble'sremarkable legacy."HOP will tackle three of the most central intellectual issues ofour age; the nature of dark energy, the natureand distribution of dark matter, and theprevalence of planets, including earths, around other stars.Norman noted during the testimony that HOP would be, essentially,a lighter copy of the Hubble Space Telescope and would includetwo instruments that were scheduled for installation on theHubble: the Cosmic Origins Spectrograph (COS), the Wide Field Camera 3 (WFC3), plus the new Very Wide Field Imager (VWFI) to be paid for and provided by Japan.The VWFI has a field of view 17 times greater the advancedcamera on board the Hubble now, and is 3-4 times more sensitiveat critical wavelengths. This will provide for mapping 20 timesfaster than achievable by the Hubble at present.The COS would make possible the identification of the invisibleportion of "ordinary matter," potentially residing in giganticgas clouds discovered by theChandra X-ray Telescope."The WFC3 has greatly enhanced power for discovery in the blue andthe red region of the spectrum and will significantly enhancestudies of galaxies and stars. Its infrared capability isessential to studies of dark energy," Norman added."The decision is obvious. We must continue with theHubble adventure to explore these great questionsfurther, to understand more fully our remarkableUniverse and our place in it. We must do this withintense determination and energy and thus continue toinspire new generations with the wonder and thrill ofexploration and discovery," concluded Norman.Colin Norman was educated at the University of Melbourne andOxford University. He has been a professor of physics andastronomy at Johns Hopkins University and astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute since 1984.Astronomers have discovered a planetary system that could contain between five and seven planets, located about 127 light-years from Earth.Only fifteen planetary systems are known to contain more than three planets. The newly discovered system is centered around star HD 10180, whose properties may be similar to those of our own Sun. The researchers who made the discovery say that the system is arranged in a more compact way than our own; it is believed that the year of one of the inner planets could be equal to as little as just over one Earth day.It is believed that up to seven planets may be present in this system; two, however, are subject to ambiguity. One of these is believed to have a mass that may be relatively close to Earth's. This planet, if confirmed, may prove to be the smallest world yet discovered outside our solar system.This system, however, is not the first to be discovered outside our solar system. Astronomers have been spotting these systems for several years. Christophe Lovis, lead researcher on the project, shares his thoughts about the discovery: "This also highlights the fact that we are now entering a new era in exoplanet research - the study of complex planetary systems and not just of individual planets."Martin Dominik, an astronomer from the University of St. Andrews, warns against describing the system as the "richest yet discovered," as it is unclear whether other systems with more planets have been discovered in the past. Dominik elaborates: "Like most discoveries in science, the findings come with more questions than answers; but in my opinion, this is what really advances a field."European astronomers have discovered the most massive star yet on record; it is approximately 300 times the mass of our sun, beyond the previously accepted limit of 150 solar masses.Paul Crowther, professor of astrophysics at the University of Sheffield, led the team of researchers that discovered the star. The team used the Very Large Telescope (VLT) in Chile, and data archived from the Hubble Space Telescope. The newly discovered star, designated R136a1, was discovered in the R136 star cluster.The researchers estimate that the current mass of the star is about 265 solar masses, and could have been about 320 solar masses just after its birth."Unlike humans," says Crowther, "these stars are born heavy and lose weight as they age.  Being a little over a million years old, the most extreme star R136a1 is already middle-aged, and has undergone an intense weight loss programme, shedding a fifth of its initial mass over that time, or more than 50 solar masses."Astronomers not involved in the discovery, while still impressed, warn of the small possibility that the team could have mistaken two relatively close stars for one large one."What they're characterizing as a single massive star," Mark Krumholz told the Associated Press, "could in fact be a binary system too close to be resolved."  Krumholz is an astronomer at the University of California.Another astronomer, Phillip Massey from the Lowell Observatory in Arizona, also warns that this may be the case. Massey explained that the star's weight had been inferred using scientific models that were subject to change.The R136 star cluster, the star's location, is in the Tarantula Nebula in the Large Magellanic Cloud, a neighboring galaxy about 165,000 light-years away. The Large Magellanic Cloud, located between the constellations Dorado and Mensa, is visible as a faint cloud in the southern hemisphere. Astronomers are still struggling to understand how these stars form."Either they were born so big or smaller stars merged together to produce them," Crowther explained.  The researchers believe that the stellar heavyweight record could be held by this star for quite some time.  Crowther elaborates: "Owing to the rarity of these monsters, I think it is unlikely that this new record will be broken any time soon."On Wednesday, astronomers at the University of Cambridge in England announced the discovery of a dwarf star, known as EBLM J0555-57Ab, which is slightly bigger than Saturn and smaller than Jupiter.  It was found using data from an array of automated telescopes called the Wide Angle Search for Planets (WASP). The study was published in the journal Astronomy & Astrophysics.The star belongs to the Milky Way galaxy and is approximately 600 light years away from Earth. Its mean radius is about 80 percent the size of the largest planet in the Solar System, Jupiter, but despite its small size it is very dense. Its mass is almost 85±4 times the gas giant, the study said. The star's surface gravitational pull is about eleven times stronger than the Sun's — 300 times the strength by which the Earth attracts matter.  It is part of a binary star system, meaning it moves around the galaxy with another star, both orbiting around the same central point. However, it stays so close to its companion star, that it takes about 7.8 days to orbit around the pair's shared centre. The distance between the two stars is less than between Mercury and the Sun, and about eight percent of an astronomical unit, in stark contrast to the 100–1000 astronomical units that typically separates two stars in such a system.It was discovered by the method called "astronomical transit". This method is used to discover planets or satellites, and the astronomers initially thought it was merely an exoplanet. During a planet's revolution, when it crosses its parent star, there is a dip in the brightness of the light coming from the parent star. The companion of this dwarf is the size of the Sun, and it is brighter than the dwarf, making the discovery more difficult. "Indeed, until we measured the mass it looked just like a transiting planet", Amaury Triaud, co-author of the paper, told Popular Mechanics. With a brightness 2000 to 3000 times fainter than the Sun, it was the mass that indicated it was actually a dim star.According to lead author of the study, Alexander von Boetticher, their "discovery reveals how small stars can be." He added, "Had this star formed with only a slightly lower mass, the fusion reaction of hydrogen in its core could not be sustained, and the star would instead have transformed into a brown dwarf". A brown dwarf converts hydrogen to deuterium, a hydrogen isotope, rather than helium, which is the usual result of such a process from most stars including the Sun.The tiny star's temperature is lesser than most known gas giant exoplanets. "That star likely represents the smallest natural fusion reactor that we know of[...] We're trying to replicate fusion on Earth in labs, but that's basically as small as it gets in nature", Triaud told CBC News. The size of the star makes it difficult to study, but the brightness of its companion star also makes it more challenging. "It's like trying to look at a candle beside a lighthouse," Triaud said.Astronomers have discovered that Saturn's D ring, the innermost of Saturn's 15 rings, has grown dimmer in the past 25 years and sections have moved up to 125 miles inward toward the planet. This discovery was made after astronomers compiled results predominantly from the Voyager 2 spacecraft, which passed Saturn in 1981, and the Cassini-Huygens probe which entered Saturn's orbit last year. Other rings were found to be rotating slower than had previously been estimated with computer models.  It was also discovered that the matter composing the rings is of far more widely varying temperatures than had been expected. Sections of Saturn's F ring were also recognised as breaking apart and reforming, depending on the location of one of Saturn's moons.The rings, which are now iconic to Saturn, and known to be common to all Jovian planets in general, were first observed in 1610 by Galileo. The rings have recently become a subject of scientific interest to modern astronomers who believe they are similar in structure to the dust which orbited the Sun, in a similar pattern, and formed the planets some 4.5 billion years ago.This, and other Cassini-related discoveries, were discussed at a meeting of the American Astronomical Society's division of planetary sciences on Monday.In findings published Tuesday in Cornell University's arXiv by a team of scientists from the University of Montreal and a separate report published Wednesday in Nature Astronomy by a team from University College London (UCL), the presence of water vapour was confirmed in the atmosphere of K2-18b, a planet circling a star in the constellation Leo.  This is the first such discovery in a planet in its star's habitable zone — not too hot and not too cold for liquid water to exist.The Montreal team, led by Björn Benneke, used data from the NASA's Hubble telescope to assess changes in the light coming from K2-18b's star as the planet passed between it and Earth.  They found that certain wavelengths of light, which are usually absorbed by water, weakened when the planet was in the way, indicating not only does K2-18b have an atmosphere, but the atmosphere contains water in vapour form.  The team from UCL then analyzed the Montreal team's data using their own software and confirmed their conclusion.This was not the first time scientists have found signs of water on an exoplanet, but previous discoveries were made on planets with high temperatures or other pronounced differences from Earth."This is the first potentially habitable planet where the temperature is right and where we now know there is water," said UCL astronomer Angelos Tsiaras. "It's the best candidate for habitability right now.""It's a good sign", said Ryan Cloutier of the Harvard–Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, who was not one of either study's authors. "Overall," he continued, "the presence of water in its atmosphere certainly improves the prospect of K2-18b being a potentially habitable planet, but further observations will be required to say for sure."K2-18b was first identified in 2015 by the Kepler space telescope.  It is about 110 light-years from Earth and larger but less dense.  Its star, a red dwarf, is cooler than the Sun, but the planet's orbit is much closer, such that a year on K2-18b lasts 33 Earth days.According to The Guardian, astronomers were optimistic that NASA's James Webb space telescope — scheduled for launch in 2021 — and the European Space Agency's 2028 ARIEL program, could reveal more about exoplanets like K2-18b.In findings reported on Tuesday, an international team of astronomers discovered an exoplanet, called NGTS-1b, revolving around M-dwarf star NGTS-1, that the team said does not fit existing notions of how stars and planets form.  NGTS-1b is a gas giant, similar to Jupiter and of comparable volume and mass, but its parent star is about half the diameter and mass of the Sun, making this the most massive planet orbiting an M-dwarf ever discovered.NGTS-1b, about 600 light years from the Earth, is so extremely close to its star that a revolution around its star takes only about 2.6 Earth days — 2.647298 ± 0.000020 — and its surface temperature is about 800 K. The planet was discovered by observing periodic fluctuations in the star's apparent brightness as NGTS-1b passed in front of it. NGTS-1b's mass is less than Jupiter, about 0.812 MJ (mass of Jupiter), but it has greater volume, with radius about 1.33 RJ (radius of Jupiter). Its density was reported to be 0.42 g cm-3 (with error: +0.59 to -0.28), meaning Jupiter, whose density is 1.326 g cm-3, is likely around thrice as dense as the exoplanet."The discovery of NGTS-1b was a complete surprise to us," said lead author Doctor Daniel Bayliss of the University of Warwick, in England. "[S]uch massive planets were not thought to exist around such small stars. This is the first exoplanet we have found with our new NGTS facility and we are already challenging the received wisdom of how planets form."The existing understanding of planetary formation, the team explained, says small stars can produce rocky planets but cannot pull in enough mass for larger, gaseous ones like NGTS-1b. Based on the observations, NGTS-1's radius is 0.573±0.077 R☉ (solar radius) and using that value, astronomers calculated its weight to be about 0.598 M☉ (solar mass). The star's density is almost ten times of the gas giant, 4.4 (with error: +2.4 to -1.4) g cm-3. In comparison, the Sun's density is 1.409 g cm-3.The research team discovered NGTS-1b using the Next-Generation Transit Survey (NGTS), an array of telescopes physically located in Chile, which was designed to search for planets around bright stars.  NGTS-1 is a relatively dim red M-dwarf, which are very common in the universe, of apparent magnitude 15.52 ± 0.08. University of Warwick professor Peter Wheatley, who runs the NGTS, said, "NGTS-1b was difficult to find, despite being a monster of a planet, because its parent star is small and faint. Small stars are actually the most common in the universe, so it is possible there are many of these giant planets waiting to be found."To date, scientists have discovered only three gas giants which revolves around M-dwarf stars. The other two are Kepler-45b and HATS-6b which have masses 0.505 MJ and 0.32 MJ respectively.On Monday, astronomers at the Ohio State University, Columbus, revealed the discovery of an exoplanet, named KELT-9b and according to the university's astronomy professor Scott Gaudi, it is "the hottest gas giant planet that has ever been discovered". The discovery was reported online in the Nature journal.The astronomers say the planet's surface temperature is more than 4000°C (7232°F), nearly as hot as the Sun. The planet takes about 36 to 48 hours to orbit around its star, KELT-9. KELT-9 is about two and a half times larger than the Sun and nearly twice its temperature. The star is about 650 light years from the earth, but it is about 300 million years old. KELT-9 is a blue A-type star, which shines brightly but, unlike some other stars such as our own Sun, their life span is on the order of millions rather than billions of years. About a year ago, NASA reports, at the Winer Observatory in Arizona, observers using the KELT-North telescope noticed a minute drop in KELT-9's brightness — about 0.5%. This pattern was observed once every one and a half days, implying the planet comes in between the line of sight of the star from Earth, meaning the planet completes one revolution in that time period. Observations using the Hubble telescope could reveal whether the planet possesses a comet-like tail, which could help the astronomers estimate how long the planet may live. Professor Gaudi told the BBC the planet KELT-9b "is about three times the mass of Jupiter and twice as big as Jupiter." He said the team discovered the planet in 2014. He added, "it took us this long to finally convince ourselves that this truly bizarre and unusual world was in fact a planet orbiting another star". Much like the Moon is to the Earth, KELT-9b is tidally locked to its star; with one side of the planet always exposed to its star. Due to tidal locking, the planet's surface temperature facing the star is roughly 4300°C (7772°F), more than the surface temperature of an average Red Dwarf star.  Its close proximity to its parent star exposes it to ultraviolet radiation, and according to the calculations, the planet loses planetary material anywhere between ten billion to ten trillion grams each second. Professor Gaudi said, "It's a planet by any of the typical definitions of mass, but its atmosphere is almost certainly unlike any other planet we've ever seen just because of the temperature of its dayside".According to Keivan Stassun, a professor of physics and astronomy at Vanderbilt University, Tennessee, "KELT-9 will swell to become a red giant star in a few hundred million years". Professor Stassun directed the study with Gaudi. The discovery was a collaboration between Ohio State University, Vanderbilt University, Lehigh University, and the South African Astronomical Observatory. They operate a dual-location system, one location in each hemisphere, called the Kilodegree Extremely Little Telescope. Professor Gaudi told the BBC that it was named "as a joke".Scott Gaudi, Professor of Astronomy, Ohio State University‍:"It's a planet by any of the typical definitions of mass"Astronomers have discovered an asteroid that is approximately 160 feet long, that may be on a collision course for Mars and may hit the planet sometime in early 2008. Since the discovery of asteroid 2007 WD5 on November 20, 2007, scientists at NASA's Near-Earth object Office have been tracking it, and say that the asteroid could come within 48,000 kilometers of the planet around January 30, 2008."Right now asteroid 2007 WD5 is about half-way between Earth and Mars and closing the distance at a speed of about 27,900 miles per hour. Over the next five weeks, we hope to gather more information from observatories so we can further refine the asteroid's trajectory," said Don Yeomans, manager of the Near Earth Object Office at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.It may also hit near the area where the Opportunity Rover is currently exploring, but scientists say that the rover is outside of the zone of possible impact.The current odds of the asteroid hitting the planet are 1 in a 75 chance that it will make its impact on or around that date."These odds are extremely unusual. We frequently work with really long odds when we track...threatening asteroids. We know that it's going to fly by Mars and most likely going to miss, but there's a possibility of an impact," said Steve Chesley, an astronomer with the Near Earth Object Office.The European Space Agency has spotted a pair of supermassive black holes orbiting one another, believed to be the product of two galaxies merging. The results were published on Tuesday in The Astrophysical Journal.The agency's XMM-Newton Observatory, which is in space, detected X-rays emitted from the black holes pulling a star to shreds. Called 'tidal disruption events', items being consumed by black holes and giving off X-rays as they do are the primary method of spotting black holes. This is problematic because only younger galaxies where stars are still forming are regular hosts to such events, with most galaxies believed to have a supermassive black hole at the centre. Mature systems, known as quiescent galaxies, only see items enter black holes from time to time and scientists have to be looking in the right place at the right time to find them.The discovery dates to June 2010 when Dr Fukun Liu from China's Peking University noticed an apparent tidal disruption coming from a galaxy known as J120136. XMM-Newton was tasked to investigate, as was NASA's Swift satellite. The resultant data indicates a pair of black holes orbiting one another."There might be a whole population of quiescent galaxies that host binary black holes in their centers," said co-discoverer  Stefanie Komossa of Germany's Max Planck Society. She said ongoing work to spot tidal disruptions could lead to "reliable statistics about the rate at which galaxies merge".The International Astronomical Union (IAU) has offered up a new definition of the word "planet" that could potentially increase our solar system's nine planets to at least twelve. According to the proposed definition, "A planet is a celestial body that (a) has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape, and (b) is in orbit around a star, and is neither a star nor a satellite of a planet." Roughly speaking, the former includes objects over 5 x 1020 kilograms (1/12,000th of Earth's mass) and 800 kilometers in diameter, but all borderline cases would require confirmation by observation of their shape.According to this new definition, Ceres (an asteroid in the asteroid belt, between Mars and Jupiter), 2003UB313 (an astronomical object beyond Pluto which has previously been called the tenth planet), and Pluto's moon Charon may be dubbed planets. A dozen other candidates, like Sedna, Orcus, Quaoar, 2003 EL61 etc., along with the asteroids Vesta, Pallas and Hygiea are awaiting evaluation by the IAU.The draft resolution also introduces the term "pluton", which refers to a growing subcategory of planets that have orbits around the sun that take at least 200 years to complete - effectively this will mean planets that orbit beyond Neptune. Plutons differ from classical planets: their orbit is highly tilted, eccentric and not circular, which suggests they have a different origin, the main reason why astronomers are interested in them.The word "planet" comes from the ancient Greek word for "wanderer", because it was known in ancient times that certain lights in the sky moved in relation to other stars. However, since then no formal definition of the word planet was agreed upon. With the advent of powerful telescopes on the ground and in space, knowledge about heavenly bodies became more complex, stressing the need for unambiguous definitions. The issue came to a head in 2005 with the discovery of the trans-Neptunian object 2003UB313 (unofficially termed Xena by its discoverer, Michael E. Brown). 2003UB313 is a body larger than the smallest accepted planet, Pluto.The suggested definition is not universally popular: some astronomers would like to draw the line at Neptune, and wouldn't classify icy dwarfs like Pluto as a planet, but as a trans-Neptunian object (similar to the plutons in the draft resolution) part of the Kuiper belt. Robin Catchpole, from the Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge, said in an interview: "The public are very clear about what they understand by "planets". Those are the big, dominant bodies in the Solar System that we're all familiar with, the eight - or nine if you include Pluto. I think including more is going to add confusion to the public, but not really be particularly useful for astronomers."Pluto is now being considered to be moved off the list of classical planets, but as the prototype of the new plutons category. The ninth planet (as it is termed, but maybe not for long), discovered in 1930, is a curiosity among planets for more than one reason: because Charon is so big in comparison, both are considered twin planets by some.The current proposal is the result of two years work of the Planet Definition Committee of the IAU, which is responsible for the naming of astronomical objects. The 26th IAU General Assembly in Prague plans to vote on the proposal on Thursday, August 24 of 2006. When asked if he was confident the proposal would get the necessary two thirds of the votes, Professor Owen Gingerich, Chair of the IAU Planet Definition Committee, replied: "I'm sure it will be controversial to those with a stake in some other solution, but I hope we will get an overwhelming endorsement."Scientists using NASA's Swift Satellite and other telescopes have observed a supernova in near real time occurring in the constellation of Aries. The explosion is said to be the most powerful explosion known to scientists, which consists of a gamma-ray burst or an x-ray blast. Scientists say that bursts signal the beginning of a star's death.Swift first detected the explosion on February 18 (it was given a designation GRB 060218), which allowed telescopes and satellites to watch the event as it happened. The blast lasted for more than 2,000 seconds (33 minutes)."This is totally new and unexpected. This is the type of unscripted event in our nearby universe that we hoped Swift could catch," said Neil Gehrels, Swift principal investigator at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland."Those observations capture the time when the star collapsed, ejected its outer envelope and most of its mass and left a compact remnant behind. And we think that compact remnant is a neutron star," said an author writing for journal Nature, where the report will be published on Thursday.Scientists are also planning on using the Hubble Space Telescope and the Chandra X-ray Observatory in an attempt to get more images of the event.The star is at least 440 million light years from Earth. The group of scientists was led by Sergio Campana of the Italian National Institute for Astrophysics and Alicia Soderberg, a graduate student at Caltech in Pasadena, California.Swift was launched in November of 2004.The Space Shuttle Atlantis has entered final preparation for mission STS-115, and has begun movement from its hangar at the OPF, to the VAB, where it will be attached to its external tank and solid rocket boosters. The first motion occurred at 11:34 GMT (07:34 EDT)This will be the third mission since the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia on mission STS-107, and the first ISS assembly mission in four years. It will also be the first time Atlantis has flown since 2002.The move, which is currently in progress, is expected to take about an hour. Rollout to the pad is scheduled for August 1st, ahead of an August 28th launch date. It is possible that these may be brought forward for an August 27th launch, which would make it the first time in NASA history a manned spaceflight has occurred earlier than originally scheduled.The flight will deliver a truss and solar panels to the space station.Space Shuttle Atlantis docked with the International Space Station yesterday, and astronauts James Reilly and Danny Olivas were planning their first spacewalk today.The shuttle docked at 3:36 p.m. EDT (1736 UTC) yesterday, doing an end-over-end flip over South America to let the International Space Station crew photograph the shuttle's heat shield. Called the "Rotational Pitch Maneuver", the move is now routine.In today's spacewalk, scheduled for 17:53 UTC today, Reilly and Olivas, with the help of a giant robotic arm, will install a new set of solar panels to the station.After lift-off on Friday from Kennedy Space Center, Atlantis suffered a triangular four-inch by six-inch (10 centimeter by 15 centimeter) tear on a thermal blanket that protects the left side maneuvering rocket pod. Also, small pieces of foam broke off from its external fuel tanks.Mission chairman John Shannon said he was "leaning toward" ordering another spacewalk so that the tear in the blanket could be repaired.Space Shuttle Atlantis landed Wednesday, May 26, at Kennedy Space Center in Florida, after 11 days, 18 hours and 4.8 million miles in space on mission STS-132.The shuttle landed at 08:48:18 EDT (12:48 UTC), on runway 33 of the Shuttle Landing Facility for the last time Wednesday. Speaking of the smooth landing, Mission Control said, "That was pretty sweet. That was a suiting end to an incredible mission."  "It was smooth as silk. We were clearly riding in the middle of a fireball, and it was spectacular. The windows, all of them, were bright, brilliant orange. One of the neatest things was when we flew right into orbital sunrise," STS-132 Commander Ken Ham said of the landing.Mission STS-132 carried the Russian-built Mini Research Module Rassvet and an Integrated Cargo Carrier-Vertical Light Deployable (ICC-VLD) to the International Space Station, and featured three spacewalks, after docking with the station on Flight Day 3, May 16. It was Space Shuttle Atlantis' 32nd mission and also its last, completing almost 25 years of service. Along with Atlantis, the Space Shuttles Endeavour and Discovery will also be retired in 2010. The shuttles will be shown at museums around the country.In the first space flight of 2007, Space Shuttle Atlantis blasted off on schedule yesterday, starting on an 11-day mission to the International Space Station.Atlantis and its seven astronauts lifted off at 7:38 p.m. EDT (2338 GMT) from the launch pad at Kennedy Space Center, Florida. The launch pad, newly refurbished by NASA, had not been used since the launch of Space Shuttle Columbia, which ended in disaster on Feb. 1, 2003.Atlantis is scheduled to dock with the space station at around 1930 GMT tomorrow.The goal for the Atlantis crew is to carry out the two missions that were left incomplete from the previous flight due to broken and jammed equipments. During the flight, the shuttle and its seven astronauts will deliver a new segment and will install energy-producing solar panels to the International Space Station. The payload is the heaviest ever flown to the space station, and includes a 45-foot (14-meter), 35,678-pound (16,183 kilogram) aluminium segment that will become part of the station's superstructure.A United Launch Alliance Atlas V carrier rocket launched this evening from LC-41 at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida, USA, with the ICO G1 communications satellite for ICO Satellite Management. Lift-off occurred at 20:12:00 UTC. It is the first commercial launch of an Atlas rocket since responsibility for the launches was transferred from International Launch Services to United Launch Alliance, through Lockheed Martin. Launch was completely successful, with the spacecraft separating from its carrier rocket about half an hour after launch.The Atlas V flew in the 421 configuration, with a 4 metre wide payload fairing, twin solid rocket boosters, and a single-engined Centaur upper stage. It was the 14th flight of the Atlas V, and successfully placed the satellite into a geosynchronous orbit. The launch was dedicated to former Atlas programme employee Lynn Deckard.ICO G1 will provide S band mobile communications for satellite phones. Its launch had been delayed from May last year, owing to delays with US government missions which were launching on Atlas, and then in light of the failure of a previous Atlas launch in June. It was constructed by Space Systems/Loral, and is based on the LS-1300 satellite bus. It is the heaviest satellite to be launched by an Atlas rocket, and the heaviest single commercial satellite to be launched into a geosynchronous transfer orbit.Speaking after the launch, Jim Sponnik, the Vice President of the Atlas programme told the team who had conducted the launch that they "all did extremely well and the rocket did exceptionally well". Colonel Scott Henderson, of the 45th Space Wing, United States Air Force, said that the launch was "a great success", and the result of "phenomenal effort" on the part of those involved. David Malcom, the President of Lockheed Martin Commercial Space Systems described the launch as a "hole in one". Tim Bryan, the CEO of ICO Satellite Management told the United Launch Alliance team that he "can't express...what every person in this room has done for our business". He also thanked Bob Day, and ICO's space team, for their work in the build up to the launch. Michael Gass, the CEO of United Launch Alliance said that the successful launch was a "testimony to this entire team", and told flight controllers "congratulations, you're the best".The satellite's signal was acquired by ground tracking stations in Australia at 21:17, and the launch was confirmed to be accurate to within one nautical mile of the targeted orbit. The next Atlas launch is scheduled to occur in early July, with a DMSP weather satellite, from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California.A Lockheed-Martin built Atlas V launch vehicle, successfully launched from Cape Canaveral, Florida at 21:42 UTC (4:42 p.m. EST). It placed the Inmarsat 4 F-1 communications satellite into orbit.  This was Lockheed-Martin's second try to launch the satellite.  Yesterday's attempt ended in a scrub when the flight control computer passed a red-line with less than three minutes remaining in the countdown.This was the fifth launch of the Atlas V vehicle, and the first launch where the rocket used three of the first stage, Aerojet built, solid rocket motors.  It also had the narrower 4 meter payload fairing. For the first part of the flight, the rocket was powered by a common booster core with two RD-180 rocket engines plus three solid rocket motors.  When their fuel was expended the solid rocket motors burned out and were jettisoned. The common booster core then continued pushing the payload and upper stage, with its two RD-180 engines producing 806,000lbf of thrust.  The common booster core expended its fuel around four and a half minutes into the flight.  At this point the first stage common booster core separated from the upper stage and payload.After the stage separation, the Centaur upper stage started its engine and burned for nearly ten minutes.  During this burn, the payload fairing separated from the spacecraft, leaving the satellite exposed on the nose of the rocket in the vacuum of space.  When the ten minute burn was up, the Centaur coasted with the satellite for another ten minutes waiting to get to the optimal point for the final burn.  At around 24 minutes into the flight, the final burn of the Centaur stage occurred, placing the spacecraft in a super-synchronous transfer orbit.  After this burn was complete, the Centaur separated, leaving the spacecraft on its own.  Now the spacecraft must attempt to open its solar arrays and place itself in the final geostationary orbit.  Because of this special type of orbit, where the spacecraft goes around once every 24 hours, the satellite will appear to sit in one place over the equator.  From this location, Inmarsat will use it to provide BGAN (Broadband Global Area Network) which is a 3G compatible, 432kbit/s data service, to much of the world.  The Atlas vehicle was rolled out of its vertical integration facility 1800 feet from the launch pad early yesterday morning (before the first launch attempt).  The reason for this launch day move is because of the clean pad concept.  Past American rockets (with the exception of the Saturns and Space Shuttles) have always been assembled on the launch pad.  In the case of a delay in launching, this would cause delays in all the rockets that needed to be launched after the one that experienced the delay.  With the new clean pad concept, rockets can be assembled and checked out before being moved to the pad, saving delays in the schedule.  The launch tower and rocket move out to the pad along a set of railroad tracks, making the 1800 foot journey in approximately half an hour, topping out around two miles per hour.  Because of the clean pad concept, none of the launch control electronics or spacecraft environmental systems are on the pad.  Instead, they are run along the railroad tracks with the rocket as it moves to the pad on launch day.  When they get there, they slide into concrete enclosures so that they are not destroyed during the rocket launch.An Atlas V rocket has successfully launched a classified spy satellite for the United States National Reconnaissance Office (NRO). The satellite, currently known to the public as NRO L-28, or Launch 28, is believed by amateur enthusiasts to be a signals intelligence (SIGINT) spacecraft, known by the codename Trumpet. The Atlas V carrier rocket flew in the 411 configutation, with a 4 metre diameter fairing, one solid rocket motor, and a single-engine Centaur upper stage.The rocket lifted off from Vandenberg Air Force Base, Space Launch Complex 3 East (SLC-3E), at 10:02 GMT (03:02 local time) this morning. Today's flight marks the thirteenth launch of the Atlas V, and the first Atlas V launch from Vandenberg. It is also the tenth orbital launch of 2008. The satellite entered a Molniya orbit, usually used by the NRO for SIGINT and communications satellites.The launch was conducted by United Launch Alliance, a joint venture between Lockheed Martin, who designed and built the Atlas V, and Boeing, to provide EELV launches for the US Government. ULA president Michael Gass described the launch as "a proud moment in our company's history". The launch had been delayed by two years, from early 2006, due to a number of factors.In addition to its reconnaissance payload, the satellite is carrying two small experiments. SBIRS-HEO 2 and TWINS-B. SBIRS is a test article for a missile detection system, slated to launch late this year or early next, and TWINS is a NASA infrared astronomy experiment. They will remain attached to the satellite for the duration of its mission.Following the separation of the payload fairing, around five minutes after launch, all information on the launch was withheld, however about an hour into the flight, the launch was confirmed to have been successful. ULA will conduct its next launch on Saturday, when a Delta II will orbit a GPS satellite. The next Atlas launch is scheduled for mid-April, with the ICO G1 communication satellite.THEMIS space probes discovered that the Northern lights are seen when electrical tornadoes, rotating faster than a million miles an hour, hover about 40,000 miles (60,000 km) above the earth. The energy spins down to the Earth's ionosphere where the tornadoes become unstable, and interact with the Earth's magnetic field.Professor Karl-Heinz Glassmeier, director of the Institute for Geophysics and Extraterrestrial Physics in Braunschweig, Germany, explains, "When these space tornadoes reach the upper atmosphere their enormous energy heats the air so strongly it starts glowing. That is what generates the aurorae.""It is here that all the energy is released, forming the aurorae. What we see as beautiful lights and colors are actually the product of a violent electrical storm in space. While these electrical discharges do not cause any direct harm to humans, they can damage man-made structures such as power transformers and communications systems," said Andreas Keiling, a physicist at the University of California at Berkeley.Time History of Events and Macroscale Interactions during Substorms (THEMIS) are five probes launched by NASA in February 2007, which orbited Earth recording the volume and electrical current which was higher than 100,000 amperes.Scientists had previously concluded that aurorae are caused by electrically charged particles discharged as solar winds from the sun which interact with the Earth's magnetic field. However, these solar discharges strike the Earth where the sun is shining and the aurorae occur in the opposite hemisphere and are visible in the night sky.This anomaly was cleared up by THEMIS satellites which showed that the Earth's magnetic field held the charged particles before deflecting them from the day side of the planet across to the opposite side of the planet where the particles massed into huge clouds. There the accumulated charge expands continuously until finally the cloud becomes unstable releasing its energy as a geomagnetic tornado which travels down towards the earth along magnetic field lines becoming visible as aurorae in the sky. The scientists presented their findings at the European Geosciences Union (EGU) in Vienna, Austria just this week.The definition of what is and what is not a planet is being challenged by a newly announced discovery Friday. Astronomers from the Palomar Observatory near San Diego, California said they found a chunk of ice and rock in the solar system larger than Pluto.The object, given the temporary generic name of 2003 UB313, is about 9 billion miles away from the sun. It was first photographed in 2003 using the Gemini Observatory in Hawaii. But it was an indistinguishable bright spot among a field of stars in an area of the sky where astronomers don't usually look at for planets or planet-type objects.Solar system bodies found beyond the orbit of Neptune are called "trans-Neptunian objects". One of them, Pluto, is also classified as a planet. Up until now all other planet-like discoveries beyond Neptune, including Sedna, found by the same Palomar team in 2004, are called Kuiper Belt objects, or minor planets.A black spot about the size of the Earth that appeared on the upper cloud surface of the planet Jupiter on July 19 has been confirmed to be the result of a massive object, probably a comet or asteroid, crashing into the planet, according to the results of infrared observations of the planet taken at NASA's Mauna Kea Observatory.The spot, located near Jupiter's south pole, was first reported by Anthony Wesley, an amateur astronomer from Murrumbateman, New South Wales, Australia who was observing the planet late on the 19th Australia time, around 1330 on July 20 GMT. Wesley called in a tip to NASA, whose Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) began their own observations at the Infrared Telescope Facility. A team under Glenn Orton then confirmed Wesley's original theory, citing similarities between the black, hot region in the atmosphere and the aftermath of the impact of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9, which broke into pieces and impacted Jupiter exactly 15 years previously — July 16 to July 22, 1994.Wesley's tip was instrumental in securing the best possible observations. "We were extremely lucky to be seeing Jupiter at exactly the right time, the right hour, the right side of Jupiter to witness the event. We couldn't have planned it better", said Orton in a NASA press release. Leigh Flecther, a postdoctoral fellow at JPL, called the observations "the most exciting observations I've seen in my five years of observing the outer planets!"Wesley almost missed observing the spot. He told the Guardian, "I was imaging Jupiter until about midnight and seriously thought about packing up and going back to the house to watch the golf and the cricket. In the end I decided to just take a break and I went back to the house to watch Tom Watson almost make history. I came back down half an hour later and I could see this black mark had turned into view."Unlike Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9, the object responsible for Jupiter's new black spot was not detected prior to its impact.Three people were killed and another three seriously injured in a blast at Mojave Spaceport, located in California, United States. The blast occurred on Thursday at 2:34 p.m. PDT (UTC-7) while Scaled Composites was conducting cold flow test of a rocket engine.According to Tony Diffenbaugh of the Kern County Fire Department, two of the victims died immediately in the blast, while the third succumbed to his injuries at the hospital."Our units arrived on the scene at a remote test site in the northeast portion of the airport. What they found was six victims of an apparent explosion with various traumatic and burn injuries," Diffenbaugh said.Burt Rutan, founder of Scaled Composites, said a press conference: "We just don't know" why the explosion occurred, nitrous oxide usually is "not considered a hazardous material."Scaled Composites is in a partnership with Richard Branson's Virgin Galactic to build SpaceShipTwo, which hopes to become the first commercially available passenger spaceflight for space tourism.The accident comes just days after Northrop Grumman announced it would increase its stake in Scaled Composites to 100%.Brazilian astronomers have proposed a new model to explain the structure of our galaxy, the Milky Way. The new model suggests that our galaxy may have one more arm than previously thought and that these arms are more straight than curved.The astronomers, led by Jacques Lepine at the University of Sao Paulo, used data from clouds of gas to develop their new proposed model.In order to study the structure of the Milky Way, the astronomers studied spectra created by Carbon monosulphide clouds, contrary to the common method of analyzing spectra from clouds of ionized hydrogen. This method was used in hopes of producing an accurate 'face-on' map of our galaxy.The postulated extra arm, if indeed actual, will increase the number of known arms from two to three. Previously, in 2008, the number was changed from four to two. This new arm is estimated to be about 30,000 light-years from the center of the Milky Way and is thought to have a "strong inward curvature".The new model also suggests that our Solar System is in one of the straightest parts of an outer arm of our galaxy.The joint project between Brazil and Argentina was in accordance with a contract from 1998, under which both states contributed with experiments that were transported into space as a workload. The rocket was launched at 9:15 am CET from the spaceport located in Boca do Inferno in the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Norte. 122 kilometers from the launch site, the workload landed in the Atlantic Ocean. After its recovery, the evaluation of the experiments will take place in Buenos Aires.A bright object was seen falling over the night sky across the Pacific Northwest, at about 7:45 p.m. Pacific time March 12. Eyewitnesses from as far south as Northern California and as far north as Vancouver, British Columbia reported seeing the object falling in the western sky.“The object began as a small white dot roughly the brightness of a planet, and quickly became a brilliant blue-green color with a long spark-like tail of yellow specks.  From my vantage in Southeast Portland, Oregon it moved roughly from south to north and at a 45-degree angle downwards through the sky. I also saw two flashes of white light as the object disappeared behind the hills on the west bank of the Willamette River,” reported Wikinews contributor Buckwad.It is not known if the object impacted, but it was witnessed to fall over the Pacific Ocean.The last reported meteor impact in the Oregon area happened in May 1981.British-born astronaut Michael Foale has retired from NASA after dedicating the past 26 years to space exploration. Considered the most experienced British-born astronaut in human spaceflight, Foale is said to have spent 375 days in orbit, visiting the International Space Station, Mir platform and completing work on the Hubble Space Telescope.Foale was present in the 1997 Mir station incident, where it was accidentally rammed by a cargo ship. He told the BBC: "I felt the fall of the air pressure in my ears and realised it was fairly severe but not so severe that we wouldn't have time to evacuate. It all started to fit together and a plan even started to form in all our minds that we would be ok -- or we could be ok."Foale will now be spending his time helping to advance green aviation technology, his aim being to develop an electric aircraft. NASA administrator and former fellow astronaut, Charles Bolden, said in a statement: "Starting with his first flight, shuttle mission STS-45, when we flew together in 1992, Mike has worked tirelessly to support NASA's quest to explore the unknown. I know Mike will go on to do more great things as he continues to support the aerospace industry in his new endeavour."NASA representatives have saluted Mr Foale for his contributions to the space exploration industry and regard him as one of the great members of the astronaut corps.British theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking died at his home in Cambridge, England, early on Wednesday morning, a family spokesman said that day. Hawking was 76 years old.His children released the following statement: "We are deeply saddened that our beloved father passed away today. He was a great scientist and an extraordinary man whose work and legacy will live on for many years. His courage and persistence with his brilliance and humour inspired people across the world. He once said, 'It would not be much of a universe if it wasn't home to the people you love.' We will miss him forever."Astronomer royal Lord Rees said of Hawking, "Stephen was far from being the archetypal unworldy or nerdish scientist. His personality remained amazingly unwarped by his frustrations[...] Few, if any, of Einstein’s successors have done more to deepen our insights into gravity, space and time."Hawking studied at Oxford and Cambridge Universities and was in 1979 awarded a post once held by Isaac Newton, the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics. His scientific work focused on fundamental aspects of the universe and space, including black holes.  The heat emitted from black holes is called Hawking radiation after him.  He was also known for placing bets with other researchers about who would disprove whose theories, as with one he lost to John Preskill, over whether black holes can permanently remove information from the universe — Hawking conceded they probably cannot.Hawking was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also called Lou Gherig's disease, as a young man and spent much of his life in a wheelchair.  Doctors predicted he would not live to be 25.  Since losing the use of his voice after a tracheotomy in 1985, Hawking communicated with a computer-aided speech system.Hawking maintained a public image to an extent that drew criticism from some of his peers. He became widely known to the general public for his 1988 book, A Brief History of Time: From the Big Bang to Black Holes, and has made cameo appearances on many popular television shows, including The Simpsons, Star Trek: The Next Generation, and The Big Bang Theory.  He was also the subject of the 2014 biopic The Theory of Everything."Not since Albert Einstein has a scientist so captured the public imagination and endeared himself to tens of millions of people around the world," fellow physicist Michio Kaku of the City University of New York was quoted by the New York Times.Despite many other honors, including the Wolf Prize, Albert Einstein award, and Fundamental Physics prize, the Presidential Medal of Freedom from U.S. President Barack Obama and being named a Commander of the British Empire, Stephen Hawking was not awarded a Nobel Prize.  He explained, "The Nobel is given only for theoretical work that has been confirmed by observation. It is very, very difficult to observe the things I have worked on."In a 1989 remark to Der Speigel, Hawking observed, "We are just an advanced breed of monkeys on a minor planet of a very average star[...] But we can understand the universe. That makes us something very special."Hawking is survived by his three children, Lucy, Robert, and Tim, and three grandchildren.The last British Skylark rocket has made its final flight.The rocket flew from coastal Sweden at 6am UTC on Monday, carrying its ESA science package to an altitude of 250km.The 13m tall rocket was developed in the UK and first flew in 1957 from Woomera range in Australia. It continued to be developed for another twenty years. The British government ended support for the project in 1979, leaving private companies to fly the remaining rockets. Enough rockets had been built to sustain a launch program until today.A total of 441 flights have been made by the sub-orbital Skylark. The rocket is known as a 'sounding rocket', designed to explore the upper regions of Earth's atmosphere.On Tuesday, February 10, the American civilian communications satellite Iridium 33, launched in 1997, and the defunct Russian military communications satellite Kosmos-2251, launched in 1993, collided over Siberia. Five days after the collision, reports have surfaced that burning debris from the collision has been spotted over several U.S. cities from New Mexico to Kentucky.Calls to 9-1-1 began to come in to Williamson County, Texas sheriff's office around 12:30 p.m. (CT) that burning debris and fireballs were seen falling from the sky onto parts of Austin, Houston, Waco and San Antonio. Residents reported their homes and windows shaking and large explosions. After a search of several areas, the Williamson county sheriff's office reported that no debris or impact sites were found. Earlier unconfirmed reports had said the debris could have been the result of a small plane exploding. Steve Thornton, a resident in Austin told KEYE-TV that he "saw something burn up in the atmosphere going east to west at 40 degrees in the horizon looking north" which was "about the size of a half moon and as bright as a welders torch".  Other residents reported to KEYE-TV that they saw an "egg-shape with an orange center and bluish outer aura; a silvery-white tail."  Some report the incident lasting about 10 minutes.On February 13, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) issued an alert following reports of "explosions and earthquakes" along with "flashes in the sky" in Jackson and Louisville, Kentucky. There were no injures and authorities could not locate any damage."The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reported to local law enforcement on Friday that these events are being caused by falling satellite debris. These pieces of debris have been causing sonic booms, resulting in vibrations felt by some residents, as well as flashes of light across the sky," said the NOAA in a public information statement on February 13. The FAA also warns that the debris could cause damage to aircraft in areas reporting falling debris."Aircraft are advised that a potential hazard may occur due to reentry of satellite debris into the Earth's atmosphere. It is critical that all pilots/crew members report any observed falling space debris," said the FAA on February 13. Both the NOAA and FAA alerts are in place until further notice and cover an area from New Mexico to Kentucky.However, Dr. Marco Ciocca, a professor at Eastern Kentucky University told WKYT in Kentucky it would "be months" before any of the satellite wreckage enters the Earth's atmosphere. "The debris doesn't simply fall out of its orbit. It will either vaporize or stay in orbit for some time before falling into Earth's atmosphere." The satellites, both of which weighed in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the Earth. Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive. They are still trying to determine just how large the crash was and how the Earth will be affected. The United States Strategic Command of the U.S. Department of Defense office is tracking the debris. The result of plotting analysis will be posted to a public website.Canada has contributed a significant component to NASA's Phoenix mission to Mars, announced Maxime Bernier, Canada's Minister of Industry. In a news release on Thursday, Bernier, who is also responsible for the Canadian Space Agency (CSA), indicated that Canada had provided a meteorological station, named MET.The Phoenix Lander, with several on-board instruments, is to launch in August 2007 and touch down on Mars in May 2008. It will gather information on the Martian climate and weather, and will search for habitable zones.The MET is to play a significant role in NASA's mission by providing information on the Mars atmosphere. The MET is comprised of a pressure sensor, three temperature sensors located on a mast, and a lidar. A lidar is similar to radar but employs laser light rather than microwaves.The MET instruments were designed by Canadian scientists and private industry, which had received CA$37 million in funding from the CSA. "Our contribution to the Phoenix mission will inspire young Canadians to take their place as part of the next space generation," said Bernier.Canada has provided astronauts and technology to international space programs. Examples of technological contributions include the Canadarm and Canadarm2 on the Space Shuttle and International Space Station.With the experience gained from the Phoenix mission, NASA hopes to provide a foundation for future robotic missions and, one day, human exploration of Mars.The province of Nova Scotia has agreed to set aside 300 acres in Cape Breton for the country's first orbital launch facility, the Toronto Star reported Wednesday.  According to the Star, the Canadian Space Agency has been aware of a proposed orbital launch facility for Cape Breton, Nova Scotia for several months and is "pleased.""Seeing industry taking a strong role and a leadership role in this area is not something we're against," said Hugues Gilbert, the agency's director-general of policy planning and relations. "Au contraire, this is something we're very pleased to see."The proposal came from a Canada and U.S. firm called PlanetSpace.org. They are working on a shuttle called the Silver Dart. It plans to construct a spacecraft capable of shuttling astronauts and supplies to the International Space Station, then gliding back to Earth. PlanetSpace picked Cape Breton as a launch site because of its location in relation to the International Space Station.Nova Scotia Business Inc., a government development agency, recommended the move after reviewing the company’s business plan. The province will allow PlanetSpace to use 120 hectares of Crown land for the project."PlanetSpace is a company that is very involved in the commercialization of space," government spokesman Mark James said Wednesday.PlanetSpace says NASA is so intrigued with its proposed "Silver Dart" vehicle and launch location it's willing to provide unfunded technical support. PlanetSpace and a related company, Canadian Arrow, have built and tested a powerful liquid fuel rocket engine near London, Ontario."PlanetSpace also says it's in discussions with NASA to sign a Space Act Agreement, which would give us the technology to complete the vehicle", said Dr. Chirinjeev Kathuria, chairman of PlanetSpace. The spacecraft is expected to launch vertical atop a stack of about 10 Canadian Arrow rocket engines and land horizontally on an aircraft runway, they added.India's recently launched satellites, the 1560 kg Indian Remote Sensing satellite, CARTOSAT-1 for stereoscopic cartographic applications and 42.5 kg HAMSAT will have a longer life as per the Project Director, PSLV, N Narayana Murthy.Murthy told reporters that the additional fuel in the satellites for putting them into the right orbit can now be utilized for orbit maintenance maneuvers. This is due to their precise injection into the orbit by the PSLV-C6 Launcher.PSLV-C6 was launched by Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) on May 5, 2005 10:15 IST (May 05, 04:45 UT). PSLV-C6 placed both the satellites in polar Sun Synchronous Orbit (SSO) at an altitude of 632 x 621 km with an inclination of 97.8 deg with respect to the equator. The solar panels of CARTOSAT-1 were deployed soon after its injection into orbit.CARTOSAT-1 is the eleventh satellite in the Indian remote sensing satellite series and is intended for cartographic applications. It carries two panchromatic cameras that take black-and-white stereoscopic pictures in the visible region of the electromagnetic spectrum.HAMSAT is a Micro-satellite for providing satellite based Amateur Radio services to the Indian as well as International community of Amateur Radio Operators (HAM).The Cassini–Huygens spacecraft has discovered "organic material" and water spewing from a geyser on one of Saturn's moons, Enceladus. According to NASA, the discovery was made when Cassini flew by the moon on March 12."A completely unexpected surprise is that the chemistry of Enceladus, what's coming out from inside, resembles that of a comet. To have primordial material coming out from inside a Saturn moon raises many questions on the formation of the Saturn system," said Hunter Waite, principal investigator for the Cassini Ion and Neutral Mass Spectrometer at the Southwest Research Institute located in San Antonio, Texas.The Ion and Neutral Mass Spectrometer saw a much higher density of volatile gases, water vapor, carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide, as well as organic materials, some 20 times denser than expected. This dramatic increase in density was evident as the spacecraft flew over the area of the plumes.New high-resolution heat maps of the south pole by Cassini's Composite Infrared Spectrometer show that the so-called tiger stripes, giant fissures that are the source of the geysers, are warm along almost their entire lengths, and reveal other warm fissures nearby. These more precise new measurements reveal temperatures of at least minus 93 degrees Celsius (minus 135 Fahrenheit.) That is 17 degrees Celsius (63 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than previously seen and 93 degrees Celsius (200 degrees Fahrenheit) warmer than other regions of the moon. The warmest regions along the tiger stripes correspond to two of the jet locations seen in Cassini images."Enceladus has got warmth, water and organic chemicals, some of the essential building blocks needed for life. We have quite a recipe for life on our hands, but we have yet to find the final ingredient, liquid water, but Enceladus is only whetting our appetites for more," said Dennis Matson, Cassini project scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.At closest approach, Cassini was only 30 miles from Enceladus. When it flew through the plumes it was 120 miles from the moon's surface. Cassini's next flyby of Enceladus is in August.NASA's Saturn exploration spacecraft, Cassini, has discovered an atmosphere about the moon Enceladus. This is the first such discovery by Cassini, other than Titan, of the presence of an atmosphere around a Saturn moon.Enceladus's gravity is too weak to hold an atmosphere around the planet, leading scientists to believe that volcanism, geysers, or gases escaping from the surface or the interior as a continuous source for the atmosphere.The atmosphere was detected using a magnetometer during two close flybys of Enceladus on February 17 and March 9.  The magnetometer is used to measure the magnitude and direction of magnetic fields surrounding Saturn and its moons. The magnetometer detected a bending of Saturn's magnetic field around the moon, indicating the Saturnian plasma is being diverted away from an extended atmosphere. The observations from the Enceladus flybys are believed to be due to ionized water vapor."These new results from Cassini may be the first evidence of gases originating either from the surface or possibly from the interior of Enceladus," said Dr. Michele Dougherty, principal investigator for the Cassini magnetometer and professor at Imperial College in London.Scientists have suspected Enceladus as geologically active and a possible source of Saturn's icy E ring. Enceladus is the most reflective object in the solar system, reflecting about 90 percent of the sunlight that hits it.Cassini first arrived in Saturn orbit July 1, 2004, releasing the Huygens Titan probe on December 25, 2004 which landed on Titan January 14, 2005.The Cassini-Huygens mission is a cooperative project of NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency. The Cassini orbiter was designed, developed and assembled at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.Cassini, a European and United States space probe, has taken pictures of what appear to be lakes on the surface of Saturn's moon, Titan. If the findings are confirmed, then Titan will be the only other planetary mass, other than Earth, to have liquid lakes on their surfaces. Some of the 'lakes' also contain channels that lead to and from them. The lakes are believed to have been formed by rainfall of liquid methane or ethane.Some radar images of the lakes and channels leading to and from them, show areas of black, which indicate that there is no image to display and scientists say that it could mean the surface of the 'lakes' are very smooth and flat."What we see is darker than anything we've ever seen elsewhere on Titan. It was almost as though someone laid a bull's-eye around the whole north pole of Titan, and Cassini sees these regions of lakes just like those we see on Earth," said U.S. Geological Survey Cassini interdisciplinary scientist, Larry Soderblom.So far scientists have found at least 12 lakes which range between 6 and 62 miles wide."It was a real potpourri," said University of Arizona Cassini scientist, Jonathan Lunine. "We've always believed Titan's methane had to be maintained by liquid lakes or extensive underground 'methanofers,' the methane equivalent of aquifers. We can't see methanofers but we can now say we've seen lakes ," added Lunine.File:Iapetus mosaic color.jpgThe Cassini space probe will make a close flyby today of Saturn's third largest moon Iapetus. For reasons that are not well-understood, one side of Iapetus is much darker than the other side. Explanations for the dark side include meteorite deposition as well as possible debris from other moons of Saturn. Also, the Cassini probe had previously discovered an equatorial ridge on Iapetus during a flyby in 2004 which compounds Iapetus' already non-spherical shape. The origin of the ridge is also not well understood and scientists have proposed a variety of explanations for its presence. This second flyby will be approximately  1,600 km from the surface and will be about 100 times closer than the previous flyby.  Scientists hope that the detailed observation using radar and photography will provide insight into Iapetus's odd shape and coloring.Iapetus was first discovered by Giovanni Cassini, for whom the probe is named, in 1671. He was also responsible for discovering that one side of Iapetus was substantially darker than the other.  This flyby will likely be the last close flyby of one of Saturn's moons by the Cassini probe.On Wednesday NASA released details of a giant convective storm on Saturn gathered from the international Cassini spacecraft orbiting the planet. The storm, known as a "Great White Spot", is around 6,200 miles (10,000 kilometers) wide and visible from Earth. The White Spot storms have been observed since 1876 and occur approximately every 30 years; only five previous storms have been seen in the last 137 years. The first signs were detected on December 5, 2010 by instruments aboard the Cassini spacecraft when it recorded lightening outbursts in a small bright area on Saturn's northern half. The area was tracked by the spacecraft and by astronomers on the ground through telescopes. It was later identified as a brewing storm during the start of Saturn spring. Its size and intensity grew until its tail wrapped around the planet. It now covers 1.5 billion square miles.Cassini has been monitoring storms on Saturn since the craft arrived there in 2004. This is the most intense yet seen and was observed in unprecedented detail, according to  the journal Nature in two papers published Thursday. The storm  is 500 times larger than the biggest storm on Saturn monitored by Cassini. The spacecraft's  instruments  showed the rate of the nearly continuous lightning flashes was up to ten times more frequent than during past storms it has monitored. This electrical activity is 10,000 times stronger than lightning bursts measured on Earth.Saturn's huge storm is bright due to its gaseous content, scientists say.A key question is the source of the energy powering  Great White Spots. Originally researchers thought the storms' power might come from the sun. However,  researcher Agustin Sánchez-Lavega told Space.com the new data showed that to make sense of the cloud patterns, the winds must "extend deep into the 'weather layer' ... where the main clouds reside." Since sunlight does not reach this depth, this "points to the action of an internal heat source as the power for the winds."Space probe Cassini performed a close flyby of Saturn's icy moon Enceladus on Wednesday. The fate of the $3.5 billion mission was in the balance as the bus-sized spacecraft swooped to just 50 km (30 mi) above the surface of Enceladus to sample the frozen spray issuing from geysers on the moon's surface. The "water" spraying from these geysers is in the form of dust-sized, frozen water particles, which are ejected into space by gaseous water vapors that build up pressure deep within icy fissures on Enceladus. Cassini's cosmic dust analyzer was unavailable due to a glitch in the updated software that was supposed to provide an increased hit count of the geyser dust particles. However, dust samples were collected before and after the closest approach and the mass spectrometer functioned throughout the flyby, providing useful data which is now being analyzed. Mission controllers will have a chance to capture more geyser dust on October 9, 2008 when they may choose to steer Cassini even closer to the surface of Enceladus.      Tidal flexing of this moon due to the gravitational proximity of its host planet, Saturn, continually heaves and cracks the icy surface. This suggests that Enceladus may have a squishy, liquid-water ocean beneath an icy crust.  Deep, parallel fissures in the ice crust, dubbed the "Tiger Stripes", measure warmer than uncracked, stationary surfaces nearby. Friction of these massive, moving plates of ice is thought to provide the heat responsible for the pressurized geysers of sublimated water and ice dust.  The presence of these geysers amounts to more empirical evidence of a large, liquid water ocean below the surface of Enceladus.The Cassini-Huygens space probe is an international mission involving the cooperative efforts of NASA, the European Space Agency, and the Italian Space Agency. Launched in 1997, Cassini has orbited Saturn since 2004 but has never before flown so close to a moon. On 14 January 2005, the Huygens lander successfully explored the atmosphere and surface conditions of Saturn's biggest moon, Titan.Scientists studying data from the Chandra X-ray telescope havefound strong evidence for the missing half of ordinary matterin the universe. Two immense intergalactic clouds confirm theexistence of a cosmic web of hot gas, predicted by computersimulations, containing baryons, the material makingup visible objects in the Universe."An inventory of all the baryons in stars and gas inside and outsideof galaxies accounts for just over half the baryons thatexisted shortly after the Big Bang," Fabrizio Nicastro of theHarvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics.  "Now we have found thelikely hiding place of the missing baryons."  Nicastro is lead authorof a paper in the February 3, 2005 issue of Nature describing the recent research.Various measurements give a good estimate of the mass-density ofbaryons - the neutrons and protonsthat make up the nuclei of atoms and ions - in theUniverse 10 billion years ago. However, sometimeduring the last 10 billion years a large fraction of the baryons,commonly referred to as "ordinary matter" to distinguish themfrom dark matter and darkenergy, have gone missing.Using the computer predictions, Nicastro and colleaguessearched specifically for the diffuse system of gas cloudsgalaxies and galaxy clusters form within.  Evidence of theclouds had been previously detected around our own galaxy and inthe Local Group, but the temperature range (a fewhundred thousand to a million degrees Celsius) and low densityhave prevented detection outside the immediate neighborhood ofgalaxies and the reliable estimation of baryon density for theentire universe.The clouds were detected using Chandra observations when thegalaxy Mkn 421 brightened in X-rayemissions.  The X-ray spectral data showed two hot gas clouds,150 million and 370 million light years distant, absorbing theX-rays from Mkn 421. The data shows the presence of carbon,nitrogen, oxygen, and neon present in the clouds. Combined withother data the research team determined the thickness and mass ofthe clouds.Assuming that the size and distribution of the clouds arerepresentative, Nicastro and colleagues made the first reliableestimate of average density of baryons in such clouds throughoutthe Universe, finding it consistent with the mass density of themissing baryons.Mkn 421 was observed three times with Chandra's Low-EnergyTransmission Grating (LETG), twice in conjunction with the HighResolution Camera (May 2000 and July 2003) and once with theAdvanced CCD Imaging Spectrometer (October 2002). The distance toMkn 421 is 400 million light years.Recent images from the Chandra X-Ray Observatory reveal details of the nature of the star that became Supernova 1987A.  In the time just before the star exploded, solar winds created a cavity in a cloud of cool gas that surrounded it.  The explosion first lit up the cooler gas with a burst of ultraviolet light, then created a shock wave that started travelling through this cavity."In 1999, Chandra imaged this shock wave, and astronomers have waited expectantly for the shock wave to hit the edge of the cavity, where it would encounter the much denser gas deposited by the red supergiant wind, and produce a dramatic increase in X-radiation. The latest data from Chandra and the Hubble Space Telescope indicate that this much-anticipated event has begun." an article on the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics' Chandra website states.These events confirm scientists' understanding of stars.  As the shock wave continues it will travel through less understood material, hopefully allowing scientists to further their research into the birth and death of stars, and the overall behaviour of the universe.China has confirmed that the newest generation of Long March rockets has been re-scheduled to enter use in 2014. Liang Xiaohong, Vice President of China's Academy of Launch Vehicle Technology, also confirmed that the Changzheng 5 design was built around pollution-free technologies. The rocket has been under development since 2002, and was initially said to require only six years' research. However the new design, which will allow more than twice the payload of previous models, has seen a number of delays in funding and development.Due to the large size of the new rockets, a new 200-hectare launch centre has been under construction at the existing Wenchang Satellite Launch Center since September.Until then, China is relying on its older fleet of rockets to carry on its space program, consisting of more than ten launches scheduled for this year. This month a CA-3a rocket will take a Beidou navigation system into Medium Earth Orbit.China is developing and enacting a long term space program aimed at cultivating and proving the country’s scientific abilities. The project is heavily research based and includes plans extensive manned missions and a modular space station. However the ultimate goal is lunar based.The Chinese hope to develop its own pollution free fuels that may be used in high capacity rockets that may be able to launch upwards of 25 tons into space. The program has plans for a moon based astronomical telescope and extensive research of the moon’s geology. Ouyang Ziyuan, who heads the moon research program,  has explained one particular interest is the helium-3 isotope. Helium-3 is thought to have great capacity for a reliable, non-polluting fuel source.Their recent Shenzhou 6 mission sent two astronauts into orbit for 5 days. The Shenzhou 7 mission expects to launch three astronauts into space in 2007. Subsequent missions include plans for launching parts of their space station and eventually. The Chinese intend to man their orbiting space station with Shenzhou 10. By 2006 the Chinese hope to launch the Chang’e 1 lunar orbiter which is designed around a Chinese commercial satellite. They intend to follow up with landlers and sample collection as early as 2017.Started in 1992, the Chinese space program has made rapid progress. Shenzhou 6 was their second manned mission and cost China roughly 110 million, quite inexpensive when compared to the space missions of other countries. The programs extensive plans hint that now, more than ever, the program’s progress is heavily dependent on funding. In 2004 the Chinese budget was 1.8 billion, almost a 30% less than in 1999 and tiny compared to NASA’s spending potential, upped to 16.5 billion for 2006. The space program realizes that it must fit into the country's grander scheme.Hu Shixiang, deputy commander in chief of China’s manned space program told CNN that the Chinese are not competing with other countries in their space research, denying any comparison to the Cold War space race. He said China is willing to put for international cooperation in their space research.File:Chang'e 2 satellite.jpgChina launched its second unmanned lunar exploration probe, Chang'e 2, on Friday from the province of Sichuan.Chang'e 2 is part of a Chinese initiative to test skills and technology that could lead to unmanned landings in the future. The head of the orbiter's design team was quoted by Xinhua as saying: "Chang'e 2 lays foundation for the soft-landing on the moon and further exploration of outer space. It (will) travel faster and closer to the moon, and it will capture clear pictures."Launched in 2007, the preceding unmanned Chang'e 1 mission took around thirteen days to reach lunar orbit. Chang'e 2 is expected to take around five.Once Chang'e 2 arrives at the moon, it is planned that the probe will be put into an orbit less than 100 kilometers from the surface as opposed to the 200 kilometer orbit of the previous Chang'e 1. The probe will then be put into a 15 kilometer orbit to survey possible landing sites for the unmanned Chang'e 3 mission.The People's Republic of China today launched its first moon orbiter as part of the country's lunar exploration program.At 18:05 hours local time (10:05 UTC) the rocket Chang'e 1 lifted off from Xichang Satellite Launch Center in southwestern China. The name of the probe refers to the Chinese goddess of the moon.The state television network broadcast live footage of the countdown and launch, which took place in the presence of Chinese officials and some 2,000 Chinese who paid around US$100 to attend the event, but without any international press.The 2350 kg probe is expected to enter a lunar orbit on November 5. On its year-long mission, Chang'e 1 will obtain three dimensional images of the Moon's surface and gather information related to the chemical and physical properties of the lunar soil. It will do so circulating at about 200 kilometers above the lunar surface. On its way to the Moon the spacecraft will register data regarding the solar winds, or space weather. It will also broadcast 30 patriotic Chinese songs when orbiting the Moon.The officially-Communist nation which hosts next year's Olympics hopes to put a taikonaut on the moon in ten to 15 years. Last month, Japan launched a lunar probe while India hopes to achieve the same next April. In 2003, China used one of their own rockets to get the astronaut Yang Liwei into space. Yang told the Xinhua News Agency last week that once China has a manned space station, he and his fellow taikonauts could form a new branch of the Communist Party in space.Last January, China used a rocket to blow up one of its own satellites, sparking fears from the United States and other countries that China might have a military agenda in space, besides the problems of space pollution and danger to other satellites the explosion caused. China says the goals of its space program are scientific and peaceful.Following its "ground-breaking" success, China is now preparing to send two taikonauts to space in the autumn of this year. The two Chinese spacemen will be delivered to space through its self-designed Shenzhou VI spaceship, and will orbit the Earth for up to five days."The spaceship's re-entry module, orbital capsule and propulsion module are being equipped, and preparation work for the launch is in full swing", said Sun Laiyan, Director of China's National Space Administration.China's first manned space mission happened in October 2003, in which the Shenzhou V spaceship circled the Earth fourteen times and landed safely by parachute on the northern plains of China. The success of the misson aroused strong patriotic feeling across the country, portraying Yang Liwei — China's first astronaut ever — as a great national hero. Within the next few years, China also plans to land on the Moon.China has shot down one of their old weather satellites with a ballistic missile and the United States is concerned about the test."The US believes China's development and testing of such weapons is inconsistent with the spirit of cooperation that both countries aspire to in the civil space area. We and other countries have expressed our concern to the Chinese," said a spokesman for the National Security Council, Gordon Johndroe.The Feng Yun 1C polar orbit weather satellite was hit by a medium-range, ground based ballistic missile approximately 537 miles above the Earth's surface. The missile used a "kinetic impact" to destroy the satellite, said Johndroe. Both the satellite and the missile were launched from the Xichang Space Center in Sichuan Province; the satellite in 1999, and the missile on January 11 this year.Officials in the U.S. are now concerned that debris from the test could cause problems for civilian and/or military satellites. It is estimated that at least 40,000 pieces of debris are now floating around in space as the result of the test, and the pieces range anywhere from 1–10 cm. The pieces of the satellite and missile could stay in Earth's orbit for several decades.When the test happened, the U.S. stated that communication with one of its spy satellites was lost, but thus far no evidence has turned up to suggest the loss of communication was directly related to China's test.The test took place on January 11, 2007 and this is the first such test to occur in over 20 years. The U.S. last tested an anti-satellite system back on September 13, 1985Australia and Canada have both stated concerns about the test and South Korea, Japan, and the United Kingdom are all expected to voice their concerns over the test.BBC News is reporting that the People's Republic of China has successfully launched its second manned space flight, Shenzhou VI.The mission is more ambitious than the previous Shenzhou V, which made China only the third nation to launch a manned space mission. Shenzhou VI will carry two astronauts, Nie Haisheng and Fei Junlong, compared to the previous mission which only carried a single astronaut, Yang Liwei. The newest astronauts will also stay in orbit longer, five days compared to the 21 hour, 14 orbit flight of Shenzhou V.The director of the Chinese Space Crew Training program, Chen Shanguang, explained to the media that the country would send a woman to Space within five years. "Women are more patient compared with male astronauts, their psychological qualities are more stable and they face isolation better," according to Chen.On Sunday, the China Manned Space Engineering Office confirmed the Tiangong-1 space laboratory fell out of orbit, with much of the 10.4-meter structure burning up in Earth's atmosphere before the remainder crashed into the Pacific Ocean at 8:15  a.m. Beijing time (0015 UTC)."Through monitoring and analysis by Beijing Aerospace Control Center and related agencies," reads a statement from the China Manned Space Engineering Office, "Tiangong-1 re-entered the atmosphere at about 8.15am, 2 April, Beijing time (0115 GMT). The re-entry falling area is located in the central region of the south Pacific." The United States Joint Force Space Component Command and partners from eight other countries confirmed the crash.Tiangong 1, which means "Heavenly Palace 1," was China's first space station. It was launched in 2011 as a stepping stone toward the development of a permanent space station but itself had an expected life of about two years. Authorities recalled the last astronauts in 2013 but continued to use the space station for other purposes until losing navigational control in 2016. Late last year, the Chinese informed the United Nations that they expected the space station would crash sometime in March 2018. Australian National University astrophysicist Brad Tucker described the station as "tumbling and spinning" for a long time before today's re-entry, which rendered its movements less predictable. The European Space Agency nonetheless described the chance of a person being struck by a piece of Tiangong-1 as extremely less likely than being struck by lightning.According to U.S. astronaut Leroy Chiao, the original plan had been for China to bring the space station down in a controlled fashion as the Russians did with the Mir space station in 2001. In 1979, the U.S. Skylab space station had an uncontrolled re-entry that scattered small pieces of debris across western Australia. No one was harmed, but the agency was issued a $400 fine for littering.Several memorials to the space station appeared in China's media. Public comments on the Weibo blog ranged from critical ("Re-entry? Everyone knows it's a crash") to poignant ("Goodbye Tiangong-1. You are our hero") and other tributes. One Chinese newspaper, the Global Times criticized the portrayal of Tiangong-1's end in Western media: "It's normal for spacecraft to re-enter the atmosphere, yet Tiangong-1 received so much attention partly because some western countries are trying to hype and sling mud at China's fast-growing aerospace industry."According to reports, the second Chinese space station, Tiangong-2, remains in orbit. China plans to launch a permanent space station by 2022, whereas the United States is currently debating a plan to withdraw support for the International Space Station as of 2024.A Chinese taikonaut (Chinese astronaut) today became the first taikonaut to walk in space when he left his space craft for a total of fifteen minutes. The entire event, which marks a new stage in China's space program, was broadcast live on national TV.The walk started at 1630 local time (0830 UTC) today when he exited the spacecraft, while attached to an umbilical cable. The other two astronauts on the spacecraft stayed entirely inside the vehicle while in space, except when passing the flag to Zhigang.Zhai Zhigang, who has also worked as a fighter pilot, carried out the space walk. "I'm feeling quite well. I greet the Chinese people and the people of the world," he said as he walked out of his spacecraft to start the walk.While carrying out the walk, Zhigang wore a Chinese spacesuit, which is believed to have cost between US$10m and $40m to create.Before the event, the Chinese president Hu Jintao wished the astronauts success. "I have come to send you off, to wish you success," he said in a televised speech. "You will wear the homemade Fetian space suit for the first time and carry out China's first extravehicular activity (space walk), which is a great stride for our country's space technology and development."China's Shenzhou VI touched down safely in Inner Mongolia at 4.32 am (2032 GMT) after being in space for five days. The two astronauts were healthy and the mission was considered successful by Mission Control.The Shenzhou VI orbited the Earth 76 times during the mission.Fei Junlong and Nie Haisheng, the astronauts aboard the flight, were watched by Chinese around the country on national television. The Shenzhou VI is China's second manned space mission.Hundreds of residents in Nie's hometown in northern Hebei province showed their pride by celebrating the successful mission with dragon dances and firecrackers.The mission was conducted "entirely for peaceful purposes", President Wen Jiabao said to allay concerns that China's military might be using space for other matters.Yang Liwei was the first Chinese in space and orbited the Earth in the Shenzhou V 14 times in 2003. The space program is hoped to instill patriotism and cultivate a love for science and technology in the next generation of Chinese."Today, an independent, self-sufficient, constantly strengthening China has, like a miracle, become one of a handful of countries able to make the dream of spaceflight a reality," said the Xinhua state news agency.China is the third country to put people into space, after the former Soviet Union and the USA.On Thursday, NASA officials confirmed that a small plastic bag of cocaine was found two days before in a secure space shuttle processing facility within the Kennedy Space Center located in Merritt Island, Florida. An employee found the bag in Orbiter Processing Facility #3, where the Discovery is being prepared for a March launch to deliver supplies to the International Space Station. The man immediately notified security, and local police were soon called to the scene. From there, the bag's contents were tested, and the results came back positive for cocaine.The center's director, Robert Cabana, assured the press that neither the Discovery nor the hangar in which it is being housed was compromised by the presence of the illegal drug. He went on to affirm that neither he nor his agency condone the use of any controlled substance by any employee while they are on the job, and that whoever is responsible will be fired and then prosecuted for the offenses. Furthermore, Cabana stated that besides probing the criminal nature of what occurred, NASA will also conduct a full review of recent work performed on the Discovery as to make sure that there were not any other potential problems with the shuttle that investigators may have missed the first time.Although a drug test was performed on each of the facility's over two-hundred workers before they left Wednesday, "There was nothing obvious," said the center's public relations spokesman, Allard Beutel. He goes on to say, "Nobody was obviously under the influence when they were working, because we have supervisors there, security in there. It wasn't obvious somebody was under the influence of this substance, or any other, for that matter." Senator Bill Nelson, a former astronaut himself, says he is confident that the guilty party will be found, brought to justice, and then sent "out the door."Beutel concluded his statement by reaffirming NASA's "zero-tolerance" policy for controlled substances, "People know how serious this is, and how serious[sic] people take it," Beutel said. "And it's not acceptable. That's the bottom line."A spacewalk was conducted today by astronauts Rex Walheim and Stan Love, members of the STS-122 Space Shuttle crew, to install the new Columbus module onto the International Space Station. The spacewalk, or extra-vehicular activity (EVA), began at 14:13 UTC, with the astronauts leaving the Quest airlock of the Space Station, and starting work to install an attachment point on top of the Columbus module, to allow it to be moved by the Station's robotic arm. This was completed at 19:00, about an hour later than planned, owing to the installation taking longer than expected. Columbus was lifted out of the payload bay of Atlantis at 19:55 UTC, by the Space Station's robotic arm, Canadarm2. Astronaut Dan Tani, controlling Canadarm2 from aboard the ISS remarked "Columbus has started its trip to the new world". At 21:29, Columbus soft-docked with the Space Station's Harmony node, and the module finished bolting itself in place by 21:44.Meanwhile, the astronauts performed some tasks to prepare for the next spacewalk, which is currently scheduled for Wednesday. They loosened bolts holding a nitrogen tank in place on the port truss segment of the Station, ahead of its replacement. It was originally planned that they would also disconnect pipes and electrical connections, however these objectives were delayed to Wednesday's spacewalk, due to time constraints. The EVA finished at 22:12 UTC, having lasted seven hours and fifty-eight minutesThis marks the 102nd spacewalk as part of the International Space Station programme, and the first of three planned for the STS-122 Shuttle mission. It was originally planned that German astronaut Hans Schlegel would perform the EVA instead of Stan Love, however he was unable to do so due to an undisclosed medical problem.American comedian Stephen Colbert has won a NASA contest poll to determine the name for a new wing on the International Space Station.After using his Comedy Central show The Colbert Report to call on fans to vote in the contest, the write-in name "Colbert" topped the poll with 230,539 votes.NASA officials said they ultimately reserve the right to choose an appropriate name, but have said top vote-getters will receive "the most consideration". The final decision will be made in April.Almost 1.2 million total votes were cast in the contest, which ended Friday. "Colbert" received more than 40,000 more voters than the second place runner up, "Serenity", which was one of the choices NASA put forward.Colbert has mocked the NASA suggestion on The Colbert Report, saying, "Come on, Serenity? That's not a space module, that's a Glade plug-in."The contest rules say NASA has the right to choose a name "in accordance with the best interests of the agency." The rules also say, "Such name may not necessarily be one which is on the list of voted-on candidate names."Other modules on the space station are named Unity, Harmony and Destiny.NASA insiders have told Space.com if they choose not to name the module after the comedian, they may consider naming the station's new $19 million toilet "Colbert" instead.Colbert, who plays a narcissistic political pundit on his satirical show, has called on his fans (known as "The Colbert Nation") to help have other things named after him in the past.Among his other namesakes are Steagle Colbeagle the Eagle, the mascot of the Saginaw Spirit junior ice hockey team in Michigan; Stephen Jr., a bald eagle born at the San Francisco Zoo; Aptostichus stephencolberti, a species of trapdoor spider; Air Colbert, a Virgin America airplane; and AmeriCone Dream, a Ben & Jerry's ice cream flavor.Stardust, a NASA space capsule carrying precious comet samples from deep space, is scheduled to return to earth January 15, 2006. Scientists hope to discover new meaning to the beginning of our solar system.Stardust's 2.9 billion mile round-trip mission took it halfway to Jupiter to catch particles from Comet Wild 2 two years ago. Its journey will have lasted a total of just over seven years when it lands in the Utah desert.On Sunday, the ship will remain in space while a 100-pound (45 kg) capsule loaded with comet dust returns to earth and lands at the U.S. Air Force Utah Test and Training Range at 3:12 a.m. local time (5:12 a.m. EST or 1012 GMT). If the skies are all clear on January 15, then people from Northern California, Oregon and Nevada could get quite a show as the capsule enters Earth's atmosphere. The show will be quick, but should prove impressive.Comets are thought to be remnants from the process of planet formation, and scientists said the dust collected by Stardust will give them their first opportunity to study pristine samples of materials formed billions of years ago. The particles from the comet were captured using a tennis-racket-sized space probe containing ice-cube sized compartments lined with aerogel, a porous substance that is 99.9 percent air. It is the first time since 1972 that any solid extraterrestrial material has been collected and brought back to Earth, and the first time ever for comet particles.During its descent over the desert, the capsule is scheduled to deploy two parachutes, though NASA officials said they have prepared for the possibility of a hard landing. A NASA probe called Genesis crashed to Earth in 2004 when its parachute failed to open. That craft had been on a three-year mission to collect solar wind ions, which were recovered by scientists even though the spacecraft was destroyed.Stardust's project manager, Tom Duxbury, said that "after the Genesis incident and the Columbia shuttle disaster, the mission's team spent six months testing and reviewing the spacecraft's design to make sure there were no errors". Once the craft is recovered, it will be whisked away to the Johnson Space Center in Houston. Only after it is in a secure lab, free of potential contamination, will the probe be pried open to reveal its payload."We are at the end of a fantastic voyage," Don Brownlee, the lead scientist for the mission known as Stardust, recently told reporters at a media briefing. "We will learn a phenomenal amount… from the most primitive materials in our solar system. It is a real thrilling time." Now, near the end of its long voyage home, the probe is set to plunge back to Earth in the predawn hours on Sunday.Scientists have announced that the largest radio telescope array in the world, the Square Kilometer Array (SKA) is to be built in either Africa or Australia and will be composed of thousands of antenna arrays that will be capable of detecting the first galaxies and stars formed in our universe. The control center for the array is announced to be located in the United Kingdom in Manchester, England at the Jodrell Bank Centre for Astrophysics."The next generation radio telescope - the Square Kilometer Array – will carry on this tradition of innovation. The goal is to construct a network of antennas working at centimeter to meter wavelengths with 100 times the sensitivity of the largest existing arrays. This telescope will play a major role in the following decades, alongside other next generation facilities in the millimeter, optical/IR, X-ray and so on, in further exploring the content and evolution of the universe," said a press released on SKA's website.Construction will begin in 2012 and cost over US$2 billion (£1 billion, €1.4 billion) to build. The array will reportedly begin operation by the year 2020. SKA decided to release the details of the array plans on the 50th anniversary of the launch of Sputnik. At least 17 different countries and 55 schools, universities, engineers and astronomers are expected to take involvement in the project.The array will be built in one of two locations. The first option is in Mileura, Australia. According to SKA's website, the location is ideal because "only 100,000 people inhabit the five million square kilometers of the interior" area of western Australia, making it one of "the most radio-quiet locations on Earth."The second option is in South Africa in Northern Cape Province because of the "dry climate, a good existing infrastructure of roads and power reticulation, a low Radio Frequency Interferences (RFI), low land prices and low operating costs" and "has a appropriately skilled workforce and a well-established telecommunications infrastructure," says SKA's website.The array is going to be more than 50 times as powerful as the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico, which is currently the largest radio telescope on the planet.Yesterday, Roscosmos, the Russian space agency, announced the death of cosmonaut Alexei Leonov. Leonov was famous for performing the first human spacewalk as part of the Soviet Union's Voskhod 2 mission. He was 85.Leonov, also known as "cosmonaut No. 11", was part of the Soviet Union's original team of cosmonauts. On March 18, 1965, he performed the first manned extravehicular activity (EVA), or "spacewalk", remaining alone outside the spacecraft for just over twelve minutes. He received the "Hero of the Soviet Union", the Soviet Union's highest honor, for his work. Ten years later, he led the Soviet part of the Apollo–Soyuz mission symbolizing that the Space Race was over.NASA interrupted its live coverage of an International Space Station spacewalk to mourn Leonov's passing. It also credited Leonov with making the spacewalk possible, noting on Twitter "[h]is venture into the vacuum of space began the history of extravehicular activity".Sputnik News reported Leonov, who died in Moscow, will be buried at the Federal Military Memorial Cemetery on Tuesday. He was the last surviving member of the Voskhod programme crew.The crew of the Space shuttle Discovery – which launched successfully yesterday – have begun to make inspections of the exterior of the Orbiter.They are checking for any damage that may have occurred during take-off – the Columbia was destroyed after a piece of foam falling from the external fuel tank split open a wing, allowing super-heated gas to enter the craft upon reentry, leading to its break-up.The crew of Discovery are using a laser-scanner mounted on the end of the shuttle's 15 m (49.2 ft) long robotic arm. The inspection will consist of 90 minute sessions, during which a three-dimensional image of the surface of the nosecone and the leading edges of the wings will be built up.NASA engineers are studying footage taken from a camera mounted on the external fuel tank, which appears to show a 1.5" (3.8 cm) piece of tile falling away from on or near the nose landing-gear doors. There is also footage of an unidentified piece of debris which fell away as the solid rocket boosters were jettisoned, and did not appear to strike the shuttle.In an analysis published on Friday in Science, scientists announced data collected from the Curiosity Rover show that Mars's Gale Crater was once a chemically stratified lake, meaning the aquatic environment differed markedly between deep and shallow water. According to the report, "all of the physical, chemical, and energetic conditions necessary to establish a habitable environment were present on Mars between ~3.8 billion and 3.1 billion years ago."Analysis shows the chemical index of alteration fluctuated over time in a way that suggested the lake varied between hot, wet periods and colder, drier periods.  The shallow water would have been rich in oxidants brought in from the atmosphere and groundwater, and the deeper water would have been oxidant poor.  Phosphates, carbon, nitrogen, iron and sulfur, indicating chemistry suitable for life, have also been found there in a variety of compounds.Lead author Joel Hurowitz of Stony Brook University explained, "These were very different, co-existing environments in the same lake[...] This type of oxidant stratification is a common feature of lakes on Earth, and now we've found it on Mars. The diversity of environments in this Martian lake would have provided multiple opportunities for different types of microbes to survive."The scientists also evaluated the fineness of the sediment, meaning the sizes of individual particles of dirt, dust and sand.  Curiosity found larger grains near the edges of the lake where sediments from incoming rivers and streams would have fed it, and smaller ones in what would have been the deep lakebed, which is consistent with particles dropping out of the water as the current slows down. "We could tell something was going on," Hurowitz said in a statement. "What was causing iron minerals to be one flavor in one part of the lake and another flavor in another part of the lake? We had an 'Aha!' moment when we realized that the mineral information and the bedding-thickness information mapped perfectly onto each other in a way you would expect from a stratified lake with a chemical boundary between shallow water and deeper water."Japanese entrepreneur Daisuke "Dice-K" Enomoto, 34, is set to become the fourth private citizen in space. The Arlington, Virginia-based company "Space Adventures", which specializes in spaceflight-related travel, announced on March 7 that Enomoto was approved by the Russian space agency as a flight candidate.Enomoto has now passed the physical examinations necessary to be cleared for training, finished the medical preparation, and signed the contract for the flight. His training with the Russian Federal Space Agency will include physical and aeronautical preparation as well as Russian language instruction.Enomoto will be the first Japanese person to fly to the International Space Station (ISS). His trip, to take place in a Soyuz TMA-9 rocket, is scheduled for September, with a ticket price of US$20 million.United States entrepreneur Gregory Olsen returned from the ISS in October 2005; previous space vacationers were American Dennis Tito in 2001 and South African Mark Shuttleworth in 2002.Astronomers claim they have discovered the first galaxy made entirely of dark matter. The galaxy was found 50 million light years away using the University of Manchester's Lovell Telescope in Cheshire and confirmed with the Arecibo telescope in Puerto Rico. While it contains mass that rotates like a normal galaxy, it contains no stars. Rather, it appears to entirely comprise dark matter, mysterious matter that differs greatly from the normal (baryonic) matter with which we're familiar. The discovery came from a five-year project to study the distribution of hydrogen atoms throughout the Universe. Hydrogen gas releases radiation that can be detected by radio telescopes. In the cluster of galaxies known as Virgo, an international team from the UK, France, Italy and Australia led by researchers at Cardiff University found hydrogen atoms amounting to 100 million times the mass of the Sun. They have named the find VIRGOHI21. The find is considered incredibly important because cosmological models suggest that dark matter is five times more abundant than baryonic matter in the Universe yet is difficult to study from Earth because of the planet's proximity to the Sun."The Universe has all sorts of secrets still to reveal to us, but this shows that we are beginning to understand how to look at it in the right way," says Jon Davies of Cardiff. "It's a really exciting discovery."Scientists now think they know how fast dark matter would fall if it were dropped on other dark matter. Like the dark matter version of Galileo's experiment of dropping items to the ground from the tower of Pisa, theorists from the California Institute of Technology and the Canadian Institute for Theoretical Astrophysics in Toronto found that there is no more attractive force associated with dark matter than with normal matter. This finding helps to eliminate other theoretical models created to explain phenomena that required an extra force within dark matter. The results of the work are presented in the September 28th 2006 issue of Physical Review Letters.Dark matter has long fascinated scientists ever since its effects were detected in the 1970s. It is matter that does not emit or reflect light and so cannot be detected directly, but it is understood to exist from its gravitational effects on visible matter, namely its effect on the speed of stars around galaxies. Scientists still don't know what makes up dark matter. The work done was mostly theoretical, but the program was written to simulate observations made of the Sagittarius galaxy. The effect the team was looking for would be caused by tidal forces between the galaxy's dark matter and the Milky Way's dark matter. Just like the moon exerts a pull on the earth, causing tides, so does the Milky Way exert a force on the Sagittarius galaxy. The scientists were able to conclude that the dark matter affect other dark matter in the same way regular matter does. Kesden and Kamionkowski, the co-author from the California Institute of Technology, tried more than one distribution of the dark matter but found the current theory fits best with the data. This theory says that most dark matter around a galaxy is located around a galaxy in a kind of halo, and is made of lots of small particles.The prediction that there may be an extra force associated with dark matter appeared in part to explain strange phenomena in the universe. One such phenomenon is the universal structure of galaxies. Galaxies tend to clump themselves together, with voids in between. Computer simulations showed that these voids contained dark matter. It had been theorized that this occurred because there was an extra force in dark matter clumping it together. Kesden mentions that these structures may be caused by other forces that affect only regular matter, like electricity and magnetism, but not dark matter. These forces would clump normal matter together and not affect the dark matter. They now conclude that the force is not gravitational.Scientists, such as Glennys Farrar, a theoretical physicist at New York University, who examined the paper's arguments, said that the researchers made too many assumptions about their simulated dark matter.  Kamionskowski responded with, "We know pretty well where the dark matter is in the Milky Way." Therefore they could extrapolate that for other galaxies. However, he continued to mention that other scientists might want a more detailed comparison of the simulation with the data. Kesden states that there will always be doubters. He says a researcher then has to think, "What kind of tricks can you play to hide such an [extra force]? So it's a game. You have to be sneaky to rule everything out." As far as his game goes, "Ours was just for a typical scenario, assuming there wasn't a conspiracy to hide the force."Space debris passed within a short distance of the International Space Station (ISS) Tuesday, forcing the crew to enter their escape capsules to be ready to depart in case of a collision. The debris ultimately missed the orbital outpost and passed within 260 meters (853 ft) of the station at 12:08 UTC (8:08 EDT).Approximately half an hour after the closest approach of the debris, the crew were given the all-clear to reenter the space station from their escape capsules.Under normal circumstances and had mission controllers known about the collision threat sooner, the crew would have used the station's thrusters to maneuver out of the path of the oncoming debris.The size of the debris that threatened the station and its crew in this instance was not immediately known; however, even small fragments can become a major concern due to their high speed.Had the debris struck the ISS, the crew would have sealed their Soyuz spacecraft and departed the station. There are six people aboard the ISS and two Soyuz spacecrafts docked to the station. Each Soyuz contains accommodations for three people.This is not the first time that debris threatened the ISS and its crew. A similar incident occurred in March 2009. Estimations show that there are more than 300,000 pieces of debris in Low-Earth orbit over 10 centimeters (4 in) in length, which travel several thousands of kilometers per hour.NASA's comet busting spacecraft Deep Impact has moved into its cruising phase towards a rendezvous and collision with Comet Tempel 1 on July 4, 2005.The cruising phase is the second of five phases mission planners have set for the mission.  The first commissioning phase was begun soon after launch and was designed to test and calibrate the instruments on board the two-part spacecraft.  All instruments have checked out except for the High Resolution Instrument (HRI).Mission controllers performed a "bake-out" or heating of the HRI to remove moisture that accumulated during the craft's final hours on the launch pad and its travel through the atmosphere. Test images taken after the procedure indicate the device has not reached perfect focus. A special team has been assigned to investigate and bring the instrument into full focus."This in no way will affect our ability to impact the comet on July 4," said Rick Grammier, Deep Impact project manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. "Everyone on the science and engineering teams is getting very excited and looking forward to the encounter."Deep Impact has four data collectors to observe the effects of the cometary collision: the High Resolution Instrument consisting of a camera and infrared spectrometer; the  Medium Resolution Instrument; and a duplicate camera on the Impactor Targeting Sensor. They will record the vehicle's final moments before it slams into comet Tempel 1 at a relative velocity of 37,000 kilometers per hour (23,000 miles per hour). The Medium Resolution Instrument and Impactor Targeting Sensor are performing as expected.Dr. Michael A'Hearn of the University of Maryland added, "We are very early in the process of examining the data from all the instruments. It appears our infrared spectrometer is performing spectacularly, and even if the spatial resolution of the High Resolution Instrument remains at present levels, we still expect to obtain the best, most detailed pictures of a comet ever taken."Deep Impact is a two part vehicle: the flyby spacecraft and a smaller impactor. 24 hours prior to impact, the flyby craft will aim tracking telescopes at the comet and release the impactor.The impactor is a battery-powered spacecraft that operates independently of the flyby spacecraft for just one day. It is called a “smart” impactor because, after its release, it takes over its own navigation and maneuvers into the path of the comet. The crater produced by the impactor is expected to range from the width of a house up to the size of a football stadium and be from two to 14 stories deep. Ice and dust debris will be ejected from the crater revealing the material beneath.NASA's Hubble, Spitzer and Chandra space telescopes, along with the largest telescopes on Earth, will observe the effects of the material flying from the comet's newly formed crater along with the imagers aboard Deep Impact.Deep Impact was launched on January 12, 2005 on board a Delta 2 rocket.Space Shuttle Endeavour launched on a mission to finish construction of a new science lab at the International Space Station on July 15.The seven astronauts aboard Endeavour began their journey Wednesday evening to deliver the third and final segment of the Japanese Kibō science laboratory. NASA commentator Mike Curie counted down to the liftoff from Kennedy Space Center in Florida."We have main engine start, and four, three, two, one. Booster ignition and liftoff of Endeavour, completing Kibō and fulfilling Japan's hope for an out-of-this-world space laboratory," he said.The Endeavour was supposed to have launched last month, but a hydrogen leak forced officials to postpone while technicians fixed the problem. A series of thunderstorms caused further delays this week.The Endeavour crew will spend nearly two weeks at the station to install the Kibō lab and perform other maintenance tasks, such as swapping out batteries in the station. The Kibō module will expand work space on the station and allow astronauts to conduct experiments that involve exposing materials to the vacuum of space.Astronaut Timothy L. Kopra will replace Japanese astronaut Koichi Wakata, who has been living aboard the station since March.While the shuttle is docked to the station, there will be 13 astronauts working in space at one time - the highest number in the station's history.After Endeavour returns to Earth, only seven shuttle missions will remain before NASA plans to retire the fleet next year.CAPE CANAVERAL, Florida - The first new heavy lift space vehicle in a generation is cleared to launch from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. The Boeing Delta IV Heavy has missed launch opportunities three days in a row (starting Friday, December 12) due to minor technical difficulties. It is now scheduled to launch Dec. 20 or 21 from pad SLC-37B.The Delta 4 was developed as part of the U.S Air Force's Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle program to reduce costs and improve reliability.  The basic design is a two stage, cryogenic LOx/LH2 rocket.  Strap-on boosters may be added to increase lift capacity.  Two major obstacles have plagued the project in recent years; a bidding scandal which cost Boeing a large portion of the military satellite launch business for which it was competing, and a downturn in commercial satellite launches in 2001.The Heavy variant of the Delta 4 rocket can place 13,100 kg (28,950 Lb) into geostationary transfer orbit, greater than any other current rocket. Two additional first stage cores are used as strap-on boosters for this configuration. Their rated thrust is 2,900,000 N (656,000 lb) each. Delta 4's main engine, the RS68, is the most powerful hydrogen/liquid oxygen engine in the world, approximately three times as powerful as the Ariane 5 Vulcain HM60. Its design sacrifices efficiency for increased reliability and lower cost: rated specific impulse is 365s at sea level and 410s in a vacuum. The second stage engine, Pratt and Whitney's RL-10B-2, has a specific impulse of 462s.The primary market for this launcher will be classified spy satellites for the US intelligence community. Most of these satellites were previously launched on the Titan 4, which has since been retired. The Delta 4 Heavy's published launch cost is $170 million, compared to the Titan 4's $400 million (1999 dollars).Delta 4 Heavy's maiden launch is a demonstration and will carry a dummy load and two nano-satellites. The main payload, dubbed DemoSat is a 6020 kg (13271 lb) mass designed to simulate the dynamic and initial properties of a real satellite.  Its design consists of large brass rods, intended to fully burn up on reentry.The two nano-satellites are part of the US Department of Defense Nanosat-2 Program, and built by students from New Mexico State University, Arizona State University, and the University of Colorado at Boulder.A Delta II rocket launched at 06:10 GMT this morning, with the GPS IIR-19 navigation satellite. The spacecraft, which forms part of the US Air Force's NAVSTAR Global Positioning System, has been successfully delivered into a Medium Earth orbit.The rocket flew in the 7925-9.5 configuration, with 9 GEM-40 solid-rocket boosters, an Extra Extended Long Tank Thor first stage, a Delta-K second stage, a Star 48B third stage, and a 9.5 ft (2.9m) diameter payload fairing. Launch was conducted by United Launch Alliance (ULA).GPS IIR-19, also known as IIM-6 and SVN-48, will be placed in plane A, slot 4, replacing the GPS IIA-15 satellite. IIA-15 was launched in September 1992, and has been operating for over twice its design life. This was the 135th launch of the Delta II, and the twelfth orbital launch of 2008.The Gamma-ray Large Area Space Telescope (GLAST) satellite has been launched aboard a United Launch Alliance Delta II Heavy carrier rocket. Lift-off occurred from Launch Complex 17B at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida, United States, at 16:05 GMT.  Spacecraft separation occurred about 75 minutes after launch, just before 17:20 GMT. The launch was reported to have been successful. The Delta II rocket flew in the 7920H configuration, with nine GEM-46 solid rocket motors, and no third stage. This is the fifth flight of a Delta II Heavy, which differs from the standard Delta II in that it has more powerful solid rocket motors, originally developed for the Delta III. At 4627 kg (10201 lbs), GLAST is the heaviest payload ever launched by a Delta II. It will operate in a low Earth orbit, approximately 550 kilometres above the Earth's surface.GLAST will be used to study gamma rays emitted from supermassive black holes in other galaxies, and pulsars in our own galaxy. It is a replacement for the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory, which operated between April 1991 and June 2000. It will be used by scientists in France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Sweden and the United States. The spacecraft will be operated by the US space agency, NASA. The United States Department of Energy is also involved in the mission.This is the 29th orbital launch of 2008, and the second to be conducted by a Delta II. The next Delta II launch will occur in just over a week, when a lighter configuration 7420 rocket will be used to place the Jason-2 satellite into orbit. In total, this is the 136th launch of a Delta II, the 134th successful Delta II launch, and the 81st consecutive success.An unresponsive United States reconnaissance satellite is in an uncontrolled, decaying orbit and will re-enter Earth's atmosphere in late February or early March.According to Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for the U.S. National Security Council, "Appropriate government agencies are monitoring the situation."The satellite is out-of-control, and therefore there is no possibility to guide it to re-entry over an ocean or unpopulated area. On the one hand, since most of the earth's surface is water or unpopulated, death or property loss due to any falling fragments, which may result from the satellite entering the atmosphere, is statistically unlikely. On the other hand, it cannot be ruled out entirely. According to General Gene Renuart, of the United States Air Force, there is a chance that the satellite may re-enter over North America. After entering the atmosphere, some debris could possibly fall on land."Numerous satellites over the years have come out of orbit and fallen harmlessly.  We are looking at potential options to mitigate any possible damage this satellite may cause," said Johndroe.Concerns have also been raised that some materials used in the satellite's construction could be hazardous if they reach the ground. The satellite contains quantities of toxic hydrazine fuel, which is used for maneuvering, although this is likely to burn up on re-entry. Some of the optics aboard the satellite may contain beryllium, which is also toxic.As the satellite was part of a classified U.S. military program, no other details, including its name, have been made public. The satellite is publicly identified by the codenames USA-193 and NRO L-21. It was launched in December 2006, by a Delta II rocket from Vandenberg Air Force Base. Ground controllers lost contact with the satellite shortly after it reached orbit. Amateur observers had been tracking USA-193 for some time, and believed that its orbit was decaying.The United States Space Shuttle Discovery docked with the International Space Station today at 5:12 p.m. ET. After a two-day journey, the space shuttle reached the space station for a week long stay to rewire the orbiting lab, install a new addition and rotate out a crew member. Astronaut Sunita "Suni" Williams will live for six months at the space lab, replacing German astronaut Thomas Reiter of the European Space Agency..An hour earlier the orbiter did a slow back flip so that crew members at the international space station could photograph its mid section for any signs of liftoff damage. This has been a routine procedure since the Columbia tragedy in which the space shuttle Columbia sustained damage on liftoff leading to its disintegration in the atmosphere.  There appeared to be no problems with the heat shield so commander Mark Polansky continued the docking process. As the space station came into view of Discovery, Williams told Mission Control: "It's beautiful."Mission Control responded: "I don't know what kind of creature comforts you're going to have, but you're going to have a room with a view."A $11 million extension will be put into place on Tuesday during the first of the mission's three spacewalks. Astronauts plan to rewire the space lab, switching it from a temporary power source to a permanent one, during the two other spacewalks.With a planned launch time of 3:48 EDT (19:48 UTC), NASA's shuttle Discovery embarks on the second mission since the loss of shuttle Columbia in 2003. The mission designation is STS-121.The crew are as follows:Steven W. Lindsey - Commander - USAMark E. Kelly - Pilot - USAMichael E. Fossum - Mission Specialist - USALisa Nowak - Mission Specialist - USAStephanie Wilson - Mission Specialist - USAPiers Sellers - Mission Specialist - USAThomas Reiter - Astronaut - European Space AgencyAs of 3:50 PM EDT (19:50 UTC), the weather has delayed the launch until July 2, with a planned launch time of 3:26 PM EDT (19:26 GMT).Space shuttle Discovery landed at Cape Canaveral at 9:14 a.m. (1314 UTC) yesterday. It returned after a thirteen day mission to the International Space Station (ISS). The mission was used to provide thousands of pounds of supplies to the ISS and brought thousands of pounds of trash and discarded equipment back to Earth.The shuttle, which was orbiting the Earth with the engine facing forward, fired the engines briefly to slow down and begin the descent, flipping its nose forward to prepare for the landing.As Discovery descended into the atmosphere, parts of the shuttle's outer surfaces were heated to temperatures of about 3000°F (1650°C). The shuttle executed a series of computer controlled S curves to slow down to the landing speed.The shuttle neared the landing strip at an angle 7 times steeper and a speed 20 times faster than a commercial aircraft.The space shuttle was welcomed by hoots and whistles from the few hundred astronauts' relatives and space center workers as it landed on the 3 mile (4.8 kilometre) long runway"It was a fun entry — it was beautiful," radioed mission commander Colonel Lindsey as he prepared to leave the shuttle."Just because we’re going to be back to flight doesn't mean we're going to change the way we're operating," he said. "We're going to be very careful, very cautious, look at everything — and we'll leave no stone unturned as we continue with this program."This is the second space shuttle flight since the Columbia disaster.A further 16 shuttle missions are scheduled for completing the space station before the fleet is retired in 2010.“This shows that with appropriate care and vigilance, the odds of operating the shuttle with acceptable risk are good,” said John M. Logsdon, the director of the space policy institute at George Washington University.“It doesn’t mean the shuttle is safe,” he added. “The shuttle will remain a very risky vehicle, to be operated with extreme care.”Space shuttle mission STS-116 began today with its successful launch at 8:48pm EST (01:47 GMT). Liftoff was uneventful with no immediate problems. Last Thursday's  launch attempt was scrubbed due to low, dense cloud cover. It is the first Space Shuttle night launch in over four years and the last mission planned for pad 39b.In the complex mission Discovery will first dock with the International Space Station. In three spacewalks the astronauts will install a segment of the station's integrated truss and replace the orbital laboratory’s power wiring system.Scientists have made two major discoveries in the search for other Earth-like planets. British astronomers say they have discovered the smallest known Earth-like exoplanet orbiting a living star called Gliese 581 e and also discovered that a nearby planet called Gliese 581 d, discovered in 2007, is in the much sought after 'habitable zone'. Astronomers also believe there is a possibility that 581 d could have liquid oceans on its surface, calling the find "extraordinary.""The Holy Grail of current exoplanet research is the detection of a rocky, Earth-like planet in the 'habitable zone'," said astrophysicist at Switzerland's Geneva University, Michel Mayor.Astronomers say 581 e is 20.5 light years away from Earth and that it's roughly 1.9 times larger than Earth, making it the smallest exoplanet discovered to date. It was found using the High Accuracy Radial Velocity Planet Searcher (HARPS). It orbits too close to its parent star, Gliese 581, which would make it too hot, unable to support life as we know it. It takes just over 3 days for it to orbit the star.Exoplanet 581 d, however, is another story. Astronomers say this makes it possible to not only support life, but have liquid water in the forms of oceans. 581 d is approximately 7.7 times larger than Earth. Astronomers originally thought it was too cold to have liquid water thus would not be able to host Earth-like life."It is very exciting that such a promising candidate for an Earthlike planet has been found so close to us. It means there are likely to be many more when we search further," added Mayor.Calculations based on data from the Chandra orbiting telescope show the explosion in Galaxy cluster MS 0735 is the largest known anywhere in the universe. The explosion is thought to have been fueled by a supermassive blackhole consuming over 300 million stars over hundreds of thousands of years. MS 075 is 2.6 billion light years from Earth.(This item was included in the audio release of Wikinews for 7/2.)After two days of reviews, NASA managers have scheduled shuttle Discovery for a launch attempt at 1951 UTC or 3:51 p.m. local time in Florida, on July 13. Additional paperwork must be settled, as well as issues regarding the shuttle's body flap, a device that assists in descent at re-entry. If all goes well and the launch takes place on schedule, this will be the 114th launch of the Space shuttle.NASA is awaiting the arrival of very precious cargo from space.The Stardust Spacecraft is scheduled to land at around 5:12am (eastern time) on Sunday January 15, 2006. Onboard are dust particles that have been collected from the comet Wild 2. When the capsule gets to Earth and enters the atmosphere, at about 5am (eastern time), it is expected to put on quite a light show for folks in Northern California, Oregon, Nevada, and Utah. The capsule will look much like a shooting star going across the sky. The capsule will be traveling at about 12.8 km or 8 miles per second, fast enough to go from San Francisco to Los Angeles in one minute. Stardust will set a new all-time record for being the fastest spacecraft to return to Earth, breaking the previous record set in May of 1969 during the return of the Apollo X command module. “It will move over the west coast of northern California and will light the sky from California through central Oregon and on through Nevada and Idaho and into Utah,” Tom Duxbury, Stardust's project manager said.The capsule will then release a parachute approximately 32 km (105,000 feet) and descend into the Salt Flats of Utah. If weather is permitting, it will be recovered by helicopter teams and taken to a cleanroom at the Michael Army Air Field, Dugway Proving Ground, for initial processing.The capsule itself, only weighs 45.7 kilograms (101 pounds) and resembles a mini Apollo capsule.Not only will it break the record for the fastest spacecraft to return to earth, Stardust Principal Investigator Don Brownlee of the University of Washington, Seattle, says “We are nearing the end of quite a fantastic voyage – our spacecraft has traveled further than anything from Earth ever has – and come back. He also added that “We went half-way to Jupiter to meet the comet and collect samples from it. But the comet actually came in from the outer edge of the solar system, out beyond the orbit of Neptune, out by Pluto."If the capsule makes it safely back to earth, scientists hope to unlock many secrets about the formation of our universe. "Locked within the cometary particles is unique chemical and physical information that could be the record of the formation of the planets and the materials from which they were made," said Dr. Don Brownlee, Stardust principal investigator at the University of Washington, Seattle."Comets are some of the most informative occupants of the solar system. The more we can learn from science exploration missions like Stardust, the more we can prepare for human exploration to the moon, Mars and beyond," said Dr. Mary Cleave, associate administrator for NASA's Science Mission Directorate.Stardust is bringing back the first samples of contemporary interstellar dust ever collected, and is also the first mission to return samples from a comet, as well as the first sample return mission from the Galaxy. Not one grain of contemporary interstellar dust grain has ever been examined in a laboratory before."We think a significant fraction of comets will be stardust particles actually older than Earth and older than the Sun, and for drama the stars, and the way you identify those is by their isotopic ratios," Stardust Principal Investigator Don Brownlee said. "There are fabulous tools now to analyze these and a very anxious group of scientists waiting for these samples."Stardust's main mission was to capture dust particles from comet Wild 2, but it is also believed to have captured dust from distant stars, perhaps created in supernova explosions less than 10 million years ago.The dust can only be found using using a high-magnification microscope with a field of view smaller than a grain of salt. But now they have the difficult task of trying to find all these millions of particles, which takes more time and man power that NASA has. That's where NASA decided to try Distributed Computing.Distributed computing has been a huge success. Most of the credit of the success of distributed computing, can be given to the scientists at the University of California, Berkeley. Scientists there have had and continue to have huge success with a program they created called SETI@home, which now uses the distributing platform BOINC.With the success of BOINC and other distributed computing platforms, NASA hopes to achieve its goal in half the time with the public's help by creating the project Stardust@home"Like SETI@home, which is the world's largest computer, we hope Stardust@home will also be a large computer, though more of a neural network, using brains together to find these grains," said Bryan Mendez of the Center for Science Education at the Space Sciences Laboratory. But, the project is not for everyone. First, you will go through a web-based training session and then you must pass a test to qualify to register and participate. In the test, the volunteer is asked to find the track in a few test samples. To judge the reliability of the user, they also plan to throw in some ringers with and without tracks. If at least two of the four volunteers viewing each image report a track, that image will be fed to 100 more volunteers for verification. If at least 20 of these report a track, UC Berkeley undergraduates who are expert at spotting dust grain tracks will confirm the identification.After passing the test and registering, you will be able to download a virtual microscope (VM). The VM will automatically connect to their server and download so-called "focus movies" -- stacks of images that we will collect from the Stardust Interstellar Dust Collector using an automated microscope at the Cosmic Dust Lab at Johnson Space Center. The VM will work on your computer, under your control. You will search each field for interstellar dust impacts by focusing up and down with a focus control.The other neat thing is that there are no limitations and the more images you examine, the better chance you have at finding an interstellar dust grain.Any interstellar dust particles that you find, then you will appear as a co-author on any scientific paper by the Stardust@home collaboration announcing the discovery of the particle.Currently the project is only accepting pre-registration and will be available to the public in mid-March, even before all the scans have been completed in a cleanroom at Houston's Johnson Space Center. In all the project is expected to need at least 30,000 person hours, to go through all the images, at least 4 times by 4 different participants.Berkeley will host and maintain the project, but it is unlcear as to whether or not the project will use the BOINC platform.The virtual microscope was developed by computer scientist David Anderson, director of the SETI@home project, along with physics graduate student Joshua Von Korff.The Stardust spacecraft was launched on February 7, 1999, from Cape Canaveral Air Station, Florida, aboard a Delta II rocket. The Stardust project is expected to cost $170-million-dollars with a journey that will have lasted over 7 years and actually went around the Sun three times, and "back in time to 4.5 billion years in time to gather these primitive samples that just were released from a comet’s nucleus," Duxbury later added.A recently published study in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America indicates that the essential building blocks for early life on Earth may have indeed been delivered through extraterrestrial material such as meteorites. These molecules, known as nucleobases, are key components of DNA and have been found in meteorites several times before.However, until now, scientists could never be certain that these compounds were native to the meteorites or if they were simply contamination from the terrestrial environment in which they landed. To this end, researchers analyzed eleven different organic-rich meteorites, called carbonaceous chondrites, for the presence of nucleobases and found that three of these molecules are very rare on Earth.Additionally, none of these nucleobases were found in the soil or ice in close proximity to where the meteorites were found. This led the researchers to conclude that it was likely that these molecules were extraterrestrial in origin which could mean that life on Earth may have originally been seeded by such material.NASA is scrambling to solidify plans to fix the broken down cooling systems on the International Space Station during two spacewalks, currently planned for Friday and Monday. The systems broke down late Saturday July 31, triggering alarms that woke the six astronauts (three Russian and three American) currently onboard the station. NASA's flight controller said the astronauts are not in any danger, but that science experiments are on hold until the problem can be fixed.The first spacewalk is set to begin Friday at 6:55 a.m. EDT, NASA officials said. The two planned spacewalks will be conducted by astronauts Douglas Wheelock and Tracy Caldwell Dyson. They will replace an ammonia pump module, which shut down Saturday. The pump's failure prompted the astronauts to shut down several other systems as well. The spare pump had been delivered to the station in July 2006, during STS-121.Normally, major repair spacewalks take weeks of preparation. An unrelated spacewalk had already been planned for this Thursday, which would have been conducted by Wheelock and Dyson, so the space suits and equipment are ready to go. NASA decided late Monday evening that the spacewalk would be postponed to Friday to allow for more preparation.In October 2010 the space station is expected to break the record for the longest continuously inhabited space station, a record currently held by Mir.At 11:29 AM EDT today, the Space Shuttle Atlantis launched on the final mission in NASA's Space Shuttle program, STS-135. The mission is slated to last 12 days and will deliver parts and supplies to the International Space Station (ISS), including the Raffaello Multi-Purpose Logistics Module and an experiment, the Robotic Refueling Mission (RRM), designed to test methods, tools, and technologies required to robotically refuel satellites in space, even those not designed to be serviced.The launch occurred despite weather concerns at Kennedy Space Center in Florida, United States. Although there was a short two and a half minute hold in the countdown at T-31 seconds while engineers worked out a small glitch, the launch was flawless.Eight and a half minutes after lifting off for the final time, Atlantis reached its preliminary orbit, travelling over 17,000 miles per hour several hundreds of miles above the Earth.The crew of STS-135 consists of only four astronauts, the smallest shuttle crew since STS-6 in 1983: Commander Christopher Ferguson, Pilot Douglas Hurley, and Mission Specialists Sandra Magnus and Rex Walheim. STS-135 is the third spaceflight for Ferguson, Magnus, and Walheim, and the second for Hurley.Futhermore, an iPhone will be the first one to ever be brought into space aboard the flight with an application developed for the Apple smartphone, called SpaceLab for iOS,  that is meant to help the astronauts track their scientific results and perhaps one day aid in navigation. The device will be housed inside a small research platform built by the company NanoRacks. The platform will be placed inside the ISS. Along with the iPhone, a flag from the first shuttle mission, STS-1, will be brought along on the flight and left aboard the orbital outpost until the first commercial spaceflight to the station, when NASA astronauts will retrieve it.An estimated 750,000 people crowded the launch site as Atlantis flexed "its muscles one final time", in the words of NASA ascent commentator Rob Navias.The first mission of the Space Shuttle program, STS-1, launched on April 12, 1981. Since then, 135 missions over 30 years have been launched. Out of these flights, two involved catastrophic failures, STS-51-L Challenger in January 1986 and STS-107 Columbia in February 2003, both killing all on board. During the entire shuttle program, 355 people from 16 countries have flown 852 times aboard the Space Shuttle. The five shuttle orbiters have flown 537,114,016 miles (864,401,219 km).During her career spanning over 26 years, Atlantis flew on 33 flights, including the first shuttle docking to the Russian Mir space station on STS-71 in June 1995, the first launch with a camera mounted on the exterior of the external fuel tank on STS-112 in October 2002, and the final servicing mission to the Hubble Space Telescope on STS-125 in May 2009.The final Space Shuttle launch marks the end of an era for NASA and the United States amid uncertainty about the American space program's and NASA's future.Before the launch, mission commander Christopher Ferguson made a statement conveying his thoughts about the program's end: "The shuttle is always going to be a reflection of what a great nation can do when it dares to be bold and commits to follow through. We're not ending the journey today ... we're completing a chapter of a journey that will never end."On August 5, Wikinews published an article, Apollo Moon landings tapes reported missing, based on a report in The Sydney Morning Herald.  As highlighted in the prominent correction notice at the top of that article, several issues were present with the article.Citing a letter to the Herald, a member of the team involved in the search for the missing tapes, Bill Wood, described their article as "great disservice to a group of Australian and US Apollo tracking station veterans involved in a new search for better Apollo 11 EVA images.".Mr. Wood pointed out that one of the tracking stations that these  tapes had been recorded at was hosting a detailed description of the process Earth-side.  Written by John Sarkissian of the CSIRO Parkes Observatory it gave a fascinating glimpse into what was done to show the world Neil Armstong stepping onto the Moon's surface.What Bill Wood, John Sarkissian, and their other former Apollo 11 colleagues are trying to track down are the recording of what was broadcast from the Moon, referred to as Slow-Scan TV (SSTV).  This raw data was recorded onto 1" wide magnetic tapes at the same time as it was converted for terrestrial TV broadcast. As far as the paper trail goes, there are about 700 boxes that might contain these coveted tapes.  They are mixed in with recordings from the entire Apollo era, meaning there is a lot of footage that, with modern techiques, could offer far clearer pictures of man's first visits to another celestial body.  While John Sarkissian's report points out that everyone thinks we have footage of the first moonwalk, modern techiques would, if the tapes are found before they deteriorate, allow these raw data tapes to be turned into far higher quality pictures than before seen by the public.Of course, proving that any publicity is good publicity, Mr. Wood didn't restrict himself to contacting Wikinews.  Getting the right story out is important for these folks, and Leonard David, a Senior space writer with MSNBC helped give some impetus to the search with an article; help because the search is focussing not on the tapes, but on the people who might know where they, or the paperwork leading to them, might be.  Time isn't working in favour of the volunteers searching for the SSTV tapes, part of the Goddard center is scheduled to close in October.  Not the entire center as previously reported, but the Data Evaluation Laboratory.  This is the one place where all the equipment and expertise exists to process these tapes, if they are found before they deteriorate.The Herschel Space Observatory and Planck Satellite were both launched Thursday by an Ariane 5ECA rocket at around 1pm (UTC) by the European Space Agency (ESA) from the Guiana Space Centre. The two telescopes valued at €1.9 billion (£1.7bn) were launched from Kourou, French Guiana, a department of France in South America.File:Planck satellite.jpg"The technology onboard these satellites is unique, and the science these satellites will do is fantastic," said Jean-Jacques Dordain director-general at the ESA, "This is the result of many years' hard work by thousands of scientists and engineers across Europe." Herschel was released 26 minutes after launch to continue on its trajectory. Two minutes later, the Planck observatory separated. The Planck telescope is a survey telescope using Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) measurements of the microwave portion of the electromagnetic spectrum."It [Planck] will allow us to pin down all the basic characteristics of the Universe with very high accuracy - its age, its contents, how it evolved, its geometry, etc." said Dr Jan Tauber, project scientist at ESA.The larger space telescope is named after William Herschel who discovered the planet Uranus in 1781. The Herschel telescope will use infrared radiation and its main reflector mirror at a diameter of 3.5 meter (11.5 ft) is one-and-a-half-times larger than that on the Hubble Telescope.The Heterodyne Instrument for the Far Infrared (HIFI) will also be able to detect carbon, water and oxygen in star-forming areas of space and examine the chemical composition of comets. The Photodetector Array Camera (PACS) and Spectrometer and the Spectral and Photometric Imaging Receiver (SPIRE)  will correlate the images. The Herschel will also be equipped with heat detecting instrumentation. The Herschel space telescope will be operational for three to five years. "These space missions are outstanding feats of engineering. Herschel is the largest telescope we have ever put into space and the instruments on Planck will operate at just a tenth of a degree above absolute zero," said Lord Drayson, the United Kingdom's science minister, "This is really cool science happening at mind-blowingly low temperatures, helping to answer some of the basic questions about the history of the universe.""Herschel is going to help us understand much, much better how stars form right now and how they have been forming throughout billions of years of cosmic history"  said Göran Pilbratt, Herschel's project scientist at ESA, "We're going to see the [star] embryos, the ones that are not born yet. We're going to see right into the wombs where stars are born."The TerreStar-1, an American communications satellite operated by TerreStar Corporation was launched Wednesday by an Ariane 5ECA rocket at 17:52 GMT  by the European Space Agency (ESA) from the ELA-3 at the Guiana Space Centre. The 6,910-kilogram (15,200 lb) TerreStar-1 satellite cost US$300 million.  It was launched from Kourou, French Guiana, a department of France in South America.  This satellite weighs in as the heaviest and the largest telecommunications satellite ever launched.AT&T Mobility along with TerreStar Corporation will market a hybrid prototype terrestrial/satellite hand set yet this year.  The technology will allow the new hand set to operate on ground-based phone networks. In dead zones, the customer could use the device via satellite if they can access the southern sky similar to a satellite dish.The TerreStar-1 made a successful separation from the rocket according to Arianespace, the French satellite launcher.  The satellite will be in orbit 22,000 miles (35,200 kilometers) above earth, and will open a 60 feet (18 meters) antenna dish to communicate with the hand sets over the 2 GHz (S-band) spectrum.  The TerreStar-1 has a life expectancy of 15 years.The European Space Agency's (ESA) lunar probe SMART-1 has taken its first images from a low orbit around the moon, returning images of great detail. SMART-1 caps a streak of major planetary missions by the ESA in the past year.Two features of SMART-1 have brought particular attention to the project: the ion drive and a sophisticated navigational software.The probe features a low-thrust, long-duration ion drive, where ionised particles are accelerated by electromagnets and ejected from the motor of the probe to provide propulsion. The energy for this is supplied by solar panels, potentially allowing months of thrusting.The probe arrived in lunar orbit on November 15, 2004. The ion drive has been firing for much of the time since, leading the probe to orbit ever closer to the lunar surface.The coupling of the camera and the navigational system will allow more precise mapping of the moon's features than ever before. Using very precise positioning, the system will be able to measure the angles of shadows to such a degree that researchers will be able to build a very accurate topographical map of the moon's surface features.The series of images were taken at an altitude of 5,000 to 1,000 km above the Moon to test the onboard camera. On February 9, the ion drive will be turned on once more to drop the probe to a height of 3,000 to 300 km above the surface. From then on, it will begin the bulk of its scientific investigations.The spacecraft Cassini-Huygens has discovered ethane clouds using the Visual and Infrared Mapping Spectrometer [VIMS] on Saturn's moon, Titan. The spacecraft also suggested that ethane "rain" and "snow" may be falling from the clouds into liquid methane lakes."Our observations imply that surface deposits of ethane should be found specifically at the poles, rather than globally distributed across Titan's disk as previously assumed. That may partially explain the lack of liquid ethane oceans and clouds at Titan's middle and lower latitudes," University of Arizona planetary scientist Caitlin Griffith in a statement on the Cassini-Huygens website."We think that ethane is raining or, if temperatures are cool enough, snowing on the north pole right now. When the seasons switch, we expect ethane to condense at the south pole during its winter," added Griffith.Cassini recently took pictures of what scientists call "lakes and oceans" on Titan and scientists now believe that the oceans, filled with methane, may also be "rich" with ethane."We now know that Titan's surface is largely devoid of lakes and oceans. During the polar winters, we expect the lowlands to cradle methane lakes that are rich with ethane. Perhaps these are the lakes recently imaged by Cassini," said Griffith.VIMS first detected the clouds during flybys in December 2004 and September and August 2005.The Cassini-Huygens mission is a cooperative project of NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency.The European Space Agency (ESA) is seeking volunteers who would be ready to take a part on three simulated missions to Mars.The anticipated missions will be a joint effort from ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency. Each crew will consist of six persons - two Europeans and four Russians. The ESA is looking for 2 crewmembers and two backups that must come from ESA member nations that participate in the ELIPS program.The flight simulation should last between 105 to 520 days in a closed modules set of total space of 500 m³. The goal of the mission is to test the psychological stress of the long-distance travel. To make the experience as realistic as possible, the contact with the external world shall exist only via the radio with a time-delay of 40 minutes (simulating the time required for signals to travel between the Earth and Mars).The first test of 105 days should start in middle of 2008 and the last one should start at the end 2008 or the beginning of 2009.Interested persons can apply via an application form published on the ESA website.A telescope designed to find earth-like planets outside our solar system was launched on a Soyuz rocket from Baikonur Cosmodrome inside the country of Kazakhstan. The project, which is known as COROT or COnvection ROtation and planetary Transits, is led by the French."Our Corot satellite has been put into orbit today perfectly by a Soyuz rocket," said president of National French Space Studies Center, Yannick d’Escatha.The telescope will remain in space for at least 2 years to hunt down and find other planets. The telescope will begin to first monitor the Milky Way. After approximately 150 days of monitoring, the telescope will then begin to watch the constellation Orion. Every 150 days the telescope is expected to monitor a new area of space.The telescope will take images of light that a star puts off and then watch for the brightness of that star to dim, which usually means a planet has crossed in front of the star. Scientists hope to find at least 10-40 planets, and additional gas giants. "These create a 'starquake' that sends ripples across the star’s surface, altering its brightness. The exact nature of the ripples allows astronomers to calculate the star’s precise mass, age and chemical composition," said a European Space Agency spokesman."Such planets would represent a new, as yet undiscovered, class of world that astronomers believe exists. With Corot, astronomers expect to find between 10-40 of them, together with tens of new gas giants," said a spokesman for the E.S.A..The telescope contains a camera, equipment to communicate with the scientists, direction controls and temperature detection."Corot will be able to find extra-solar planets of all sizes and natures, contrary to what we can do from the ground at the moment. We expect to obtain a better vision of planet systems beyond the solar system, about the distribution of planet sizes. And finally, it will allow us to estimate the likelihood of there existing planets resembling the Earth in the neighbourhood of the sun or further away in the galaxy," said one researcher on the project, Claude Catala.The telescope weighs nearly 1,500 pounds.European Space Agency's probe to Venus was successfully launched on Wednesday, November 9, at 0333 GMT from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. The probe, entitled Venus Express, separated from its Soyuz Fregat carrier 90 minutes after the launch, after which it emitted a signal marking the start of its journey to Earth's closest planetary neighbour.Venus Express is to arrive at Venus in April 2006. The probe will spend at least 15 months—two Venusian days—studying the planet. The orbiter, however, has enough fuel to operate for 1000 Earth days.The 220 million € (260 million US$) probe is set to examine the turbulent atmosphere and intense greenhouse effect of Venus. The probe will study the planet's temperature variation, cloud formations, wind speeds and gas composition. It is hoped that the results will help scientists understand Earth's global warming better.Venus express is a clone of Mars Express which has been orbiting Mars since December 2003.Scientists say that floating inside Saturn's rings are pieces of what they believe to be a "shattered moon," according to images captured by NASA's spacecraft Cassini–Huygens.The scientists from the University of Colorado at Boulder looked at the images which were captured in 2004, and found what they call "moonlets" or large pieces ranging from the size of a stadium to a semi truck, of what they say are the remains of a large moon which was likely destroyed when a comet or asteroid slammed into it."This is the first evidence of a moonlet belt in any of Saturn's rings. We have firmly established these moonlets exist in a relatively narrow region of the "A" ring, and the evidence indicates they are remnants of a larger moon that was shattered by a meteoroid or comet," said one of the researchers, Miodrag Sremcevic.The Cassini spacecraft captures eight new propeller-like features within Saturn's A ring in what may be the propeller "hot zone" of Saturn's rings. Propeller features form around small moonlets that are not massive enough to clear out ring material, but are still able to pull smaller ring particles into a shape reminiscent of an airplane propeller. Scientists believe that propellers represent moonlet wakes, which are denser than the surrounding ring material and appear bright in the images. The length of the belt in which the moonlets were discovered is almost 2,000 miles long.Scientists estimate that the size of the moon was relative to the size of Pan, the innermost moon of Saturn. It only measures 20 miles wide at its widest point.Pioneering Soviet cosmonaut Konstantin Feoktistov has died aged 83. A statement by the Russian Space Agency declared that he died of "unspecified causes" last Saturday in Moscow. Feoktistov was important in the early development of Soviet space travel and was part of the first group spaceflight in history, as part of the Voskhod 1 mission in 1964. He was also the first civilian allowed to participate in the Soviet space programme. He was born in Voronezh in 1926 and was wounded whilst serving in WWII. His inclusion in the spaceflight programme was often met by resistance from the Soviet government as he was neither a member of the communist party or in the military at the time. After his retirement from space travel he continued to work as a designer and engineer for the space programme until 1990, helping to design spacecraft and space stations such as Mir and Soyuz, amongst others.Following the return of the Stardust space capsule from its encounter with the Comet Wild 2, NASA scientists have come up with a novel approach to dealing with the samples of "interstellar dust" that have been collected; they want help from the public.The Stardust spacecraft carried an aerogel-based dust collector, which was exposed to space in varying orientations during different phases of the mission.Only one side of the collector was exposed towards the stream of particles coming off the Comet Wild 2 during the encounter in 2004, while the other side was used to collect interstellar dust at an earlier point in the spacecraft's journey.Although scientists have seen the particles captured from comet Wild 2 when they examined the aerogel, they have not examined any of the particles expected on the other side of the collector due to their smallness. They will be examined after they are found with the help of Stardust@home. It is believed that on the order of 50 interstellar dust particles impacted the aerogel, each now resting inside a tiny crater. Stardust traveled nearly three billion miles and its mission lasted seven years. At times it was traveling at 8 miles a second. Thats fast enough to go from San Francisco to Los Angeles in one minute. Stardust set a new all-time record for being the fastest spacecraft to return to Earth, breaking the previous record set in May of 1969 during the return of the Apollo X(10) command module. Don Brownlee of the University of Washington, Seattle said "our spacecraft has traveled further than anything from Earth ever has – and came back. We went half-way to Jupiter to meet the comet and collect samples from it. But the comet actually came in from the outer edge of the solar system, out beyond the orbit of Neptune, out by Pluto."In a move similar to some distributed computing projects, the analysis work for the project will be spread among volunteers on the Internet, who are being asked to participate in this scientific undertaking.Wikinews reporter Jason Safoutin investigated the Stardust@home project, and discussed its goals with one of its founders. Via email, he interviewed David P. Anderson, a founder of the SETI@home project, and one of the creators of the Virtual Microscope which will be used to search for captured particles from interstellar space.I was wondering If I could get some questions answered or if you could give me some "insider" info for the project. I am aware that you are taking place in the development of the VM (Virtual Microscope)...Could I know more about that?The 'virtual microscope' lets you scan through a set of images as if you were turning the focus knob on a microscope. The images are fairly large (about 100 KB each) so it's important to pre-load the images. While you're looking through one set of images, the VM is busy downloading the JPEG files for the next set.At first we thought we'd have to do this with a Java applet or Flash program - something tricky and complicated. My contribution was to point out that it could be done fairly easily using Javascript, and I wrote a prototype of this.Will this project use the BOINC Platform/Program? No. We thought about using some parts of BOINC (like the database and web pages for creating "accounts") but it was easier just to do this from scratch.How long will the project take?It depends how many volunteers participate, and how fast they look at the 'focus movies'. It will probably be just a month or two.Anyone can join but they have to take a test before they can participate. What will the test include?Looking at some focus movies and deciding whether they contain a dust particle. Participants see a lot of training examples before they take the test.  It's easy, not like a test in school.How many will be allowed to participate?No limit as of now.When will the project start?I think in about 2 months. It will take that long to transport the aerogel to the laboratory, and photograph it with the microscope. The software is ready to go.Will the VM project analyze any of the particles or just look for them?Stardust@home will only locate the particles. When they are located, they will be cut out of the aerogel and physically analyzed.Thank you for your time David. And great work on the upcoming project and SETI@home.Commander Leroy Chiao and Flight Engineer Salizhan Sharipov have just completed their mission's first space walk aboard the International Space Station.  The mission lasted 5 hours, 28 minutes, ending at 1311 UTC.The two astronauts, working in Russian space suits, performed a variety of tasks. Chiao and Sharipov installed a work platform, called the Universal Work Platform, along with its base and associated wiring. They also installed a commercial robotics experiment and a biological experiment on the exterior of the Zvezda Service Module. In addition, they checked vents on systems that help control the Station's atmosphere and relocated a Japanese physical science experiment.Residue accumulation around the vents of the Elektron oxygen generator was noted and photographed by Sharipov. Technicians on the ground will analyze the information to determine if this residue has been contributing to the problematic operation of the Elektron.During this spacewalk, the station again encountered the mysterious forces that have been saturating the Control Moment Gyros during previous spacewalks.  Russian thrusters were activated to counter this force.The walk marks Chiao's fifth for 31 hours, 34 minutes, accumulated time and Shapirov's first.This was the 57th space walk conducted at the Station and the 32nd to be based out of the orbital outpost. Expedition 10 is scheduled to conduct its second spacewalk in March.The Expedition 26 crew, comprising of Russian, American and Italian astronauts, launched to the International Space Station (ISS) from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan on Thursday at 1:09 am local time (19:09 UTC). The crew, which comprised of Russian Dmitry Kondratyev, American Catherine Coleman and Italian Paolo Nespoli, launched aboard the Soyuz TMA-20 and will dock with the station Friday afternoon. With a flash of light, the rocket lifted off the pad and soared towards the heavens resembling a star of white light according to launch footage. Updates were given over the loudspeaker every 20 seconds until the nine minute mark which signaled that the capsule had reached stable orbit. This was greeted by hearty cheers. The station currently houses Commander Scott Kelly and Flight Engineers Alexander Kaleri and Oleg Skripochka who have been aboard the station since October 9. They are slated to leave the station in March of next year. Once they depart, the recently launched Expedition 26 crew members will become Expedition 27. The launch was scheduled to take place several days ago, however it had to be postponed to facilitate the replacement of the reentry capsule which was damaged while it was being unloaded at the Cosmodrome earlier this year. Replacing such a key component so close to the laucnch date caused some fear, however astronaut Dmitry Kondratyev dismissed these fears at the pre-launch press conference, "All the procedures needed to check the integrity of the ship have been completed, and all those have shown positive results."The astronauts stayed at the Cosmonaut Hotel in Baikonur for two weeks before the launch. This launch marks ten years of flights to the ISS which began in October 2000.The Expedition 26 crew returned to Earth safely on Wednesday aboard the Soyuz TMA-01M spacecraft after a 157-day tour of duty aboard the International Space Station (ISS). Landing occurred on the Kazakhstan Steppes.The crew, consisting of Commander Aleksandr Kaleri and Flight Engineers Oleg Skripochka and Scott Kelly, launched to space on October 7 of last year, docking to the station a couple days later. According to NASA officials, landing conditions were "too cold, too windy, too arctic" to set up a medical tent as is usually done after a Soyuz landing. Instead, the cosmonauts and astronaut were taken to Kustanai, Kazakhstan before returning to Star City, Russia.Despite the weather during landing and crew recovery operations, NASA spokesman Rob Navias says that the recovery teams are apt at recovering crews under such conditions. The three crewmembers exited the capsule about thirty minutes after a landing in deep snow.The launch of the next flight to the ISS, Soyuz TMA-21, has been delayed due to technical problems, and is scheduled to lift-off no earlier than March 29.Scott Kelly was in space at the time of the Tucson shooting during which his twin brother's wife, U.S. Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, was shot. He and brother Mark Kelly are the only twins to have both flown into space.This was the first spaceflight for Oleg Skripochka, the third for Scott Kelly, and the fifth for Aleksandr Kaleri. Kaleri is now the second most experienced space-traveler in human history, spending a total of 770 days in space and trailing only Sergei Krikalev, who has accumulated just over 800 days.The Expedition 27 crew returned to Earth safely from the International Space Station (ISS) yesterday. The crew landed in Kazakhstan aboard the Soyuz TMA-20 spacecraft, the same craft they launched on last December.The crew, consisting of commander Dmitri Kondratyev and flight engineers Catherine Coleman and Paolo Nespoli, spent approximately five months in space aboard the ISS.After landing, recovery teams helped  the crew exit their Soyuz capsule and adjust to surface gravity again. While Kondratyev returned to the Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center, Coleman and Nespoli returned to Houston, Texas.While in space the crew worked on over 150 microgravity experiments and saw the arrival of several spacecraft: a Japanese H-II Transfer Vehicle, two Russian Progress cargo ships, the European Johannes Kepler ATV and the space shuttles Discovery and Endeavour on their final flights.This was Russian cosmonaut and commander Dimitri Kondratyev's first spaceflight, the third for NASA astronaut Catherine Coleman, and the second for European Space Agency astronaut Paolo Nespoli.The crew of STS-134 and Expedition 28 remain aboard the ISS. Three new crew members are expected to launch on June 7 to join their colleagues aboard the orbital outpost.The Soyuz TMA-04M spacecraft, which launched on Tuesday, arrived at the International Space Station yesterday with three members of the Expedition 31 long duration mission.The Soyuz rocket launched on May 15 at 3:01:23 UTC (9:01:23 AM local time) from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. On board were Russian cosmonauts Gennady Padalka and Sergei Revin, as well as NASA astronaut Joseph Acaba.The Soyuz spacecraft arrived at the International Space Station on May 17, approximately two days after launch, at 4:36 UTC. After docking, the Soyuz crew joined fellow Expedition 31 crew members Oleg Kononenko, European Space Agency astronaut Andre Kuipers, and NASA astronaut Donald Pettit, who wished Acaba a happy 45th birthday.Kononenko, Kuipers, and Pettit are currently slated to return to Earth in early June, at which point Padalka, Revin and Acaba—the most recent additions to the ISS crew—will become members of Expedition 32. The trio are scheduled to be the only occupants of the space outpost until the arrival of the remainder of the Expedition 32 crew aboard Soyuz TMA-05M, currently slated for July 17.During their time aboard the station, Padalka, Revin, and Acaba will perform research in ecology, medicine, and space technology. They are expected to remain aboard the International Space Station until mid-September, after which they will return to Earth to conclude a mission of approximately 125 days in space.Three astronauts return to Earth today, after touching down safely in Kazakhstan aboard their Soyuz capsule in the pre-dawn hours of Monday morning. The landing marks the culmination of a 127 day mission to the international space station, and only the fourth time a Soyuz capsule has landed at night in its missions to the International Space Station (ISS).Astronauts Yuri Malenchenko, Sunita Williams, and Akihiko Hoshide were carried to reclining chairs to help them re-acclimate to gravity after being extracted from the sideways capsule by Russian recovery forces. The astronauts bundled up in their recliners as air temperature at the site hit -11°C (12°F).The group started their trip to the ISS on July 15 launching from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. In their four and a half month stay on the station they completed a variety of different studies including the effects of microgravity on the human spine and studying melting glaciers. They also were aboard to receive the first commercial shipment made by SpaceX's Dragon cargo resupply mission."It was a beautiful departure. It was just beautiful to watch the ship fly away," said Kevin Ford, now the current commander of the ISS. Ford was passed command of the ISS after in a change of command ceremony on Saturday. During the ceremony Williams remarked, "I think we've left the ship in good shape and I'm honored to hand it over to Kevin."Upon approval of the medical team Williams and Hoshide will return to Houston, Texas, while Malenchenko heads back to Star City, Russia.The Cassini space probe, currently in orbit around the planet Saturn, has returned extraordinary pictures from the Saturnian satellite Iapetus.It has long been known to astronomers that Iapetus's surface is divided into two hemispheres, one dark, one light. Now a narrow ridge of massive proportions, 20 km high and 1,300 km long, has been found around the equator of the moon. The height rivals Olympus Mons on Mars-- but Mars is five times bigger than Iapetus.The origin of this feature is currently unknown. Cassini will next fly by Iapetus in September 2007. The images returned from that pass will have over 100 times greater resolution than the current ones, and scientists hope they will help unravel the mystery.Iapetus, Saturn's third largest moon, has a diameter of about 1,436 km (892 miles).  Jean-Dominque Cassini discovered the moon in 1672; it was also Cassini who determined the color difference on Iapetus.The Cassini-Huygens mission, named after Giovanni Domenico Cassini (Jean-Dominque Cassini), is a collaborative project with the European Space Agency, the Italian Space Agency, and NASA.Astronomers have discovered an extrasolar planet that may eventually collide into its sun. The planet, called WASP-18b, orbits its star in under one day, and is 10 times larger than Jupiter. Its star is 1,000 light years from Earth. The discovery was made by British astronomers. The planet's name is derived from the group that discovered it, WASP (Wide Angle Search for Planets).The planet is approximately one billion years old. Tidal interactions between the planet and its star are pulling them together, and it will likely crash into its star in under one million years. The planet is relatively much closer to its star than Earth is to the Sun. Earth is a distance of 93 million miles from the sun, whereas WASP-18b is only 1.4 million miles from its star.Professor Andrew Collier Cameron of St. Andrew's University commented on the inherent problems with the planet: "The problem with this planet is that it's very massive and very close to its star. It should be creating tidal bulging that makes it spiral into its star."Coel Hellier of Keele University led a group of researchers that discovered the planet. Their study of WASP-18b was published in the August 27 issue of the journal Nature. Scientists had a 1 in 2,000 chance of discovering the planet. There are 300 planets which are known to orbit stars other than the Sun.A SpaceX Falcon 1 rocket has failed during its third attempt to reach orbit. Over four years behind schedule, the rocket lifted off from Omelek Island, part of Kwajalein Atoll in the Marshall Islands, at 03:34 GMT this morning, carrying three technology development satellites, and the ashes of 208 people, including astronaut Gordon Cooper, and Star Trek actor James Doohan. According to a statement issued by SpaceX CEO Elon Musk, the first and second stages of the rocket failed to separate, making this the third consecutive unsuccessful launch for the Falcon 1, which is yet to conduct a successful mission. Musk described the failure as a "big disappointment".The primary payload for this flight was the Trailblazer satellite, which was to have been operated by the United States Air Force, and MDA. Two CubeSats, Pharmasat Risk Evaluation Satellite (PREsat) and Nanosail-D, were also to have been deployed. The CubeSats would have been operated by NASA and Santa Clara University. The space burial capsules, named Explorers and operated by Celestis, were to have intentionally remained bolted to the second stage of the rocket. The remains of several famous individuals were flown, most notably Project Mercury astronaut Gordon Cooper and actor James Doohan, best known for his role as Montgomery Scott in the science fiction television series Star Trek. Director John Meredyth Lucas, who also worked on Star Trek, had some of his ashes on the flight as well, as did Mareta West an astrogeologist who was responsible for choosing the landing sites for the Apollo missions to the Moon. This is the second consecutive failure of a major orbital space burial mission, following a failed Taurus launch in September 2001. The last successful major orbital space burial was conducted in December 1999, although a single burial capsule was launched aboard the New Horizons spacecraft in 2006.This launch was originally planned to occur in early 2004, with the TacSat-1 satellite and the Explorers payload. It would have been the maiden flight of the Falcon 1. A number of procurement delays pushed it to 2005, and subsequent issues with the availability of Space Launch Complex 3 at Vandenberg AFB, from where it was originally scheduled to launch, led to the first attempts to launch being made in late 2005. During the second attempted countdown, a faulty valve caused the first stage fuel tank to be deformed, leading to a delay.In March 2006, a flight which was originally scheduled to be conducted after this one, with the FalconSat-2 spacecraft, was launched as the maiden flight, and ended in failure less than a minute after lift-off due to a fuel leak. This caused delays for all other Falcon launches, and a test flight without a functional payload was added to the schedule in order to ensure that the problems with the rocket had been resolved. This was launched in March 2007, and also failed - this time due to a sequence of events started by human error in setting the fuel ratio for the first stage. Despite the failure to reach orbit, most critical systems were tested, so the third flight was cleared to launch an operational payload. In the meantime, the satellite that was to replace TacSat-1, TacSat-2, was launched, and TacSat-1 was subsequently cancelled as obsolete. During early 2008, the US Air Force announced that they would replace it with a satellite for a programme called Jumpstart, which would be selected a few weeks before launch. Trailblazer was chosen in late May, over two other options, PnPSat, or a pair of CubeSats. The launch was at that time scheduled for late June, but it was subsequently delayed due to small cracks in one of the rocket's engines.Today's launch followed an eventful countdown, lasting almost to the end of the five hour launch window, with the loading of helium onto the rocket taking longer than expected, and requiring several long holds. Following this, an attempt to launch was made at 03:00 GMT, which resulted in a last-second abort at T-0, just after ignition of the main engine, due to a marginal performance issue with the turbopump. The launch was recycled, and the rocket lifted off 34 minutes later.This was the first flight of an uprated version of the Merlin engine, which powers the first stage. The new version, named Merlin-1C, features regenerative cooling as opposed to ablative cooling used on the earlier launches. It is believed that the failure of the launch was unrelated to the presence of the new engine, the performance of which was described as "picture-perfect" by Elon Musk, the CEO of SpaceX.The next Falcon 1 launch was scheduled to have been launched in September with the Razaksat spacecraft for ATSB of Malaysia, and up to three CubeSats. This will almost certainly be delayed whilst the failure is investigated. It is unclear whether this failure will affect the maiden flight of the larger Falcon 9, currently scheduled for 2009, on a demonstration mission for NASA's Commercial Orbital Transportation Services programme. Today's launch is the 38th orbital launch of 2008, and following the resale and recovery of the AMC-14 satellite, the first outright failure of the year.The launch of Space Shuttle Discovery on its final mission, STS-133, has been delayed another day. Launch is now targeted for 3:52 PM EDT on Wednesday, November 3.Discovery's launch was originally scheduled for this Monday, but was delayed until the following day after several helium and nitrogen leaks were discovered aboard the shuttle. The initial delay was to accommodate repairs to these leaks. These repairs are taking longer than expected according to NASA officials.According to a NASA statement, repair technicians worked through the night to facilitate repairs to these leaks but "are slightly behind the timeline that was prepared yesterday". If the shuttle isn't ready to launch by November 7, the launch will be pushed into December.STS-133 will deliver supplies and components to the International Space Station, including the Permanent Multipurpose Module and the third of four ExPRESS Logistics Carriers. Two spacewalks are to be performed by the crew during their 11 day mission, the 133rd flight of the Space Shuttle Program and the 39th flight of Discovery.Space Shuttle Discovery's final launch on the STS-133 mission to the International Space Station has been delayed at least an additional day. Launch is now targeted for 3:29 PM EDT on Thursday.The launch was originally scheduled for this past Monday, but was delayed two days because of helium and nitrogen leaks on board the shuttle.Technicians are now working to repair technical glitches discovered yesterday on a main engine control computer.The weather outlook, however, appears to be unfavorable for the new targeted launch day; there is an 80 percent chance of undesirable weather, according to the NASA space shuttle weather officer Kathy Winters.The mission management team (MMT) is meeting today to discuss and troubleshoot Discovery's newfound electrical problems.STS-133 is scheduled to be an 11-day mission to the International Space Station to ship supplies to the crew, as well as additional components for the orbital outpost's construction, including the Permanent Multipurpose Module and the third of four ExPRESS Logistics Carriers. The mission is the 133rd of the Space Shuttle Program and the 39th of Discovery.On Sunday, China announced the attachment of the final panel to its telescope named Five hundred meter Aperture Spherical Telescope (FAST). This piece marks the end of a five-year-long US$180 million (CNY¥1.2 billion) construction project.FAST comprises about 4,500 panels and spans a diameter of 500 meters (about 1640 feet). The telescope is part of a series of ventures into space exploration by China, including planning another robotic Moon mission and creating a Chinese space station, with its core module set to be launched into space in 2018. With the country's founding centenary coming in 2049, Chinese President Xi Jinping said during a Beijing conference, "great scientific and technological capacity is a must for China to be strong".In order to achieve optimal electromagnetic performance for FAST with minimal signal interference, it was built in the South China Karst. This ultimately forced the relocation of about 9,100 inhabitants within a 3.1-mile (5km) radius of the telescope. The residents received about US$1,800 (CNY¥12,000) in reimbursement, with those experiencing difficulties with housing receiving about US$1,500 (CNY¥10,000) in extra compensation. The Chinese government supports the resettlement, with senior party official Li Yuecheng saying the relocation would provide a "sound electromagnetic wave environment". The telescope is now the largest-diameter single-dish radio telescope. It took the spot from the 305-meter diameter Arecibo Observatory telescope in Puerto Rico. Russia's RATAN-600 multi-element radio telescope has a diameter of 576 meters. This adds to China's record-defying achievements; it contains the world's largest bridge and the world's longest wall, the Great Wall of China.The telescope is set to be ready for use in September.  Its possible uses include exploration for pulsars, a special type of neutron stars detected through their emission of radio pulses. Scientists have also described the telescope's potential to explore alien civilization, with NAO Radio Astronomy Technology Laboratory director Peng Bo saying FAST's "potential to discover an alien civilization will be 5 to 10 times that of current equipment, as it can see farther and darker planets".A bright object, likely a meteor, was seen shooting across the sky and was sighted by residents across the Canadian prairies early Tuesday morning.At approximately 6:30 a.m. local time (MDT) the object appeared to early morning travelers, commuters and joggers."It kind of glowed green, and it looked like it was falling very, very quickly. It just kind of reminded me of a falling star or something," said Cheryl Cook-Taylor, who was traveling to work in North Battleford, Saskatchewan."It kind of disintegrated. It was traveling north to south. Very bright. I actually thought it was a plane taking off from the airport and then bits started falling off. Really quite an amazing sight," said another witness to the phenomenon.Newspapers and radio stations across Saskatchewan and Alberta have been inundated with callers reporting the fireball. It has been described as a bright green, yellow and blue streak flashing across the skies which then broke into pieces. A geologist from the University of Calgary, Dr. Alan Hildebrand, says the object was likely a meteor that was between 10 and 100 kilograms in size.  The light show lasted around ten seconds.On November 20, 2008 prairie skies were previously lit up by a fireball. A huge meteorite had disintegrated, and pieces were found near the border city of Lloydminster.A Russian-US crew bound for the International Space Station launched at 8:30 a.m. ALMT Thursday (0230 UTC) from the cosmodome in Baikonur, Kazakhstan in a Russian Soyuz TMA rocket. Included with the crew was Marcos César Pontes, 43, Brazil's first astronaut.Pontes, who flies for the Brazilian Air Force, was joined on the trip by Russian cosmonaut Pavel Vinogradov and U.S. astronaut Jeffrey Williams. The Russian and U.S. astronauts will be spending the next six months onboard the ISS. In ten days Pontes will return along with outgoing astronauts American Bill McArthur and Russian Valery Tokarev.The first images of Mercury taken from orbit around the planet have been received from NASA's MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry and Ranging (MESSENGER) probe. The images come after the spacecraft entered an orbit around the closest planet to the sun on March 17.After various system examinations, the first images from the spacecraft were sent at 0520 EDT (0920 UTC).Before arriving in orbit around Mercury, the MESSENGER spacecraft was launched in 2004, passed by Mercury twice in 2008 and once more in 2009. MESSENGER is the first artificial satellite to be placed in orbit around Mercury. Because Mercury is the innermost planet in the Solar System, the sun's gravitational attraction altered the spacecraft's approach to the planet. Because of this, a series of several maneuvers over three years was required to put the probe in orbit.Although MESSENGER is the first probe to enter orbit around Mercury, it is not the first to fly by. Mariner 10 was the first to do this when it made three passes during the 1970s.NASA is continuing to release images taken by the spacecraft as they arrive at Earth. MESSENGER is scheduled to begin it's primary mission on April 4, consisting of various scientific and visual observations of the planet. Some of the scientific goals the probe is to accomplish are: determination of the geologic composition of Mercury, study of the planet's magnetic field and internal composition, and transmission of more than 75,000 images back to Earth.Scientists confirmed today for the first time ever, that astronomers photographed a planet orbiting a sun other than our own. Photographs were taken late last year by the European Southern Observatory (ESO) in Chile, but it has taken since then to confirm that the body is indeed a planet — five times the size of Jupiter, the largest planet that orbits our own sun. Extra-solar planets such as this have been detected before, but never by direct observation — their presence has always been inferred from aberrant behaviour of the star they circulate around."Among the most essential quests of modern astronomers, taking direct images of planets outside of our solar system is certainly up there among chart-toppers," says the ESO, in a press release given to verify the status of the object.The newly imaged planet orbits a brown dwarf star known to scientists as 2M1207, at a distance that is nearly twice as far as that of Neptune from our own sun — making the planet much too cold for lifeforms such as those on Earth. Detection of Earth-like planets is still years away, according to the ESO, because they are too faint for current equipment to detect.The scientists say that the planet presents a valuable opportunity nonetheless, as it is much younger than those in our own system, at only "a few tens of millions of years old"."Moreover, as the first tens of millions of years are considered to have been a critical period in the formation of Earth and of our own solar system, the study of nearby young planetary systems provides astronomers with invaluable insight on our own origins."Suns are understood to form when matter collapses strongly under its own gravity, while planets form later by accretion, in matter orbiting a sun.Photographs of what was thought to be an extra-solar planet were announced earlier this month. However scientists now state that the size of that planet might be much larger than originally announced, thus allowing a chance that the object might instead be a small star.ImageSat International, the Israeli company that operates the recently launched photo/spy satellite Eros B, published its first photographs of potential targets in the Middle East. Analysts say the timing of this announcement shows that Israel intends to carefully monitor Iran's nuclear facilities to assess the threat for Israeli security. The dual-use satellite, second in the EROS series, can observe small details on the ground at very high resolution. Israelis commemorate today those who have fallen in military service and in terror attacks since the UN resolution on the establishment of the state in November 29, 1947. Israeli Chief of Staff, Major General Dan Halutz, said that the threat from Iran shows that Israel must be strong to defend its people.Astronomers have for the first time watched a supernova explosion break out of the surface of the parent star.  Previously only the remnants after an explosion have been found.  The new object, SN 2008D, is in another galaxy.Alicia Soderberg, a Hubble and Carnegie-Princeton Fellow at Princeton University in Princeton, New Jersey, explained the significance:  "For years we have dreamed of seeing a star just as it was exploding, but actually finding one is a once in a lifetime event... This newly born supernova is going to be the Rosetta Stone of supernova studies for years to come."Observations were being made of a different supernova in galaxy NGC 2770 when Soderberg noticed a new X-ray ray source had appeared.  A burst of X-rays is produced when the explosion of a supernova reaches the surface of the exploding star.  Because the SWIFT orbiting telescope was being used, which provides images as they are received, there was no delay in getting the images and an alert was sent to other major telescopes.Other observers who joined the watch were the 3.5-meter telescope at the Apache Point Observatory in New Mexico, the Chandra X-ray Observatory, the Gemini North telescope in Hawaii, the Hubble Space Telescope, the Keck I telescope in Hawaii, the 200-inch and 60-inch telescopes at the Palomar Observatory in California, and the Very Large Array in New Mexico.The primary task of SWIFT is rapid detection of gamma ray bursts, and because of their short duration the observatory requires constant monitoring.  The observations of galaxy NGC 2770 were being done while the satellite was not busy with its major task.The COSMIC atmospheric research spacecraft launch is likely to be rescheduled to Saturday due to inclement weather.COSMIC is currently scheduled to launch tonight between 5:10 and 8:20 p.m. PDT (Saturday 0010 to 0320 UTC ).  The Air Force launch weather team at Vandenberg Air Force Base is predicting a 70% chance that weather conditions will prohibit the launch from happening tonight.If tonight's launch is cancelled, it will be rescheduled for Saturday.  Times for a rescheduled launch have not been announced.The weather outlook for Saturday shows improved conditions with only a 10% chance of rain.Former Arizona Republican Governor Fife Symington III said that he had witnessed one of the "craft of unknown origin" during the 1997 Phoenix Lights event, but noted that he didn't go public with the information.  In an interview with the Daily Courier in Prescott, Fife said: Fife also noted that he did request information from the commander of Luke Air Force Base, the general of the National Guard, and the head of the Department of Public Safety.  But none of the officials he contacted had an answer for what had happened, and were also "perplexed."Frances Barwood, who was the former Phoenix city councilwoman in 1997 and who launched an investigation into the event,  said that out of the more than 700 witnesses she interviewed, "The government never interviewed even one."Eugene Cernan, former NASA astronaut and the most recent human to walk on the Moon, died on Monday aged 82, according to a NASA statement. Cernan, who commanded the Apollo 17 mission to the Moon in 1972, was in Houston, Texas, at the time of his death.Cernan, who was born in Chicago, Illinois, on March 14, 1934, earned engineering degrees from Purdue University in 1956 and the Naval Postgraduate School in 1963. He was an aviator in the United States Navy and logged more than 200 landings on aircraft carriers before becoming an astronaut in 1963. He flew in space for the first time aboard Gemini 9 in 1966. In 1969 Cernan flew aboard Apollo 10, a flight to the Moon that rehearsed a descent but purposefully did not land in preparation for the Apollo 11 landing. Cernan's final flight into space was as commander of Apollo 17, the final lunar landing mission of the Apollo program, in which he spent three days exploring the lunar surface along with Harrison Schmitt.Following Apollo 17, Cernan worked on the Apollo-Soyuz project before retiring from NASA and the Navy in 1976. In his later years he became an executive and consultant, wrote an autobiography, and advocated for returning to the Moon along with Neil Armstrong, the first human to walk on the Moon, who died in 2012."Truly, America has lost a patriot and pioneer who helped shape our country's bold ambitions to do things that humankind had never before achieved," NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said in a statement.Today marks the 40th anniversary of the first ever landing of humans on the Moon. Launched on July 16, 1969, Apollo 11 touched down on the lunar surface at 20:17 UTC on July 20.The historic anniversary was marked by the current United States President, Barack Obama, meeting the crew, Neil Armstrong and "Buzz" Aldrin, the first men on the satellite's surface, and Michael Collins, who remained in lunar orbit. Obama praised the men and commented on the global historical significance of their deeds. At the time of the initial landing Aldrin and Armstrong spoke to then-president Richard M. Nixon by radio shortly after landing.The culmination of the 1960s space race between the Soviet Union and the U.S. was not solely the work of the Americans. Among the statements surrounding the anniversary, Armstrong had written a message praising the Australian team at Honeysuckle Creek Tracking Station near Canberra. Without their involvement there would have been no black and white television pictures for the millions worldwide who watched man's first step onto the Moon. Armstrong stated he had been surprised when Mission control told him they had pictures, commenting about the camera, "in all that testing, I never saw a picture successfully transmitted. But the chaps assured us that it would, in fact, work. And it did."NASA's current plans to return to the Moon by 2020 have been derided by Buzz Aldrin. Today at a reunion of lunar astronauts he dismissed these proposals, "America to Mars is what ought to be, not America back to the moon". Plans for a lunar base to practice for a Mars trip also met with his scorn.The journey to the Moon was initiated by then-President John F. Kennedy in 1961. The last time an astronaut walked on the moon was in 1972. In 1989 then-President George H.W. Bush used the twentieth anniversary to announce plans to fly back to the Moon and then on to Mars, but these never materialized. Obama has set up a commission to provide advice on where to take the U.S. space program next.The French Space Agency will publish its UFO archive online by late January or mid-February.  Most of the 6,000 reports have been filed by the public and airline professionals.  Jacques Arnould, an official for the French Space Agency, said that the data had accumulated over a 30 year period and that they were often reported to the Gendarmerie.Often they are made to the Gendarmerie, which provides an official witness statement ... and some come from airline pilots - Jacques ArnouldFrench space agency CNES released its UFO files to the public through its website on Thursday. The 100,000 pages of witness testimony, photographs, film footage and audiotapes are an accumulation of more than 1,600 sightings since 1954 and will include all future UFO reports obtained by the agency.Jacques Patenet, an aeronautical engineer who is leading the study of the "non-identified aerospatial phenomena," noted that the release of the UFO files to the public was "a world first," and that "the data that we are releasing doesn't demonstrate the presence of extraterrestrial beings. But it doesn't demonstrate the impossibility of such presence either. The questions remain open."Almost 25 percent of the cases have been categorized as "type D", meaning that "despite good or very good data and credible witnesses, we are confronted with something we can't explain," Jacques explained.CNES receives approximaely 50 to a 100 UFO reports each year. 10 percent of these reports are objects of on-site investigations.Security was on hand at CNES headquarters during the announcement "to screen out uninvited UFOlogists."The CNES website containing the UFO files crashed all its host servers three hours after it was brought online due to heavy traffic.Other countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom do have UFO files available, but only release them through the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) on a case-by-case basis.There will be a full lunar eclipse starting on Saturday, March 3. Earth's passage between the Sun and the Moon will begin casting its shadow on the surface of the Moon starting at 20:18 UTC. The Moon will be totally eclipsed by the Earth's shadow between 22:44 and 23:58 UTC.Cloudless conditions would make for a great viewing experience as the Lunar phase is now full. The color of the moon will be like that of copper.In England, the lunar eclipse will occur between 8:18pm and until 2:24am.A chart to calculate the time offset from UTC puts the eclipse starting at 3:18pm EST in North America. The moon will be totally eclipsed 21 minutes prior to sunset in that time zone. The moonrise will occur during the period it is eclipsed, at 6:01pm. Viewers will be able to see the moon re-emerge from the Earth's shadow, weather permitting.The eclipse will take place during the Hindu festival of Holi.A team of scientists at Stanford University claim to have detected a subtle, missing element of Einstein's theory of relativity.In a press release dated February 16th, Robert Kahn, Stanford University's Public Affairs Coordinator, announced the experimental confirmation of frame dragging, an effect in which the presence of a rotating body causes space itself to be pulled along as the body rotates. While the effect was theorized by Josef Lense and Hans Thirring as far back as 1918, the small scale of the effect, as little as one part in a trillion for a satellite orbiting the Earth, made detecting the effect difficult.The observation was made by the Gravity Probe B satellite, which carries finely-machined gyroscopes. Scientists looked for small changes in the motion of the gyroscopes to detect the frame dragging effect, as well as the much larger geodetic effect – small corrections to the Earth's gravitational field due to differences between Einstein's and Newton's theories of gravity.The experiment was conducted on the satellite from 2004 to 2005. However, the complexity of the data analysis along with unforeseen engineering problems have made finding the effect in the experiment's results difficult. In particular, the presence of small electrical charges on the gyroscopes interfered with their results.Francis Everitt, the experiment's Principal Investigator, stresses in an interview with the New York Times that their announcement is only preliminary and that, with further analysis, they hope to improve the precision of their results; currently, they say they have only detected the frame dragging effect to within plus or minus fifteen percent of its expected value.The theory of general relativity was developed by Albert Einstein in the early 20th century to explain the behavior of moving objects in space, after the discovery that the speed of light was always the same no matter how the person measuring it was moving. While it successfully explains many strange behaviors in space, such as the slow shifting of the orbit of Mercury and the bending of light by massive objects such as black holes, testing the theory on Earth has always been difficult due to the small scale of relativity's effects in everyday life.George Deutsch, a controversial George W. Bush appointee at NASA, resigned his post as press officer the same day that Texas A&M University confirmed that he never graduated from the school.    The resume of the 24-year old had claimed he received a "Bachelor of Arts in journalism, Class of 2003."Mr. Deutsch gained notoriety when it was revealed he had instructed NASA web site designers to insert the word "theory" at every mention of the Big Bang, on the grounds that it was a religious matter.  "This is more than a science issue, it is a religious issue. And I would hate to think that young people would only be getting one-half of this debate from NASA." said Mr Deutsch in an e-mail.Mr. Deutsch also told public affairs workers to limit reporters' access to James Hansen, a top climate scientist and longtime director of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies.  Dr. Hansen's lectures and papers were also to have been censored by public affairs workers.  Dr. Hansen stated he would ignore the restrictions, which came through the less official channels of phone calls.Dr. Michael Griffin, NASA chief, appeared to  back Dr. Hansen's claims of internal censorship, when he sent a strongly worded email message to all NASA employees stating "It is not the job of public-affairs officers to alter, filter or adjust engineering or scientific material produced by NASA's technical staff."  Several other NASA employees reported similar tampering after the incident.  NASA personnel told the New York Times that "Mr. Deutsch played a small but significant role in an intensifying effort at the agency to exert political control over the flow of information to the public."Climate science has long been linked with the space program because many of the underlying mathematical modeling techniques were originally developed to help understand the atmospheres of other planets, such as Venus.Mr. Deutsch was given his job in NASA's public affairs office in Washington after working on President Bush's re-election campaign and inaugural committee.NASA has announced that the Cassini spacecraft has found what seem to be geysers spewing water on the moon Enceladus. The find raises the possibility of life on other planets, as liquid water is believed to be a requirement for life. "This marks the first time that scientists have seen evidence of water in liquid form so close to the surface on another body beyond Earth," said Cassini scientist Torrence Johnson. Although life may be found on the moon, most scientists concede that if Enceladus does harbor life, it probably consists of microbes or other robust organisms capable of living in extreme conditions. This latest discovery shows that life in other parts of the universe may be more probable than previously thought."We realize that this is a radical conclusion — that we may have evidence for liquid water within a body so small and so cold," said Dr. Carolyn Porco, Cassini imaging team leader at the Space Science Institute, Boulder, Colorado. "However, if we are right, we have significantly broadened the diversity of solar system environments where we might possibly have conditions suitable for living organisms."The weather satellite GOES-12, which provides most of the weather pictures for the United States, became unusable on Tuesday, December 4.  The satellite is positioned in geostationary orbit over the Amazon.  A normal station-keeping maneuver to adjust its location was not completed as usual and services could not be continued.The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) operates the satellites for its National Weather Service (NWS).  NOAA's satellite division intends to attempt Wednesday night to return GOES-12 to normal mode.  The satellite is in its "safe" mode, which is used to protect it until problems can be identified and repaired.  It is properly oriented toward the Sun so it will have full electrical power for further commands.The GOES-10 satellite, located slightly further east, has been taken from South American coverage and is providing North American service.  GOES-13 is in orbital storage in case it is needed for replacing a failed satellite.If you thought Google Maps, Google Earth and Google Moon was enough, then meet Google Mars. Google officially launched the new Google Mars yesterday as another add-on to Google Maps. The service offers three different ways to view Mars: elevation, visible landscape, and infrared view. The images come from two different NASA missions, Mars Global Surveyor and 2001 Mars Odyssey, and the data was prepared in collaboration with NASA researchers at Arizona State University.The color-coded elevation data is a shaded-relief map taken by the Mars Orbiter Laser Altimeter (MOLA) on NASA's Mars Global Surveyor spacecraft. The visible data is made from black and white images taken by the Mars Orbiter Camera (MOC), which is also located onboard the Mars Global Surveyor, and the infrared images were produced by the Thermal Emission Imaging System (THEMIS) on NASA's Mars Odyssey spacecraft. The THEMIS data is the sharpest map of Mars made so far, as it shows colder areas in darker colors and warmer regions in brighter colors, and as they are infrared images dust and clouds are transparent.Google has added various bookmarks showing points of interest such as landings of spacecraft, locations of mountains, and craters. The data is not currently available through Google's Google Earth client.A Japanese H-IIA carrier rocket has successfully launched the Wideband InterNetworking test and Demonstration Satellite (WINDS) experimental communication satellite. WINDS, also known as Kizuna, is a Japanese spacecraft intended to relay Internet access to homes and organisaaThe Space Shuttle Atlantis has received at least a 4 inch tear on its Thermal Protection System (TPS) on one of the Orbital Maneuvering System (OMS) pods near the thrusters after it took off on June 8, but officials say the damage is not concerning yet, and the OMS was not damaged."There's not a whole lot of concerns just yet," said a spokesman for NASA, Louis Parker."Preliminary Area of Interest in TPS inspection: Around a 4 inch blanket reported sticking out at the port OMS pod. Crew reported that on the port OMS pod they can see a 4 to 5 inch piece of blanket sticking up. They are getting photos," said NASA.The OMS is used to control the shuttle's movement in space and is also used for orbital injection and NASA says that preliminary imaging shows that the OMS was not damaged."Analysis by launch team looking at other camera views show that the tyvek cover did not strike the OMS pod," said NASA.Astronauts inspected the shuttle for more damage at approximately 2:00 p.m. (eastern time) using Atlantis's robotic arm with digital cameras placed on the end, but found none and Atlantis is still planned to dock with the International Space Station.A launch on December 21, 2004 by Boeing with a new "Delta IV Heavy" rocket from Cape Canaveral failed to place a 'dummy' satellite into geosynchronous orbit, but the launch was considered successful by Air Force officials.   The dummy satellite, the purpose of which was to monitor the Delta IV launch, as well as two experimental nanosatellites, provided by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory to take digital photos of cloud formations and to test the effectiveness of materials in spacecraft, were lost.Boeing's Vice President for Expendable Launch Systems, Dan Collins, said that the rocket malfunction was caused by a shorter first stage burn than was expected.  This was compensated for during flight, however the fuel lost in the process limited final stages of the burn and was responsible for the payload not achieving orbit.A Boeing spokesman, Robert Villanueva, agreed that many flight objectives were achieved, but did not call the launch a success.  “We do have an outstanding issue we need to work on before our first operational launch next year,” Villanueva said. [1]Boeing was paid at least $140 million by the U.S. Air Force to place a 'dummy' satellite into geosynchronous orbit, 22,300 miles from Earth, according to the FAA.  The launch was a demonstration for the Air Force's Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) program.Collins also reported, "We now have enough information and confidence in the Delta IV Heavy to move forward with preparations for the upcoming Defense Support Program launch in 2005. The mission has met all its major objectives. The US Air Force - was very, very happy." [2]The 23-story rocket, a heavy-lift variant of the Delta 4 family, lifted off from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida on Dec. 21 at 4:50 p.m. (2150 GMT). The launch was delayed three times in December due to weather problems and technical glitches. The Delta IV Heavy is scheduled to carry the final Defense Support Program missile launch detection satellite to orbit this August.  A National Reconnaissance Office classified payload is set to be aboard the second operational launch scheduled for December 2005.A launch on December 21, 2004 by Boeing with a new "Delta IV Heavy" rocket from Cape Canaveral failed to place a 'dummy' satellite into its intended orbit, but the launch was considered successful by Air Force officials.   The dummy satellite, the purpose of which was to monitor the Delta IV launch, as well as two experimental nanosatellites, provided by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory to take digital photos of cloud formations and to test the effectiveness of materials in spacecraft, were lost.Boeing's Vice President for Expendable Launch Systems, Dan Collins, said that the rocket malfunction was caused by a shorter first stage burn then was expected.  This was compensated for during flight, however the fuel lost in the process limited final stages of the burn and was responsible for the payload not achieving orbitA Boeing spokesman, Robert Villanueva, agreed that many flight objectives were achieved, but did not call the launch a success.  "We do have an outstanding issue we need to work on before our first operational launch next year," Villanueva said. [1]Boeing was paid at least $140 million by the U.S. Air Force to place a 'dummy' satellite into geosynchronous orbit, 22,300 miles from Earth, according to the FAA.  The launch was a demonstration for the Air Force's Evolved Expendable Launch Vehicle (EELV) program.Collins also reported, "We now have enough information and confidence in the Delta IV Heavy to move forward with preparations for the upcoming Defense Support Program launch in 2005. The mission has met all its major objectives. The US Air Force - was very, very happy." [2]The 23-story rocket, a heavy-lift variant of the Delta 4 family, lifted off from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida on Dec. 21 at 4:50 p.m. (2150 GMT). The launch was delayed three times in December due to weather problems and technical glitches. The Delta IV Heavy is scheduled to carry the final Defense Support Program missile launch detection satellite to orbit this August.  A National Reconnaissance Office classified payload is set to be aboard the second operational launch scheduled for December 2005.A video has surfaced on the website LiveLeak.com that shows what appears to be more than a dozen Unidentified flying objects (UFOs) in a Haitian neighborhood.The video was reportedly filmed on August 6 and was uploaded to LiveLeak on August 10, then hosted on YouTube.com. It is not known who filmed the alleged UFOs. Wikinews has attempted to contact the uploader of the video by e-mail, but has not yet received a response.The beginning of the video appears to show two large UFOs flying over a woman who is taping the objects with a video camera. The objects, shaped like flowers when viewed from the ground, make a faint roaring noise as they pass over. They continue to fly towards a mountain range where they fly in formation to meet up with what look likes to be more than 12 other UFOs. The video then stops. One website is dubbing the video as a fake, saying that it's using Computer-generated imagery (CGI). One image on the website AboveTopSecret.com claims that the images of palm trees in one snapshot of the video are multiple copies of a single template. Another examination apparently shows that the UFOs are pasted in over the video.File:HD149026Corecomparison.jpgHD 149026b, a newly found planet in the constellation Hercules is dense, gassy and the hottest planet found to date.  HD 149026b is smaller than the typical gas giant and its atmosphere is much heavier, contributing to its staggering temperature of 2,310 K (2,037°C, or 3,700°F), scientists said.Scientist Joeseph Harrington described the planet as looking "like the evil eye." "This planet is off the temperature scale that we expect for planets," said Drake Deming of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.Harrington said for a planet to get so hot, it must be absorbing most of the light that reaches it. This energy is radiated back in the infrared spectrum.HD 149026b is located 279 light-years from Earth with a light-year being the distance light travels in a year — about 9.46 trillion kilometres.File:HD 189733b.jpgNASA's Hubble Space Telescope has detected methane in the atmosphere of a planet 63 light-years away, marking the first discovery of an organic compound on a planet outside our Solar System. The methane was found on a Jupiter-sized planet named HD 189733b. The planet closely orbits HD 189733, a yellow dwarf star in the constellation Vulpecula.Although methane can play a key role in the chemical reactions needed to form life, the planet is too close to its parent star to support life, scientists say. It is known as a "hot Jupiter" - a planet whose mass is comparable to that of Jupiter, but orbits nearer to the parent star than Mercury, our Solar System's innermost planet. This particular hot Jupiter takes just two days to completely orbit its parent star, and the temperatures in its atmosphere can reach 1,650 degrees Fahrenheit, around the melting point of silver."The methane here, although we can call it an organic constituent, is not produced by life - it is way too hot there for life," said Giovanna Tinetti, part of the NASA team that made the discovery.However, scientists believe the spectroscopic methods used to detect the methane can be used to find organic compounds on other distant planets. "This observation is proof that spectroscopy can eventually be done on a cooler and potentially habitable Earth-sized planet orbiting a dimmer red dwarf-type star," said Mark Swain, a NASA scientist whose paper on the discovery will appear in the scientific journal Nature.Spectroscopy is the splitting of light into its components. As the light from the star passed through the planet's atmosphere, the atmospheric gases imprinted their chemical signature onto the light, allowing the atmosphere's chemical composition to be analyzed by Near Infrared Camera and Multi-Object Spectrometer.To their surprise, astronomers found much higher levels of methane than had been predicted for hot Jupiters. "This indicates we don't really understand exoplanet atmospheres yet," said Swain.This discovery also confirmed the presence of water molecules in the planet's atmosphere, which was found by NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope last year using spectroscopy. "With this observation there is no question whether there is water or not - water is present," Swain said.The ultimate goal of these studies is to identify the molecules of more Earth-like planets in the habitable zone of stars, where conditions may be favorable for life. Adam Showman at the University of Arizona said, "We are thus now seeing but the opening salvo in a revolution that will extend humankind's view of planetary worlds far beyond the provincial boundaries of our Solar System."Giovanna Tinetti, who co-authored the Nature article, believes the concept of life on other planets is not too unlikely. "My personal view is it is way too arrogant to think that we are the only ones living in the Universe," she says.By peering some 20,000 light years into the star-swarms of the Milky Way's central bulge, astronomers using the Hubble Space Telescope have turned up 16 possible new planets crossing the faces of their stars, two of which have been confirmed. Each one of the candidates is a roughly Jupiter-size body that orbits its host star in just 4 days or less. Five of the possible discoveries whip around their stars in less than an Earth day — causing the astronomers to group them into a new class of "ultra-short-period planets."In results published in this week's edition of the journal Nature the team of astronomers, headed by Kailash Sahu (Space Telescope Science Institute), used Hubble's Advanced Camera for Surveys to monitor a portion of the galactic bulge in Sagittarius continuously for seven days, shooting one picture every six minutes. Over 180 planet candidates were identified, making the task of arriving at only 16 quite difficult. The biggest source of false alarms was transits by Jupiter-size red dwarf stars. Processing the data took an entire year. "This was the most complex project I have worked on," says Sahu.This discovery now allows scientists to be relatively certain planets need elements heavier than hydrogen and helium to form. These are typically found in stars that formed after others died, creating a dependence on location and formation. A previous search in 2000 by Dr. Ron Gilliland turned up no planets, even though he assumed they would find as many as 17. The currently accepted reason is that Gilliland's study focused on a stellar nebula, where all of the stars had formed at the same time, and therefore there was a very low abundance of heavier elements.Sahu knew some scientists would be skeptical of his findings and so he confirmed two of the planets by using the Very Large Telescope (VLT) in Chile to measure the movements of the stars caused by their orbiting partner, a technique known as measuring the radial velocity of the star. Although Sahu believes that at least fifty percent of the candidates have to be planets, he cannot be completely certain. "I think a lot of people will take issue with that," says Dr. Sara Seager, Staff Scientist of the Department of Terrestrial Magnetism at the Carnegie Institution of Washington, on Sahu's uncertainty. "There are lots of nasty tricks nature can pull on us."More rigorous confirmation will have to wait for new technology, specifically NASA's James Webb Space Telescope, to be launched in 2013. Even so, Seager believes this is still "tremendously exciting. It doubles the amount of transiting planets found!"With two other transiting extrasolar planets announced in September, the confirmed SWEEPS finds brings the number of known — and confirmed — transiting planets to 14.NASA's Hubble Space Telescope entered a new era of science operations as September began, when engineers shut down one of the three operational gyroscopes aboard the observatory. The two-gyro mode is expected to preserve the operating life of the third gyro and extend Hubble's science observations through mid-2008, an eight-month extension. Switching off one gyro can preserve it for future use and extended two-gyro operational time for Hubble.The gyros are an integral part of Hubble's complex pointing control system. The system maintains precise pointing of the telescope during science observations. The system was originally designed to operate on three gyros, with another three in reserve. Two of the six are no longer functional."Hubble science on two gyros will be indistinguishable from the superb science we have become accustomed to over the years," said senior Hubble scientist David Leckrone at Goddard.Gyros are the heart, though not the sole component, of Hubble's pointing control system. When only two gyros are available, the observatory experiences an "unsensed" direction. Using Hubble's Fine Guidance Sensors, engineers were able to "fill in" the missing data normally generated by the third gyro.Hubble also needs to know its location as it completes one observation and slews across the sky to acquire its next target. This information, previously supplied by the observatory's three gyros, is provided by onboard magnetometers and Fixed Head Star Trackers.NASA has stated a Space Shuttle servicing mission to Hubble will be considered after two successful return-to-flight missions. The servicing mission would include installing new gyros, batteries, and science instruments to provide several more years of observations.NASA has unveiled the new telescope that will replace the Hubble Space Telescope in Washington D.C. called the James Webb Space Telescope [JWST]. Currently, NASA has a life-sized model on display to the public which is as tall as a two story house and weighs several tons.Researchers at NASA say that the Webb telescope will be able to see farther than Hubble "to the beginning of time.""It will find the first galaxies and will peer through dusty clouds to see stars forming planetary systems, connecting the Milky Way to our own Solar System," said a statement posted on NASA's website. It will be sent into space where it will orbit nearly 2,000,000 miles from Earth.JWST will have a large mirror, 6.5 meters (21.3 feet) in diameter and a sunshield the size of a tennis court.Northrop Grumman is contracted to build the telescope and will be jointly operated by NASA, the European Space Agency and the Canadian Space Agency. It is scheduled to launch in 2013 from Arianespace's ELA-3 launch complex at European Spaceport located near Kourou, French Guiana.The revolutionary space telescope that brought great images of space back down to Earth will lose out in NASA's budget reorganisation for 2006. While NASA's budget will increase by 2.6%, most of Hubble's $93 million in funding will be directed into bringing it safely to Earth. The big winners include the space shuttle program and the International Space Station, including the development of a new Shuttle replacement.A planned fifth maintenance job on the space telescope was cancelled as a result of the Columbia disaster, and experts argue as to how long it can remain useful to scientists. It is expected to fail irreversibly by 2007 if vital work is not done.Another project to bite the dust was the Jupiter Icy Moons Orbiter (JIMO), which would have been the largest satellite ever sent to the outer solar system. It was to have featured a new form of nuclear reactor as propulsion, but instead NASA has allocated $320 million to developing nuclear technologies in space in a less aggressive, more stepped approach.In a January 2004 speech, George W. Bush proposed a human return to the Moon and a first journey to Mars. This grand aim is behind the agency's new budget, with $6.8 billion (over one-third of the total) devoted to the ISS, Space Shuttle and space travel support.The Hubble Space Telescope's (HST) main camera has ceased to function. The telescope revolutionized astronomy with its stunning pictures of the universe. It has three separate electronic cameras and a collection of filters and light dispersers that are used to photograph distant celestial objects. The third-generation instrument installed by a space shuttle crew in 2002 went off line Monday. Engineers are still working to rectify the situation, but  have not yet identified the source of the problem. The other two cameras are being used while repair efforts on the main camera continue."It's still off line today," said Max Mutchler, an instruments specialist at the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore.The cause of the main camera's malfunction may be a faulty transistor or a disruption to the camera's memory. "Both possibilities are things that can be resolved here on the ground," said Ed Campion, a NASA spokesman at the Goddard Space Flight Center outside Washington, D.C. He also told the Associated Press Saturday that "he was hopeful the problem on the space-based telescope could be fixed from the ground."A solution could come as early as June 30.NASA scientists say the studies being carried out with the Hubble will not be harmed, just the order reshuffled.Hubble, launched in April 1990, is beginning to show its age. It needs new batteries and gyroscopes if it is to keep working beyond next year. Early last year it was announced that Hubble would be cut from NASA's 2006 fiscal year budget. However, there have been questions about the future of Hubble, with the famous space telescope in need of service and power if it is to continue to be active in 2007.American and European scientists say the upgraded Hubble space telescope has spotted the oldest galaxies ever seen. The images were taken with the telescope's new Wide Field Camera 3 (WFC3) in August this year.The galaxies are about 13 billion light years from Earth, meaning they formed less than one billion years after the Big Bang — the cosmological model of the initial conditions and subsequent development of the universe.WFC3 was installed in May this year, during a mission by the space shuttle Atlantis to repair and upgrade Hubble. Experts say the new instrument will let them peer even further back in time, to when the universe was in its infancy. The more distant a galaxy is, the more its light is "redshifted" due to expansion of the universe. Light from the furthest galaxies is shifted to infrared wavelengths invisible to the human eye, but WFC3 can detect these.The new image was taken in August, in the same region as a 2004 visible light image known as the Hubble Ultra Deep Field. The 2004 photo previously showed the most distant galaxies, but the new infrared pictures from the WFC3 allow even more remote galaxies to be seen.Capturing the image took four days, and the total exposure lasted 173,000 seconds. In the three months since, twelve scientific papers have been submitted on it. On Tuesday one of these confirmed the galaxies as the furthest ever seen.They are also the oldest, with the light from them having taken around 13 billion years to reach Earth. "At these distances, you're really looking back in time, like you have a time machine," said Ray Villard, of the Space Telescope Science Institute in Baltimore. "Those things don't exist anymore."The photo could be one of the ultimate achievements of the Hubble telescope, now almost twenty years old. "These new observations are likely to be the most sensitive images Hubble will ever take," said Professor Jim Dunlop of the University of Edinburgh.The servicing mission in May extended the telescope's life by around five years, but it is scheduled to be replaced by the James Webb Space Telescope in 2014. This will use infrared imaging and have a greater collecting area than Hubble, and it is thought that it may be able make out objects from just 100 million years after the Big Bang."We've really pushed Hubble to its limits," said Villard, "and we need a bigger space telescope to go back even farther. It shows us there are really exciting things to look for with the Webb telescope."Astronomers at Sloan Digital Sky Survey have announced the discovery of a huge star cluster, the Virgo super star cluster 10 kiloparsecs (32,600 light years) away from the solar system (roughly the same distance as the galactic centre), in the constellation of Virgo.  Many of the stars have been known to astronomers for centuries, but only now have they realized the existence of the cluster.In a presentation to the American Astronomical Society, Princeton University graduate student Mario Juric, the principal author of the findings, explained: "Some of the stars in this Milky Way companion have been seen with telescopes for centuries, but because the galaxy is so close, its stars are spread over a huge swath of the sky, and they always used to be lost in the sea of more numerous Milky Way stars. This galaxy is so big, we couldn't see it before."The large overpopulation of stars was discovered by researchers analyzing SDSS-I and SDSS-II data.  SDSS has, to date, imaged roughly one-quarter of the northern sky.  The method used was the photometric parallax method.  "We used the SDSS data to measure distances to 48 million stars and build a 3-d map of the Milky Way." explained Zeljko Ivezic of the University of Washington, a co-author of the study.This discovery is one in a series of such discoveries made within the last decade by a new generation of sky surveys.  The Saggitarius dwarf galaxy was discovered in 1994 using photographic sky images.  Since then, analysis of photographs by large digital cameras has identified several streams and clumps of stars, some of which (astronomers believe) are Milky Way companions and others of which are shreds of the Saggitarius dwarf or other dwarf galaxies that are also dissolving into the Milky Way.  An earlier SDSS discovery was the Canis Major Dwarf Galaxy.  "With so much irregular structure in the outer Galaxy, it looks as though the Milky Way is still growing, by cannibalizing smaller galaxies that fall into it," said Juric.The first indication that the Virgo super star cluster existed was in 2001, when the Quasar Equatorial Survey Team (QUEST) survey, using a 1-metre telescope in Llano del Hato National Astronomical Observatory in Venezuela, found a clump of five RR Lyrae variable stars, which astronomers speculated might belong to a small galaxy being canibalized by the Milky Way.  Kathy Vivas of the Centro de Investigaciones de Astronomia in Venezuela, the author of the QUEST paper on the discovery, commented that "In light of the new SDSS results, it appears that the stellar stream we detected is itself part of the larger structure identified by Juric and collaborators."In a letter to the Astrophysical Journal the QUEST has presented further evidence for Vivas' interpretation, by measuring the motions and chemical compositions of stars in the region.File:Huygen probe-decent nasa.jpgThe Huygens Probe will enter theatmosphere of Saturn's largest moon,Titan, on January 14 at approximately 9 a.m.UTC.The 318 kg probe will hit the Titan atmosphere at 6 kilometers per second. For the next 2.5 hours, Huygens will slow its descent and begin data transmission from on-board scientific packages to the Cassini Orbiter for relay to Earth. It will touch down on the Titan surface at approximately 11:30 a.m. UTC. The probe will continue data transmission for three to 30 minutes, providing it survives the descent and landing.NASA launched Cassini-Huygens, the largest interplanetary space craft ever built,on October 15, 1997. The craft arrived at Saturn orbit in July of 2004. It is the fourth craft to visit Saturn and the first to orbit the planet.On December 25, 2004, the Cassini Orbiter released the Huygens Probe. The probe then began a 20-day trip to Titan.Experiments on board the Huygens Probe are designed to examine chemical reactions in the atmosphere, the source of Titan's abundant methane gas, the existence of oceans, and the presenceof complex organic compounds.The Cassini-Huygens mission is a joint project of NASA and the European Space Agency (ESA).The probe was named after Dutch astronomer Christiaan Huygens, who discovered Titan in 1655.The Cassini orbiter was named for Jean-Dominique Cassini, who discovered other moons of Saturn and the gap between Saturn's rings known as the Cassini Division.Huygens, the European built Titan exploration probe, ended its seven-year voyage today when it landed on the surface of the second largest moon in the solar system at 11:38 a.m. UTC. The probe, which the European Space Agency (ESA) began developing 17 years ago, has worked well with only minor system failures."This is a great achievement for Europe and its US partners inthis ambitious international endeavor to explore theSaturnian system", said Jean-Jacques Dordain, the Director General of the ESA [1]The first confirmation that Huygens had successfully entered Titan's thick atmosphere was at 10:25 a.m. UTC when the Green Bank radio telescope in the United States directly received the faint carrier signal of its beacon. Due to the immense distance, the radio transmission took 67 minutes to arrive.Huygens broadcast data to its Cassini mothership (the US probe which carried Huygens to Titan) throughout its descent and then from the surface. After Cassini dropped below the horizon of Titan (cutting the radio link), Cassini turned towards Earth to begin transmitting its recording of the Huygens data to the European Space Operations Centre in Darmstadt, Germany.So far, ESA has released least three pictures—two from the probe's descent through the atmosphere under parachutes and then a picture near the surface. The Huygens probe took a total of over 300 black and white photographs during its brief mission."The  Huygens  scientists  are  all  delighted. This was worth the longwait,"  says  Dr  Jean-Pierre  Lebreton,  ESA  Huygens Mission Manager.[2]The Cassini-Huygens mission is conducted by an alliance between NASA, the ESA, and ASI, the Italian space agency. The NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory designed, developed and assembled the Cassini orbiter.Astronomers say that in approximately 20 to 40 million years, a giant cloud of hydrogen gas, known as Smith's Cloud, will slam into the Milky Way galaxy, resulting in the formation of countless stars, which could make for the biggest fireworks display in the Local Group. The front edge of the cloud has already begun to hit the galaxy."The leading edge of this cloud is already interacting with gas from our Galaxy. This is most likely a gas cloud left over from the formation of the Milky Way or gas stripped from a neighbor galaxy. When it hits, it could set off a tremendous burst of star formation. Many of those stars will be very massive, rushing through their lives quickly and exploding as supernovae. Over a few million years, it'll look like a celestial New Year's celebration, with huge firecrackers going off in that region of the Galaxy," said Felix J. Lockman of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (NRAO), one of the astronomers who headed a study to research the cloud. The University of Wisconsin-Whitewater also participated in the study.Astronomers used the Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope (GBT) to study the cloud, which was first discovered by an astronomer in 1963. The study found that as many as a million new stars, much like our own Sun, could form from the gas when it does collide with our galaxy. Currently it is 8,000 light years away from full impact of our galaxy, and is traveling at over 150 miles a second. It is 2,500 light-years wide and over 11,000 light-years long. Astronomers believe it will strike the Milky Way's disk at a 45-degree angle.It was earlier believed that the cloud was traveling away from the Milky Way or might have been part of the galaxy itself but, due to the technology at the time, images were not clear enough to see what was really happening. Using the highly sensitive GBT, astronomers have now been able to capture over 40,000 different images of the cloud. The researchers now believe that the cloud is, in fact, moving toward the Milky Way and pushing the gases of the galaxy up onto itself as it progresses."If you could see this cloud with your eyes, it would be a very impressive sight in the night sky. From tip to tail it would cover almost as much sky as the Orion constellation. But as far as we know it is made entirely of gas -- no one has found a single star in it," added Lockman.NASA's IBEX (or Interstellar Boundary Explorer) satellite, released into orbit last October, has provided the data for the first "all sky map" showing the boundary between the Solar System and Interstellar Space. IBEX mapped the sky using two sensors, gathering information about the particle structure within the Milky Way. This map should help researchers better understand relationships between the Sun and our Galaxy.The particles which IBEX looks for are energetic neutral atoms, atoms with a neutral charge that release large amounts of energy in most directions. The best place to find these particles is in the Sun's Heliosphere, where forces from outside our solar system interact with the Sun's magnetic field, causing these particles to become highly energetic. Two sensors on IBEX detect and catalog this. After six months of repeating this cycle over the entire night sky, IBEX acquired enough data to create the all sky map.This map goes beyond the capacities of the Voyager missions, giving an insight into the Sun's interaction with the rest of the galaxy. As Cosmic rays approach the solar system, the heliosphere prevents them from crossing into the heart of the solar system, thereby effectively stopping these harmful rays from reaching Earth. This new energy is released from electrically neutral atoms, and when scientists look at the energy given off by these atoms they have a general view of what energy is coming from what area.Knowing the place in the galaxy where certain rays come from help scientists understand the way our galaxy functions, from star positioning to globular clusters. "For the first time, we're sticking our heads out of the sun's atmosphere and beginning to really understand our place in the galaxy," said David J. Comas of NASA.NASA's Cassini orbiter has sent back remarkable images from Saturn, revealing that the planet's famous rings are far more bumpy than expected.Astronomers previously thought that the rings were almost completely flat, with changes in height of only a few metres. However analysis of the new images show ridges up to 4 kilometres tall, similar in height to the Rocky Mountains or the Alps.The images were taken around the planet's equinox on August 11, when the Sun was directly over Saturn's equator and caught the rings edge on. A similar equinox occurs today (September 22) on Earth. But whilst equinoxes occur twice a year on Earth, Saturn takes around 29.7 Earth years to orbit the Sun so the events are much rarer.With the light from the Sun reaching Saturn's rings at such a low angle, scientists were able to measure the shadows cast by bumps on the rings and discover their surprising height. As Cassini project scientist Bob Pappalardo put it: "It's like putting on 3-D glasses and seeing the third dimension for the first time. This is among the most important events Cassini has shown us."Some of the ring features are known to be caused by Saturn's moons, but others are harder to explain. "To understand what we are seeing will take more time, but the images and data will help develop a more complete understanding of how old the rings might be and how they are evolving," said Linda Spilker, Cassini deputy project scientist.Cassini was launched in 1997, and entered orbit around Saturn in 2004. It is part of the Cassini-Huygens joint mission between NASA, the European Space Agency and the Italian Space Agency.The European Space Agency (ESA) Council approved a cooperation agreement on March 17 between the Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) and the ESA for India's Chandrayan-1 moon satellite mission. The Chandrayan-1 will be India's first moon mission attempt.Europe will, under the agreement, provide and support three instruments for the lunar explorer: CIXS-2, Chandrayan-1 Imaging X-Ray Spectrometer; SARA; a Sub-keV Atom Reflecting Analyzer, and SIR-2, a Near-Infrared Spectrometer. Europe will support hardware for the HEX, High-Energy X-ray Spectrometer. Data from these instruments will be turned over to the ESA for distribution to ESA member states. These instruments are the same as the ones carried onboard ESA's SMART-1 moon exploration spacecraft.ISRO plans to launch the half-ton Chandrayan sometime before 2008 for a two year mission to study the solar system and the Moon. The satellite will be boosted by India's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle.The ISRO has been placing satellites in Earth orbit since 1975 and has developed its own launch vehicles and satellites for telecommunications and weather forecasting. A manned mission had been previously considered but was deemed too costly to carry through[1].The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) announced that the first test of the indigenously built cryogenic rocket engine had been a success. Currently, only the United States, Russia, the European Space Agency, China and Japan have successfully developed cryogenic engines, which use rocket fuel and oxidiser stored in a liquified form at very low temperatures. The test was carried out at ISRO's Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre in Mahendragiri, Tamil Nadu. ISRO chairman Madhavan Nair said that the trial had lasted 50 seconds and had been "very successful". He termed it "a major milestone in the development of rocket systems in the country", adding that India has now "qualified" to a stage which only developed countries have managed to reach.Nair, who is also the secretary of the Space Commission and the chairman of the Department of Space, said that a longer test would have to be carried out within a month, to ensure that the rocket is ready for flight. The Liquid Propulsion Systems Centre, where the trial was conducted, is working to develop liquid and cryogenic propulsion engines for rockets and auxiliary propulsion systems for both rockets and satellites.The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) announced India’s first commercial launch of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV). It is carrying the Italian satellite AGILE which will gather information about the origins of the universe through imaging of distant celestial objects in the X-ray and Gamma ray regions of the electromagnetic spectrum.India joined the elite club of nations who have the capacity to deploy their space exploration resources for commercial use. Currently, only the United States, Russia, China, Ukraine and the European Space Agency have the capacity to deploy their space exploration resources for commercial use. These nations dominate the commercial satellite launch services segment which is estimated to be worth $2.5 billion a year.The PSLV rocket only has the capability of carrying relatively lighter loads of under 1,000 kilograms, but ISRO hopes to increase payloads soon.India's first unmanned lunar mission was launched off of the shore of Andhra Pradesh this morning. India now joins the United States, Russia, Japan, China and the European Space Agency as the only powers that have  demonstrated their ability to launch satellites to the moon.The Chandrayaan-1 lunar probe was launched from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at 6:22 am (00:52 UTC) in Sriharikota, which is about 88 km (55 mi) north of the southern Indian city of Chennai. The cost of this mission is estimated at 3.4 billion rupees (US$78 million). While the launch has been criticized for being a waste of Indian government funds, when the money can go towards more humanitarian causes, India is hopeful that its venture will put it into competition for commercial satellite launch services. The satellite features five components built by India's technology sector, and six components from foreign nations.The Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) C-11 is the rocket which will carry the Chandryaan-1 satellite probe. The probe is being sent on a two-year orbital mission around the moon for achieving substantial goals for a detailed map of the mineral resources, chemical and topographical characteristics of the moon's surface. Some of the mission will include examining the surface for sources of water, and taking comparison photos of the light side and dark sides of the surface.Both China and Japan already have satellites of their own orbiting the moon, and just last month China became the third country in the world to carry out its own independent space walks. India's previous space endeavors have mainly been related to launching weather and communications satellites.At 8:34 pm Indian time Friday night (1504 UTC), India became the fourth country to land its flag on the Moon.The unmanned lunar orbiter Chandrayaan-1 ejected its Moon Impact Probe (MIP), which hurtled across the surface of the Moon at 1.5 kilometres per second (3000 miles per hour), and successfully crash landed near the Moon's south pole.Besides carrying three important scientific instruments, the lunar probe also carried the image of the Indian national flag, painted on all sides.Chandrayaan-1 (meaning 'Moon craft' in Sanskrit) reached its target lunar orbit on Wednesday.  The orbiter will remain in a circular orbit 102 kilometres above the Moon's surface for two years.  Its instruments will be gradually commissioned over the next few days.With this landing, India became both the fourth country to place a flag on the Moon and the fifth group to send a spacecraft to the Moon. The other countries which have sent spacecraft to the Moon are the United States, the former Soviet Union, Japan, and China, along with the European Space Agency (ESA), a consortium of 17 countries.  Japan and China currently each have scientific satellites orbiting the Moon, though China has not yet put a spacecraft on the moon's surface.The MIP has a mass of 29 kg, is about the size of a microwave oven, and was designed and assembled in India.After the orbiter ejected it, the probe took about 25 minutes to reach the Moon's surface. On-board digital cameras made a high resolution movie of the surface during descent, and scientists also conducted measurements with the probe's mass spectrometer and radar altimeter.Data was beamed back to India via the orbiter, and it is currently being processed and analysed.Data from the altimeter experiments will be used to refine the instrument in order to control the soft landing of a future probe.  Plans are already being prepared for the Chandrayaan-2 to be launched by 2012.India's first lunar mission was launched from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre on the Andhra Pradesh coast on October 22.The launch vehicle was an Indian designed and built rocket that had been previously proven by carrying scientific and commercial payloads to earth orbit, including weather and communications satellites.The cost of this mission is estimated at 340 crore (3.4 billion) rupees (US$78 million). The mission carries five scientific instruments built by India's technology sector, and six developed cooperatively with foreign nations.Goals for the orbiter include making a detailed map of the Moon's chemical make-up and mineral resources, as well as a three-dimensional digital map of the entire surface. The mission will examine the surface for sources of water, and take comparison photos of the light side and dark sides of the surface.India's first lunar mission, the Chandrayaan-1 (meaning 'moon craft' in Sanskrit), reached its destined lunar orbit on Wednesday.  The satellite's on-board engine was fired for 58 seconds. It is now in a circular orbit 102 kilometres from the Moon.It will stay in this orbit for two years and conduct various experiments to gain a better understanding of the Moon.According to Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) officials, the Moon Impact Probe (MIP), with an Indian flag painted on it, will be dropped late tonight.The MIP has a mass of 29 kg and it will take 20 minutes to reach the moon's surface. On-board cameras will film the surface during descent.India's first lunar moon mission Chandrayaan-1 has helped NASA find water on the moon's surface. NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper (M3) on board Chandrayaan found the evidence of water molecules on the surface of the moon.Even 40 years ago, rock samples brought to Earth by Apollo (US) and other missions led some scientists to claim that water existed on moon. But they had doubts about the findings, as the boxes in which the moon rocks were brought to earth had leaked—contaminating the samples with air from the atmosphere.Previous U.S. space missions, Cassini and the Deep Impact spacecraft, had detected slight traces of water in molecular form in the moon's polar craters. Recent studies made by Chandrayaan have found water (H2O) and hydroxyl (OH) molecules with silicate rock at moon's equatorial region. It is estimated that less than a teaspoon of water could be extracted out from several kilograms of lunar soil. Forty years after first landing, some say this major discovery will trigger new interest in the moon.The Indian space agency, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), launched five foreign satellites from the Sriharikota facility on Monday morning, using the PSLV-C23 launch vehicle.The primary payload was an earth observation satellite from France called SPOT 7 which weighed 714 kg. Other satellites included on board were the German AISat, 14 kg; Canadian NLS7.1 (CAN-X4) and NLS7.2 (CAN-X5), 15 kg each; and Singaporean VELOX 1, 7 kg.The launch took place at 9:52 AM on Monday morning, delayed from the original schedule by three minutes to avoid space debris. This was the 26th successful launch of a PSLV. Along with the US, Russia, the European Union, China, and Japan, India is one of the few nations that offer commercial launch services. These services are provided by Antrix, the commercial department of ISRO. ISRO's next major launch may be this month using a GSLV-III launch vehicle.The Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was present at the launch site. He addressed the scientists after the launch congratulating them, and asked them to build a satellite suitable for use by all the nations of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). He also emphasized the frugal approach of India to the space industry. Phillipe Ghesquiers of Airbus Space and Defense Systems, the builders of SPOT 7, expressed satisfaction at the launch and stated they may use India's launch services again in the future.India's first lunar mission Chandrayaan-1 (meaning 'moon craft' in Sanskrit) has completed the tricky manoeuvre of entering the lunar orbit at 5:15 PM Indian standard time. This was an important milestone for the Indian mission to the Moon, which was launched on October 22 from Indian spaceport Satish Dhawan Space Center at Sriharikota. ISRO Chairman G Madhavan Nair said everything onboard Chandrayaan-1 is working fine.The lunar orbit insertion (LOI) began at 4:50 P.M  and lasted for 817 seconds (14 minutes). The ground control station at Peenya in Bangalore remotely fired the satellite's rockets to move it into its new trajectory. This was considered to be a most critical moment of the entire mission. The satellite has now been placed in a 7,502 km X 504 km elliptical orbit around the Moon. Chandrayaan  will be gradually lowered to a circular orbit at a distance of 100 km from the lunar surface. Once the circular orbit is achieved, Chandrayaan will eject the Moon Impact Probe, a lunar probe, to impact on the moon's surface. Besides carrying three important scientific instruments, the lunar probe will also carry a picture of the Indian national flag. With this, India will become both the fourth country to place a flag on the moon and the fifth country to send a spacecraft to the moon. The other countries which have sent spacecraft to the Moon are the United States, the former Soviet Union, Japan, and China, along with the European Space Agency (ESA), a consortium of 17 countries.NASA astronaut Tim Kopra, a crew member on the upcoming STS-133 Space Shuttle mission, who was injured over the weekend in a bicycle accident, has been replaced. Astronaut Steve Bowen will be taking his place.Kopra's duties of lead spacewalker on the crew of STS-133 will be transmitted to Bowen, veteran of two previous spaceflights, STS-126 and STS-132. Peggy Whitson, chief of NASA'S Astronaut Office, expressed her confidence in Bowen saying, "[Steve] has performed five prior spacewalks. That extensive experience, coupled with some adjustments to the spread of duties among the crew, will allow for all mission objectives to be accomplished as originally planned in the current launch window."Bowen will begin training for STS-133 along with fellow crew members Steven Lindsey, Eric Boe, Alvin Drew, Michael Barratt, and Nicole Stott later on this week.Although Kopra is expected to make a full recovery from his injury, Whitson commented that "He will not be able to support the launch window next month." She does note, however, that Kopra could possibly rejoin the crew if the launch date of STS-133 were to "slip significantly." Currently, the mission is scheduled to launch to the International Space Station on February 24.This crew change is part of a series of ongoing issues with the upcoming STS-133 mission, the final flight of the Space Shuttle Discovery, including technical problems with Discovery's external fuel tank.Two International Space Station astronauts completed a 7 hour and 16 minutes spacewalk this morning that saw the completion of the ISS's newest room, Harmony.Commander Peggy Whitson and Flight Engineer Daniel Tani began their spacewalk early Tuesday morning at 5:10 a.m. EST (10:10 UTC).  This was the second phase of a three phase project to complete the connection of the Harmony module to the rest of the Space Station.  Whitson, who is ISS's first female Commander, exclaimed "Yay, got it!" after finishing a particularly difficult section of the hand-intensive project.  The goal of the 7+ hour EVA was to complete the connection of the power and heating cables and the fluid lines between the space station and the Harmony laboratory which the Space Shuttle Discovery delivered to the space station last month.During the dangerous spacewalk, the spacewalkers removed the fluid lines (which carry ammonia in an 18½-foot (5.6 m), 300-pound (136 kg) tray) and removed the tray from its storage location on the space station, then lugged it over to Harmony and bolted it down.  The tray, which was awkward to carry, required the astronauts to take turns carrying it over to Harmony being careful not to bang it around.  A frightening moment occurred during the venting of the hook ups that saw frozen ammonia crystals floating out and bouncing off of Whitson.  NASA Mission Control explained to her that it was nothing to worry about at the time and that decontamination procedures would take place later.  These decon procedures include brushing off the toxic substance and letting the sun bake it off.The station's three astronauts have been working continuously since the Space Shuttle Discovery departed on the 5 November 2007 to get the new lab attached.  The next shuttle mission is scheduled to lift off on 6 December 2007 with a new laboratory that will dock to Harmony, but the shuttle cannot commence its mission until Harmony is completely attached.  A third and final Harmony space walk is scheduled for Saturday 24 November 2007 to attach the final fluid tray and complete connections to the Harmony lab.Astronauts and ground controllers are looking at apparent damage to the International Space Station P6 4B solar array spotted by the crew during deployment. NASA halted the deployment of the solar array wing to evaluate the damage. Deployment is about 75 percent complete with 25 of 31 bays deployed.The crew has been asked to photograph the area on the solar array wing and downlink the images to the ground.Shuttle Discovery is presently docked to the ISS during mission STS-120.Iran has announced that on August 17 it conducted a successful test flight of the Safir carrier rocket, which was launched from Semnan Province, Iran. The nature of the test flight is currently unclear, with various contradictory reports and statements being issued. It has been claimed that this test flight was used to launch into orbit the Omid, a low earth orbit satellite, however, later reports suggest that a demonstration payload was affixed to the rocket. In addition to uncertainty regarding the rocket's payload, some reports suggest that the rocket reached orbit, whereas others suggest that it intentionally flew a sub-orbital trajectory, similar to two previous test flights. It is believed that if the Omid satellite was not launched on this rocket, it may be launched as early as next week. Upon successful launch, the Omid will be the second Iranian satellite to be placed into orbit, and will be the first to be launched on an indigenously developed rocket. The Safir rocket is believed to be a derivative of the Shahab-3 missile, itself an Iranian-produced derivative of the North Korean Rodong-1 missile. Safir is Persian for "envoy" or "ambassador". The launch follows a number of controversial missile tests conducted by Iran during July, and an earlier sub-orbital test of the Safir rocket in February. The details of the launch have yet to be confirmed by independent observers, however, videos have been published online. If the rocket did reached orbit, Iran will be the eleventh country to develop the ability to launch satellites. The last country to develop such a capability was Russia, which used technology inherited from the Soviet Union to launch the Kosmos 2175 spy satellite in 1992. Israel was the last country to develop a completely independent launch system, Shavit, which first flew in 1988. Other countries to have developed a satellite launch capability are Russia (and the former Soviet Union), the United States, France, Japan, China, the United Kingdom, India and Israel. It would be the 40th orbital launch so far this year, and the 39th to reach orbit.On August 19, a United States official stated, "The vehicle failed shortly after liftoff and in no way reached its intended position."  The video footage shown on Iranian state television was only about one minute and it wasn't shown how far the rocket went upward.Eyewitnesses told the Fars News Agency (FNA) that a radiant UFO had crashed in the Barez Mounts of Kerman on Wednesday morning. Abulghassem Nasrollahi, the Deputy General of the Kerman province in Iran told the news agency that all the aircraft in the area had been accounted for, but did not rule out the possibility that the object could be a meteor. Another source also told the FNA that the object was on fire with thick smoke coming from it, and claimed that this implied the object was not a meteor. However, meteors appear as bright fireballs in the sky, as they are heated to high temperatures due largely to ram pressure as they fall at high speeds through the Earth's atmosphere. Meteors often burn up completely before reaching the ground and some leave a smoke-like trail in their wake. Abulghassem noted that a few days earlier, in Rafsanjan, a similar incident was reported by witnesses.In Iran, the state-controlled TV station has announced that the country for the first time test-fired a space rocket, with scientific equipment aboard. "The first space rocket has been successfully launched into space," the station's website reported. The rocket was later reported not be designed to reach an orbit. Iran claims it reached an altitude of 94 miles and then parachuted home. No images have been released, and no other reports have confirmed the launch.The announcement comes at a time of international tension over Iran's nuclear program. In a speech today, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad compared his country's nuclear program with a train with no brakes and no reverse gear. Manouchehr Mohammadi, a deputy foreign minister, said the country had prepared itself for a standoff over its nuclear activities. Diplomats said that if Iran would possess advanced missile capabilities it would be of concern to the nations who believe Iran is developing nuclear weapons, something Iran denies.The head of the Iranian space center, Mohsen Bahrami, was quoted saying that the scientific material on board came from the science and from the defence ministry. He also said that the test was in line with international regulations on the matter. Although the news would mean a significant breakthrough for Iran's missile technology, the story was only mentioned during one TV broadcast, and not at all by other official Iranian media.Iran has said in the past it wants more satellites to increase its cellular phone and internet capabilities. It also said it hopes to become a center for science and technology in the region.Since 2005, Iran already has one satellite in space, Sinah-1, which was launched in Russia with a Russian rocket. The rocket was described as serving telecommunication and research purposes. Soon after the 2005 launch, Iran announced they would develop their own launcher. Yesterday, the Iranian Defence Minister spoke of Iran's plans for their own satellite launcher, and disclosed his country's desire to join the club of countries with a space program.Anousheh Ansari, 40, an Iranian-American became the first female paying passenger astronaut today. Paying $20 million [USD] for the trip, she replaced a Japanese businessman who decided not to take the trip due to medical reasons. The Russian made Soyuz Rocket lifted off at 04:10 GMT from Baikonur, Russia. Ansari is accompanying Russian cosmonaut Mikhail Tyurin and American astronaut Michael Lopez-Alegria, who are joining German astronaut Thomas Reiter on the International Space Station.Ansari is a businesswoman in the telecom industry and put up the Ansari X Prize for the first privately funded trip to space won by Burt Rutan of Scaled Composites and his team.The mission is expected to dock with the ISS on Wednesday.File:Pslv-pad.jpgIsrael has today launched an advanced spy satellite, named TecSAR, into orbit on board India's Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle. The PSLV successfully launched from Satish Dhawan Space Centre at 3:45 a.m. GMT today, with a successful cast off from the launch rocket at around 4:05 a.m. GMT. Israel Aerospace Industries report that the first signals were received 80 minutes after the launch, present at which were both Israeli and Indian space engineers.The launch was delayed several times for unclear reasons. At one point, it was rumoured that the launch had been cancelled completely due to pressure from the US Government. Indian and Israeli authorities denied this, however, citing technical problems instead.The satellite, also referred to as Polaris, is equipped with the latest in spy technology, including Synthetic aperture radar, which can be used to provide details information on ground cover. The BBC also reports "enhanced footage technology" - which allows Israel to receive video and images at any time of day or night, and under any weather conditions. Israeli defence officials have said that the satellites main purpose is to track events in Iran, the countries' number one foe. The events that they wish to track include the Iranian nuclear programme, as well as military happenings in Iran and Syria.The satellite is capable of a maximum resolution of 10 centimetres, of which the first images wil be available in "a few weeks." Development of the satellite has been quoted as "tens of millions of dollars" - and India is benefiting from a major boost in the commercialisation of the countries' 45-year-old space program - which hopes to compete with the US, Russia, China, the Ukraine and the European Space Agency in the satellite launch service field.NASA said yesterday that four lanes (processing channels) out of six on the two navigational and support computers that had crashed earlier in the week on the International Space Station (ISS) were now operational and may be put back online today.The two computers, the Russian Central Computer and Terminal Computer, each have three lanes of processing capability, although only one lane is required for operation. All three lanes on each computer had failed, but the ISS crew were able to restore two lanes on each computer.Two processors, one from each of the computers, could not be restored and will be replaced. "I think we’re in good shape. We feel like the computers are stable and back to normal. We still have a lot of options to go through to recover these machines. We’ve got a talented group of people to look at attitude control," said ISS Program Manager Mike Suffredini during a press conference on Friday. Suffredini also said that the power levels to the computers were "just fine. We are in a very good position from a life-support perspective."A power switch was bypassed by Russian cosmonauts Oleg Kotov and Fyodor Yurchikhin using a cable, which allowed at least four of the computers to re-boot. The computers are expected to be tested in the morning, after they have run overnight.The navigation computers provide backup attitude control and orbital altitude adjustments. For now, the station’s control moment gyroscopes are handling attitude control, with the shuttle’s propulsion system providing backup.It is not known what initially caused the computers to fail, but Russian engineers say that it could have been a problem with power supply. "We have plenty of resources, so we have plenty of time to sort this out," said Suffredini on Thursday.With two space walks, 78 million miles and six months on board the International Space Station under their belts, Commander-Science Officer Leroy Chiao and Flight Engineer Salizhan Sharipov, the station's 10th crew, landed in Kazakhstan in a Soyuz spacecraft at 6:08 p.m. EDT Sunday.Also returning was European Space Agency Astronaut Roberto Vittori of Italy, who launched to the Station with the Expedition 11 crew and spent eight days doing experiments. He was aboard under a contract between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency.The re-entry of the ISS Soyuz 9 spacecraft was perfect, returning the astronauts to Earth 53 miles northeast of the town of Arkalyk after 192 days, 19 hours and 2 minutes in space for the Expedition 10 crew. The recovery team reached the capsule in minutes.They launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan last Oct. 13 at 11:06 p.m. EDT. During their increment they performed two spacewalks, continued station maintenance and did scientific experiments.Notable accomplishments included replacing critical hardware in the Joint Quest Airlock; repairing U.S. spacesuits; and submitting a scientific research paper on ultrasound use in space. Chiao was also the first astronaut to vote in the U.S. Presidential election from space. The crew completed two spacewalks, including experiment installation and tasks to prepare the Station for the arrival of the new European Automated Transfer Vehicle next year.Aboard the Station, Commander Sergei Krikalev and Flight Engineer and NASA Station Science Officer John Phillips, the Expedition 11 crew, are beginning a six-month mission. It will include the resumption of Space Shuttle flights and two spacewalks from the Station. Expedition 11 is scheduled to return to Earth on October 7, 2005. The two latest occupants of the station launched with Vittori from Baikonur April 14.Krikalev and Phillips will have light duty for the next two days, as they rest after completing a busy handover period. For the past week, they have been learning about Station operations from the two men who called the ship home since October. Chiao and Sharipov briefed Krikalev and Phillips on day-to-day operations and gave them hands-on opportunities at Station maintenance. Chiao and Phillips restored the Quest airlock to working order for future spacewalks and practiced operating the Canadarm2 robotic arm.Chinese state news today declared Jade Rabbit, China's first moon rover, irreparably damaged.The Chang'e 3 lander, the first lunar lander for 37 years and of the third nationality, touched down and launched Jade Rabbit in December. Jade Rabbit was designed to spend three months seeking out natural resources but has not functioned since a fault was discovered on January 25.The probes have to shut down for two weeks each month to survive the "lunar night", during which surface temperature drops to -180 °C or less. The first lunar night of the mission was weathered successfully but Chinese scientists suspected the rover had failed on the 25th when the second night rolled in. Communication could only be attempted when the night ended on Monday, but reactivation efforts failed and the rover is now confirmed derelict.State-owned Xinhua news agency blamed the fault on "the complicated lunar surface environment". Only the US and ex-USSR had previously landed rovers on the moon, with China and the States fueling renewed interest in Earth's natural satellite as a possible source of minerals.Japan announced on Wednesday a program to send astronauts to the moon by 2025. The plan calls for the establishment of a moon base that would be operated by Japanese astronauts and robots."Until now, the question has been, 'Can Japan develop its own manned spaceship?' We will know the answer in another 10 years," JAXA Chairman Keiji Tachikawa told the Associated Press.The plan includes the development of robots and nanotechnology, and calls for the design of a space vehicle to carry passengers and cargo to the moon. The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) asked for a budget increase to about US$2.6 billion a year to fund the program.Aerospace professor Taketoshi Hibiya, who works at the Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Technology, questioned the value of going to the moon."If you are hoping to exploit energy resources for example, the question is whether you gain more energy than you expend getting to the moon and back," Hibiya told Reuters. "As scientists, we want to experiment with everything, including manned flight, if we can get the money," he said. "Unfortunately, the country's budget is in a bad way at the moment."Japan is running a national debt of 751 trillion yen (US$6.94 trillion).Japan said it would decide within 10 years whether it would pursue its moon program on its own, or if it would team up with other nations.No country has sent a manned mission to the moon since the Apollo program of the 1960s and 1970s. China and Russia are both planning moon programs of their own. China plans to send a satellite to the moon in 2007. Russia has a plan to send personnel to the moon sometime between 2015-2020 as part of a larger program to one day send a mission to Mars.JAXA's next mission will survey the moon with the SELENE probe. The mission was scheduled to launch this year, but has been delayed for unknown reasons.According to the Italian-based National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, the magnitude 8.9 earthquake that struck Japan on Friday caused the axis of the planet Earth to shift by approximately ten centimetres. Experts believe that "this has [shifted] the axis of rotation of the Earth [further] than the 2004 earthquake in Sumatra." ((fr))French language: ‍ce phénomène a exercé sur l'axe de rotation de la Terre une action plus importante que le séisme de 2004 à SumatraAccording to La Nación, the impact of the Japanese earthquake caused an energy release one hundred times larger than that of the earthquake which struck Haiti in 2010. Leading the research at the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, Antonio Piersanti stated that "[o]ur estimate is not derived from direct measurements, which require much more time, but theoretical calculations." ((es))Spanish language: ‍Nuestra estimación no se deriva de mediciones directas, que requerirán mucho más tiempo, sino de cálculos teóricosRichard Gross, of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, was responsible for discovering the extent to which the Earth's axis had been shifted by the 2010 Chile earthquake. He claimed that there "should be no impact [from] this change in rotation on daily life." ((es))Spanish language: ‍No debería haber ningún impacto de este cambio en la rotación sobre la vida diariaGross explained: "Although we have not evaluated the measurements of the Earth's rotation, my calculations indicate that the change in the distribution of land masses caused by the Japanese earthquake may have caused the Earth to rotate a little faster, shortening the length of day about 1.6 microseconds." ((es))Spanish language: ‍Aunque todavía no hemos evaluado las mediciones de la rotación de la Tierra, mis cálculos indican que el cambio de la distribución de la masa terrestre causado por el terremoto japonés puede haber hecho que la Tierra rote un poco más rápido, acortando la duración del día unos 1,6 microsegundos He said that despite the fact that "[t]his change in the position of the axis of rotation will cause the Earth to wobble a bit different[ly] as it rotates," ((es))Spanish language: ‍Este cambio en la posición del eje de rotación de la Tierra hará que se tambalee un poco diferente, ya que gira the planet's axis would not alter in space.File:SELENE.jpgAn H-IIA rocket, carrying the SELENE lunar orbiter and several smaller satellites, was launched on Friday, September 14 from the Tanegashima Space Center in Japan. The launch, conducted at 01:31 GMT by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries for the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA), begins the voyage of SELENE to the Moon, and Japanese space officials say that the mission has been going smoothly."The flight has been proceeding smoothly to this point. We haven't had any reports of problems with any of the equipment," said JAXA spokesman Seiji Toyama who also added that the probe is about to finish its first of two orbits around Earth.SELENE will be placed in orbit 60 miles (100 kilometers) above the Moon's surface where two smaller probes will be released and then begin to orbit the Moon at both poles. Scientists are hoping that the data will shed more light on how the Moon was formed, and how it has evolved through time. They also hope to study the composition of dust samples from the surface and are planning on taking 3-D images of the Moon's surface.JAXA was forced to delay the launch by one day, with the launch originally scheduled to occur on September 13.The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency has successfully launched another of their H-IIA space rockets. Its payload, the MTSAT-2 satellite designed to control air traffic and track weather patterns, has successfully separated from the rocket. It is due to be inserted into a geostationary orbit on the 21st of February.The satellite is owned by the Civil Aviation Bureau and the Japan Meteorological Agency, part of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport.The rocket was launched from the Tanegashima space centre in the southern region of Kagoshima, at 15:55 (06:55 GMT). It is the ninth in a series of H-IIA rockets, which form the main part of the Japanese space program. A previous H-IIA rocket was launched less than a month ago.The Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency has achieved the primary goal of the Hayabusa probe's mission by touching down on the surface of an asteroid in an attempt to collect a sample of what is thought to be the oldest material in the solar system.Despite an earlier aborted attempt, and the apparent loss of an exploratory "micro rover", Hayabusa's achievement is significant.  No other mission has attempted to bring back material from an asteroid which is believed to be a remnant from the formation of the solar system.The actual success of the mission to the Itokawa asteroid cannot actually be  known until 2007 when the probe returns to Earth.  Only at that time can it be established if firing a metal pellet into the surface of the asteroid disturbed it enough to allow a sample to be obtained.The Ocean Surface Topography Mission (OSTM), or Jason-2, satellite, has been launched into low Earth orbit. A Delta II rocket carrying the satellite lifted off from Space Launch Complex 2W at the Vandenberg Air Force Base in California, United States, at 07:46 GMT this morning. Spacecraft separation occurred around an hour later, and the solar panels on the satellite have deployed.OSTM is a collaboration between the American space agency, NASA, and the French space agency, CNES. It will study and map the surface of the oceans from space. The Delta II rocket flew in the 7320 configuration, the lowest capacity variant, with three solid rocket motors, and no third stage. The exact launch time was 07:46:25.192 GMT.This is the third launch of a Delta II carrier rocket to be conducted so far this year, and the 137th overall. The next Delta II is scheduled to launch in mid-late August, with the GeoEye-1 civilian imagery satellite, however A GPS satellite launch which was delayed from mid July to an unconfirmed date could potentially occur before this. This is the 32nd orbital launch of 2008.A jewel that once belonged to King Tutankhamen of ancient Egypt is believed to have been created by an exploding meteorite entering Earth's atmosphere "hugely bigger in energy than the atomic [bomb] tests," said geophysicist John Wasson. The explosion was "Ten thousand times more powerful," added Wasson.  The Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority says the jewel is composed of 98% silica or glass, making it the purest jewel of its kind on the planet and can only be found in a certain area of the Sahara Desert.Wasson also says the impact that created the jewel can be compared to the "Tunguska event" that occurred in Tunguska, Siberia in 1908 causing at least 80 million trees to be flattened, but left no visible impact crater."When the thought came to me that it required a hot sky, I thought immediately of the Tunguska event," said Wasson.The event was recreated by a computer simulation. The results of the simulation reveal that the impact of a meteorite or an event similar to Tunguska could have been the cause of theformation and heating the ground up to nearly 1,800 degrees Celsius causing a thin layer of glass to form on the Earth's surface at the site of an impact.Researchers also added that events like this are likely to happen at least every 100 years or so. Wasson says there are likely to be more impacts; it's "just a matter of when."On Friday at 12:25 a.m. EDT, NASA's newest spacecraft, Juno, launched into orbit from Cape Canaveral, Florida, on its way to Jupiter. Juno will engage in an analysis of the planet from an orbit around it.Researchers hope that the spacecraft and its myriad of instruments will shed light on the origins of Jupiter.  Furthermore, being the largest and oldest planet in the solar system, scientists believe that Jupiter may also hold clues to the formation and evolution of the early solar system. Additionally, the data gathered from Juno may help scientists to understand early planetary processes occurring in other star systems beyond our own.Juno will travel roughly 1,740 million miles (2,800 million kilometers) over the course of its five-year journey.The planet Jupiter will be at its closest to the Earth since 1963 tomorrow and Tuesday, scientists say. This will cause the planet's appearance to peak at a brightness and size not seen since then. The planet Uranus will also make a close approach, but will be more difficult to spot, as it is much farther away.Scientists say that Jupiter will rise at about the time of sunset and will be nearly directly overhead at midnight. The only brighter object that will be in the sky at that time will be the moon. NASA scientist Tony Phillips said "Jupiter is so bright right now, you don't need a sky map to find it." It will not appear this bright again until 2022.Jupiter will pass within 368 million miles of Earth at the time of closest approach. Although this will occur on Monday and Tuesday, it will remain large and bright for approximately another month.During this event, the planet will be located in the sky not far from the moon. Some of the planet's own moons will be visible with the aid of a telescope or binoculars.According to NASA scientists, Earth-Jupiter encounters occur about every 13 months. Since both planets' orbits are slightly elliptical, meaning they are not perfect circles around the Sun, the distance varies in each encounter.Jupiter, the largest planet in the Solar System, is the fifth planet from the Sun and is more massive than all of the other planets combined, about 318 times as massive as the Earth.Stardust is a NASA space capsule that collected samples from comet 81P/Wild (also known as "Wild 2) in deep space and landed back on Earth on January 15, 2006. It was decided that a collaborative online review process would be used to "discover" the microscopically small samples the capsule collected. The project is called Stardust@home. Unlike distributed computing projects like SETI@home, Stardust@home relies entirely on human intelligence.Andrew Westphal is the director of Stardust@home. Wikinews interviewed him for May's Interview of the Month (IOTM) on May 18, 2006. As always, the interview was conducted on IRC, with multiple people asking questions. Some may not know exactly what Stardust or Stardust@home is. Can you explain more about it for us?Stardust is a NASA Discovery mission that was launched in 1999. It is really two missions in one. The primary science goal of the mission was to collect a sample from a known primitive solar-system body, a comet called Wild 2 (pronounced "Vilt-two" — the discoverer was German, I believe). This is the first US "sample return" mission since Apollo, and the first ever from beyond the moon. This gives a little context. By "sample return" of course I mean a mission that brings back extraterrestrial material. I should have said above that this is the first "solid" sample return mission — Genesis brought back a sample from the Sun almost two years ago, but Stardust is also bringing back the first solid samples from the local interstellar medium — basically this is a sample of the Galaxy. This is absolutely unprecedented, and we're obviously incredibly excited. I should mention parenthetically that there is a fantastic launch video — taken from the POV of the rocket on the JPL Stardust website — highly recommended — best I've ever seen — all the way from the launch pad, too. Basically interplanetary trajectory. Absolutely great. Is the video available to the public?Yes [see below]. OK, I digress. The first challenge that we have before can do any kind of analysis of these interstellar dust particles is simply to find them. This is a big challenge because they are very small (order of micron in size) and are somewhere (we don't know where) on a HUGE collector— at least on the scale of the particle size — about a tenth of a square meter. So...We're right now using an automated microscope that we developed several years ago for nuclear astrophysics work to scan the collector in the Cosmic Dust Lab in Building 31 at Johnson Space Center. This is the ARES group that handles returned samples (Moon Rocks, Genesis chips, Meteorites, and Interplanetary Dust Particles collected by U2 in the stratosphere). The microscope collects stacks of digital images of the aerogel collectors in the array. These images are sent to us — we compress them and convert them into a format appropriate for Stardust@home. Stardust@home is a highly distributed project using a "Virtual Microscope" that is written in html and javascript and runs on most browsers — no downloads are required. Using the Virtual Microscope volunteers can search over the collector for the tracks of the interstellar dust particles. How many samples do you anticipate being found during the course of the project?Great question. The short answer is that we don't know. The long answer is a bit more complicated. Here's what we know. The Galileo and Ulysses spacecraft carried dust detectors onboard that Eberhard Gruen and his colleagues used to first detect and them measure the flux of interstellar dust particles streaming into the solar system. (This is a kind of "wind" of interstellar dust, caused by the fact that our solar system is moving with respect to the local interstellar medium.) Markus Landgraf has estimated the number of interstellar dust particles that should have been captured by Stardust during two periods of the "cruise" phase of the interplanetary orbit in which the spacecraft was moving with this wind. He estimated that there should be around 45 particles, but this number is very uncertain — I wouldn't be surprised if it is quite different from that. That was the long answer! One thing that I should say...is that like all research, the outcome of what we are doing is highly uncertain. There is a wonderful quote attributed to Einstein — "If we knew what we were doing, it wouldn't be called "research", would it?" How big would the samples be?We expect that the particles will be of order a micron in size. (A millionth of a meter.) When people are searching using the virtual microscope, they will be looking not for the particles, but for the tracks that the particles make, which are much larger — several microns in diameter. Just yesterday we switched over to a new site which has a demo of the VM (virtual microscope) I invite you to check it out. The tracks in the demo are from submicron carbonyl iron particles that were shot into aerogel using a particle accelerator modified to accelerate dust particles to very high speeds, to simulate the interstellar dust impacts that we're looking for.And that's on the main Stardust@home website [see below]?Yes.How long will the project take to complete?Partly the answer depends on what you mean by "the project". The search will take several months. The bottleneck, we expect (but don't really know yet) is in the scanning — we can only scan about one tile per day and there are 130 tiles in the collector…. These particles will be quite diverse, so we're hoping that we'll continue to have lots of volunteers collaborating with us on this after the initial discoveries. It may be that the 50th particle that we find will be the real Rosetta stone that turns out to be critical to our understanding of interstellar dust. So we really want to find them all! Enlarging the idea of the project a little, beyond the search, though is to actually analyze these particles. That's the whole point, obviously! And this is the huge advantage with this kind of a mission — a "sample return" mission. Most missions rather do things quite differently... you have to build an instrument to make a measurement and that instrument design gets locked in several years before launch practically guaranteeing that it will be obsolete by the time you launch. Here exactly the opposite is true. Several of the instruments that are now being used to analyze the cometary dust did not exist when the mission was launched. Further, some instruments (e.g., synchrotrons) are the size of shopping malls — you don't have a hope of flying these in space. So we can and will study these samples for many years. AND we have to preserve some of these dust particles for our grandchildren to analyze with their hyper-quark-gluon plasma microscopes (or whatever)!When do you anticipate the project to start?We're really frustrated with the delays that we've been having. Some of it has to do with learning how to deal with the aerogel collectors, which are rougher and more fractured than we expected. The good news is that they are pretty clean — there is very little of the dust that you see on our training images — these were deliberately left out in the lab to collect dust so that we could give people experience with the worst case we could think of. In learning how to do the scanning of the actual flight aerogel, we uncovered a couple of bugs in our scanning software — which forced us to go back and rescan. Part of the other reason for the delay was that we had to learn how to handle the collector — it would cost $200M to replace it if something happened to it, so we had to develop procedures to deal with it, and add several new safety features to the Cosmic Dust Lab. This all took time. Finally, we're distracted because we also have many responsibilities for the cometary analysis, which has a deadline of August 15 for finishing analysis. The IS project has no such deadline, so at times we had to delay the IS (interstellar, sorry) in order to focus on the cometary work. We are very grateful to everyone for their patience on this — I mean that very sincerely. And rest assured that we're just as frustrated!I know there will be a "test" that participants will have to take before they can examine the "real thing". What will that test consist of?The test will look very similar to the training images that you can look at now. But.. there will of course be no annotation to tell you where the tracks are! Why did NASA decide to take the route of distributed computing? Will they do this again?I wouldn't say that NASA decided to do this — the idea for Stardust@home originated here at U. C. Berkeley. Part of the idea of course came…If I understand correctly it isn't distributed computing, but distributed eyeballing?…from the SETI@home people who are just down the hall from us. But as Brian just pointed out. this is not really distributed computing like SETI@home the computers are just platforms for the VM and it is human eyes and brains who are doing the real work which makes it fun (IMHO). That said… There have been quite a few people who have expressed interested in developing automated algorithms for searching. Just because WE don't know how to write such an algorithm doesn't mean nobody does. We're delighted at this and are happy to help make it happen Isn't there a catch 22 that the data you're going to collect would be a prerequisite to automating the process?That was the conclusion that we came to early on — that we would need some sort of training set to be able to train an algorithm. Of course you have to train people too, but we're hoping (we'll see!) that people are more flexible in recognizing things that they've never seen before and pointing them out. Our experience is that people who have never seen a track in aerogel can learn to recognize them very quickly, even against a big background of cracks, dust and other sources of confusion... Coming back to the original question — although NASA didn't originate the idea, they are very generously supporting this project. It wouldn't have happened without NASA's financial support (and of course access to the Stardust collector). Did that answer the question? Will a project like this be done again?I don't know... There are only a few projects for which this approach makes sense... In fact, I frankly haven't run across another at least in Space Science. But I am totally open to the idea of it. I am not in favor of just doing it as "make-work" — that is just artificially taking this approach when another approach would make more sense. How did the idea come up to do this kind of project? Really desperation. When we first thought about this we assumed that we would use some sort of automated image recognition technique. We asked some experts around here in CS and the conclusion was that the problem was somewhere between trivial and impossible, and we wouldn't know until we had some real examples to work with. So we talked with Dan Wertheimer and Dave Anderson (literally down the hall from us) about the idea of a distributed project, and they were quite encouraging. Dave proposed the VM machinery, and Josh Von Korff, a physics grad student, implemented it. (Beautifully, I think. I take no credit!) I got to meet one of the stardust directors in March during the Texas Aerospace Scholars program at JSC. She talked about searching for meteors in Antarctica, one that were unblemished by Earth conditions. Is that our best chance of finding new information on comets and asteroids? Or will more Stardust programs be our best solution? That's a really good question. Much will depend on what we learn during this official "Preliminary Examination" period for the cometary analysis. Aerogel capture is pretty darn good, but it's not perfect and things are altered during capture in ways that we're still understanding. I think that much also depends on what question you're asking. For example, some of the most important science is done by measuring the relative abundances of isotopes in samples, and these are not affected (at least not much) by capture into aerogel. Also, she talked about how some of the agencies that they gave samples to had lost or destroyed 2-3 samples while trying to analyze them. That one, in fact, had been statically charged, and stuck to the side of the microscope lens and they spent over an hour looking for it. Is that really our biggest danger? Giving out samples as a show of good faith, and not letting NASA example all samples collected?These will be the first measurements, probably, that we'll make on the interstellar dust There is always a risk of loss. Fortunately for the cometary samples there is quite a lot there, so it's not a disaster. NASA has some analytical capabilities, particularly at JSC, but the vast majority of the analytical capability in the community is not at NASA but is at universities, government labs and other institutions all over the world. I should also point out that practically every analytical technique is destructive at some level. (There are a few exceptions, but not many.) The problem with meteorites is that except in a very few cases, we don't know where they specifically came from. So having a sample that we know for sure is from the comet is golden! I am currently working on my Bachelor's in computer science, with a minor in astronomy. Do you see successes of programs like Stardust to open up more private space exploration positions for people such as myself. Even though I'm not in the typical "space" fields of education? Can you elaborate on your question a little — I'm not sure that I understand...Well, while at JSC I learned that they mostly want Engineers, and a few science grads, and I worry that my computer science degree with not be very valuable, as the NASA rep told me only 1% of the applicants for their work study program are CS majors. I'm just curious as to your thoughts on if CS majors will be more in demand now that projects like Stardust and the Mars missions have been great successes? Have you seen a trend towards more private businesses moving in that direction, especially with President Bush's statement of Man on the Moon in 2015?That's a good question. I am personally not very optimistic about the direction that NASA is going. Despite recent successes, including but not limited to Stardust, science at NASA is being decimated.I made a joke with some people at the TAS event that one day SpaceShipOne will be sent up to save stranded ISS astronauts. It makes me wonder what kind of private redundancy the US government is taking for future missions. I guess one thing to be a little cautious about is that despite SpaceShipOne's success, we haven't had an orbital project that has been successful in that style of private enterprise It would be nice to see that happen. I know that there's a lot of interest...! Now I know the answer to this question... but a lot do not... When samples are found, How will they be analyzed? Who gets the credit for finding the samples? The first person who identifies an interstellar dust particle will be acknowledged on the website (and probably will be much in demand for interviews from the media!), will have the privilege of naming the particle, and will be a co-author on any papers that WE (at UCB) publish on the analysis of the particle. Also, although we are precluded from paying for travel expenses, we will invite those who discover particles AND the top performers to our lab for a hands-on tour. We have some fun things, including micromachines. How many people/participants do you expect to have? About 113,000 have preregistered on our website. Frankly, I don't have a clue how many will actually volunteer and do a substantial amount of searching. We've never done this before, after all!One last thing I want to say ... well, two. First, we are going to special efforts not to do any searching ourselves before we go "live". It would not be fair to all the volunteers for us to get a jumpstart on the search. All we are doing is looking at a few random views to make sure that the focus and illumination are good. (And we haven't seen anything — no surprise at all!) Also, the attitude for this should be "Have Fun". If you're not having fun doing it, stop and do something else! A good maxim for life in general!A Kosmos-3M carrier rocket has successfully launched the SAR-Lupe 5 satellite, the fifth and final member of the German SAR-Lupe surveillance satellite system. The rocket lifted off from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome in Northern Russia at 02:20 GMT this morning. The SAR-Lupe system uses Synthetic Aperture radar (SAR) to detect objects on the ground, even when it is too dark or cloudy for optical reconnaissance.The SAR-Lupe system consists of five satellites, which have been launched over the last two years. The first satellite was launched in mid-December 2006, and was followed by two more in 2007, in early July and November. The fourth satellite was launched in late March 2008. The system will be operated by the German military for at least ten years. Data will also be provided to the French military, in exchange for data from French reconnaissance satellites being provided to Germany.This is the 36th orbital launch of 2008, the third of which to have been conducted by a Kosmos-3M. Overall, this is the 444th launch of a Kosmos-3M rocket. The next Kosmos launch is expected to occur later this year, with a Parus navigation satellite, although it is currently unclear exactly when this launch will occur.A Russian Kosmos-3M rocket has launched the German SAR-Lupe 4 reconnaissance satellite into low Earth orbit. Lift-off, from area 132/1 at the Plesetsk Cosmodrome in Northern Russia, occurred at 17:15 GMT. The launch, which was originally scheduled to occur today, was moved up to Tuesday, and subsequently delayed twice due to strong winds at an altitude of 13 kilometres, which prevented launch.SAR-Lupe is a German reconnaissance satellite constellation, consisting of five spacecraft. The first of these was launched in December 2006. The next satellite, SAR-Lupe 5, is scheduled for launch sometime around October 2008. The spacecraft are equipped with Synthetic Apperture Radar (SAR), which allows them to produce imagery at night, and through cloud cover.The carrier rocket which was used, Kosmos-3M, is a derivative of the Soviet R-14 missile. It first flew in 1967, and the launch of SAR-Lupe 4 marks its 442nd flight. It is also the 900th launch of a member of the R-14 family of rockets.The launch was declared successful, with the satellite reaching orbit at 17:43 GMT. It is the fourteenth orbital launch of 2008.Six Orbcomm satellites have been launched by a Russian Kosmos-3M carrier rocket. Lift-off, from Site 107 at the Kapustin Yar launch site in South-West Russia, occurred at 06:36:28 GMT. This is the first orbital launch to occur from Kapustin Yar since April 1999.Orbcomm is an American company which operates a constellation of communications satellites in low Earth orbit. The satellites launched today were five Quick Launch satellites, and a technology demonstration spacecraft which will be operated in conjunction with the United States Coastguard. A seventh satellite, Ufa State University's UGATUSAT nanosatellite, was originally scheduled to be launched, but was moved to a later launch aboard a Soyuz-2 rocket for unknown reasons. The launch was conducted by COSMOS International, a Russo-German organisation, and Russia's Strategic Rocket Forces.This is the 31th orbital launch of 2008, and the second of which to have been conducted by a Kosmos-3M rocket. The next Kosmos-3M launch is currently scheduled for the end of July, when the SAR-Lupe 5 satellite will be placed into orbit.A Kuiper Belt object just outside our solar system is on its way to becoming a new comet, possibly a very bright-looking one.The object, 2003 EL61, is currently in the shape of a potato, is roughly the size of Pluto, and rotates on its axis every 4 hours. The top layer of the object is covered in a thin layer of an ice like substance and has a rocky center. Simulations show that the object is in an unstable orbit.According to California Institute of Technology Professor Mike Brown, the object may enter Neptune's gravity, causing 2003 EL61 to be shot into interstellar space, or the inner solar system to become a comet. In the latter case, the object, because of nearing the sun, will begin to melt and a tail would form behind it."If you came back in two million years, EL61 could well be a comet. When it becomes a comet, it will be the brightest we will ever see," said Brown.Brown also says that nearly 4.5 billion years ago, the object was made of half rock and half ice. Sometime after the object's birth, an object slammed into it causing most of the ice inside it to be broken off. The pieces to be broken off then became satellites, which are believed to be made of very pure water-ice.Pieces of the object may currently be inside our solar system, already forming to become comet material."It's a bit like the story of Mercury. Mercury got hit by a large object early in the Solar System. It left mostly a big iron core, with a little bit of rock on the outside. This is mostly a rock core with a little bit of ice on the outside," added Brown.But don't expect to get a light show from this object in the near future. Brown estimates that the comet will form in about 2 million years, but will be visible from Earth.The planned landing of Space Shuttle Atlantis earlier today has been postponed due to poor weather conditions in the vicinity of the landing strip at the Kennedy Space Center. The shuttle is currently on STS-117, a mission to the International Space Station.According to NASA, there were showers within a 34-mile radius of the landing strip and clouds within 8,000 feet. Both of these represent conditions in which flight rules prohibit a landing. The shuttle has five more opportunities to land over the course of the next three days. Atlantis could land tomorrow at 2:16 p.m. or 3:51 p.m. ET. According to Mission Control, weather forecasts predict better conditions tomorrow.If necessary, there are also backup sites in California and New Mexico. If required, these alternative facilities will be activated on Saturday. Atlantis can potentially remain in orbit until Sunday, but officials have stated they will only postpone landing until Sunday if there are technical problems that require attention prior to landing.NASA would prefer not to use alternative sites as this would significantly increase the cost of preparing Atlantis for its next mission, scheduled for December. The shuttle would have to be brought back on a jumbo jet; this would take up to ten days and cost US$1.7 million.The mission managers held a last-minute meeting late Wednesday to discuss potential problems which could affect the landing – damage to the thermal blanket on takeoff - which required repairs. Material known as gap filler was found to be sticking out of a wing, and debris was found floating nearby after the shuttle docked with the space station on Tuesday. The only problem found to be of significant concern was the gap filler. Engineers want to check whether gap filler will withstand the re-entry into the Earth's atmosphere.A large object, possibly an asteroid or a meteor, hit the planet Jupiter Thursday, resulting in a large fireball.The fireball was seen on June 3 at 2031 UTC by two independent amateur astronomers, Christopher Go in the Philippines and Anthony Wesley in Australia. Wesley, who posted the news onto an Internet forum, is known for having also spotted last July's Jupiter impact event. Go caught Thursday's impact on video, which showed a fireball the size of Earth after the object hit. It could be the first time someone has recorded a meteor crashing into a planet.This latest strike came only hours after a team from the Space Science Institute, led by astronomer Heidi Hammel, announced that last year's event was the result of an asteroid 1,640 feet (500 metres) wide. That asteroid caused a scar the size of the Pacific Ocean when it hit Jupiter with the force of several thousand nuclear bombs on July 19, 2009.The planet last experienced a major impact in July 1994, when it was hit by Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 (SL9), resulting in large scars as well. Scientists originally thought that there would not be any more Jupiter strikes for several centuries following SL9, but have now been proved wrong twice in as many years.Now, astronomers around the world are trying to figure out what kind of mark Thursday's collision left on the planet, as well as determine exactly what hit it. Although the impact is believed to be relatively small, a dark debris field may soon appear in the clouds around Jupiter, which is what occurred in 2009.A large meteorite slammed into the side of a mountain near the area of Troms and Finnmark in Norway at about 2:05 a.m. on June 9, 2006. Scientists say the explosive force of the meteorite could have been "compared to the Hiroshima bomb." Truls Lynne Hansen of the Northern Lights Observatory, however, called this description "an exaggeration.""This is simply exceptional. I cannot imagine that we have had such a powerful meteorite impact in Norway in modern times. If the meteorite was as large as it seems to have been, we can compare it to the Hiroshima bomb. There were ground tremors, a house shook and a curtain was blown into the house," said Norwegian astronomer, Knut Jørgen Røed Ødegaard."Of course the meteorite is not radioactive, but in explosive force we may be able to compare it to the bomb," added Ødegaard.The last record for a meteorite impact in Norway was Alta, weighing over 198 pounds. It struck in 1904."The record was the Alta meteorite that landed in 1904. That one was 90 kilos (198 lbs) but we think the meteorite that landed Wednesday was considerably larger," said Ødegaard. He also said that area residents could find remnants of the meteor.Professor Kaare Aksnes of the Institute for Theoretical Astrophysics at the University of Oslo later apologised for the comprison with the Hiroshima bomb "We cannot be completely sure, but the light and sound phenomena were exceptional. It indicates that there has been a great deal of energy involved."The largest extrasolar planet or exoplanet has been discovered orbiting the star GSC 02620-00648, around 1,435 light years away. The planet, named TrES-4, after the Transatlantic Exoplanet Survey (TrES) is 1.7 times the size of the planet Jupiter. TrES-4 also has a lower mass than Jupiter and an extremely low density of 0.2 grams per cubic centimetre, which is less than a wine cork. Georgi Mandushev of the Lowell Observatory in Arizona said, "It's way lower than the density of water."TrES-4 orbits its star at a distance of only 7 million km (4.5 million miles), meaning that the temperature of the planet is estimated at 1,327°C (approximately 1,600K or 2,300°F).Mandushev went on to say, "Because of the planet's relatively weak pull on its upper atmosphere, some of the atmosphere probably escapes in a comet-like tail."Due to the planet's size, current theories about superheated giant planets find it hard to explain why it is so large. Francis O'Donovan, a graduate student in astronomy at the California Institute of Technology which operates one of the TrES telescopes said, "We continue to be surprised by how relatively large these giant planets can be. But if we can explain the sizes of these bloated planets in their harsh environments, it may help us better understand our own Solar System planets and their formation."Launch Complex 40 (LC-40) at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Merritt Island, Florida has been demolished. The Mobile Service Structure (MSS), which was once used to load payloads onto Titan III and Titan IV rockets, was toppled by explosive charges at 13:00 GMT (09:00 local time). The launch tower had already been dismantled.Complex 40 was first used in 1965, for the maiden flight of the Titan IIIC rocket. Following the second Titan III launch, it was modified to serve as a launch pad for the US Air Force's Manned Orbiting Laboratory (MOL). In November 1966, a boilerplate MOL space station was launched on a Titan IIIC from the complex, along with a Gemini capsule, and four satellites. Following the cancellation of MOL, it was converted back to a regular Titan launch complex, and was used for 55 launches, of Titan IIIC, 34D, and IV rockets. Two planetary probes, two commercial satellites, a British military communications satellite, and numerous payloads for the American armed forces were launched from the complex, which ceased operations in April 2005, when the penultimate Titan IV launched the Lacrosse-5 spy satellite for America's National Reconnaissance Office. Along with Launch Complex 41, which was demolished in 1999, LC-40 was used for heavy-lift Titan rocket launches. The Mars Observer and Cassini-Huygens missions to Mars and Saturn respectively were launched from Complex 40. The launch pad is being demolished to make way for a new complex, which will be used by the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket, currently scheduled to make its maiden flight in 2009. As well as being used for commercial launches, the new LC-40 will be used for cargo resupply missions to the International Space Station, under a Commercial Orbital Transportation Services (COTS) contract with NASA. It could eventually be used for manned missions using the SpaceX Dragon spacecraft. SpaceX currently has a five year lease on the site.A launch failure occurred at NASA's Wallops Flight Facility in Virginia on Tuesday.The failure occurred when Orbital Sciences Corporation's Antares rocket, which was carrying the Cygnus vehicle with cargo of 5,000 pounds (about 2,300 kg), exploded after liftoff at 6:22 p.m. local time (2222 UTC), creating a massive fireball in the sky. Nobody was reported injured during the explosion, but the rocket was destroyed. The cargo was supplies for the International Space Station (ISS). Despite the explosion, the astronauts working on the ISS will not run out of food or supplies, according to a NASA statement released on Tuesday.Orbital's vice president Frank Culbertson said the contractor's spacecraft will not fly until the cause of the failure is determined. NASA plans to continue the mission of delivering supplies to astronauts once it fully understands how this happened.The rocket was to launch on Monday night, but a boat entered the hazard area, delaying the launch until the following night.The cause of the explosion is under investigation by NASA and Orbital Sciences. NASA said the National Transportation Safety Board is monitoring the investigation.NASA announced a delay to its next planned mission to Mars at a news conference on Thursday, 4th of December. The Mars Science Laboratory was due to launch in 2009, but lift off will now not occur until 2011 because more time was required for tests, causing the rover to miss its launch window. This delay comes just 2 months after the European Space Agency (ESA) delayed their planned ExoMars mission until 2016. Commenting on the delay of the MSL, NASA Administrator Mike Griffin said, "[t]rying for '09 would require us to assume too much risk, more than I think is appropriate for a flagship mission".The MSL was due to feature several new technologies, including a hovering platform that would lower the rover onto the surface, and new atmospheric entry methods. Atmospheric entry into Mars has always been a difficult prospect for scientific probes with many probes being lost. The most recent loss was in 2003: the British Beagle 2 probe, which was due to land on a series of inflated balloons, but was never heard from after entering the atmosphere. It is the additional testing time required by changes to these technologies that has caused it to miss the October 2009 launch window. Due to the orbits of Mars and Earth, interplanetary travel between them is only feasible every two years for a window of a few weeks.The delays and additional fabrication and testing have inflated the budget of the project by an additional 400 million US dollars, bringing the total to $2.4 billion. These increasing costs of Mars missions are what forced the decision by the ESA to delay its ExoMars mission, and they have now prompted talk of increased co-operation on future missions. The respective chief scientists at NASA and the ESA, Dr Ed Weiler and David Southwood, have already engaged in preliminary talks about such co-operation, and there is now talk of NASA joining the ESA on its ExoMars mission. Dr Weiler, speaking on such a possibility, said "It is going to take some real scientists and engineers getting together and working that out. But is there a possibility it could become a joint mission? Absolutely. And we're certainly open to it and would welcome it."NASA has announced that the launch of Space Shuttle Atlantis, mission STS-122, will once again be postponed, this time until late January or early February. The reason behind the delay is believed to be a faulty connector that caused erratic fuel sensor readings during the previous two launch attempts in December.Space shuttle program manager Wayne Hale gave January 24 as the earliest possible launch date, but stated that February would be a more realistic expectation. "I think it's much more likely that we'll be going to be ready somewhere in the February 2 to 7 time frame, given that we don't have any more findings as we go through our testing," Hale stated.The initial launch date for the shuttle was December 6, but failed fuel gauges in the external tank forced the launch to be moved to December 9. The fuel sensors are part of a system to prevent the shuttle from running on an empty tank, which could cause pumps in the engine of break and possibly trigger a disastrous explosion. When the problem reoccurred, NASA ran a fuel test, which led them to believe the problem lied in the faulty connector. The connector was then removed from the tank and taken to Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, where it is currently undergoing extensive analysis and modification. The new connector is scheduled to be installed by January 10."What we're doing ... is addressing what we think is the most probable cause, and there's a lot of information that points to that connector and that this is the right design fix," deputy space shuttle program manager John Shannon said. "We're fairly confident that if the problem is where we think it is, that this will solve that."The main objective of mission STS-122 is to deliver the European science laboratory Columbus to the International Space Station.NASA announced during a press conference on Friday night that the agency has decided to delay the launch of Space Shuttle Discovery, which was scheduled for takeoff on February 27. NASA cited the need for additional time to evaluate the shuttle's hydrogen fuel flow control valves. A new launch date has yet to be scheduled, though NASA is considering mid-March as an option. Another review of Discovery's flight readiness is scheduled for February 25.Discovery had originally been scheduled for liftoff on February 12, but NASA wanted to perform additional tests on the valves which control the amount of hydrogen fuel pumped into the external tank when the shuttle is taking off.  When Space Shuttle Endeavour went into space in November 2008, one of the valves broke.  NASA fears that if one breaks off on this mission, then it could damage the outside of the shuttle."We need to complete more work to have a better understanding before flying," said Bill Gerstenmaier, associate administrator for Space Operations at NASA Headquarters in Washington, D.C. who chaired Friday's Flight Readiness Review. "We were not driven by schedule pressure and did the right thing. When we fly, we want to do so with full confidence."The current scheduled mission, STS-119, is set to fly the Integrated Truss Structure segment ("S" for starboard, the right side of the station, and "6" for its place at the very end of the starboard truss) and install the final set of power-generating solar arrays to the International Space Station. The arrays consist of two 115-foot-long arrays, for a total wing span of 240 feet, including the equipment that connects the two halves and allows them to twist as they track the sun. Altogether, the four sets of arrays can generate 84 to 120 kilowatts of electricity – enough to provide power for more than 40 average homes.Commander Lee Archambault will lead Discovery's crew of seven, along with Pilot Tony Antonelli, and Mission Specialists Joseph Acaba, John Phillips, Steve Swanson, Richard Arnold, and Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency astronaut Koichi Wakata.NASA has decided to postpone the launch of Space Shuttle Discovery, mission STS-119, for at least four more days. The further delay of launch was due to a hydrogen fuel leak. Discovery was previously set to liftoff tonight at 9:20 p.m. (EDT)."Space shuttle Discovery’s launch to the International Space Station (ISS) now is targeted for no earlier than March 15. Liftoff on March 15 would be at 7:43 p.m. EDT. The exact launch date is dependent on the work necessary to repair the problem," said NASA in a statement on their website.NASA said during a press conference today that the leak is likely being caused by a hardware issue, later announced to be a suspect connector on the gaseous vent line attached to the shuttle's external tank. Troubleshooting the problem is scheduled to begin on March 12.Discovery's original proposed launch was for July of 2008. Later it was changed to December 4, 2008. The next change scheduled the liftoff date for February 12, 2009. It was then delayed until February 27, but was then delayed indefinitely on February 20 after NASA discovered an issue with the hydrogen control valves.The current scheduled mission is set to fly the Integrated Truss Structure segment to the ISS, and to install the final set of power-generating solar arrays . The arrays consist of two 115-foot-long arrays, for a total span of 240 feet, including the equipment that connects the two halves and allows them to twist as they track the sun. Altogether, the four sets of arrays can generate 84 to 120 kilowatts of electricity – enough to provide power for more than 40 average homes.Commander Lee Archambault will lead Discovery's crew of seven, along with Pilot Tony Antonelli, and Mission Specialists Joseph Acaba, John Phillips, Steve Swanson, Richard Arnold, and Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency astronaut Koichi Wakata.NASA has reported that a sensor aboard the Space Shuttle Atlantis recorded a force of 1G on the shuttle's left wing. This could have been a small impact caused by a meteorite or space junk, or a sensor glitch. The anomaly was recorded on reinforced carbon panels 7 and 8 and reported during a mission briefing on Tuesday afternoon by NASA."[Sensors recorded a] 1G change at one part of the wing's leading edge," said Chairman of the Atlantis Shuttle Mission team, John Shannon who also said that other sensors on Atlantis have not recorded the impact.Damage resulting from impact to a wing during liftoff caused Space Shuttle Columbia to disintegrate when it was re-entering Earth's atmosphere on February 1, 2003. As required by new routines put in place after the accident, astronauts will now have to use a camera or laser to determine if there is any damage to Atlantis's left wing or not. NASA has a spacewalk scheduled for today, but it is not known yet during which of the 3 remaining spacewalks they will be inspecting this .NASA says they do not believe that there is any damage, because the other sensors around the one that reported the anomaly did not register anything out of the ordinary, as they would be expected to do in case of an actual impact. However, they will examine the area to make sure.Around seventy new species of microbes have been discovered in a highly concentrated salt basin of the Mediterranean Sea, so salty that almost half of the liquid is magnesium chloride. Researchers, led by Paul van der Wielen at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands, found abundant colonies of halophile microbes in ancient salty pockets that are devoid of oxygen.It has been suggested that pools of a similar liquid might be able to exist on Mars, providing a possible niche for simple life to exist there.A turquoise  colored UFO was reported by locals and an officer in and around Charlotte, North Carolina.  Jim Neal said that the object was, "Bright blue-green ball with a white tail."  Julie Bigham said that the object was, "A greenish-like light low in the sky.  We thought a small plane or helicopter was going to crash."  David Whitesides said that the object was, "A slow-moving bluish glow."  Brett Lay said that the object was, "Large, bright green ball.  Had a haze about it."  Amy Bromberg said that, "Almost looked like a flare.  Kind of creepy."An officer, who had been dispatched to confirm the object, said that object was visible and moving.Dispatch: "Did you see it?"Officer: "10-4."Dispatch: "We've gotten several calls."Officer: "I'm out on 27 heading west. I don’t know what it was… like a shooting star or something."Psychologist Granville Angell, who is also a former military pilot, said that, "It was like a ball that grew a tail. It was about 20 to 30 degrees above the horizon. Uh, and it came from west to east. It was like a shallow arc across the sky and descended down.  It was a very shallow descent and a glowing flare as it went down. It was visible for about, oh, 10-15 seconds.  Heaven only knows what it could be, but some type of a UFO. I'm not saying an alien but something."  He noted that he initially thought it was an airplane crashing but noticed that the colors weren't right and he said it could not have been a comet because it moved too slowly.The National Weather Service said they received more than a dozen calls about the object.  All planes and  helicopters in the area were accounted for.At 5:30 p.m. on Thursday, 10-15 UFOs were spotted over north London in the inner-city district of Islington.  The Islington police said they started receiving phone calls only minutes after the objects started appearing.34 year-old market stall trader Alix McAlister, who witnessed the objects, said that, "I just picked up my son from nursery in Bredgar Road. I had just come out of the door when I noticed what was going on in the sky.  There were a group of them - 10 to 15 of them moving together. My first impression was that they reminded me of a squadron of aeroplanes in formation. But they didn't have a proper formation and they were all moving at the same speed.  I thought for a while that something was happening in the centre of London. Bombs and planes crossed my mind. But I realised very quickly that they didn't look like any aircraft I'd seen before.  They were coming from the north and moving south. And then they kind of stopped and they were hovering. There was no sound. They seemed to fade away and I saw more coming and then they stopped. It lasted about 10 minutes."The Contact International UFO Research organization was informed about the event by the Islington police and one of the witnesses.  A spokesmen for the organization said that the witness had told them, "He told me he was picking his daughter up from school and he saw many people looking up in the air. Traffic had stopped and people were staring.  He said he saw between 12 and 15 orange lights travelling across the sky. Then they would stop and then they went upwards."The London Planetarium, famous for its distinctive green dome and for being next to Madame Tussauds, will close this week to make way for a new celebrity-themed show opening in July. The Planetarium used to be an attraction in its own right, but in recent years has become simply a feature tacked onto the end of the waxworks tour, the original 45 minute show cut down to just over 10 minutes. The planetarium will be renamed 'The Auditorium' and will feature a show that "gets to the heart of celebrity", being produced in collaboration with animation house Aardman Productions.Famous astronomer Sir Patrick Moore has called the decision "most regrettable", and many have commented that the change from space to celebrity is an unfortunate sign of our times.To say 'farewell' to the planetarium, Tussauds have allowed free entry in its penultimate week, from 24th - 30th April. Visitors could enter through the group admissions entrance to see the show, running every twenty minutes. Unlike the queues for Madame Tussauds, which typically run right up the street, few people waited to see the planetarium show, even on the Saturday. The show, titled Journey to Infinity, was projected onto the inside of the dome using Digistar 3 digital projectors. It told the story of space, starting from Earth and zooming out to reveal the other planets in the Solar System, the Milky Way, the other galaxies and the rest of the universe. It ended with an optimistic message suggesting that humans would continue to explore space, going further than ever before.The London Planetarium opened in 1958 on the site of an old cinema that was destroyed in the second world war. Evening laser performances called 'Laserium' were held between 1977 and 1990. A £4.5 million redevelopment saw it relaunch in 1995 with a new 'Digistar II' monochromatic 3D projection system. This was upgraded to the full-colour 'Digistar 3' system in 2004 which is currently in use.The planetarium at the also famous Royal Observatory in Greenwich has also been closed since September 2004, however this is due to re-open in 2007 having received a £15 million redevelopment programme. It will be three times the size of the old planetarium, and has received backing from Astronomer Royal Sir Martin Rees, and the Astronomer Royal for Scotland, Professor John Brown.A Chinese Long March 3B carrier rocket has launched the Chinasat-9 satellite. The rocket lifted off from pad 2 at the Xichang Satellite Launch Centre at 12:15 GMT this afternoon. Chinasat-9, also known as Zhongxing-9 and ZX-9, is a communications satellite, which will initially be used to relay coverage of the 2008 Olympic Games. The launch was conducted by the China Great Wall Industrial Corporation.Around twenty minutes after the rocket lifted off, the satellite separated from the third stage, into a geosynchronous transfer orbit. It will raise itself into a geosynchronous orbit, around 35,000 kilometres above the equator, by means of its onboard S-400 apogee motor. Chinasat-9 was constructed by Thales Alenia Space of France, based on the Spacebus-4000C2 satellite bus. It is equipped with 22 J-band (IEEE Ku-band) transponders, and will be operated by the China Telecommunications Broadcast Satellite Corporation on behalf of the China Ministry of Post and Telecommunications.Chinasat-9 is the last of a number of communications satellites which have been launched by China over the last few years to boost capacity for the Olympic Games, including the Sinosat-2 spacecraft, which was lost after it failed to deploy its solar panels subsequent to its launch in late 2006. One more satellite, Echostar-CBM was scheduled to be launched, however this was cancelled due to performance issues. The Olympic Games will take place in August.This is the 3rd orbital launch that China has conducted so far this year, and the 28th orbital launch of the year in total. The next Chinese launch is believed to be scheduled for August, when a Long March 2C will launch a pair of remote sensing satellites.At 15:35 UTC this afternoon (23:35 local time), the Chinese Long March 3C (CZ-3C) carrier rocket lifted off on its maiden flight, from launch pad 2 at the Xichang Satellite Launch Centre. It placed the Tianlian-1 satellite into a geosynchronous transfer orbit. Tianlian-1, also known as Tian Lian 1 and TL-1, a spacecraft tracking and data relay communications satellite, similar in function to the American Tracking and Data Relay Satellites (TDRS), will be used to track and communicate with manned Shenzhou spacecraft in low Earth orbit. It will be able to cover around half of the spacecraft's trajectory, compared to the 12 percent which can be covered by China's fleet of tracking ships and ground stations. The next Shenzhou mission, Shenzhou 7, is currently scheduled for launch in October. Tianlian-1 is based on the DFH-3 satellite bus.This is the 19th orbital launch of 2008, and the first this year to be conducted by the People's Republic of China. It is currently believed that China intend to conduct one more launch before the end of April, however due to secrecy surrounding China's space programme, it is difficult to be certain of this.The Long March 3C is a new version of the Long March 3 rocket, which serves as an intermediate between the Long March 3A, and the Long March 3B. It is 55 metres tall, and can place a 3,700 kilogram payload into a geosynchronous transfer orbit.The Chinese National Space Administration has launched a Long March 4C carrier rocket, carrying the Fengyun-3A (FY-3A) weather satellite. FY-3A is the first of thirteen Fengyun-3 satellites, which will be launched in the next twelve years.The launch occurred from Launch Area 1 at the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Centre in Shanxi province, China. Lift-off was at 03:02 GMT this morning, and the ascent to orbit took around 27 minutes, resulting in the successful deployment of the satellite.Fengyun-3A will provide weather forecasts for the upcoming Olympic Games. It will also be used for general forecasting, both for China and the rest of the world. It will be able to make forecasts around a fortnight in advance. With a 250 metre resolution, it is the most advanced Chinese weather satellite yet launched.This is the 26th orbital launch of 2008, the 106th launch of a Long March rocket, and the 3rd launch of the Long March 4C, which first flew in 2006. The next scheduled Chinese launch is believed to be a Long March 3B from the Xichang Satellite Launch Centre, with the Chinasat 9 satellite. This will occur in early June.A main belt asteroid, No. 274301, has been named after Wikipedia, a free encyclopedia. The information became available on the Minor Planet Center's website yesterday. The decision of the Committee for Small Body Nomenclature to assign the name "Wikipedia" to the asteroid was published in the Minor Planet Circular of January 27, published online yesterday, page 82403. Wikimedia Ukraine board member Andriy Makukha proposed the name. It was submitted to the Committee by the head of the Andrushivka Astronomical Observatory in Ukraine, Yuri Ivashchenko.The official dedication of the name says:The asteroid 274301 Wikipedia was discovered by the team of astronomers of Andrushivka Astronomical Observatory. At first it was observed by that team on August 25, 2008 at 22:47 (UTC). It was also observed on the next night and two weeks later on September 6.  It received provisional designation 2008 QH24. Accurate calculation of its orbit showed asteroid 2008 QH24 is the same as 1997 RO4 and 2007 FK34.  The asteroid had been previously spotted by observatories including Caussols-ODAS in France, and Mt. Lemmon Survey and Steward Observatory in Arizona, US. On April 18, 2011 the minor planet received the number 274301.At a global leadership forum in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Apollo 11 astronaut Neil Armstrong said that a manned mission to Mars is at least 20 years away, but that such a mission will be easier to accomplish than the Apollo missions."It will certainly be 20 years or more before that [a manned Mars mission] happens," the former astronaut said."It will be expensive, it will take a lot of energy and a complex spacecraft. But I suspect that, even though the various questions are difficult and many, they are not as difficult and many as those we faced when we started the Apollo Program in 1961," he continued.Armstrong, who is 75, is known for seldom appearing at public events and for not granting interviews. He commanded the Apollo 11 moon mission in 1969, and was the first man to set foot upon the Moon. He left the space program in 1971 to teach aeronautical engineering at the University of Cincinnati in Ohio.  The current United States space programme plans to send astronauts back to the moon in 15 years, and then to Mars some time after that. It is expected to cost hundreds of billions of dollars.Soyuz MS-10, a manned Russian space mission bound for the International Space Station (ISS) for a six-month stay, was forced to abort by a booster rocket failure Thursday morning. Rescue teams successfully recovered both crew members, Russian cosmonaut Aleksey Ovchinin and United States astronaut Nick Hague, shortly after they landed safely in Kazakhstan.About two minutes after launch from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, which took place at 8:40 UTC on Thursday, a problem arose with the rocket boosters attached to the Soyuz rocket, during the process of booster separation. As the abort rocket system had been jettisoned a few moments earlier per normal launch procedure, the crew used the Soyuz capsule's steering rockets to direct the spacecraft into a ballistic descent trajectory. During the descent, Ovchinin and Hague reportedly were subjected to forces of six to seven times Earth's gravity. Ovchinin and Hague were safely recovered along with the spacecraft's descent module about 12 miles (19 km) east of Jezkazgan, Kazakhstan, and 250 miles (402 km) from the launch site, approximately an hour and a half after lift-off. Both were taken to a hospital in Baikonur, Kazakhstan, for overnight observation as a precaution.The incident, which is only the third mishap involving a manned Soyuz rocket since 1975 and the first since 1983, neither of which resulted in a fatality, comes nearly a month and a half after ISS mission controllers detected an air leak aboard the Soyuz MS-09 capsule presently docked at the ISS. Astronauts later found the leak to be the result of a drilled hole in the capsule's wall before repairing it. Shortly after Thursday's abort, the Russian government announced the formation of a state commission to investigate the launch failure.Director General of Roscosmos Dmitry Rogozin tweeted, "To clarify the cause of the accident at the Soyuz-FG LV, by my decision, a state commission was formed [...] Telemetry is being studied. Rescue services work [sic] from the first second of the accident. The emergency rescue system of the Soyuz-MS ship worked normally. Crew rescued."Ovchinin and Hague were due to join the crew of Expedition 57 aboard the ISS in low Earth orbit, which would have brought the current ISS crew from three to five. The next manned Soyuz launch to the ISS, Soyuz MS-11, was originally slated for December, though it is now unclear when that mission will be launched, pending the Russian investigation.Mark Rocket, a Christchurch Internet entrepreneur, has purchased a $300,000 flight into space with Virgin Galactic.In 2008 he will take off for space from the Mojave Desert, near Los Angeles in an eight man spacecraft.  He will spend about 10 minutes in space.He has said that he always wanted to go into space ever since seeing the first Star Wars movie. He even changed his name because of the movie, but won't say what from.He has already been to California to see the development of the rocket and visited the International Space Development Conference.Mark Rocket said: "I guess I'm just a real space nut."The Mars Rover MER B, better known as Opportunity, is stuck in a sand dune about 30 centimeters tall in Meridiani Plunum. The Rover had just discovered a pair of tiny craters when its six wheels got stuck in the dune and the Rover stopped dead.Opportunity ground control is now taking its time getting Opportunity free. They also want to discover what is so different about this soil so that this kind of event may be avoided in the future."A note to all you Opportunity fans: Get used to the current scenery, because we’re going to be here awhile," Steve Squyres, lead scientist on the Rover team at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York wrote in his blog. "We are very optimistic that we’ll be able to get out of here, but we’re really going to take our time doing it." Squyres also noted:  "We've gotten dug in before and gotten out just fine, so this isn't cause for immediate concern."Opportunity is one of two rovers (along with its twin Spirit, which landed on Mars on 3 January 2004) designed to explore the surface of Mars and radio back data to Earth. Squyres promises to keep the public updated of any changes through his blog.NASA's Phoenix Mars Lander program now has an official web site.The mission of the robotic craft, scheduled to launch August 2007, is to explore the northern polar region of Mars (about 70° N latitude) in May 2008 and to expose the upper few feet of surface material using a robotic arm to find the ice that was discovered by theOdyssey mission in 2002.The Phoenix lander is the first in NASA's new line of smaller "Scout" missions in the agency's Mars Exploration Program.The Mars Exploration Rover Opportunity has passed the 30-kilometer (18.64-mile) milestone in its travels over the Martian surface. Opportunity has been on Mars since 2004.It was during a small recent drive of 146.8 meters (482 feet) that the rover passed the distance milestone. According to NASA, the distance traveled by Opportunity is 50 times that originally planned for the rover.Opportunity has passed several craters since landing on Mars in 2004, including one of the youngest craters yet investigated by the rover, named "Skylab" after the US' first space station. The rover's ultimate destination is a large crater approximately 14 miles (23 km) in diameter; Opportunity is now within about 2 miles (3 km) of this crater.Opportunity's sister rover, Spirit, traveled about 4.8 miles (8 km) across the Martian surface before it lost communication with Earth in March 2010; last month, NASA ceased attempts to regain contact with the rover.Both the Opportunity and Spirit rovers have greatly surpassed their intended operational lifespan—which ended in April 2004—and have helped researchers make discoveries about the history of Mars, as well as the possibility that microbial life could have once been supported on the fourth planet from the sun.The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has found evidence of hydrated silica or opal, a form of mineral, over large areas in the Martian surface, including in the large martian canyon called Valles Marineris. The discovery was made by the Compact Reconnaissance Imaging Spectrometer (CRISM) instrument on the orbiter. The findings are published by Ralph Milliken of Jet Propulsion Laboratory and other scientists in the November issue of the journal Geology.Opaline minerals were first found recently on Mars by Spirit rover in the Gusev crater.  The present find points to more widespread occurrence of the minerals in comparatively younger strata of Mars.  The find indicates that liquid water might have been present on the surface of Mars for a longer time than previously thought.  The previous view was that liquid water disappeared from the Martian surface three billion years ago. Now it is estimated that water could have been present as late as two billion years ago.The presence of opal not only indicates water, but also that it was there long enough to alter some of the rocks. CRISM, which detected the mineral measures visible and infrared reflection spectra in 544 channels and has 20 times better resolution than previously deployed instruments. Hydrated minerals such as opal that indicate presence of water is yet another evidence of presence of liquid water on Mars. Opal found on Earth's surface usually contain 3 – 10% water, but can be as high as 20%.  Other water-bearing minerals found earlier are phyllosilicates and hydrated sulfates.  Presence of liquid water is also suggested by suspected water-sculpted land forms on Mars, such as gullies and river channels.  Currently water is present only as ice at both polar caps of Mars.A number of outcrops of opaline minerals are found as thin layers over large distances, rimming the Valles Marineris canyon. It is expected that Martian explorations for past or present life will have to focus on similar younger terrains with hydrated minerals."This is an exciting discovery because it extends the time range for liquid water on Mars, and the places where it might have supported life," said Scott Murchie, from Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory in Maryland, one of the co-authors.After journeying seven months to reach its destination, the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter entered the Martian orbit. The successful orbital maneuver garnered applause from NASA controllers at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.On Friday, the orbiter made a 27-minute engine burn. The maneuver slowed the orbiter down twenty percent to 27,000 kilometers (11,000 miles) per hour and put the satellite into an elliptical orbit set to bring it within 400 kilometers (250 miles) of the Martian surface.As of now, the European Space Agency's Mars Express along with NASA's Mars Global Surveyor and Mars Odyssey are orbiting the planet. The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter will make it the fourth satellite monitoring Mars.The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter was launched seven months ago on August 12, 2005. The orbiter was outfitted with the most powerful monitoring equipment ever sent to research the planet. The craft is equipped and designed to recover more data than all other previous missions combined.Mars rover engineers have built a test bed simulating the condition of the Mars Rover Opportunity, which became stuck in a Martian sand dune on April 26.  The test bed uses a combination of materials including play sand for children's sandboxes, diatomaceous earth for swimming pool filters, and mortar clay powder.Opportunity dug into soft sand to wheel-hub depth as it drove over a dune about one-third meter (one foot) tall and 2.5 meters (8 feet) wide. "We've climbed over dozens of ripples, but this one is different in that it seems to be a little taller and to have a steeper slope, about 15 degrees on part of its face," said Mark Maimone, a Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) rover mobility engineer. Tests will be conducted using an Earth-bound twin of the rover and the simulated Martian dune to determine how to best maneuver Opportunity out of the predicament before transmitting commands to the actual vehicle."We choose to proceed cautiously, so we don't expect to begin actually driving out of the dune before next week, possibly later," said Jim Erickson, rover project manager at JPL. "Both Opportunity and Spirit have already provided many more months of scientific exploration than anyone expected. By taking good care of them, we hope to keep them exploring for more months to come. Tests so far have sustained our optimism about Opportunity's ability to drive out of this dune, but we have more testing ahead to understand how robust that capability is."Engineers constructed a simulated dune last week using sand that was already at JPL's rover testing facility and put a test rover into a similar dug-in position. The test rover had no difficulty driving away, even when sunk belly-deep. However, that sand offered better traction than the finer, looser material that appears to make up the surface at Opportunity's current position. "We needed to do tests using material more like what Opportunity is in, something that has a fluffier texture and cakes onto the wheels," said JPL rover engineer Rick Welch, who is leading the tests.Based on images of wheels and wheel tracks from Mars, Dr. Robert Sullivan of Cornell University, a rover science team member, working with engineers in the JPL test bed, helped  match the properties of the test sand as closely as possible with those of the sand beneath Opportunity, "We found that when the wheels dig in, the material we're using does stick to the wheels and fills the gaps between the cleats, but it doesn't stick when you're just driving over it. That's good because it's the same as what we see in the images from Opportunity," Sullivan said. Experiments show that the test rover, after some initial wheel-spinning, can drive out of the more powdery material.  The team went to several home supply and hardware stores to find enough bags and boxes of the ingredients to make more than 2 tons of the simulated Mars sand for the more realistic mobility tests, according to JPL rover mobility engineer Jeff Biesiadeckia.The Mars rover Opportunity has successfully escaped from a sand trap. JPL engineers cheered when images returned from Mars showed the rover's wheels were free. Engineers worked for nearly five weeks to carefully maneuver the rover out of the sand dune."After a nerve-wracking month of hard work, the rover team is both elated and relieved to finally see our wheels sitting on top of the sand instead of half buried in it," said Jeffrey Biesiadecki, a JPL rover mobility engineer.Traction was difficult in the ripple-shaped dune of windblown dust and sand that Opportunity drove into on April 26. In the weeks following, the rover churned 192 meters (629 feet) worth of wheel rotations before gaining enough traction to actually move one meter (about three feet). The rover team directed the drives in cautious increments from May 13 through June 4."We did careful testing for how to get Opportunity out of the sand. Then we patiently followed the strategy developed from the testing, monitoring every step of the way," Biesiadecki said. "We hope to have Opportunity busy with a full schedule of scientific exploration again shortly."Opportunity's next task is to examine the site to provide a better understanding of what makes that ripple different from the dozens of similar ones the rover easily crossed. "After we analyze this area, we'll be able to plan safer driving in the terrain ahead," said JPL's Jim Erickson, rover project manager.Both Spirit and Opportunity have worked in harsh Martian conditions much longer than anticipated. They have been studying geology on opposite sides of Mars for more than a year of extended missions since successfully completing their three-month primary missions in April 2004."The first thing we're going to do is simply take a hard look at the stuff we were stuck in," said Dr. Steve Squyres of Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. He is the principal investigator for the Mars rovers' science instruments. "After that, we will begin a cautious set of moves to get us on our way southward again. South is where we think the best science is, so that's still where we want to go."Shortly after landing in January 2004, Opportunity found layered bedrock that bore geological evidence for a shallow ancient sea. Spirit did not find extensive layered bedrock until more than a year later, after driving more than two miles and climbing into a range of hills known as "Columbia Hills."Mars Exploration Rover Opportunity and its tracks are captured in this enhanced-resolution image.  The picture was taken from Mars orbit with the Mars Orbiter Cameraon board the  Mars Global Surveyor.  The image was captured on April 26, 2004,Opportunity's 91st martian day.  The rover was on its way toEndurance Crater.Also visible and labeled on this image are the spacecraft'slander, backshell, parachute and heat shield, plus effects of itslanding rockets.The camera captured this image with use of a technique calledcompensated pitch and roll targeted observation. In this method,the entire spacecraft rolls as it passes over the target area sothe camera can scan in a way that sees details at three timeshigher resolution than the camera's normal high-resolutioncapability.Sunlight illuminates the scene from the left. North is toward thetop of the image. The 100-meter scale bar is 109 yards long.Image credit: NASA/JPL/MSSSMars — The Mars Rover Opportunity’s latest discovery has sparked a debate.  Recently, NASA’s rover found an iron and nickel object that the Cornell University researchers on the project believe to be a meteorite. The surface of the meteorite was found to be remarkably free of corrosion. Researchers are as yet unsure whether this means it arrived recently or that it has possibly been sandblasted thoroughly.Studies of Mars point to evidence of the presence of liquid water on the planet's surface and a vast amount of underground ice near the equator within the past few million years. Liquid water is believed to be a key ingredient for life, therefore the presence of water on Mars helps support chances of extraterrestrial life, reported the journal Nature today. In the studies, strong indications of glacial and volcanic activity were presented. The combined research on this subject, including a study in December 2004 indicating that five volcanoes were active as recently as two million years ago, justifies further search for signs of life on Mars scientists say.A few million years is a mere minute on the geological timescale of Mars which has been around for 4.5 billion years.The scarred surface of Mars cannot be attributed solely to asteroids. New images of the landscape taken by the High Resolution Stereo Camera (HRSC) on the European Space Agency's Mars Express Mission show that flowing water, large glaciers and active volcanoes have also taken their toll on the face of Mars.Some evidence collected by two Mars rovers that NASA sent to explore the planet shows that Mars was hotter and more humid millions of years ago than it is today. Also important were active volcanoes that can stimulate the forming of microbial life as they do here on Earth. Scientists recently discovered bacteria near the mouths of undersea volcanic vents on Earth where bacteria live off sulfur instead of oxygen and discharge methane as a by-product of their life cycle. Though controversial, the discovery of signs of methane gas in Mars' atmosphere also interests researchers who believe it indicates the possibility of subsurface life.Geologist James Head of Brown University led a group of researchers who examined landforms thought to be glacial during the Viking program in the 1970s. They found evidence that glaciers moved from the poles to the equator between 3.5 and 4 million years ago, suggesting that Mars is currently in an interglacial period. A third study looked at an area of frozen water roughly the size of the North Sea that formed near the equator around five million years ago. It is now thought that the ice was once liquid water carried along by volcanic eruptions in a region known as Cerberus Fossae.Researchers have long assumed water on Mars had all evaporated into the Martian atmosphere. A 1991 hypothesis, then considered outrageous by suggesting Mars was no stranger to floods, is now supported by recent findings. The HRSC data suggests water is still present both in liquid form and ice. Mars Express will deploy a special radar instrument in early May which should be able to detect water and ice even several miles beneath the surface.Should water be found on Mars, the chances of finding life are great. Many extremophiles, bacteria living under extreme conditions such as extreme salinity or heat, have already been discovered on Earth. In February 2005, scientists announced the discovery of bacteria that survived in a state of frozen suspension for 32,000 years. Likewise on Mars, a sample of ice could offer great insight into the evolution of the Martian environment and atmosphere. These discoveries may offer a great chance to get objective evidence for Mars research.University of California, Berkeley scientists have published a report in Nature that says Mars was once covered by massive oceans.In the 1980's the Viking spacecraft sent back images to NASA that had shown  thousands of kilometers of ancient shorelines, known as Arabia and Deuteronilus, on the north and south poles of Mars, but the Mars Global Surveyor got a closer look of the shorelines and photographed a 300 meter length of the two shorelines in the 1990's. Those images had shown that the alleged shorelines were too warped and rugged to have been created by water or an ocean.But the new study now shows that due to a tilting in the axis of Mars by nearly 3,000 kilometers over a period of 2 or 3 billion years, the shorelines might actually have to be more rugged as the water settled, creating land formations that would rise and fall during this process."When the spin axis moves relative to the surface, the surface deforms, and that is recorded in the shoreline,"said Michael Manga, a UC Professor and a co-author of the study."On planets like Mars and Earth that have an outer shell, or lithosphere, that behaves elastically, the solid surface will deform differently than the sea surface, creating a non-uniform change in the topography," said Taylor Perron the primary author of the study and who is now attending classes Harvard University's Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences to receive his postdoctoral degree.Mars is said to have an elastic crust and the study shows why the shorelines vary so much in elevation with Arabia at 2.5 kilometers and Deuteronilus at 0.7 kilometers."This is a beautiful result that Taylor got. The mere fact that you can explain a good fraction of the information about the shorelines with such a simple model is just amazing. It's something I never would have guessed at the outset. This really confirms that there was an ocean on Mars," said Mark Richards, a professor at UC Berkley of earth and planetary science and study co-author.The study says that as little as a 50 degree shift in the Martian axis, could cause a significant change in the elevation of the shorelines of Arabia, as much as 3,000 k.m.. As little as a 20 degree shift could do the same with Deuteronilus, but with a 700 k.m. change in the shoreline elevation.It is estimated that the shorelines on Mars were created between 2 and 4 billion years ago.NASA's Cassini Spacecraft has captured images of a massive hurricane on the planet Saturn. The storm is located on Saturn's south pole. This type of event has never been observed on another planet except for Earth."It looks like a hurricane, but it doesn't behave like a hurricane. Whatever it is, we're going to focus on the eye of this storm and find out why it's there," said Doctor Andrew Ingersoll, a member of Cassini's imaging team at the California Institute of Technology located in Pasadena.The storm is approximately 5,000 miles across or roughly two-thirds the diameter of Earth and is stationary. The winds in the storm, which are blowing clockwise are reaching about 350 miles per hour and two spiral arms of clouds are extending from the center of the storm. Scientists say that the storm's clouds are anywhere between three to five times taller and larger than any clouds found on Earth.It is not known what has caused the storm to form.The European Space Agency's Mars Express spacecraft has discovered ice deposits in the south pole of Mars that are larger than the state of Texas.Scientists say that there is enough water in the deposits to cover the entire planet with up to 36 feet of water if the ice was to melt.  Some sections of the ice deposits are up to 2.3 - 2.5 miles deep.  The ice is composed of carbon dioxide, a little bit of dust, and water (90 percent of the water is estimated to be frozen).What has caught the attention of the scientists working on the Mars Express project is that this may help reveal whether or not there is any (microbial) life within the ice.Another perplexing question that scientists are trying to solve is what happened to all the water that produced all the channels on the surface of Mars.  Jeffrey Plaut, who is from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California and who is also leading the study, noted that, "We have this continuing question facing us in studies of Mars, which is: where did all the water go?  Even if you took the water in these two (polar) ice caps and added it all up, it's still not nearly enough to do all of the work that we've seen that the water has done across the surface of Mars in its history."  Currently, only 10 percent of the water is remaining and is located at the poles of Mars.  It has been suggested that some of the remaining 90 percent of the water that disappeared could either be underground or could have simply left the atmosphere into space.European astronomers discovered a very young and huge star cluster within our Milky Way galaxy using European Southern Observatory telescopes. The discovery was made at the La Silla Observatory in Chile.Hidden behind a veil of dust and gas, the super star cluster, known as Westerlund 1, is1000 times closer than any other known clusters. These Super star clusters were previously known to exist as pairs or groups of interacting galaxies located at immense intergalactic distances.  It is so close--within 10,000 light years--scientists will be able to examine its structure in detail.  Until now, super clusters were far too distant for individualstars to be distinguished.Initial observations have led scientists to conclude the group contains at least 100,000 times the mass of the Sun, with some single stars shining with a power of 1,000,000 suns and 2000 times larger than our own.  All the stars are in a region less than six light years across.The existence of Westerlund 1's has been known since 1961. Discovered by Swedish astronomer Bengt Westerlund while in Australia, the cluster is located in the Southern constellation Ara (the Altar). It was a dimming factor of more than 100,000 caused by the gas and dust between us and the cluster that prevented the actual structure and nature of the phenomenon to be determined.Using a variety of instruments, including the Wide Field Imager (WFI)attached to a 2.2 meter scope and the Superb-Seeing Imager 2 (SuSI2) cameraon the ESO 3.5 meter New Technology Telescope(NTT), 200 cluster member stars were identified. These and otherobservations have revealed the cluster contains young stars on theorder of 30-40 times more massive than our own Sun.  The age range has beendetermined at 3.5 to five million years old, making this cluster very youngcompared to the Galaxy itself at around 13.5 billion years.The research will appear in the leading research journal Astronomy and Astrophysics, and is titled "On the massive stellar population of the Super Star ClusterWesterlund 1", by J.S. Clark and colleagues.  A second paper, "FurtherWolf-Rayet stars in the starburst cluster Westerlund 1", by IgnacioNegueruela and Simon Clark will also be published in the same journal.Following a similar experiment in 2009, six men entered an enclosed room in Moscow last Thursday to simulate a flight to Mars. The Mars-500 team consist of a Chinese man, a Frenchman, an Italian, and three Russians. Only the Chinese man, Wang Yue, is a trained astronaut. The six waved goodbye, crying "see you in 520 days' time!".According to Wang, not being able to see their families and friends was one of the greatest challenges, although e-mail is allowed during the experiment. Both Wang and the Frenchman, Romain Charles, expressed pride to be part of this experiment. Wang said, "it will be trying for all of us. We cannot see our family, we cannot see our friends, but I think it is all a glorious time in our lives."The joint-effort project is being organised by the Russian Institute for Biomedical Problems (IBMP) and the European Space Agency; the goal is to study physical and psychological effects on would-be astronauts. All six men speak reasonable English; however, as Russian is another primary language for the simulated trip, Russian crew member Sukhrob Kamolov said body language will be used should they fail to understand one another.Food for the volunteers will be rationed as it would in a real Mars mission. All supplies were supplied by China and loaded into the 'simulated spacecraft' prior to the beginning of the experiment. For backup, China is sending three mission support staff to Russia.No women are included in the crew, excluding issues relating to a mixed-sex crew from the study. During a similar experiment in 1999, a woman complained that the captain attempted to kiss her.Following 250 days of "travelling" to Mars, the group will split.  Three will stay in the "spacecraft", the other three going to the surface of "Mars".  Only two will actually leave the "spacecraft" to study the surface of "Mars".  After a month, the group will go through the return journey simulation, a 240 day trip.  The men will follow a strict timetable, with 8 hours each of sleep, work, and leisure each day.Former NASA Astronaut Walter Marty Schirra, Jr (born March 12, 1923), a member of the original Mercury Seven and the fifth American in space, has died at the age of 84. Schirra, who is best known for flying the Mercury-Atlas 8 mission, launched on October 3, 1963, is believed to have died of natural causes on May 3, 2007."With the passing of Wally Schirra, we at NASA note with sorrow the loss of yet another of the pioneers of human spaceflight. As a Mercury astronaut, Wally was of a member of the first group of astronauts to be selected, often referred to as the Original Seven," said NASA Administrator Michael Griffin in a statement posted on NASA's website.Schirra also flew on the Gemini 6A mission, which was involved, along with Gemini 7, in the first rendezvous in orbit between two manned spacecraft. His third and final mission was the first manned Apollo flight, Apollo 7, during which he and two other astronauts tested the Apollo spacecraft in low Earth orbit, ahead of later lunar flights.He was the only astronaut to fly on Mercury, Gemini, and Apollo flights. Following his death, only two of the Mercury Seven, John Glenn and Scott Carpenter remain alive.On Saturday local villagers claimed a meteorite slammed into a field outside of Carancas, near Lake Titicaca in the Puno region of Peru on the border of Bolivia.  It emitted a sweet but noxious odor. It has now been blamed for a mass illness affecting roughly 200 villagers with "nausea, vomiting, digestive problems and general sickness," according to a local health department official, Jorge López.  "Boiling water started coming out of the crater and particles of rock and cinders were found nearby. Residents are very concerned," said López.Police officers who went to investigate the meteorite are among those who have fallen ill and been taken to Desaguadero Hospital.  The impact of the meteorite left a crater 18 feet deep and 30 yards across in the Andean territory that is home to less than 1,000 people. Originally, the villagers thought a plane had crashed.  Under consideration is the declaration of a state of emergency. Peruvian Nuclear Energy Institute engineer Renan Ramirez said scientists who went to investigate the crater found no indication of radiation, although, the fumes from the crater were so pungent that one scientist said his throat and nose were irritated despite his use of a mask.Villagers are said to be avoiding the local water out of fear of contamination.  Sulfur, arsenic and other elements common in meteorites can react with ground water to produce fumes.  Ursula Marvin, a meteor expert at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory in Massachusetts, said a meteorite "wouldn't get much gas out of the earth" and that a more likely explanation for the health problems was the dust cloud caused when the rock hit the Earth.Other explanations abound.  Don Yeomans, head of the Near Earth Object Program at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, said "Statistically, it's far more likely to have come from below than from above," noting that meteorites do not give off smells and it is likely the result of hydrothermal activity, such as a local gas explosion.  Dr Caroline Smith, a meteorite expert with the Natural History Museum in London, thought more likely the villagers saw a common fireball and in the process of investigating it, did not find a 'crater' but "a lake of sedimentary deposit, which may be full of smelly, methane rich organic matter."  And one science blogger, David Syzdek, theorized that in fact the crater is a mud volcano "that is producing toxic gasses [sic] such as methane, water, and perhaps other hydrocarbons. Many hydrocarbons can cause illness."Scientists say that the rock that fell through the roof of a house in Freehold Township, New Jersey this week was a meteorite and was likely over a billion years old. The meteorite is currently owned by the same family whose house it hit; the names of the family members have not been released and no one inside the home was injured. The meteorite is named "Freehold Township" after the township it landed in. Although scientists have not yet been able to take samples of the rock, they have looked at it and say the rock is likely made of iron due to its "density, magnetic properties, markings and coloration", and probably a piece of a much larger asteroid. The rock weighs approximately 13 ounces (about .37 kilograms), which is little more than the weight of a can of soup."It's a pretty exciting find," said one scientist who has examined the rock, Jeremy S. Delaney. "It's a good candidate for the core of an asteroid," added Delaney.Meteorites that fell to Earth during a meteor shower in July of 2011 have been confirmed to be from Mars. The rocks, discovered in Morocco, were likely ejected off the surface of the planet during an ancient asteroid impact.This is believed to be the fifth time in history that people have observed what turned out to be chemically confirmed martian material falling to Earth. Out of the approximately 24,000 known meteorites to have fallen to Earth, only about 34 have been verified to be martian in origin. Fifteen of these rocks are attributed to the meteorite shower last July. Some of the rocks, which are very rare on Earth, are being sold from US$11,000 to $22,500 per ounce, which is about ten times more than the cost of gold.Meteorites confirmed to be from Mars fell to Earth in 1815, 1865, 1911 and 1962. The sooner the rocks are recovered after landing on Earth, the less they are contaminated by its natural processes. This allows scientists to examine specimens and gain insight about the geology of Mars. "Because it's so fresh, if you find organics in this sample, you can be pretty sure those organics are Martian," Carl Agee, director of the Institute of Meteoritics at the University of New Mexico, told Space.com.Scientists postulate that a large object's impact into Mars millions of years ago was the cause of the material's ejection from the surface of the planet.Images from the Huygens probe show that liquid methane flows through and into Titan's rivers, channels, lakes, springs, and other as-yet-undiscovered bodies of liquid. Titan is Saturn's largest moon, and the moon the Cassini-Huygens probe is inspecting. The image (right) sent back from Titan via Huygens shows the terrain carved by the liquid methane. Deltas and rivers may be flowing with the substance. The methane rain causes erosion to the planet's land surface, carving out features like rivers in which the liquid methane and possibly other fluids flow.The Falcon 1 rocket, launched by SpaceX, was destroyed shortly after its maiden launch today. Despite an earlier highly successful static test firing off the main engines, this fourth attempt at launch failed during the first stage burn. After clearing the tower, an onboard webcam revealed a swirl of flame around the base of the rocket before contact was lost.Both the Falcon 1 launcher and its Falconsat payload were lost.It was later revealed that a fire had cut a helium pneumatic line causing the safety valves in the fuel system to automatically close, shutting down the main engine. The cause of the fire and the fuel leak that fed it has yet to be determined.Data from recent detailed analyses of samples collected on NASA Apollo moon missions, released Sunday, show that Lunar water may originate from comets that collided with the moon early in its geologic history.A team of astrophysicists led by James Greenwood of Wesleyan University in Connecticut analyzed samples collected on the Apollo 11, 12, 14, and 17 missions and found that the chemical properties of traces of lunar water in these samples differ from water typical of Earth."The values of deuterium/hydrogen (D/H) that we measure in apatite in the Apollo rock samples", Greenwood told Space.com, "is clearly distinguishable from water from the Earth, mitigating against this being some sort of contamination on Earth." Greenwood and his team of researchers studied in particular the variations of hydrogen in the mineral apatite.The newfound data show that the chemical properties of water in the apatite samples resemble data from the comets Hale-Bopp, Halley, and Hyakutake, suggesting that the water present on the moon could have originated from these comets or others.According to Greenwood, the results of this study could also provide evidence as to the origin of water on Earth.On Wednesday, a team of over 200 scientists led by astronomer Tabetha Boyajian announced the mysterious dim-and-recover behavior of stellar object KIC 8462852, also called "Boyajian's Star" or "Tabby's Star," is likely to be due to clouds of color-warping space dust and not a planet, another star or, as some astronomers have hypothesized, a giant structure built by a distant civilization. "If a solid, opaque object like a megastructure was passing in front of the star, it would block out light equally at all colors," Dr. Boyajian told the press. "This is contrary to what we observe." And, in a separate statement, "Dust is most likely the reason why the star's light appears to dim and brighten. The new data shows that different colors of light are being blocked at different intensities. Therefore, whatever is passing between us and the star is not opaque, as would be expected from a planet or alien megastructure."The research team analyzed 22 months of data collected by an array of ground-based telescopes that covered many wavelengths of light.  The study period lasted from March 2016 to December 2017, which included a number of decreases in brightness. The first dip started on the night of Thursday May 18. A robotic 14-inch Celestron telescope at Fairborn Observatory in Arizona watched Tabby's star lose brightness by a dramatic 3% by Friday, confirming a prediction the star would undergo its unusual dimming events once every 750 days. Other major telescope projects and citizen astronomers confirmed these findings. That dip was complex and continued through to the following Sunday, after a brief rise in brightness over the weekend. It ended a few days later, with Boyajian and fellow astronomer and co-author of the recent paper Jason Wright discussing the phenomena with the public via Twitter: "will we have a flurry of dips to come? Stay tuned!"  "Tabby's star[...] went through a lot of very strange dimming events that got up to 22% dimmer during the Kepler Mission, and since then we've been eagerly awaiting another dip. And the reason that we’ve been waiting for that is that whatever is causing the star to get dimmer will leave a spectral fingerprint behind," said Dr. Jason Wright of Pennsylvania State University, after the May event, now a co-author of the current work. "So if it's a lot of dust between us and the star that's passing by, it should block more blue light than red light. If there's gas in that dust, that gas should absorb very specific wavelengths. So we've been eager to see one of these changes, these dips in the star, so we can take the spectra." He also addressed space fans at the time via Twitter: "ALERT:@tsboyajian's star is dipping This is not a drill. Astro tweeps on telescopes in the next 48 hours: spectra please!"The primary mission of the Kepler project monitored more than 150,000 stars with the primary goal of detecting exoplanets.  If a star gets dimmer but then recovers, a planet may have passed in front of it.  But Tabby's star has shown something else.  An exoplanet can cause its sun to dim by perhaps 1% and not for very long.  Some of Tabby's dips have been this mild, but others have hit 20% and lasted weeks.  It also tends to recover only partially, slowly showing a net dimming over the years.The plethora of hypotheses behind Tabby's star has made it a favorite among space fans and both professional and amateur astronomers.  Space dust was one of the many hypothesized explanations, but if that's the reason, its origin was and remains a mystery with stargazers speculating many giant comets could be on elliptical orbits or breaking up in front of it or the dips in brightness could be aftereffects of the star consuming a planet. Some even hypothesized alien civilizations might have been harvesting the sun's energy using a Dyson sphere. The Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence (SETI) devoted some observation time to Tabby's star in the fall of 2016 as part of the Breakthrough Listen project. No radio or laser pulse signals were detected."This latest research rules out alien megastructures, but it raises the plausibility of other phenomena being behind the dimming," said Dr. Wright. "There are models involving circumstellar material — like exocomets, which were Boyajian's team's original hypothesis — which seem to be consistent with the data we have [...] some astronomers favor the idea that nothing is blocking the star — that it just gets dimmer on its own — and this also is consistent with this summer's data."This study is a departure from many previous works in that it relies heavily on the work of citizen scientists, volunteers who help examine the great quantities of data produced by NASA's Kepler mission. The follow-up observations after the Kepler project were funded by a $100,000 Kickstarter to continuously monitor Tabby's star. The unusual behavior of Tabby's star was discovered in 2011 by volunteers for the Planet Hunters citizen science project, which was implemented to search for planets in the Kepler data."It's exciting. I am so appreciative of all of the people who have contributed to this in the past year — the citizen scientists and professional astronomers. It's quite humbling to have all of these people contributing in various ways to help figure it out," Dr. Boyajian said in a statement.NASA's Centennial Challenges program has announced its latest prize contest, the Astronaut Glove Challenge. The competition, a collaboration between NASA and the non-profit Volanz Aerospace, will be held in late 2006 and will award $250K to the team which produces the best-performing glove within contest parameters. The basic idea was originally proposed last year on Rand Simberg's Transterrestrial Musings to improve on current gloves, which have difficulties with remaining flexible while maintaining constant internal pressure. Previously-announced competitions include prizes for superstrong tethers, beaming power, and extracting oxygen from lunar regolith. These are all part of a large recently-announced program, which will potentially include 'an eight-figure prize for the first privately developed robotic moon lander.'NASA has announced a special daily video feed of its two upcoming missions. One of the Space Shuttle Discovery.  The coverage, which began earlier on Monday on the program, "The STS-114 Return to Flight Gallery," will air daily at 1 to 3 p.m. EDT featuring video related to the launch of the Discovery.The second mission is Expedition 10. This will send replacement Russians to the ICC--International Space Station--crew.Commander Sergei Krikalev and Flight Engineer and NASA Station Science Officer John Phillips, the crew of Expedition 11, are scheduled to launch from the Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan, at 8:46 p.m. EDT, April 14.  European Space Agency (ESA) Astronaut Roberto Vittori of Italy will be joining them aboard their Soyuz spacecraft.  Vittori is flying to the Station for eight days of scientific research under acommercial agreement between ESA and the Russian Federal Space Agency.The new video feed is expected to include a rotation of video items including full length interviews with each of the orbiter Discovery’s crew members.  The STS-114 crew includes Commander Eileen Collins, Pilot Jim Kelly, Mission Specialists Soichi Noguchi, Steve Robinson, Andy Thomas, Wendy Lawrence and Charlie Camarda. This will be the first mission flown since the Colombia accident in February 2003.The mission will link Discovery to the International Space Station in the first of two test flights to verify new inspection and repair techniques. It will also resupply the ISS with necessities.In addition to the NASA TV channel, the programs will air on NASA’s Internet service, http://www.nasa.gov/ntv, and be available on other uplink facilities.Shuttle Discovery has a possible launch window from May 15 to June 3, this year.On August 16, 2006  NASA announced its official search. "The original tapes may be at the Goddard Space Flight Centre … or at another location within the NASA archiving system. NASA engineers are hopeful that when the tapes are found they can use today's digital technology to provide a version of the moonwalk that is much better quality than what we have today."The news that the tapes were missing broke to the public on August 5, 2006 when the printed and online versions of The Sydney Morning Herald published the story with the title One giant blunder for mankind: how NASA lost moon pictures.The Apollo missing tapes are the recordings of the transmissions (television, sound and telemetry data) broadcast during the Apollo missions (including broadcasts from the Moon), referred to as Slow-Scan TV (SSTV). This raw data was recorded onto 1" wide magnetic tapes at the same time as it was converted for terrestrial TV broadcast. There are about 2612 boxes that might contain the tapes and whose location is unknown. It is estimated that about 13,000 original magnetic tapes are missing. They might be at Goddard Space Flight Center or another location within the NASA archiving system. Scientists believe that if the tapes are found modern techniques would allow these tapes to be turned into higher quality pictures than the ones seen by the public.There will be a delay in future Shuttle flights until at least the fall of 2006, due to damaged NASA facilities that house and manufacture parts for the Shuttle program.  Hurricane Katrina has damaged several NASA facilities, including not only the Kennedy Space Center, but more importantly the Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans itself and the Stennis Space Center on the gulf coast of Mississippi, both major worksites of NASA subcontractors that help with the servicing of parts for the shuttle.  The Michoud New Orleans facility is the primary manufacturing facility for the external fuel tanks that are used on Shuttle launches.  The Stennis Space Center is the manufacturing and test center for the main shuttle rocket engines.  NASA is still trying to contact employees who have been evacuated from the New Orleans and Gulf Coast areas who have not reported to work due to the disaster and current situation in New Orleans.  NASA announced that the Michoud Assembly Facility will not reopen until September 26th at the earliest.There have been many setbacks for the Shuttle program as well. Hurricane Katrina simply added to these problems.  Hurricane Ophelia forced the facilities at the Kennedy Space Center to go into a weather protection status, returning the shuttle Atlantis back to its hanger from the Vehicle Assembly building. The external fuel tank that was earlier scheduled to return to New Orleans prior to Katrina for some minor repairs had to be secured from the storm.  MSNBC reported that Wayne Hale, NASA’s deputy shuttle program manager, suggests that it may be over a year before they can get back to flying another shuttle mission.Among other problems facing NASA, employees at these damaged facilities have faced very personal losses.  Some have lost family members, their homes, and more.  In some cases, NASA has been unable to locate employees, or employees of contractors.  For those that have been located, many of them from New Orleans are being transferred either to the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, or to the Marshall Space Center in Huntsville, Alabama.  At the Stennis Space Center, they at first attempted to put the facility to use as an evacuee center to take in some people coming from out of New Orleans. As of Wednesday, those plans were dropped when evacuees were being transferred to other facilities better equipped to deal with their long term needs. The center is now focusing on efforts to recover from the damage to the facility itself.  At the Michoud Assembly Facility, the U.S. Marine Corp is also using it as a staging area for its operations in New Orleans, and as a temporary military base.On Monday, NASA announced that signs of liquid water have been found on Mars. The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter spacecraft found evidence of the liquid on the Martian surface, in long dark spots on the Red Planet thought to be formed because of water flow. In a news conference, NASA's planetary science director, Jim Green said, "We now know Mars was once a planet very much like Earth with warm salty seas and fresh water lakes [...] but something has happened to Mars, it lost its water."Water is thought to flow down slopes in the warm summer months and dry up as the temperature drops seasonally. Scientists have different theories about the water's origin, as perhaps from the Martian atmosphere or from ice below the surface.In 2011, Lujendra Ojha proposed the theory of water on the Martian surface, after studying salt samples from Martian soil. The temperature of Mars is close to the freezing point of water, but the presence of salt lowers the freezing point. Alfred McEwen, professor of planetary geology at the University of Arizona, described the water as "briny". Moreover, the recurring slope lineae (RSL) on the surface of Mars are found to slide down the slope in the hotter season indicating the presence of water.NASA's associate administrator John Grunsfeld said those observations gave a better picture about the planet's resources that could be helpful in the future. Grunsfeld tweeted Water on Mars, not just frozen. Is anything drinking it? Someday we wil find out on our #JourneyToMars.To mark this discovery, Google created a doodle in which Mars is sipping water.NASA astronaut Tim Kopra, a crew member on the upcoming STS-133 Space Shuttle mission to the International Space Station (ISS), sustained an injury in a bicycle accident over the weekend, possibly breaking his hip. His injury could create difficulties for him, the lead space-walker on the STS-133 mission, and the rest of the crew in their training for the mission. The mission is currently scheduled to launch on February 24.Although Kopra is expected to make a full recovery from his injury, NASA says there is a possibility that his duties on the upcoming mission to the ISS could be modified. "Mission Specialist Tim Kopra was injured Saturday in a bicycle accident, but he will be OK. There could be an impact to his duties for shuttle Discovery's STS-133 mission to the International Space Station. That possibility still is being evaluated," said NASA in a statement to the press on Monday.Kopra's injury comes amidst technical troubles with Space Shuttle Discovery's external fuel tank. While technicians work to solve the problems with the fuel tank, the rest of the STS-133 crew continue to train for their mission at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas.NASA officials have decided to call an end to the Mars Phoenix Mission, after winter took hold of the red planet. NASA calls the mission a total success."Phoenix has given us some surprises, and I'm confident we will be pulling more gems from this trove of data for years to come," said Phoenix Principal Investigator Peter Smith of the University of Arizona in Tucson, Arizona in a statement on NASA's website.The Phoenix lander last sent a signal to Earth on November 2. NASA says that colder temperatures, lack of sunlight and increased dust particles on the lander's solar arrays has stopped its on board batteries from charging, causing the instruments to fail.Despite the news, Phoenix had operated two months longer than scheduled. The lander had been operating for over five months.Phoenix was responsible for several discoveries on Mars, including the confirmation of the presence of water-ice, which had previously only been detected from space."Phoenix provided an important step to spur the hope that we can show Mars was once habitable and possibly supported life. Phoenix was supported by orbiting NASA spacecraft providing communications relay while producing their own fascinating science. With the upcoming launch of the Mars Science Laboratory, the Mars Program never sleeps," said Doug McCuistion, director of the Mars Exploration Program.NASA officials will continue to listen for a signal from Phoenix, in hopes that it will phone home again in the near future.NASA has canceled today's early morning launch of Space Shuttle Endeavour because of a hydrogen fuel leak. The leak was discovered after NASA personnel began to fill Endeavour's external fuel tank."The official scrub time was 12:26 a.m. EDT. Launch teams began draining Endeavour's external fuel tank of its liquid hydrogen and liquid oxygen at 12:06 a.m.. Fueling was halted after the leak was detected near the Ground Umbilical Carrier Plate, or GUCP, which attached to the external tank at its intertank area," said NASA in a statement on their website.Launch for mission STS-127 was scheduled for 7:17 a.m. (EDT) on Saturday from Kennedy Space Center in Florida. If NASA fixes the problem in a reasonable period, the next window of opportunity for launch would be at 6:51 a.m Sunday morning. If the problem cannot be solved by then, NASA says the earliest they would be able to re-schedule Endeavor's lift off would be June 17. This would conflict with the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO)/Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (LCROSS) launch. Space Shuttle Discovery will be on standby in case of emergencies and STS-128 could be readied to launch by August 6.A similar problem in March forced NASA to push back the launch of Space Shuttle Discovery for mission STS-119. The problem was fixed and Discovery was able to take off.Mission STS-127 is the 32nd flight dedicated to the International Space Station construction, and the final of a series of three flights dedicated to the assembly of the Japanese Kibo laboratory complex. The STS-127 payload is the Kibo Japanese Experiment Module Exposed Facility and Experiment Logistics Module Exposed Section. The mission is scheduled to last sixteen days.This trip marks the first time that thirteen people will be on the ISS at the same time. Canada will see two astronauts in space simultaneously, also a first for the nation. Crew members listed to be part of the mission are Commander Mark Polansky, Pilot Doug Hurley, astronauts Wolf, Christopher Cassidy, Canadian Space Agency's mission specialist Julie Payette, and mission specialists Tom Marshburn and Tim Kopra.NASA celebrated the launch of the first space shuttle Tuesday at an event at the Kennedy Space Center (KSC) in Cape Canaveral, Florida. On April 12, 1981, Space Shuttle Columbia lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center on STS-1, the first space shuttle mission.NASA held a ceremony commemorating the date outside the hangar, known as Orbiter Processing Facility-1, for Space Shuttle Atlantis, which is being prepped for its final mission which will be STS-135, which will be the last Space Shuttle mission.At the ceremony, NASA Administrator Charles Bolden announced the locations that would be given the three remaining Space Shuttle orbiters following the end of the Space Shuttle program. The prototype orbiter, Space Shuttle Enterprise would be relocated from the Smithsonian's National Air and Space Museum Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center at Washington Dulles International Airport to the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum in New York City.Space Shuttle Discovery will take the place of Enterprise at the Udvar-Hazy Center. Discovery has already been retired following the completion of STS-133 last month, its 39th mission. Discovery is undergoing decommissioning and currently being prepped for display by removing toxic materials from the orbiter.Space Shuttle Endeavour, which will launch on STS-134 at the end of the month on April 29, will be sent to the California Science Center in Los Angeles, California following its retirement. Finally, Atlantis will go on display at the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex following the orbiter's last flight which launches June 28.Columbia was lost tragically back on February 1, 2003 when it disintegrated during re-entry killing all seven astronauts aboard. Space Shuttle Challenger was lost when it exploded 73 seconds after liftoff back on January 28, 1986 killing all six aboard."We want to thank all of the locations that expressed an interest in one of these national treasures," said Bolden to the gathered crowd which contained many KSC employees. "This was a very difficult decision, but one that was made with the American public in mind. In the end, these choices provide the greatest number of people with the best opportunity to share in the history and accomplishments of NASA's remarkable Space Shuttle Program. These facilities we've chosen have a noteworthy legacy of preserving space artifacts and providing outstanding access to U.S. and international visitors."Over twenty locations looked to obtain one of the orbiters because of potential tourism booms from them.Not all were pleased with the final choice of locations. U.S. Senator John Cornyn, Republican from Texas, issued a statement regarding the rejection of Johnson Space Center (JSC) in Houston, Texas as a location. “Like many Texans, I am disappointed with NASA’s decision to slight the Johnson Space Center as a permanent home for one of the Space Shuttle Orbiters. Houston has played a critical role throughout the life of the space shuttle, but it is clear political favors trumped common sense and fairness in the selection of the final locations for the orbiter fleet."Cornyn's statement added, “There is no question Houston should have been selected as a final home for one of the orbiters—even Administrator Bolden stated as much. Today’s announcement is an affront to the thousands of dedicated men and women at Johnson Space Center, the greater Houston community and the State of Texas, and I’m deeply disappointed with the Administration’s misguided decision.” However, the JSC will recieve pilot and commander seats from the flight deck.The Museum of Flight in Seattle, Washington was also proposed as another location for a shuttle, going so far as to build a new building to house an orbiter. In a statement, Governor of Washington Chris Gregoire said, “The Museum of Flight put a tremendous amount of effort into landing a retired shuttle in the Pacific Northwest. As the home of modern day air travel and the 747, which has gracefully transported shuttles for the last 30 years, Seattle would have been a perfect fit. While the Museum of Flight was in the top running, I’m disappointed that NASA did not choose them.“However, the full fuselage trainer, that every astronaut including [former Museum of Flight CEO] Bonnie Dunbar has been trained on, will soon call the Museum of Flight home. The largest of the trainers, this addition will allow visitors to actually climb aboard the trainer and experience the hands-on training that astronauts get. Visitors will not be allowed in the other shuttles and this trainer is a true win for our dynamic museum. It will help inspire young people to the adventure of space and to the excitement of a career in science, technology, engineering and math."Other items include various shuttle simulators which will be given to the Adler Planetarium in Chicago, Illinois, the Evergreen Aviation & Space Museum of McMinnville, Oregon, and Texas A&M's Aerospace Engineering Department. The nose cap assembly and crew compartment trainer for the National Museum of the U.S. Air Force at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Ohio  and orbital maneuvering system engines for the U.S. Space and Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama, the National Air and Space Museum, and the Evergreen Aviation & Space Museum.NASA is also offering shuttle heat shield tiles to schools and universities that want to share technology and a piece of space history with their students.The 30th anniversary of the first shuttle mission coincided with the 50th anniversary of the first manned space flight when Yuri Gagarin lifted off aboard Vostok 1 into space.NASA has announced that rockets will be launched from Woomera in outback South Australia to service the International Space Station (ISS) — starting in 2008. NASA has selected two American companies to launch rockets from the Woomera base. Rocket Plane Kistler and Space-X will conduct orbital flight tests and commercial operations. The Woomera site would also be used to launch cargo such as fuel and food to the ISS as often as every two weeks.Woomera, named for an Aboriginal spear-throwing tool, was originally involved in testing of long-range missiles and rockets for Britain during the Cold War. The site was also recently used by the Australian government to incarcerate asylum-seeking refugees.SpaceX based in California, and Rocketplane-Kistler of Oklahoma City, will share up to $US500 million in NASA seed money to develop their launch vehicles. NASA has stated it wants commercial firms to take over ISS transportation services after the space shuttle fleet is retired in 2010.SpaceX, owned by Internet entrepreneur and PayPal founder Elon Musk, made its launch debut in March with the Falcon 1 rocket but the vehicle failed shortly after lift-off. The two companies secured the NASA contract to demonstrate its "commercial orbital transportation services". Kistler has scheduled the first launch of its K-1 rocket from Woomera in late 2008.Kistler said work on a $100 million launch site at Woomera was expected to start in October. The site should be completed by the end of next year. Kistler Woomera chairman Alan Evans said the contract meant "hundreds of jobs" would be created within the aerospace industry in South Australia. "The jobs will be within the high-level end of the spectrum of the space industry, which is great news for the state," he said.K-1 will have crew transportation capabilities, meaning the Woomera site could see astronauts leave from Australia. The site may also be used to transport satellites into space for telecom companies and defence organisations. The K-1 launch vehicle is designed to be re-used 100 times. It is powered by liquid-propellant engines and lands back on Earth with the help of parachutes and airbags."Woomera was chosen because it can be used for polar and equatorial launches and because of its clean land areas," Mr Evans said. "Kistler has already spent US$700 million developing this idea."Rocketplane Kistler say their K-1 launch system will also provide low cost space access for satellites and research payloads. Their sub-orbital XP Spaceplane is 50% complete, and scheduled for first flight in late 2008. The K-1’s hardware is 75% complete — and is scheduled for first flight in 2008.Michael Griffin, administrator of the American space agency, NASA has ordered a study into considering the possibility of continuing the usage of the Space Shuttle, a space vehicle that takes astronauts  to the International Space Station. The agency originally planned to retire all shuttles in 2010 after mission STS-134, but concerns over staff job losses that were created by the Space Shuttle program caused Griffin to order the study. The space crafts have been in use since 1981 and it's replacements, the Ares rockets, will not be in use until 2015 causing a 5 year gap where NASA will have no manned space flights, which is the reason the agency is considering extending usage for five more years, when the vehicles can be immediately replaced by their successors.The news came from a leaked email which was obtained from the Los Angeles Times. NASA officials have confirmed the email's authenticity, but have stated that it is too early to decide whether or not the shuttle use will continue.Griffin has originally been against the continuation of the shuttle, as it would damage the funding of Project Constellation, a project that involves sending astronauts to the Moon and Mars.If NASA chooses not to continue the space shuttle, they would rely on the Russian Federal Space Agency and their Soyuz space vehicles in the five year gap of no American space flights. To do this, they would have to purchase seats on Soyuz missions. However, because of the recent events that have transpired over the Georgia conflict, US and Russian relations have been damaged, so it is believed unwise to work with the Russian agency.NASA has delayed the launch of space shuttle Atlantis due to a "fuel cell anomaly.""We want to fly a good mission, we want to fly a safe mission, we want to have a successful mission," said Space Shuttle Program Manager, Wayne Hale."We put together a huge amount of data, but it's not complete yet. We have to put all the data on the table and look at it," said deputy manager of the Orbiter Project, Ed Mango. He also stated that "we'll need more time to understand what this signature really means." The issue has never before been seen on the space shuttles.The issue with the fuel cell was discovered by officials when NASA was preparing to fill up Atlantis's fuel tank. One cell gave a low voltage reading, while two other cells gave readings that were too high. All three of the fuel cells must be working properly in order for Atlantis to lift-off successfully.More tests will be done on Atlantis in the next 24-hours, but so far officials have not yet decided when Atlantis will launch. The next window for launching is on Friday September 8, 2006 at 11:41 a.m.. If Atlantis does not launch on Friday, officials will try for a launch date in October.A meeting was scheduled for 2:00 p.m. this afternoon between NASA officials, but there is no word on the conclusion of that meeting.NASA has denied media and internet speculation that the Phoenix Lander has found life on the 'Red Planet', Mars and has also denied that the White House in the United States has been briefed on such matters that would lead up to an announcement by NASA later this week. This comes just after NASA stated on July 31, that Phoenix confirmed the presence of water-ice on Mars.Rumors began to spread on the internet Saturday after an unnamed scientist working on the Phoenix Mission stated to Aviation Week & Space Technology, the White House had been briefed on "provocative and complex" information that NASA has yet to disclose to the public regarding the "potential for life on Mars." The scientist said that the announcement will be regarding the habitability of Mars rather than finding actual life. The scientist also said that the information had been excluded from the July 31 press conference.NASA immediately denied those claims sending out a message on Twitter, a social networking and micro-blogging website which is used by NASA to communicate to the public in a style pretending that the Lander itself is talking to its readers, stating, "Heard about the recent news reports implying I may have found Martian life. Those reports are incorrect. Reports claiming there was a White House briefing are also untrue and incorrect." The Phoenix Lander, according to NASA, does not have the ability to detect life, past or present, but the Lander's MECA microscopy station could potentially 'see' bacteria in the soil, which NASA states have not been discovered."[The report of a White House briefing is] not true [and is] bogus". MECA results have not been discussed at the White House. There is no one who knows either on the [Phoenix] project in Tucson or at [NASA] HQ who knows where this information came from," said Peter Smith, the top investigator for the Phoenix Mission. Smith also added that MECA has "nothing new to report." The MECA or Microscopy, Electrochemistry and Conductivity Analyzer, is designed to analyze soil samples as small as 16 μm to determine the chemical composition of the sample. While the lander were unable to image any bacteria, Phoenix's MECA did detect potassium, magnesium and chloride, minerals that are necessary to create or sustain life. MECA also determined that the soil was acidic, which means it could support the growing of some plants from Earth like asparagus."We are attempting to assess the chemicals and minerals that make up the soil composition. We are now about half way through the process and there are several conflicting points of view. This is not a good time to go public with half the story," added Smith who also stated that "we are committed to following a rigorous scientific process. While we have not completed our process on these soil samples, we have very interesting intermediate results. Initial MECA analyses suggested Earth-like soil. Further analysis has revealed un-Earthlike aspects of the soil chemistry."Despite the denials by NASA, some Internet observers maintain that NASA is still preparing for a major announcement."The reason that all this seems so hush-hush is due to a future paper and press release that appears likely to pop out of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and its Science magazine. Whatever the poop is from the scoop that’s been studied by Phoenix, that information is purportedly going through peer-review", said David Leonard for LifeScience.com.NASA will hold a media teleconference today August 5, at 2:00 p.m. EDT, to discuss these recent science activities.NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope made news this week when it was announced that the space observatory had, for the first time, captured enough light to detect molecules in the atmospheres of planets outside the solar system.The planets are too far away to be observed directly with current technology, but by measuring the spectra of each planet when visible with its star, and again when the planet was hidden behind its star, the teams were able to determine the measurements of the planets spectra.In a paper published in the February 22 issue of  Nature,  Dr. Jeremy Richardson of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center presented measurements of HD 209458 b, a hot, Jupiter-like planet located 153 light-years from Earth, in the constellation Pegasus.  Richardson's team found a peak in the infrared spectra and was able to determine that the atmosphere of HD 209458 b likely consisted of clouds of silicate dust.  Dr. Mark Swain of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory led another study of HD 209458 b, and found similar results.Another team, led by Dr. Carl Grillmair of Spitzer Science Center at Caltech, performed a similar study of HD 189733b, 63 light-years away, in the constellation Vulpecula.  Dr. Grillmair discusses the results:  “It was believed to be fairly straightforward that these planets would have a lot of water in them, for one thing, very hot water. These planets, these hot Jupiters very, very close in to their parent stars are 2,000 degrees Fahrenheit or so, so it's not a pleasant place to live. And what we found instead and what the other group found for this completely different planet around another star, is that the spectrum is essentially flat. It really doesn’t show any of the features we would have expected from water.”"The theorists' heads were spinning when they saw the data," adds Dr. Richardson. "It is virtually impossible for water, in the form of vapor, to be absent from the planet, so it must be hidden, probably by the dusty cloud layer we detected in our spectrum."Dr. Grillmair: "The observations are showing us that things are not the way we expected them. And so there'll be a big push to get a lot more data while Spitzer is still alive. I think this will ultimately be one of the most important legacies of the Spitzer Space Telescope, unanticipated as it was before launch. I think it will become extremely important in the future." The telescope was launched in August of 2003 with a maximum expected life cycle of 5 years. "With these new observations, we are refining the tools that we will one day need to find life elsewhere if it exists," said Swain. "It's sort of like a dress rehearsal."Dr. Swain's and Dr. Grillmair's studies are pending publication in Astrophysical Journal Letters.New observations of the distribution of mass show clear evidence of the separation of dark matter and normal matter, according to NASA scientists."This is the most energetic cosmic event, besides the Big Bang, which we know about," said Maxim Markevitch of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and member of the NASA team that studied images collected with the Chandra X-ray observatory, the Hubble Space Telescope, the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope and the Magellan optical telescopes.The observation supports the theory that the bulk of the universe is made up of invisible dark matter, which was detected by observing the gravitational force it exerted on visible matter."A universe that's dominated by dark stuff seems preposterous, so we wanted to test whether there were any basic flaws in our thinking," said team leader Doug Clowe of the University of Arizona at Tucson. "These results are direct proof that dark matter exists." Because the force of gravity can bend light, the team was able to detect the presence of dark matter through gravitational lensing.  Light emitted by objects that lie on the far side of the galaxy was distorted by a gravitational force in excess of the distortion expected by the visible matter present in the galactic collision. To make their discovery, the scientists trained their telescopes on a cluster of galaxies officially designated 1E0657-56, informally known as the bullet cluster because of its shape. The bullet shape is the result of the violent collision of a small galaxy cluster with another, larger cluster as normal matter in the galaxies interacts during the collision. Dark matter, however, does not experience any of the forces that affect normal matter, other than gravity, and ended up separating from the normal matter during the event.These results will be published in an upcoming issue of Astrophysical Journal Letters.NASA has extended the Space Shuttle Atlantis mission from 11 days to 13 days to attempt to fix a tear of at least four inches in the shuttle's Thermal Protection System (TPS), which occurred during liftoff on June 8. A fourth spacewalk is also planned to take place.The tear was discovered when astronauts used the shuttle's robotic arm with digital cameras placed on the end.NASA says that the tear is not a major concern for re-entry, but they want to fix the problem before Atlantis returns, to reduce the amount of possible repairs Atlantis might need."I don't want to take the risk of damaging my flight hardware," said chairman of Atlantis's mission management team, John Shannon. Shannon said that it was unlikely that the tear would result in a disaster similar to that which occurred with the Space Shuttle Columbia which was lost in 2003 during re-entry.Atlantis will now return to Earth on June 21, rather than the original return date of June 19.NASA have revealed that a flyby of its probe Cassini past Titan, a moon of Saturn, has produced a historic image: the first photograph showing liquid on a world other than our own.The picture shows a "specular reflection" from an extremely smooth surface, in this case a liquid. Cassini has been trying to spot one since arriving in 2004, and in 2008 used infrared data to prove that there were liquid methane lakes down there. The northern hemisphere has only been visible since August 2009, as before then it was covered by winter weather. Most of Titan's lakes are in the north."This one image communicates so much about Titan — thick atmosphere, surface lakes and an otherworldliness. It’s an unsettling combination of strangeness yet similarity to Earth," said Bob Pappalardo, a Cassini scientist with NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Titan's atmosphere is, like Earth's, mainly nitrogen, but temperatures on the icy world are around -180°C. This reduces the prospect of life, although the presence of liquid does increase the likelihood.The lake seen in the photograph is called Kraken Mare, and at 150,000 square miles (400,000 square kilometers), it isn't the largest basin on north Titan, but it is bigger than the Earth's biggest lake, the Caspian Sea.Ralf Jaumann, another Cassini scientist, spoke of the team's hopes for the future. "Next, we want to find out more about Titan's liquid. Do we have some kind of weather there? Do we have changes with seasons? Does it rain? How does the liquid methane run across the surface?"A team of scientists are due to propose to NASA that the agency drop a boat into a Titan lake, with Kraken Mare and the similarly sized Ligeia Mare being hot candidates. The Titan Mare Explorer (TiME) is projected to be relatively low-cost at US$400 million and would investigate the composition, density and shape of a Titan lake. If launched in 2016 it could arrive in 2023 and spend several years floating on the moon. However, several other projects are also keen to get themselves the next opportunity NASA is offering for the launch of a new project other than its own.NASA has held a memorial ceremony to mark the fifth anniversary of the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster. All seven astronauts were killed when their spacecraft broke up on re-entry over Texas on February 1, 2003, 16 minutes prior to scheduled landing time at Florida. Columbia had been damaged by a chunk of loose foam during takeoff 16 days earlier.NASA officials, astronauts, schoolchildren and family members attended the ceremony, which was held just miles from Columbia's intended landing site. Approximately 200 people attended the event, held at the Kennedy Space Center's Space Mirror Memorial to all 24 astronauts killed in space disasters. Each was presented with a rose, which was placed in front of a granite memorial bearing the names of the 24.Evelyn Husband-Thompson, widow of commander Rick, who has remarried just three weeks ago, said "This morning, I couldn't stop thinking about Rick and Willie and Kalpana and Dave and Mike and Laurel and Ilan. All of our families went through so much that day. We so miss them, and we will never forget them."44 teenagers from Israel were amongst those present, there in respect to astronaut Ilan Ramon. Some came from the same school Ramon had attended. 15-year-old Roman Rashchupkin said "He's Israeli, so it's important. He learned in our school."G. Madhavan Nair represented India at the memorial, remembering Indian astronaut Kalpana Chawla. Nair is chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation.Former shuttle commander Bill Readdy commented that, despite a large number of memorials, including one on Mars, "... much more importantly than any physical monument, they're memorialized right here in our hearts," Going on to name them individually, then saying "We'll always miss your easy laughter and your smiling faces. God willing, five years from now, they'll have even more to be proud of us about as we take even longer strides ... back to the moon and onward toward Mars. May God bless the crew of Columbia."NASA boss Michael Griffin was amongst several people who commented on the dangerous nature of spaceflight. He proceeded to read a letter from United States President George W. Bush praising the astronauts, which was then presented to Husband-Thompson. "Space exploration is a dream deeply rooted in humanity, and the seven brave astronauts of Columbia sacrificed their lives so the rest of mankind could realize that dream," said Bush's letter. "They assumed great risk so they could understand what lies beyond the heavens. We are grateful for their service and they will be always be cherished."Griffin also noted the importance of learning from mistakes, adding "Americans don't quit and we won't quit. We'll never quit," and that "not quitting has high costs."It wasn't the only such anniversary around this time. The 41st anniversary of the Apollo 1 fire was on Sunday, and Monday saw the 22nd anniversary of the Challenger disaster.NASA has issued a report on survivability during the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster, entitled "Columbia Crew Survival Investigation Report".  Although the report finds the accident was impossible to survive, it still faulted a number of design issues with the astronauts' equipment.The accident investigation report was released in 2003, the year of the crash.  During launch on January 16, the spacecraft's wing was holed when a chunk of foam detached and struck it.  The shuttle then broke up on re-entry on February 1 over Texas, killing the seven on board.This new report reveals details of what happened to the astronauts during the accident sequence, although some parts have remained confidential to the victims' families. The report reveals that within seconds of the breakup commencing the crew became unconscious due to the rapid depressurization and that they never regained consciousness prior to their deaths.The report notes that the cabin began spinning wildly, causing some of the astronauts' helmets to come off.  The report noted that most on board were secured only by lap harnesses that offered no restraint to the upper body and were not designed to cope with sideways motion, meaning "lethal trauma" was caused by the rotation.  However, the report was unable to determine whether the astronauts had died from oxygen deprivation or the extreme nature of their injuries.The pressure suits the crew wore, introduced after the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster, were criticised as the crew could not keep their visors down throughout re-entry due to a design limitation that would have caused excess levels of oxygen to be present had they done so, leaving the suits unsealed.  The gloves also made many tasks difficult or impossible.  When the accident occurred, three people were not wearing gloves, one was not wearing a helmet, and none had their visors down.  The helmets also did not conform to the heads of the wearers.Upon disintegration, the occupants were exposed to extreme heat and high friction from re-entry.  The astronauts likely died very quickly, and were probably dead by the time Columbia broke apart. The report added that although the crew all wore parachutes, they had to be activated by the crew — impossible as they were unconscious.  The report concluded that future spacecraft require sturdier construction and better restraints, while safety devices should be automatic.  NASA is designing better suits and helmets.On Wednesday at 6:51 p.m. local time (2251 UTC), a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launched from Cape Canaveral Air Force Base in Florida, United States, carrying, as a payload for the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS).  NASA designed TESS to search for exoplanets circling stars mostly within 300 light-years of the Sun.Officially a NASA Astrophysics Explorer mission, much of the TESS program is to be run from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's (MIT) Kavli Institute for Astrophysics and Space Research in cooperation with the Goddard Space Flight Center. "One of the biggest questions in exoplanet exploration is: If an astronomer finds a planet in a star's habitable zone, will it be interesting from a biologist's point of view?" TESS principal investigator George Ricker told the press, "We expect TESS will discover a number of planets whose atmospheric compositions, which hold potential clues to the presence of life, could be precisely measured by future observers."A little more than an hour after launch, NASA and SpaceX teams announced the satellite was up and functioning and had deployed its solar panels. Most launches have a roughly two-hour period during which the mission can be executed, but this one had a window of only thirty seconds because this satellite must use the Moon's gravity to reach the desired orbit.TESS is slated to enter a high orbit distinct from the geosynchronous orbits used by many other satellites.  TESS instrument scientist Joel Villasenor, also of MIT, explained, "The Moon and the satellite are in a sort of dance. The Moon pulls the satellite on one side, and by the time TESS completes one orbit, the Moon is on the other side tugging in the opposite direction. The overall effect is the Moon's pull is evened out, and it's a very stable configuration over many years. Nobody's done this before, and I suspect other programs will try to use this orbit later on."If all goes according to plan, TESS will circle the Earth for 60 days to establish its 13.7-day orbit and test its machinery before beginning its mission: using its four cameras to analyze stars for decreases in brightness that may be caused by a planet passing between us and them, a technique called the transit method.  TESS's launch comes just as the Kepler space telescope, launched into orbit around the Sun 2009, is about to run out of fuel.  Scientists used Kepler to identify at least over 2300, perhaps over 4500 planets and gather data on stars and black holes.  TESS is designed to cover 400 times as much of the sky as Kepler, and is capable of viewing 85% of the sky.  Scientists expect it to find 1500 planets during its two-year mission, 300 Earth-like, but believe it may find many more.Because TESS's cameras can cover a wide range of radiant energy, including infrared, scientists believe it may be able to detect planets orbiting red dwarf stars, which scientists consider likely to host rocky, Earth-like planets with the right mass for an atmosphere and the right temperature to host liquid water, a range called the habitable zone.The data collected by TESS are to be publicly accessible so anyone who wishes may participate in the search. NASA plans to process the data, about 27 gigabytes collected per day, using a supercomputer called Pleiades.The original schedule had launch at 6:32 p.m. on Monday evening but it was postponed so the SpaceX team could perform more guidance navigation control tests before launch.SpaceX is a private company that has partnered with NASA before on such missions as resupplying the International Space Station.A Delta II rocket blasted off from NASA's Cape Canaveral launch pad today, carrying five satellites designed to investigate the northern lights and the electromagnetic storms that cause them. The launch had been twice delayed due to bad weather, but was eventually performed at 23:00 UTC.NASA and the Canadian Space Agency have collectively invested $200 million in the mission, known as the THEMIS Project. Through this mission, they hope to develop better techniques to forecast electromagnetic storms, in order to protect communication satellites, power grids, and spacewalking astronauts. Scientists from the University of Alberta and the University of Calgary also helped with the project.The Sun continuously sends a stream of charged particles, called the solar wind, at the Earth. We are generally protected from the solar wind by the Earth's magnetosphere. During substorms, however, the magnetosphere gets overloaded by the solar wind and the magnetic field lines stretch until they eventually snap back, energizing and flinging electrically charged particles towards Earth.Scientists want to find out what snaps in the overloaded magnetosphere to trigger a substorm.At 2:01:56 p.m EDT Monday, Space Shuttle Atlantis lifted off above Florida on its two day journey to the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) to make repairs.During the 11 day repair mission to the HST, astronauts will perform five spacewalks, installing two new instruments and repairing two others.  The two new instruments are the US$126 million Wide Field Camera 3 and the $81 million Cosmic Origins Spectrograph.  The instruments to be repaired are the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph and the Advanced Camera for Surveys, which failed on August 3, 2004 and January 27, 2007, respectively. The mission will also see the installation of a new Science Instrument Command and Data Handling Unit to replace the existing one."On Servicing Mission 4, we're going to give Hubble another extreme makeover. This makeover will be the best one yet because we will outfit Hubble with the most powerful and advanced imaging and spectrographic instruments available and we will extend Hubble's operating lifetime for five additional years,"  said Program Manager Preston Burch.Scott D. Altman is the mission commander of the fifth and final mission to service the HST. This will be his fourth space flight, and his second one to service the telescope. John Grunsfeld, Michael Massimino, two of the crews space walkers has also been to HST previously.  Andrew Feustel and Michael Good are the other two spacewalkers.  Pilot Gregory C. Johnson, and flight engineer Megan McArthur complete the crew's complement.Space shuttle Endeavour is on standby due to an increased probability of an impact with space debris compared to previous missions. "There are very small odds we would, in fact, have a problem on ascent for which the remedy would be a launch on need shuttle, a rescue shuttle. But against the very small probability that it could occur, we will carry that rescue option in the manifest. ... The safety of our crew conducting this mission will be as much as we can possibly do," explained former NASA Administrator Mike Griffin.NASA's STEREO spacecraft has been successfully launched atop a Delta II (7925) rocket from Cape Canaveral, Florida. The spacecraft will be placed into a Heliocentric orbit (around the Sun), and will monitor solar phenomena, such as Solar Flares. It was the 121st launch of a Delta II rocket, and the 119th success.The Solar Terrestrial Relations Observatory (STEREO) consists of two nearly identical solar observatories. These will enable stereoscopic observation of solar flares in 3-D and will provide warnings of emissions from the Sun that might affect satellites in Earth orbit. Launch occurred at 00:52 GMT.NASA launched the Lunar Precursor Robotic Program space probes, the Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO) and the Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite (LCROSS) on board the Atlas V rocket at 5:32 p.m. EDT (2132 GMT) from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.  Due to nearby thunderstorms the launch was delayed about 20 minutes from the scheduled launch time of 5.12 p.m. EDT (2112 GMT).  The mission will be NASA's first unmanned rocket expedition to the moon in a decade.The aim of the LRO mission is to spend at least a year in a low polar orbit above the surface of the moon to gather neccesary data for future missions and longer lunar expeditions. It will be orbiting approximately 30 miles (48 km)s above the moon, trying to find safe landing sites, locating potential resources, characterizing the radiation environment and testing new technology.The 2,300 pounds (1,043 kg) spent upper stage Centaur motor of the Atlas V launch vehicle will strike the surface of the moon at 9,000 km/h (5,600 mph) resulting in a 350 ton (317 metric ton) plume of debris rising between 6 to 30 miles (10 to 48 km) above the moon's surface. From this impact, scientists hope to be able to detect any water ice or vapor using the LCROSS satellite which will crash land nearby four minutes later. Astronomers who own amateur-class telescopes with apertures as small as 10 to 12 inches may be able to sight the ejecta cloud as it will have a period of brightness about one minute after impact.The launch was originally planned for yesterday, but delayed for the launch of the Space Shuttle Endeavour, which was itself later delayed again due to another hydrogen fuel leak."The argument that the moon is a dry, desolate place no longer holds water," says a press release from NASA. A Moon mission launched by the agency has confirmed the presence of water on the moon. The discovery comes a year after a NASA instrument on an Indian lander indicated there were water molecules on the surface of our satellite.On September 24, 2008 the Indian Space Research Organisation had stated Chandrayaan-1 had discovered water based on readings from NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper, one of eleven instruments carried by the probe. Those results indicated water was widespread in low quantities. That probe, launched in October 2008, had to be abandoned on August 30 when contact was lost with it on the Moon's surface.The new mission, called LCROSS, consisted of two separate spacecraft which travelled the 250,000 miles together in June before separating. An empty rocket slammed into the Cabeus crater, near the southern pole, while a small spacecraft stayed behind to take measurements from the plume of debris thrown up, although it too ultimately crashed into Cabeus. Across the United States people spent the night on lawns and in parks hoping to see the impact, on the 40th anniversary of the first Apollo Moon landing, but it was invisible to the naked eye. NASA had predicted a visible six-mile plume; the reality was only a mile high.File:NASA’s Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter and Lunar Crater Observation and Sensing Satellite leave the launch pad.jpgThe twin impacts on October 9 are now known to have sent 25 gallons of water ice and vapour into the air amongst the debris kicked up from the 60 to 100 foot wide hole produced by the rocket. This amount only accounts for the debris scientists could actually see over the rim, and the remaining debris could contain more water. It is unclear how much water may be distributed accross the Moon, although hydrogen at the poles suggests water ice there. LCROSS stands for lunar crater observation and sensing satellite, which was the satellite's name, while its rocket companion was called Centaur. It took a month to analyse the spectrometer data from the mission, and efforts are ongoing to determine the composition of the remaining material kicked up out the crater. The whole project cost $75 million."We got more than just whiff. We practically tasted it with the impact," said project co-investigator Peter H Schultz. The material thrown up split into a curtain travelling sideways and a plume that passed the crater's rim, bringing it into the sunlight for the first time in billions of years. Both contained water. "We are ecstatic," said project leader Anthony Colaprete."We didn't find just a little bit, we found a significant amount."Michael Wargo, who heads up lunar research for NASA, said "We're unlocking the mysteries of our nearest neighbour and by extension the solar system. It turns out the moon harbours many secrets, and LCROSS has added a new layer to our understanding." It is thought that by analysing the water we can learn of the moon's history, in a fashion similar to investigating Earth history with ice cores.University of Maryland physicist Robert Park cautioned that people should not assume that water on the lunar surface would support a colony. "They've haven't found a big reservoir of it," he said. "I suspect this is just water clinging to the soil particles."Buzz Aldrin, one of the first to walk on the Moon when he followed pioneer Neil Armstrong out of Apollo 11, said he was pleased by the news but added that "People will overreact to this news and say, 'Let's have a water rush to the moon.' It doesn't justify that." Aldrin wants the US to aim to colonise Mars, but NASA is looking at more lunar trips. Last month a new rocket was tested, and Barack Obama has set up a panel to look at possible Moon missions. George W. Bush had previously proposed a $100 billion programme to put more astronauts onto the Moon. NASA wants to return by 2020 and build a lunar base, allowing astronauts to remain for months at a time.SN 2006gy was the brightest and largest supernova ever discovered, scientists announced. The star was in the NGC 1260 galaxy, in the same direction as the constellation Perseus and may be a type of supernova previously predicted by theory but not observed. The conclusion was reached after extended observations of the supernova by both optical telescopes and X-ray telescopy. Currently, there are two possible explanations for the supernova's brightness, but both require the star in question to have been at least a hundred times as massive as the sun. Although the supernova is brighter than SN 1987A, which was bright enough to be seen by the naked eye, SN 2006gy is too far away to be seen by the naked eye.NASA has announced plans for sending humans back to the Moon, as a first step to Mars.A 2018 lunar mission is proposed, where a crew of four would remain on the Moon for as long as a week.  A minimum of two lunar missions a year is planned, with astronauts remaining as long as six months.Some of the technology had previously been proposed for replacement of the Space Shuttle.Astronauts will be launched in a capsule, similar in concept to that used for the Project Apollo but three times larger.  The top part of an Exploration Transportation System (ETS), the Crew Exploration Vehicle (CEV) will be a capsule attached to a service module which contains supplies, power, and propulsion units.  The CEV is designed for use in Earth orbit.On lunar missions, crew or cargo versions of a Lunar Surface Access Module (LSAM) would be used with a CEV.  The LSAM will have design concepts related to the Apollo Lunar Module, with a four-legged landing unit carrying an ascent stage.An Earth Departure Stage (EDS), a powerful propulsion unit, will be used to move CEV and LSAM units out of Earth orbit, such as on lunar missions.Heavy Launcher unmanned cargo rockets will be used for heavy loads of equipment.The launch rockets, Shuttle Derived Launch Vehicles, will use engines developed for the Shuttle program.CEV will be launched atop a Crew Launch Vehicle (CLV), a single solid fuel booster with a second stage using a shuttle main engine.  The CLV can carry a payload of 25 metric tons into low Earth orbit.The heavy-lift system uses a pair of longer solid rocket boosters and five shuttle main engines to put up to 125 metric tons in orbit -- about one and a half times the weight of a shuttle orbiter.The use of a Launch Escape System (LES) will improve safety.  A LES is a top-mounted rocket that can quickly remove the crew capsule away from an exploding or otherwise dangerous rocket.For a lunar mission, the LSAM and EDS would be placed in orbit by a cargo launcher, then a CEV would dock with the assembly before leaving Earth orbit.The goal is to begin production of the new spacecraft by 2011.Robotic missions will be sent, probably the first one in 2008.Past experience with lunar dust is being used in designing equipment and spacesuits which may encounter it.Surface mobility with open and pressurized rovers for use in such missions is also being developed.The CEV can be reused up to ten times.Crew capsule, upon return to Earth, will set down on dry land.  It can also land on water.The CEV and lunar lander ascent stage use methane as fuel, as methane may be available on Mars.Eventually the designs could be expanded to support six astronauts for a trip to Mars.The plans are a means to implement President Bush's "Vision for Space Exploration" program.  Goals include:Implement a sustained and affordable human and robotic program to explore the solar system and beyond;Extend human presence across the solar system, starting with a human return to the Moon by the year 2020, in preparation for human exploration of Mars and other destinations;Develop the innovative technologies, knowledge, and infrastructures both to explore and to support decisions about the destinations for human exploration; andPromote international and commercial participation in exploration to further U.S. scientific, security, and economic interests.NASA, the United States' space agency, has announced that its next mission to the Moon will not only orbit the Moon, but also send two craft crashing into its surface. The Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter (LRO), whose main mission pertains to mapping the Moon, will send a spent fuel stage and an impactor probe towards a crater on the South Pole. The crater seems to be rich in hydrogen and possibly ice. The mission is part of the run-up to trying to land astronauts back on the Moon, and perhaps keep them there for a longer period of time than the Apollo missions did. Scott Horowitz, NASA's associate administrator for the Exploration Systems Mission Directorate, had this to say: "What this mission buys is an early attempt to know what some of the resources we’re going to have ... we know for sure that for human exploration to  succeed we’re going to have to essentially live off the land." Twice before, with the Pentagon's Clementine spacecraft and with the Lunar Prospector, scientists have seen hints of ice on the Moon's surface. It is NASA's hope that this mission may provide better answers to the question of water ice on the Moon. This would prove useful to the agency's goal of a four-astronaut mission to the Moon by 2020.NASA cancelled a media briefing on its Stardust mission, expected to provide an update about analysis of both the "Comet Wild 2" particles and interstellar particles gathered during the nearly seven year mission.  In "MEDIA ADVISORY: M06-016," issued earlier today, the space agency announced postponement of the briefing, originally scheduled for Tuesday, January 24, 1 p.m. EST.  No announcement has been made about when the briefing will be re-scheduled.  NASA's stated reason for delay was to, "allow the Stardust science team additional time to assess and distribute cometary samples."NASA is beginning the final preparations for next Wednesday's launch of the Dawn probe, aboard a Delta II rocket. The Dawn probe, costing over US$250 million, will visit the dwarf planet Ceres and the asteroid Vesta. The launch was originally planned for mid-June, however due to a damaged crate, shipping delays, and a damaged solar panel, NASA chose to delay it until now. Last week the spacecraft was delivered to the launch pad, and engineers performed tests to ensure that it is ready for launch. Today, the payload fairings were installed, and the probe is ready for its launch next week onto its 5 billion kilometer (3.2 billion mile) mission.As the Delta II launches, three stages of rockets will propel the probe towards its first target. With the help of ion thrusters, it will reach Mars in mid-2009. Using Mars' gravity, the probe will speed up and proceed towards the first asteroid, Vesta, in late 2011. After orbiting for seven months, it will leave Vesta in mid-2012, and arrive at Ceres in 2015. After making scans of Ceres, it will enter an orbit around Ceres that will ensure that it does not impact the asteroid for half a century. This is required due to the United Nations' “Outer Space Treaty”, which states that “harmful contamination” of these asteroids must be avoided.The targets of this mission, Ceres and Vesta, couldn't be less alike. Ceres (diameter 975 km, 600 miles) is larger than Vesta (578 km, 350 miles). This makes Ceres approximately the size of Texas. NASA believes Ceres could contain water beneath its outer crust because, like Earth, its inner layers are heavier than the outer layers, and Ceres' outer layer is lighter than water. Vesta, on the other hand, is the size of Arizona, and has a surface of volcanic rock, which astronomers believe came from its hot inner layers. Vesta also has a large crater – almost 500 km (300 miles) across – on its southern pole. The collision that caused this likely blasted enough rock into space to fill a container 160 by 160 by 80 km (100 by 100 by 50 miles).The probe will make several observations of these asteroids: it will compare the makeup, shape, size, and densities, analyze craters, and determine mass, gravity, rotation. To determine the makeup, the probe carries a mapping spectrometer, and tools to map emissions of neutrons and gamma rays. Using this information, NASA can compare the formation of these bodies to learn more about our solar system, for example, to test a theory which states that a number of stony meteorites may be debris from Vesta.There's one more piece of equipment aboard the probe: A small silicon chip containing the names of 350,000 people who submitted their names to the “Send Your Name to the Asteroid Belt” campaign. After next week's launch, the spacecraft will deploy its solar panels and undergo two months of testing before it begins the cruise to Mars.NASA has announced the planned rollout of the Shuttle Discovery from the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB) to its launch pad at NASA's Kennedy Space Center. NASA is preparing the shuttle for its "Return to Flight" mission.The rollout will take nearly 6 hours to cover the 4 mile stretch from the VAB to Launch Pad 39B and will begin at 12:01 a.m. EDT (04:01 UTC) on April 5. The fully assembled Space Shuttle Vehicle stack (orbiter, External Tank (ET) and twin Solid Rocket Boosters (SRBs)) will be mounted on the Mobile Launcher Platform and delivered to the pad.The Return to Flight mission is the 114th Space Shuttle flight, and the 31st flight of the orbiter Discovery.NASA technicians are beginning final launch preparations on the Phoenix Mars Lander spacecraft destined for the planet Mars. The unmanned spacecraft is scheduled to launch from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on Florida's east coast on August 3, at around 5:35 a.m. EST (9.35 UTC). Phoenix will land in the Red Planet's northern polar region to search for signs of life, and analyze the Martian climate from a polar perspective.  The launch period for Phoenix extends from August 3, 2007 until August 24, 2007 and consists of two launch windows per day. A Delta II rocket will carry the spacecraft into Earth's orbit to begin its 122 million mile journey to Mars. The journey is expected to last about 9 months, ending around May 28 at a landing site called Vastitas Borealis in the northern Arctic plains region of Mars. The site was identified in 2002 by the Mars Odyssey orbiter as having large amounts of water ice just below the surface. The high concentration is necessary to ensure that Phoenix will find water ice within reach of its instruments after landing.  Phoenix will remain on the surface of Mars for about 92 Earth days examining the water ice expected to lie a few inches beneath the rocky surface. The lander contains instruments that will help scientists to determine if life as we know it has ever existed, or currently exists, on this barren planet. The lander will study the atmosphere, surface and subsurface to determine if the Martian Arctic soil could have ever supported life. A detailed analysis of the weather will help scientists determine the Martian climate as well as aid in planning future un-manned and eventually manned missions to our planetary neighbor.On Thursday, NASA released the first complete picture of Pluto's crescent from the New Horizons probe. The probe captured the image with its Multi-spectral Visible Imaging Camera (MVIC) on July 14, fifteen minutes after closest approach to the planet.After nine years' journey, New Horizons made closest approach to Pluto on July 14 and released the first coloured photo of the dwarf planet's atmospheric haze on October 8. An incomplete crescent photo of Pluto was released in September.The photo shows different layers of the haze of Pluto's faint atmosphere with Sputnik Planum, an icy plain, visible on the right side and uneven plateaus on the dark left side.On Friday, the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) released the first ever global digital elevation model (DEM) of Mercury.The DEM was created using data gathered by NASA's MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry, and Ranging (MESSENGER) spacecraft, including over 100,000 photographs, and shows a variety of Mercury's topographical features including the planet's highest and lowest points. MESSENGER principal investigator Sean Solomon said they hope the information will be used to investigate Mercury's geological history.The highest elevation on Mercury is at 4.48 kilometres (2.78 miles) above Mercury’s average elevation, located just south of the equator in some of Mercury’s oldest terrain. The lowest elevation, at 5.38 kilometers (3.34 miles) below Mercury’s average, is found on the floor of the Rachmaninoff basin, a double-ring impact basin suspected to host some of the most recent volcanic deposits on the planet. The MESSENGER spacecraft was launched in 2004 to study Mercury, including its chemical composition, geology, and magnetic field. MESSENGER began orbiting Mercury in March 2011, becoming the first spacecraft to do so. In April 2015, having completed its mission, MESSENGER dropped out of orbit and impacted the surface of Mercury.In the aftermath of the Columbia space shuttle accident, which cost the lives of seven astronauts, the current chief of NASA Sean O'Keefe had decided further maintenance to the space telescope of Hubble was too dangerous, and that maintenance of the telescope would be dropped, essentially decommissioning the satellite. This caused some concern in the scientific community. A mission to repair the  satellite using robots was dismissed as too complicated.However, in light of space flight being resumed as of May 19th, the decision should be reconsidered, according to the nominee for the next chief of NASA, Griffin."We should revisit the earlier decision in light of what we learn after return to flight," Griffin told the Senate Commerce committee Tuesday. He noted when NASA resumes space flight, it will be with the completely-overhauled Shuttle - effectively a new vehicle - which will require new risk-analyses.The Hubble telescope has some major discoveries on its record, providing the first visual proof for black holes, the big bang theory and establishing for the first time the age of the universe. Hubble's solar cells should provide it with enough power in its current state to maintain orbit until 2007. It was hoped that with servicing, the telescope could be maintained until 2011. Its replacement the James Webb telescope, which will be equipped with infra-red, will not be launched until 2010.The scientists behind the Mars Phoenix Lander project announced that the soil on Mars was more alkaline than expected and could sustain life.Scientists at NASA or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration claimed that they were "flabbergasted" by their discovery on the possibility that life could grow on Martian soil."It is the type of soil you would probably have in your back yard, you know, alkaline. You might be able to grow asparagus in it really well. ... It is very exciting for us," said Sam Kounaves, the lead wet chemist at NASA.The project did not elaborate any further if there was indeed life on Mars, down to the microbe level and instead stated that their discovery was only preliminary and more analysis will be needed.There was still no evidence in the soil that "would preclude life," and instead of an assumption of a toxic environment, Martian soil is actually, "very friendly."The discovery was made after the Mars Phoenix Lander scooped up Martian soil for analysis. The lander touched down on Mars on May 25, 2008 and has been conducting several survey projects.Not likely, much to cold on Mars. You'd need greenhouses and heaters probably. You most probably have to bring the water to the plants. The polar regions, where the ice is, are too cold to even late the Phoenix lander survive the winter.I don't like news like that. Sounds nice and flashy and fails at the most basic of facts. :/  --boo (talk) 00:02, 27 June 2008 (UTC)replaced with quote from Sam Kounaves. I hope that fixes it. Cheers, --SVTCobra 00:27, 27 June 2008 (UTC)Ah! Much better, I think. Thanks. --boo (talk) 00:57, 27 June 2008 (UTC)According to NASA, new images received from the Phoenix lander on Mars shows a possible layer of ice on its landing site. Scientists received the images on Friday May 30 from the craft's robotic arm camera. The image was taken on the fifth Martian day, or Sol 5.Scientists say that as Phoenix landed, the exhaust from its thrusters cleared away a three to four inch layer of Martian soil which exposed a flat layer of a white substance, that NASA says could be ice. The image shows the white layer which is shiny and smooth."It's the consensus of all of us that we have found ice. We were expecting to find ice within two to six inches of the surface. The thrusters have excavated two to six inches and, sure enough, we see something that looks like ice. It's not impossible that it's something else, but our leading interpretation is ice," said top Phoenix investigator at the University of Arizona in Tucson Peter Smith.One exposed edge of the underlying material was seen in Sol 4 images, but the newer image reveals a greater extent of it. The abundance of excavated smooth and level surfaces adds evidence to a hypothesis that the underlying material is an ice table covered by a thin blanket of soil. Tests will be performed on the soil and surrounding area to determine exactly what the substance is."We could very well be seeing rock, or we could be seeing exposed ice in the retrorocket blast zone. We'll test the two ideas by getting more data," stated Ray Arvidson, one of the mission investigators.Phoenix is searching for evidence of water and microbial life on Mars. Its mission is to determine Mars's ability or inability to host life and hold water. The Phoenix lander uses a robotic arm to dig through the protective top soil layer to the alleged water ice below and ultimately bring both soil and water ice to the lander platform for sophisticated scientific analysis.NASA scientists have stated that an "earth-like" planet is currently forming in a star system's 'habitable zone' just over 400 light-years from Earth. The new discovery was made by NASA's Spitzer Space telescope.According to scientists, dust and rock orbiting a ten million year old star in the system HD 113766 contains "enough [material] to build a Mars-size planet or larger.""The timing for this system to be building an Earth is very good. If the system was too young, its planet-forming disk would be full of gas, and it would be making gas-giant planets like Jupiter instead. If the system was too old, then dust aggregation or clumping would have already occurred and all the system's rocky planets would have already formed," said NASA scientist Carey Lisse from the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory located in Baltimore, Maryland.File:Habitable zone-en.svgLisse states that the dust and rock, which was examined by the telescopes infrared spectrometer instrument, is more processed than the snowball-like stuff that makes up infant solar systems and comets, which are considered cosmic "refrigerators" because they contain pristine ingredients from the early solar system, but he also says that the material is not quite ready to form an actual planet, meaning that the material is currently in a "transitional phase" or in a phase just before a planet begins to form.The dusty material Lisse says, does not contain "any water ice, carbonates, or fragile organic materials," making the star system a fairly young celestial body."The material mix in this belt is most reminiscent of the stuff found in lava flows on Earth. I thought of Mauna Kea material when I first saw the dust composition in this system - it contains raw rock and is abundant in iron sulfides, which are similar to fool's gold," said Lisse. Mauna Kea is a well-known volcano in Hawaii.Scientists remain excited knowing that they have the chance to observe a planet forming right before their eyes. "It is fantastic to think we are able to detect the process of terrestrial planet formation. Stay tuned - I expect lots more fireworks as the planet in HD113766 grows," added Lisse.File:HD 189733b.jpgNASA says that the Spitzer Space Telescope has detected water vapour on HD 189733b, a massive exoplanet orbiting the dwarf star HD 189733, "trillions of miles" outside our solar system. The water vapours were found in the planet's atmosphere."We're thrilled to have identified clear signs of water on a planet that is trillions of miles away," said Giovanna Tinetti, a European Space Agency researcher and main author of NASA's study, at the Institute d’Astrophysique de Paris France.The planet, termed a "wet Jupiter", takes approximately two days to orbit its sun and its surface temperatures are estimated to be at least 1,000 Kelvin (1,340 Fahrenheit/727 Centigrade) which, according to scientists, makes it unlikely that life would exist there. The presence of water was observed by using the telescope to examine the absorption spectra as the planet transited across its star."Finding water on this planet implies that other planets in the universe, possibly even rocky ones, could also have water," said co-author Sean Carey of NASA's Spitzer Science Center at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena.Similar evidence for another hot gas giant, previously gathered using the Hubble telescope, was not widely accepted due to experimental noise and similar concerns.HD 189733b is located 63 light-years away from Earth in the constellation Vulpecula.The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) has reported that a space program worker deliberately cut the wires on a computer that was bound for the International Space Station (ISS). The employee has yet to be identified, but works for a subcontractor for NASA.Bill Gerstenmaier, NASA Space Operations Chief, stated that the sabotage occurred outside of Florida at an unnamed subcontractor. The same worker allegedly damaged another computer that was not bound for the space station."I don't want to speculate on motivation. The damage is very obvious. It's easy to detect. It's not a mystery to us," said Gerstenmaier.The device is reported to be a recorder for the ISS that would monitor stress the station receives while it is in orbit. NASA states that it will repair the computer so it is ready for the Space Shuttle Endeavour on August 7. Investigations are "going on and I'd rather let that get handled that way," added Gerstenmaier.A spacecraft designed to chase a comet and crash onto its surface is scheduled for a launch on January 12, 2005 and 1:48 p.m. EST. In early July the probe, named Deep Impact, will approach Comet Tempel 1 to take a number of measurements and photographs. The probe will then split in two, with one part — containing an 820-pound copper weight — propelling itself towards the path of the comet. Twenty-four hours after separation the comet will crash into the slower-moving impactor, creating a crater 100 meters wide.Astronomers know little of the nuclei of comets, and this mission was designed to determine the make-up of comets' cores. The event will be watched by many instruments: there are two cameras on the part of the probe that is not getting destroyed, a camera on the impactor will broadcast almost until the crash, and telescopes around Earth will also be aimed at the point of the impact. Scientists hope that by studying the depth of the crater and the material ejected from the comet in the crash they will get a better idea of the core's composition.The probe is named Deep Impact after a Hollywood movie of the same title. In the movie a comet is bombarded with warheads in order to steer it off a collision course with Earth. Unlike the movie, however, the goal of this mission is not to destroy the comet. Indeed, probe's size makes it very unlikely that the comet will suffer more than a crater: the comet is 3.7 miles wide while the probe is about the size of a washing machine.The probe will be launched aboard a Delta II rocket from Cape Canaveral in Florida.A scientist for NASA has said that the recent magnitude 8.8 earthquake in Chile, which killed at least seven hundred people, may have moved the Earth's axis, and caused the day to shorten.Richard Gross, a scientist at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, computed how the globe's rotation should have been altered by the earthquake; he and fellow scientists determined that the day had been shortened by approximately 1.26 microseconds (a microsecond is one millionth of a second).Gross commented about his findings to the Bloomberg news agency in an email, saying: "[t]he length of the day should have gotten shorter by 1.26 microseconds. The axis about which the Earth’s mass is balanced should have moved by 2.7 milliarcseconds (equal to approximately eight centimeters or three inches)."Gross compared the Chile earthquake with the 9.1 magnitude Sumatra earthquake in 2004 which generated a tsunami. According to him, that temblor shortened the day by 6.8 microseconds and moved the axis by about 2.3 milliarcseconds.The scientist noted that the Chilean earthquake moved the Earth's axis more than the Sumatran one, despite not being as strong for two reasons. The first, he said, is because it was located in the mid-latitudes of the globe, which made it more effective in altering the axis. The other reason was that the Chilean earthquake fault was steeper than that in Sumatra, which results in more vertical motion and thus more change in the figure axis.In an interview with Bloomberg Radio, David Kerridge, the head of Earth hazards and systems at the British Geological Survey in Edinburgh, Scotland, described how the earthquake may have caused such a change in the axis. "It’s what we call the ice-skater effect," Kerridge  explained.  He then described how when an ice skater executes a spin, if the skater pulls in his or her arms, the skater's rate of spin will increase. "It’s the same idea with the Earth going around.  If you change the distribution of mass, the rotation rate changes."After almost two months of delay, NASA has set March 11 as the launch date for Space Shuttle Discovery. On February 22, NASA had stated that they indefinitely delayed the launch of Space Shuttle Discovery, which was originally scheduled for takeoff on February 12. Launch was then further delayed until February 25 before being delayed indefinitely on February 22. NASA cited the need for additional time to evaluate the shuttle's hydrogen fuel flow control valves.Liftoff is set for nighttime on Wednesday, March 11, at approximately 9:20 p.m. (EST) from Launch Complex 39A in Cape Canaveral, Florida.  The official countdown to launch will commence Sunday, March 8."The team came through, worked hard and was efficient. It's time now to step back and think of everything else we need to watch before launch on the 11th. There's no better team than this one and I thank them for putting the right analysis together," said Bill Gerstenmaier, associate administrator for Space Operations at NASA.NASA wanted to perform additional tests on the valves which control the amount of hydrogen fuel pumped into the external tank when the shuttle is taking off before making a decision to launch. When Space Shuttle Endeavour went into space in November 2008, one of the valves broke. NASA fears that if one breaks off on this mission, then it could damage the outside of the shuttle.The current scheduled mission, STS-119, is set to fly the Integrated Truss Structure segment ("S" for starboard, the right side of the station, and "6" for its place at the very end of the starboard truss) and install the final set of power-generating solar arrays to the International Space Station. The arrays consist of two 115-foot-long arrays, for a total wing span of 240 feet, including the equipment that connects the two halves and allows them to twist as they track the sun. Altogether, the four sets of arrays can generate 84 to 120 kilowatts of electricity – enough to provide power for more than 40 average homes.Commander Lee Archambault will lead Discovery's crew of seven, along with Pilot Tony Antonelli, and Mission Specialists Joseph Acaba, John Phillips, Steve Swanson, Richard Arnold, and Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency astronaut Koichi Wakata.NASA has completed a major test of a 20-meter square solar sail, marking a "crucial milestone" in space propulsion technology.  It is not the first to test solar sails, as the Japanese have deployed two solar sails in space.  The Planetary Society is planning on launching a solar sail possibly by June 21.Shot into orbit by a converted intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), the Cosmos 1 would be launched from a submerged Russian submarine from within the Barents Sea. The spacecraft, powered by the sail, will have no destination. The purpose is simply to test the propulsion system that uses the pressure from solar light particles to move the ship outward from a starting orbit around the earth at 500 miles.The propulsion technology is currently believed to be the most efficient available for interstellar space travel. Theoretically a craft propelled by the pressure of a constant light source, such as a purpose-built laser, could achieve speeds approaching the speed of light. This is due to the efficiencies of the spacecraft not having to carry its own fuel. Approaching the speed of light would, however, require a long period of constant acceleration. Such high speed will be impossible for the current test vehicles and any launched in the foreseeable future, as they rely on the light from the Sun, which rapidly becomes weaker with increasing distance.According to the National Geographic News, "NASA, the European Space Agency, Japan, and Russia all have developed solar sails, but none has yet tried to prove that the sails can propel a spacecraft under controlled flight."A NASA spacecraft set to probe Mars reached orbit around the planet on Friday, joining five others currently active. The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter's two-year mission is expected to gather more information about Mars than all 12 previous successful missions put together.The MRO's tasks will include scouting for possible future landing sites, analyzing the planet's atmosphere, monitoring its weather, and  searching for locations where there may have been water in the distant past. The US$450 million spacecraft is the most advanced probe so far sent to Mars, and can radio back 10 times more data to Earth than any previous probe. Cameras on the MRO can see objects on the planet the size of a card table.After its seven-month journey toward the planet, reaching orbit was a critical step. Several previous probes have failed due to the difficulty of the precise timing needed to keep the spacecraft from being pulled in by the planet's gravity. Twenty-one of the thirty-three previous probes have failed for some reason to complete their missions.Project manager Jim Graf, who described himself as "relieved" at the "picture perfect" completion of this step, expects the results to "rewrite the science textbooks on Mars." The next step is for the craft to begin "aerobraking" to slow down and change its orbit from elliptical to circular.The total cost of the mission, including the spacecraft, launch, and support team, is US$720 million.Today, NASA's spacecraft MESSENGER, or the MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry, and Ranging spacecraft, is expected to begin its two day mission at about noon (eastern time), of data collecting and photographing of the planet Mercury. It is the first spacecraft to visit the planet in 34 years, since Mariner 10's visit to the planet in 1974."This is raw scientific exploration and the suspense is building by the day. What will MESSENGER see? Monday will tell the tale," said Alan Stern, associate administrator for NASA's Science Mission Directorate in Washington, D.C..This encounter will provide a critical gravity assist needed to keep the spacecraft on track for its March 2011 orbit insertion, beginning an unprecedented yearlong study of Mercury. The flyby also will gather essential data for mission planning. It will flyby an impact crater called the Caloris basin which is almost 800 miles (1,287 kilometers) in diameter. The basin is one of the largest impact craters in our solar system."Caloris is huge, about a quarter of the diameter of Mercury, with rings of mountains within it that are up to two miles high. Mariner 10 saw a little less than half of the basin. During this first flyby, we will image the other side," said Louise Prockter, the instrument scientist for the Mercury Dual Imaging System at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory in Laurel, Maryland.It also will study the global magnetic field and improve our knowledge of the gravity field from the Mariner 10 flyby. The long-wavelength components of the gravity field provide key information about the planet's internal structure, particularly the size of Mercury's core. The flyby also will map Mercury's tenuous atmosphere with ultraviolet observations and document the energetic particle and plasma of Mercury's magnetosphere. In addition, the flyby trajectory will enable unique particle and plasma measurements of the magnetic tail that sweeps behind Mercury.MESSENGER was launched on August 3, 2004 and will travel just under five billion miles in total. It already has flown past Earth once and Venus twice. The spacecraft will use the pull of Mercury's gravity during this month's pass and others in October 2008 and September 2009 to guide it progressively closer to the planet's orbit. Insertion will be accomplished with a fourth Mercury encounter in 2011.Earth science experts studying ocean currents and their relationship to snow melts have discovered that an unusual heating of the ground in one place on our planet can choke off sea life over a thousand miles away.In a new NASA funded study, they have found that a decline in winter and spring snow cover over Southwest Asia and the Himalayan mountain range is creating conditions for more widespread blooms of ocean plants in the Arabian Sea.The decrease in snow cover has led to greater differences in both temperature and pressure systems between the Indian subcontinent and the Arabian Sea. The pressure differences generate monsoon winds that mix the ocean water in the Western Arabian Sea. This mixing leads to better growing conditions for tiny, free-floating ocean plants called phytoplankton. The senior researcher and lead author of the study is Joaquim Goes, from the Bigelow Laboratory for Ocean Sciences, West Boothbay Harbor, Maine. Goes and his colleagues used observations from satellite imagery of the ocean’s colors to show unusual blooms, or growth, of phytoplankton concentrations in the Western Arabian Sea.  His work shows an increase of more than 350 percent over the past seven years.Since 1997, a reduction in snow has led to wider temperature differences between the land and ocean during summer. As a consequence, sea surface winds over the Arabian Sea have strengthened leading to more intense upwelling and more widespread blooms of phytoplankton along the coasts of Somalia, Yemen and Oman.According to Goes, while large blooms of phytoplankton can enhance fisheries, exceptionally large blooms could be detrimental to the ecosystem. Increases in phytoplankton amounts can lead to oxygen depletion in the water column and eventually to a decline in fish populations.The study is in this week’s SCIENCE magazine.NASA's Kepler Telescope, which will search for planets orbiting other stars, was successfully launched by a Delta II rocket from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station at approximately 10:51 p.m. (EST). NASA regained the rocket's signal at 12:11 a.m. EDT Saturday, shortly after confirming the satellite's separation from the rocket.According to the Kepler Mission page on NASA's website, the telescope "is specifically designed to survey our region of the Milky Way galaxy to discover hundreds of Earth-size and smaller planets in or near the habitable zone and determine how many of the billions of stars in our galaxy have such planets." The telescope is named after Johannes Kepler, an astronomer, astrologist and mathematician from Germany in the late 1500 and early 1600s.The Kepler Telescope will use the 'Transit Method' of detecting planets. When planets pass in front of their parent star, a small black dot is cast over the star, called a transit. Transits by terrestrial planets produce a small change in a star's brightness of about one part in ten thousand (.01%), lasting for 2 to 16 hours.Kepler's view is 105 square degrees and will be focused on one area all the time. It will orbit around our Sun, maintaining a constant distance from Earth of 950 miles. It will continuously and simultaneously monitor the brightnesses of more than 100,000 stars for the life of the mission, which is expected to be three and a half years."Even if we find no planets like Earth, that by itself would be profound. It would indicate that we are probably alone in the galaxy," said William Borucki, the mission's science principal investigator.Although planets orbiting stars other than the Sun had been theorized for centuries, it was only in 1988 that a team of Canadian astronomers made the first detection of extrasolar planets orbiting the star Gamma Cephei. Now over 300 extrasolar planets are said to have been discovered.The launch comes just weeks after NASA's failed launch of the Orbiting Carbon Observatory, which crashed into the ocean off Antarctica's coast. It would have been the first spacecraft dedicated to studying atmospheric carbon dioxide, the most significant human-produced greenhouse gas and the principal human-produced driver of climate change. The cost of the project was US$273 million.On February 4, NASA will digitally transmit the Beatles song Across the Universe in the direction of the star Polaris, commonly known as the North Star.This will mark the first time music has been sent into deep space. The song will be transmitted from the DSS-63 radio antenna at the Madrid Deep Space Communication Complex in Robledo de Chavela, Spain at 12:00 am UTC.The broadcast celebrates the 40th anniversary of the song's recording, the 45th anniversary of NASA's Deep Space Network, and the 50th anniversary of NASA itself.Polaris is approximately 431 light years away from Earth, meaning it will take 431 years for the song to reach the star traveling at the speed of light.NASA's press release includes statements from Beatle Paul McCartney, who tells NASA to "send [his] love to the aliens", and John Lennon's wife Yoko Ono, who sees the event as "the beginning of the new age in which we will communicate with billions of planets across the universe."The idea was hatched by Martin Lewis, a Los Angeles-based humorist and Beatles historian."It never had the highest profile and is a bit of a forgotten classic," Lewis said of the song. "But it has universal appeal. It transcends ages, borders, language and other barriers."NASA invites astronomy fans and Beatles fans alike to play the song simultaneously as it is being transmitted into space.The Phoenix probe that was sent to Mars has had its mission extended. Part of Phoenix's mission was to chemically analyze soil samples, and to confirm the presence of water ice. The ice was confirmed by the use of an instrument that can identify vapours; a small sample of ice within Martian soil was heated until it melted at 0°C (32°F), the melting point for water.The original mission was planned to be funded for a 3 months, with the cutoff in late August. However, as a result of the probe's good condition, NASA has stated that its mission will be extended by 5 weeks, till September 30."Phoenix is healthy and the projections for solar power look good, so we want to take full advantage of having this resource in one of the most interesting locations on Mars," said the Head of NASA's Mars Exploration Program, Michael Meyers. An additional expense of US$2 million will be incurred because of the extension, on top of the US$420 million that has already been spent. This will allow for two more trenches to be dug, which will be dubbed as "Cupboard" and "Neverland".The Phoenix probe landed on Mars on May 25 of this year near the north pole of Mars, where the ice was discovered. The ice was found in a trench approximately 5cm deep referred to as "Snow White". "It's been very successful and Mars had proven itself to be very interesting, mechanically the spacecraft is operating great, and there's plenty of power margin to carry us beyond the waning summer," said Meyers.The original goal of the mission was to determine if the red planet was capable of supporting life. Phoenix is in the process of performing experiments to determine if ice ever melted in Mars' history. In addition it is searching for the organic-based compounds that are necessary for life forms to exist.Phoenix's principal investigator Peter Smith told the press conference that "we hope to be able to answer the question of whether this was a habitable zone on Mars. It will be for future missions to find if anyone is home on this environment."Unlike the twin Mars Exploration Rovers which has now been operating on Mars for several years, the Phoenix Lander itself is expected to cease operations entirely by the exit of 2008 when the harsh Martian polar winter takes over and the low temperatures most likely will leave the Lander's instruments irreparably damaged.NASA officials decided late Monday to go ahead with the planned launch at 2:38 p.m. EDT on July 4 of the space shuttle Discovery. The launch, from Cape Canaveral in Florida, had previously been delayed twice due to poor weather conditions. The expected 13-day mission has been described as critical to the future of the International Space Station (ISS) as well as the shuttle and the entire NASA fleet.There were concerns over a 5" by 1/2" crack in the insulation foam that was found late last night. NASA  officials dismissed the crack saying it was less than the size required to cause damage at launch. The Discovery mission is to deliver critical supplies to the ISS, test shuttle-inspection techniques and to drop off European Space Agency astronaut Thomas Reiter for his 6-month stay in the ISS.Over the last three years, NASA has spent an estimated $1.3 billion to remedy the foam problem. When asked about the foam concern, NASA Associate Administrator Bill Gerstenmaier said, "We're about the same risk as we were before ... I don't think we're taking any additional risks." Officials have said that they expect foam to fall during the launch though. A few senior NASA safety and technical officers have their voiced opposition to the launch, claiming that they need more time to work on the foam-shedding problem.  Foam debris coming loose was the cause of the Columbia disaster in 2003. It is widely expected that another major problem with the launch would lead to the entire NASA fleet being grounded. A grounded fleet, in turn, will put the $100 billion International Space Station in a difficult situation, since the shuttle has been the major means of delivering supplies to it. This mission is to be one of the last few flights of the space shuttle Discovery, which is set to retire in 2010.NASA has unveiled plans to set up a self-sustaining settlement at the South Pole of the Moon by 2020.The plan calls for four-person crews to begin the construction on a rotating basis with week-long stays, advancing toward a permanent presence by 2024.  Initial infrastructure would be brought to the Moon from Earth; as work progressed, the settlement would provide hydrogen and oxygen mined from the lunar surface to make water and rocket fuel.While NASA plans to use American astronauts in the construction and maintenance of the base, plans are underway for a multinational effort.  Canada has been asked to provide astronauts for assistance, and NASA has since entered talks with the European Space Agency, Australia, China, France, Germany, England, India, Italy, Russia, South Korea, and Ukraine to see how those nations and space agencies may be able to contribute to costs, logistics and other efforts.  NASA did not release figures on how much the settlement will cost to build and maintain, but have been searching for both public and private funding from around the globe. NASA says that the base will serve as part of a mission to learn about the Moon and places beyond. It is also seen as part of a long-range plan to send astronauts to Mars.This will be the first manned mission to the moon since 1972.On Saturday, United Launch Alliance launched a Atlas V 401 rocket carrying NASA's InSight Mars lander and two Mars Cube One (MarCO) miniature spacecraft known as cubesats. The pre-dawn launch from Vandenberg Air Force Base Space Launch Complex 3E in Lompoc, California was declared a success. This was the very first deep space launch from the west coast of the United States, and aimed to send a lander to the surface of the planet Mars to study its interior. Launched alongside InSight were two MarCO cubesats, the first to be sent beyond Earth, nicknamed 'WALL-E' and 'Eve' after the protagonists of the 2008 animated science fiction film WALL-E. They were designed as a dual telecommunications relay for InSight during the spacecraft's descent through the Martian atmosphere.Traditionally, NASA launched interplanetary spacecraft at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida on the United States' east coast. There, rockets were sent eastward over the Atlantic Ocean, borrowing the Earth's rotational velocity to shoot their payloads out into the solar system. Due to congestion on the launch calendar at Canaveral, NASA chose to launch the spacecraft from from Vandenberg Air Force Base on the country's west coast instead. A launch eastward from Vandenberg would have been dangerous due to densely populated areas being located downrange. Instead, rockets launched from Vandenberg were sent in a south-southeast trajectory. For Insight and MarCO, the spacecraft was placed in a temporary polar orbit after the launch, with the pair being shot towards Mars during a escape burn performed over the North Pole.Despite a heavy fog settling in at the rocket's launch pad in Lompoc, the United Launch Alliance declared a "100% chance of favorable weather for liftoff". Spectators in Lompoc were treated to a mostly obscured view of the launch, though they were witness nonetheless to the sound and shock waves of the Atlas V's Common Core first stage as it lifted the spacecraft off the ground on-schedule at 4:05 PDT (1105 UTC). People along the coast of southern California and northern Baja California, however, were in clear view of the Atlas V's main engine burn and the first burn of the rocket's Centaur upper stage. People in Orange County, California were treated to the sight of InSight and the Centaur almost eclipsing the planet Jupiter in the night sky.The recently-inaugurated Administrator of NASA, Jim Bridenstine, congratulated the InSight team in an address televised live on NASA TV after the launch, along with the United Launch Alliance on what was their 128th successful launch in a row. The InSight mission part of NASA's Discovery program, a class of low-cost solar system exploration missions. It was selected to launch in the program after beating the Comet Hopper and Titan Mare Explorer proposals amongst responses to a 2010 request.Both InSight and the MarCO cubesats are en route to Mars. InSight carries eight scientific instruments, including a seismometer known as Seismic Experiment for Interior Structure (SEIS). The SEIS instrument will be recording the very first seismic measurements of Mars, which scientists hope will shed light on the structure of Mars beneath its surface. The lander was equipped with two cameras, based on the architecture of the Mars Exploration Rover's navigation camera and hazard avoidance camera, to allow mission scientists to monitor the activity of the instruments. NASA scheduled a November 26 landing for InSight on a broad plain in the planet's northern hemisphere, known as Elysium Planitia.On Monday shortly before noon US west coast time (2000 UTC), NASA's InSight lander successfully touched down on Elysium Planitia on Mars. It sent a signal beep and image of the surface of Mars to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California.The lander used aerobraking with a heat shield, then a parachute and finally rockets to achieve a soft landing on the surface. It used similar entry, descent, and landing sequence to the Phoenix spacecraft.Insight project manager Tom Hoffman said, "We hit the Martian atmosphere at 12,300 mph [miles per hour; 19,800 kilometres per hour], and the whole sequence to touching down on the surface took only [six and a half] minutes [...] During that short span of time, InSight had to autonomously perform dozens of operations and do them flawlessly — and by all indications, that is exactly what our spacecraft did."InSight stands for Interior exploration using Seismic Investigations, Geodesy and Heat Transport. The lander's two-year mission is to assess what Mars is like underground, determining the planet's heat flow and listening to the reverberations of groundquakes and meteorite impacts.Acting director of NASA's Planetary Science Division Lori Glaze said, "We've studied Mars from orbit and from the surface since 1965, learning about its weather, atmosphere, geology and surface chemistry [...] Now we finally will explore inside Mars and deepen our understanding of our terrestrial neighbor as NASA prepares to send human explorers deeper into the solar system."InSight is expected to begin its mission in a few months, once it has placed the equipment on the surface of Mars. Its solar panels are now open, catching sunlight and powering the spacecraft. It is equipped to drive a device up to 16 feet (5 meters) down into Mars's surface, a record for Mars probes. This is to help characterize heat flow from the planet. Insight also has ultra sensitive seismometers which it is to use to detect Mars earthquakes for the first time.  By recording the seismic waves from these quakes, InSight would help scientists infer things about the interior of Mars, such as how seismically active it is. InSight has as single seismometer, with which NASA plans to assess signals from different types of vibrational wave, triangulate their sources, and so derive information about the planetary interior. InSight was launched May 5 of this year and traveled reportedly 301,223,981 miles (somewhat over 484,773,000 kilometres) between planets followed by two suitcase-sized cube satellites called Mars Cube One, individually MarCO-A and MarCO-B, which relayed information to Earth during the landing process.Previous successful landers on Mars include Viking 1, Viking 2, Pathfinder, Spirit, Opportunity, Phoenix, and Curiosity. Of these, only Curiosity is still in communication with Earth, after NASA lost communication with Opportunity in June. InSight's landing spot in the Elysium Planitia is about 600 km from Curiosity's landing site in Gale Crater.Yesterday, NASA announced their spacecraft Juno has reached Jupiter orbit. It was launched almost five years ago to investigate the largest planet of the Solar System, especially its past. Charles Bolden, NASA administrator, said, "Independence Day always is something to celebrate, but today we can add to America's birthday another reason to cheer — Juno is at Jupiter". He also added the spacecraft would help study the evolution of the Solar System and explore Jupiter's radiation belts.NASA spent US$1.1 billion for Juno. The Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) reported Juno was confirmed in Jupiter's orbit at 0353 UTC. Including the camera, the probe has nine scientific instruments. Juno has covered 2.7 billion kilometres (1.7 billion miles) to reach Jupiter.NASA said non-essential equipment was turned off for the approach. They expect photos in some days. The first orbital revolution period is 53 days. Juno is expected to orbit the planet 37 times keeping an altitude of 5000 kilometres (3100 miles) above the Jovian clouds and then fall into the planet in 2018.NASA's Galileo, launched in 1989, found evidence of saline water on Jovian satellites Europa, Ganymede, and Callisto. The electronics have been encased in titanium to protect them from high-energy radiation.With the approval of an additional 18 months of funding, NASA's twin Mars rovers, the Spirit and Opportunity, will continue their exploration of "fantastic" landscapes for an additional 14 months."The rovers have proven their value with major discoveries about ancient watery environments on Mars that might have harbored life," said Dr. Ghassem Asrar, deputy associate administrator for NASA's Science Mission Directorate. "We are extending their mission through September 2006 to take advantage of having such capable resources still healthy and in excellent position to continue their adventures."With 11 months of extensions exceeding their successful three-month prime missions, "We now have to make long-term plans for the vehicles because they may be around for quite a while," said Jim Erickson, rover project manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, Calif. Scientists are within a few football field’s distance of a region called “Etched Terrain,” with rocks exposed by actual wind erosion rather than craters. There are rocks different from others in any other time in Mars’ history. "This is a journey into the unknown, to something completely new," said Dr. Steve Squyres of Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., and principal investigator for the rover's science instruments.The rover Opportunity has overtaken Spirit in total distance driven. It has been pushed by rover planners to roll more than three miles—eight times the original goal.On March 20, a new Martian record of 722 feet in a single 24-hour drive was accomplished by Opportunity. Even Spirit is exceeding expectations although it is in much rougher terrain, climbing a rocky slope toward an area called “Husband Hill.”The rovers have shown signs of wear and tear. Spirit’s rock abrasion tool grinding teeth might be nearly useless after exposing the interior of five times more rocks than its original design goal of only three rocks.On Tuesday, NASA's space probe New Horizons reached near Pluto. It was launched about nine-and-a-half years ago on January 19, 2006 to collect data about the dwarf planet, amongst other targets. With its flyby on Tuesday it became the first spacecraft to explore Pluto closely.NASA collected data regarding the geology of the planet. The space probe had seven scientific instruments and massed about 450 kilograms (about 1000 lb). The probe has Pluto and the Kuiper Belt as its highest priorities. Scientists released images from the flyby on Wednesday. Mission scientist John Spencer said, "We have not found a single impact crater on this image. This means it must be a very young surface".  He put the age of the current surface at no more than 100 million years.The images also did not show craters on its natural satellite, Charon. NASA said mountains on the planet may be made of water-ice.In February 2007 the space probe flew by Jupiter. The future mission is to explore the Kuiper Belt.NASA's Space Shuttle replacement, the Orion spacecraft, is anticipated to be ready for test flights by 2013.Orion, part of the original Constellation program proposal, would be used in a NASA initiative to return astronauts to the moon. However, United States president Barack Obama cancelled the program in his 2011 budget. He instead advised NASA to focus on a manned mission to an asteroid, and then to Mars.Obama supports the development of the capsule only as an emergency escape 'lifeboat' for the International Space Station.The end of the Space Shuttle program will see many contractors out of work. The United States Congress is debating a bill to add one more shuttle mission in the gap between the currently scheduled last shuttle mission and the first manned flight of the capsule, in order to alleviate concerns over job loss and the gap between the end of shuttle missions and the entry into service of a replacement American vehicle.Despite uncertainty about the future and usage of Orion, Lockheed Martin, the craft's manufacturer, continues to work on it and plans to have a fully-operational model ready by the end of 2012. The company is also drawing up flight plans for possible missions.In the original Constellation program proposal, the capsule would have been used to transport a six-member crew to and from the International Space Station, and a four-member crew on trips to the moon. Although Obama's newly proposed plan involves missions to asteroids and eventually Mars, Lockheed Martin officials still believe that Orion would be a prime candidate for the job. "It's possible to make Orion compatible with other launch vehicles," said Josh Hopkins, a Lockheed Martin official. "It doesn't actually look all that hard."NASA's Phoenix Lander has begun to cook a scoop full of Martian soil. For reasons unknown to scientists, and after several seemingly unsuccessful attempts to break up the soil, a large amount was discovered to have passed through a screen leading to an on board oven."We have an oven full. It took 10 seconds to fill the oven. The ground moved," said Phoenix co-investigator Bill Boynton, a researcher at the University of Arizona located in Tucson, Arizona.The lander's Robotic Arm delivered a partial scoopful of clumpy soil from a trench informally called "Baby Bear" to the number 4 oven on its TEGA (Thermal and Evolved Gas Analyzer) last Friday, June 6. NASA observed the method and reported that no soil had passed through the screens over the TEGA. The screen is to prevent larger bits of soil from clogging the narrow port to each oven so that fine particles fill the oven cavity, which is no wider than a pencil lead. The oven's goal is to vaporize any ice or water that may be present in the soil. Minerals may also burn off and scientists say that vapors from anything that evaporates or vaporizes will be tested and analyzed.After some debate, NASA decided to 'shake' the soil in hopes that it would break up the larger particles. To much disappointment after six tries using this method, only a few particles got through the screen. Scientists then ordered one last shake of the soil "in the off chance we might get lucky," stated Boynton.After a few days of troubleshooting, NASA looked back at the soil and discovered that, for an unknown reason, a large amount of soil had fallen through the screen and was ready for inspection by the TEGA. Boynton states that it is possible that the oven might have filled because of the cumulative effects of all the shaking, or because of changes in the soil's cohesiveness as it sat for days on the top of the screen."There's something very unusual about this soil, from a place on Mars we've never been before. We're interested in learning what sort of chemical and mineral activity has caused the particles to clump and stick together," Boynton commented.Phoenix was originally ordered to put off using its TEGA until scientists came up with a solution to the clodded soil. It had been rescheduled to take readings of the Martian climate such as temperature and wind speed, and also to analyze a soil sample using the optical microscope, or MECA (Microscopy, Electrochemistry, and Conductivity Analyzer) on June 12. Scientists say that those tasks are still scheduled to take place. Pictures and results from that sample are expected to arrive on Thursday June 12, while the oven samples will take a few days to analyze."The dirt finally did start to flow and we actually got a full oven, so that problem is now behind us. We're hopeful that some time in the next few days we'll close the oven and begin the analysis process," added Boynton.NASA has stated that the Mars Phoenix lander is having trouble analyzing soil samples that its robotic arm is collecting. According to NASA, the soil appears to be too clodded to pass through screens on the way to Phoenix's Thermal and Evolved-Gas Analyzer (TEGA).Images taken by the lander's camera shows that the robotic arm has dumped a large portion of soil over the TEGA, but it failed to register any soil which might have passed through the screens leading into the analyzer. The screen is designed to let through particles up to one-millimeter (0.04 inch) across while keeping out larger particles, in order to prevent clogging a funnel pathway to a tiny oven inside. An infrared beam crossing the pathway checks whether particles are entering the instrument and breaking the beam. It is now believed that the particles are either too large to pass through the screen, or the soil is too clumpy."I think it's the cloddiness of the soil and not having enough fine granular material. In the future, we may prepare the soil by pushing down on the surface with the arm before scooping up the material to break it up, then sprinkle a smaller amount over the door," said Ray Arvidson of Washington University located in St. Louis, Missouri. Arvidson is the Phoenix team's science lead researcher for Saturday and digging czar for Phoenix's mission.NASA also plans to use a shaker inside the TEGA to shake any material or samples longer than previously planned in an attempt to break up the larger particles and clumps. Phoenix already utilized this method on Friday June 6, shaking the soil for five minutes before dumping it onto the screen. NASA plans to tell Phoenix to shake the material a little longer in order for the soil to be tested.While scientists ponder ways to fix the issue, TEGA will not be analyzing any samples. Instead Phoenix is expected to have completed tasks today such as horizontally extending a trench where the lander dug two practice scoops earlier this week, and taking additional images of a small pile of soil that was scooped up and dropped onto the surface during the second of those practice digs.NASA's Phoenix spacecraft has landed safely on Mars, following a ten-month flight. Landing occurred yesterday evening at around 23:38 GMT (20:38 EDT), with confirmation being received by flight controllers around fifteen minutes later at 23:53, the communications delay due to the time taken for light and radio signals to travel from Mars back to Earth.Phoenix was launched atop a Delta II rocket last August. It is the first Mars Scout spacecraft to be sent to explore Mars.  It will search for water and complex molecules at the North Pole of Mars. It is the third spacecraft currently operating on Mars, joining the Mars Expedition Rovers Spirit and Opportunity, which are currently operating on the planet's surface. Phoenix is expected to operate on the surface of Mars for 90 Martian days, about 92 Earth days.Scientists monitoring the landing at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California cheered as the news was transmitted by the spacecraft, saying it had landed safely.According to the live broadcast on NASA TV, a systems check began in final preparation for landing at 22:20 GMT (7:20 p.m. eastern time) which was given the "all green". At 22:22, Phoenix was confirmed to be properly aligned for entry into the Martian atmosphere. At 22:30 Phoenix began to accelerate into the atmosphere, where it will hurtle towards the planet at nearly 11,000 miles an hour. At 22:41 the data stream was successfully sent to Earth, Phoenix successfully separated from its boosters and sent a UHF signal to NASA. At 22:44 its main radio was confirmed to be on.Scientists monitoring the MRO then confirmed the signal from Phoenix at 22:45. Approximately 3 minutes later Phoenix was confirmed to have entered the Martian atmosphere. According to predictions before the landing - based on the sequence of events programmed into onboard computers - the cruise stage, which had controlled the spacecraft during its journey from Earth to Mars, separated from the probe which was to enter the atmosphere at 23:24:15 GMT. Entry interface occurred at 23:31:15, and the parachute deployed at 23:34:58. The heat shield was jettisoned at 23:35:13, followed by the rest of the "aeroshell", which had protected the spacecraft during decent, and the parachute, at 23:37:13. Landing itself occurred at 23:38:36 GMT.During descent, the spacecraft's progress was monitored by the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter and 2001 Mars Odyssey spacecraft, already in Areocentric orbit. Mars Odyssey was in contact with Phoenix throughout the descent, including during the phase of the descent where maximum temperatures were reached, when controllers had predicted that data would be lost.  The HiRISE camera on Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter was able to photograph Phoenix under its parachute during descent.Phoenix's goal is to gather environmental information about Mars to search for possible locations for the best signs of microbial life in the soil. It will also research the history of water on Mars. The mission is scheduled to last for at least 92 Earth days, or 90 Martian days.The spacecraft landed in an area near the North Pole of Mars, unofficially named the  Green Valley. It is an area about 250 kilometres wide, located in the Vastitas Borealis plains.Phoenix is carrying a number of instruments to investigate Mars. Some of these were taken from the cancelled 2001 Mars Surveyor lander, and some others were derived from instruments flown on the Mars Polar Lander (MPL) spacecraft. MPL was launched in January 1999, but failed during its descent to the Martian surface. Landing on Mars is considered to be one of the most difficult challenges in space exploration, and one scientist working on today's landing said that "this is not a trip to Grandma's for the weekend". More than half of previous missions to Mars have failed, leading to jokes that exploration of the planet is cursed.This is the 38th spacecraft to be launched to Mars, and the 19th to arrive successfully, bringing the success rate to exactly 50 percent. It is also the 12th spacecraft to attempt a landing on Mars, and the 7th to successfully accomplish this.Upon confirmation of landing, a flight controller was heard to exclaim "The Phoenix has landed, welcome to Vastitas Borealis!", whilst others cheered, and congratulated each other on the successful landing.For the first time since the discovery of planets outside the solar system, light from two of the 145 confirmed extrasolar planets has been directly captured by NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope.Astronomers Dr. David Charbonneau of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics and Dr. Drake Deming of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center (GSFC), working separately on one each of the two planets used a simple technique to gather the infrared glow that the planetary bodies emit.The planets, designated HD 209458b and TrES-1, are classified as "hot Jupiter" planets.  These types of extrasolar planets orbit closely around their suns, absorbing the starlight and brightly radiating in the infrared wavelengths.Using the Spitzer telescope, the astronomers first collected and measured the total infrared output from both the stars and planets. The stars alone were again measured when the planets disappeared behind them during their natural orbits. By comparing the differences between the two measurements, the scientist were able to determine how much infrared light each planet emits."In visible light, the glare of the star completely overwhelms the glimmer of light reflected by the planet," Charbonneau said. "In infrared, the star-planet contrast is more favorable because the planet emits its own light."The data obtained indicates the planets are at least 1,340 degrees Fahrenheit, justifying the classification of "hot Jupiter".  More observations from Spitzer could provide information about the planets winds and atmospheric compositions."Spitzer has provided us with a powerful new tool for learning about the temperatures, atmospheres and orbits of planets hundreds of light-years from Earth," said Dr. Deming."It's fantastic," Dr. Charbonneau said. "We've been hunting for this light for almost 10 years, ever since extrasolar planets were first discovered."Dr. Deming's paper on his findings appears today in Nature's online publication; Dr. Charbonneau's paper will be published in an upcoming issue of the Astrophysical Journal.The Spitzer telescope was launched August 25, 2003 and is scheduled to be de-orbited sometime in 2008.  Spitzer was named for Dr. Lyman Spitzer who, in the mid-1940s, first proposed placing telescopes in space.The Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics is located in Cambridge, Massachusetts.The Goddard Space Flight Center is located in Greenbelt, Maryland.NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory manages the Spitzer Space Telescope mission for NASA's Science Mission Directorate. Science operations are conducted at the Spitzer Science Center, Pasadena, California.On Jan. 17, the NASA-led Swift satellite mission detected and imaged its first gamma-ray burst, one of the most powerful explosions to occur in the universe.The burst was in the midst of exploding as Swift, designed to autonomously repoint itself, turned and focused in less than 200 seconds on the event. The satellite was fast enough to capture an image with its X-Ray Telescope (XRT), while gamma rays were still being detected with the Burst Alert Telescope (BAT)."This is the first time an X-ray telescope has imaged a gamma-ray burst while it was bursting," said Dr. Neil Gehrels, Swift's principal investigator at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD. "Most bursts are gone in about ten seconds, and few last upwards of a minute. Previous X-ray images have captured the burst afterglow, not the burst itself.""This is the one that didn't get away," said Prof. John Nousek, Swift's mission operations director at Penn State University, in State College, PA. "And this is what Swift was built to do: to detect these fleeting gamma-ray bursts and focus its telescopes on them autonomously within about a minute. The most exciting thing is this mission is just revving up."Swift has three main instruments. The BAT detects bursts and initiates the autonomous slewing to bring the XRT and the Ultraviolet/Optical Telescope (UVOT) within focus of the burst. In December, the BAT started detecting bursts, including a remarkable triple detection on Dec. 19. Today's announcement marks the first BAT detection autonomously followed by XRT detection, demonstrating the satellite is swiftly slewing as planned. The UVOT is still being tested, and it was not collecting data when the burst was detected.  Scientists expect Swift to be fully operational by Feb. 1. "We are frantically analyzing the XRT data to understand the X-ray emission seen during the initial explosion and the very early afterglow," said Dr. David Burrows, the XRT lead at Penn State. "This is a whole new ballgame. No one has ever imaged X-rays during the transition of a gamma-ray burst from the brilliant flash to the fading embers."The origin of gamma-ray bursts remains a mystery. At least some appear to originate in massive star explosions. Others might be the result of merging black holes or neutron stars. Any of these scenarios likely will result in the formation of a new black hole.The Swift satellite's two-year mission will be to: Determine the origin of gamma-ray bursts.Classify gamma-ray bursts and search for new types.Determine how the explosion develops.Use gamma-ray bursts to study the early universe.Perform the first sensitive hard X-ray survey of the sky.Swift, still in its checkout phase, is an international collaboration launched on Nov. 20, 2004. It is a NASA mission in partnership with the Italian Space Agency and the Particle Physics and Astronomy Research Council, United Kingdom.In findings released to the public on Monday through online site arXiv.org, astronomers reported they have already used data from the first photograph taken by National Aeronautics and Space Administration's (NASA's) Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) to locate an exoplanet.  The planet, called Pi Mensae c, was spotted as it was transiting in front of its star, Pi Mensae (HD 39091).  The paper describing the findings was being submitted to AAS Letter but had yet to be published in full."Here, we report on the discovery of a transiting planet around [Pi Mensae], exactly the type of planet TESS was designed to detect," states a portion of the paper available to the public.Scientists say the planet is roughly twice the diameter of Earth but about four times as massive.  Findings for Pi Mensae c indicate it may contain helium, methane, hydrogen, and water but is deemed unlikely to support life because it is so close to its star.TESS, which launched last April, created the light image over the course of 30 minutes on August 7, using four optical telescopes to photograph a small portion of the night sky.  Its mission is slated to last two years and reports anticipate it could discover thousands of exoplanets.This week in an unrelated project, researchers from the University of Florida spotted a planet circling a star named 40 Eriadni A (HD 26965).  In the fictional universe of Star Trek, this star system is the home of the Vulcans like Mr. Spock.  The exoplanet, officially called HD 26965b, has been nicknamed "Vulcan" after this fictional planet.NASA has said that preliminary investigations show that Discovery is safe to fly home. Final findings will not be available for several days as a team of 200 experts study all video and stills footage taken of the shuttle during launch, and on approach to the International Space Station (ISS), with which Discovery docked earlier today.Images from new cameras have revealed that a section of foam weighing some 250 g fell away from the external fuel tank during launch, but did not strike the Orbiter. However, NASA has announced the grounding of all further planned Shuttle launches until they have a firm understanding of why the foam comes away, and what to do about it.A piece of foam striking the Columbia's wing during take-off in January 2003 was responsible for the loss of the craft as it made its reentry to Earth's atmosphere.As part of the check for damage the crew of Discovery used a laser-scanner on the robotic arm to inspect the craft's wing leading-edges and nosecone. The belly of the Orbiter will be checked later this week.In a first, the Shuttle also performed a slow back-flip in some 180 m from the ISS enabling the two-man crew of the space station to take high-resolution images of the underside of the Orbiter.A complex series of events, including a five month-old computer error, was responsible for the battery failure that led to the loss of NASA's Mars Global Surveyor last year, an internal review board says. Findings from a preliminary report released on Friday say that while NASA controllers followed procedures while operating the craft, the procedures did not cover the types of errors that occurred.According to NASA, on November 2, 2006, the Global Surveyor was ordered to perform a routine adjustment of its solar panels. However, the Global Surveyor reoriented to an angle that exposed one of its two batteries to direct sunlight. The battery overheated, which led to the depletion of both batteries. An incorrect setting in antenna orientation prevented Global Surveyor from relaying its status to NASA controllers. Its preprogrammed systems did not take into account the need to maintain a thermally safe orientation.That was the last communication that NASA controllers had with the spacecraft.The Global Surveyor was the first US mission to Mars in twenty years, For ten years, the craft returned detailed information to NASA scientists providing new insights, including evidence that appeared to show the presence of water on Mars and identification of deposits of water-related minerals, which led to selection of a Mars rover landing site."The loss of the spacecraft was the result of a series of events linked to a computer error made five months before the likely battery failure," said Dolly Perkins, board chairperson and deputy director-technical of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.The board concluded that NASA controllers had followed procedures, but that the procedures did not adequately cover the type of errors that occurred. In its final report, the board will offer recommendations applicable to future missions."We are making an end-to-end review of all our missions to be sure that we apply the lessons learned from Mars Global Surveyor to all our ongoing missions," said Fuk Li, Mars Exploration Program manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.The Global Surveyor was the longest operating spacecraft at Mars and had lasted four times longer than expected.NASA scientists have announced that the Mars Global Surveyor has captured images of deposits in gullies on the surface of the planet Mars which have been created since the areas were photographed seven years ago. These deposits are believed to be the residue of liquid water breaking out of cliffs and crater walls, carrying sediment downhill through the gullies, and later evaporating. The gullies are located inside the Terra Sirenum crater and the Centauri Montes regions."These observations give the strongest evidence to date that water still flows occasionally on the surface of Mars," said the head scientist for the Mars Exploration Program in Washington D.C., Michael Meyer.  The bright appearance of the deposits suggests that, at some recent period, the surface material in these gullies has either been heavily disturbed or covered over by new, different, material. Whilst it is not proven that this is the result of water activity—it could be frost, for example, or the result of localized landslides—it ties in with previous theories that suggest liquid water is locked below the surface of Mars, occasionally being released in short and violent local bursts."These fresh deposits suggest that at some places and times on present-day Mars, liquid water is emerging from beneath the ground and briefly flowing down the slopes. This possibility raises questions about how the water would stay melted below ground, how widespread it might be, and whether there's a below-ground wet habitat conducive to life." said Michael Malin of Malin Space Science Systems located in San Diego, California. Malin is the head investigator for the Mars Orbital Camera, the instrument which made these photographs, and is the author of the report about the discovery, published in the journal Science. One factor suggesting water is the shape of the deposits, which are sinuous and appear to "flow" downhill. "The shapes of these deposits are what you would expect to see if the material were carried by flowing water. They have finger-like branches at the downhill end and easily diverted around small obstacles," explained Malin. Scientists do not know how or why the water is making its way to the surface. "The big question is how does it happen, and does it point to a habitat for life?" said Meyer.However, many in the scientific community stress possible alternative explanations for what has been seen, suggesting that the features could have been created by dust, sand or liquid carbon dioxide. Oded Aharonson of the California Institute of Technology (Caltech) described the hypothesis of recent water activity on Mars as just one possible explanation and insisted further study was needed to determine whether the deposits could have been left there by the flow of dust rather than water.Other scientists think it possible that the gullies were caused by liquid carbon dioxide. One reason is that computer models of the Martian crust indicate water could exist only at depths of several kilometers, but liquid carbon dioxide could persist much nearer the surface.Contact was lost with Mars Global Surveyor in November, and has not yet been recovered. The spacecraft has been in orbit since 1997, operating over a lifespan which far exceeded the two-year mission originally planned. NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, manages the Mars Global Surveyor mission for the NASA Science Mission Directorate located in Washington D.C..White 'chunks' that were photographed by the Phoenix lander on Mars on June 15 after digging a trench, have disappeared, leading scientists to believe they most certainly found ice on the Red Planet."It must be ice. These little clumps completely disappearing over the course of a few days, that is perfect evidence that it's ice. There had been some question whether the bright material was salt. Salt can't do that," said Phoenix Principal Investigator Peter Smith of the University of Arizona located in Tucson, Arizona.The chunks were left at the bottom of a trench informally called "Dodo-Goldilocks" when Phoenix's Robotic Arm enlarged that trench on June 15, during the 20th Martian day, or sol, since landing. Several were gone when Phoenix looked at the trench early today, on Sol 24.Digging in a different trench Phoenix's robotic Arm connected with a hard surface that has scientists excited about the prospect of next uncovering an icy layer."We have dug a trench and uncovered a hard layer at the same depth as the ice layer in our other trench," said Washington University robotic arm investigator for Phoenix, Ray Arvidson. The arm tried at least three times to penetrate the layer, but was unsuccessful. As a result the arm went into a holding pattern, awaiting its next commands.The European Space Agency's new Ariane 5 ECA rocket placed two satellites in orbit Saturday February 12, successfully completing its initial qualifying flight.  The Ariane 5 ECA is to be the ESA's new workhorse launcher for injecting payloads into geostationary orbit.Launched from the Guiana Space Centre at Kourou, French Guiana, the new rocket design carried three payloads:  the X-TAR-EUR communications satellite, the Sloshsat FLEVO[1] experimental satellite, and the Maqsat B2 which remained attached to the Ariane upper stage.The Ariane ECA can carry up to ten tons of payload improving on the launch capacity of the Ariane 5 Generic by 4 tonnes.This launch was the second test for the new design following a launch failure in December 2002.For the next few days, a newly discovered, green-tinted comet will be visible by the naked eye in most parts of the Northern Hemisphere. Comet Lulin, with the official designation of C/2007 N3, was discovered in 2007 and astronomers say that this is the first time it has visited our solar system and may well be the last.As it makes its way around the Sun, an astonishing 800 gallons (3 m3) of water will evaporate from the comet every second. In each 15 minute period, it will shed enough water to fill an Olympic sized swimming pool. It will come within 38 million miles of Earth at its closest pass, making it visible to the naked eye and even clearer with binoculars or a telescope. The best viewing time for people living in the northern hemisphere is after midnight when Lulin will be at its highest point in the sky, or 40 degrees from the morning horizon. Current estimates peg the maximum brightness at 4th or 5th magnitude, which means dark country skies would be required to see it. No one can say for sure, however, because this is Lulin's first visit.Astronomers from NASA and the United Kingdom will use the Swift Telescope to study the comet and its composition. Astronomers also say to see it while you can because this could be the first and only time it passes through our solar system. It's estimated that if it returns, it will not be for another 1,000,000 years."We won't be able to send a space probe to [the comet], but Swift is giving us some of the information we would get from just such a mission," said Jenny Carter, at the University of Leicester in England, who is leading the study.The comet was discovered using the Lulin Observatory in Taiwan by astronomers Ye Quanzhi and Lin Chi-Sheng.Earlier today, an Atlas V rocket carrying the New Horizons unmanned spacecraft probe lifted off from Pad 41 at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station bound for the last unexplored planet in the solar system, Pluto, at 11 am EST, after two scrubbed liftoffs the past two days because of bad weather.The probe will take a nine-year, 3-billion-mile (5-billion-km) journey to Pluto, the ninth and final planet in the solar system. It is expected to take photos of the planet that are of the highest resolution ever, since current photos of Pluto are not of the highest quality, even those taken from Hubble Space Telescope. It will also attempt to characterize the global geology and morphology of the planet and study the atmosphere of the planet.After accelerating to 36,000 mph, it will pass the moon in nine hours. The probe will pass by Mars in April and then head on to Jupiter where it will pass by in February 2007 and continue on. Around July 14, 2015, the probe is expected to fly by Pluto and its moon Charon, after which the probe could possibly make a flyby of one or more Kuiper Belt objects. (KBOs).New Horizons is powered by an onboard nuclear electric generator, known as a radioisotope thermoelectric generator, using 24 pounds (10.8kg) of plutonium as its radioactive "fuel" source. Some anti-nuclear activists feared that the launch could end in an accident with radioactive material being spread over a wide area. The chances of such a disaster were calculated by the United States Department of Energy at 1 in 350.The Tuesday liftoff was postponed because of high winds at the launch site. The Wednesday launch was stopped after a severe storm near Laurel, Maryland knocked out power at the Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory, which hosts the flight control center for the mission.As a side note, the probe is also carrying some of the ashes from Clyde Tombaugh, the discoverer of Pluto.NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter (MRO), the latest robotic spacecraft destined for Mars, arrived at Kennedy Space Center's Shuttle Landing Facility on April 30 aboard a C-17 cargo plane and was delivered to the Payload Hazardous Servicing Facility to begin processing.  Launching is scheduled for August 10, 2005.With a mission time line through 2010, the MRO will conduct studies of the Martian atmosphere, surface and subsurface in far greater detail than previous missions. Possible landing sites for future Mars landings will be evaluated and the orbiter will also act as a high-data-rate communications relay for surface missions."Great work by a talented team has brought Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter to this milestone in our progress toward a successful mission," said Jim Graf of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) project manager for the mission.Multiple mechanical assembly operations and electrical tests are scheduled to verify the craft's readiness for launch.  A May test to verify communication abilities through NASA's Deep Space Network will be conducted and in June deployment of the high gain communications antenna will be tested.  A deployment test is also scheduled for the Orbiter's large solar arrays.The MRO will be filled with hydrazine fuel in July for its "Mars orbit insertion burn" which reduces the craft's velocity and places it in orbit about the red planet.  July 26 will see the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter installed in an Atlas V rocket fairing for final assembly with the rocket on July 29.After the scheduled launch, the MRO will spend seven months cruising to Mars and another six months aerobraking after orbital insertion.  A variety of scientific instruments on board will be used to search for geological evidence of past seas, ancient shorelines.The craft was built near Denver by Lockheed Martin Space Systems which also supplies the Atlas V launch vehicle.The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter mission is managed by JPL, a division of the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, for the NASA Science Mission Directorate, Washington. Lockheed Martin Space Systems is the prime contractor for the project. International Launch Services, a Lockheed Martin joint venture, and Lockheed Martin Space Systems are providing launch services for the mission.More information about the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter is available at:  Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter websiteAstronomers at the University of California at Santa Cruz have discovered a new planet which is considered to be in the middle of the  Habitable Zone of its parent star, a discovery which has raised the possibility of finding life on another planet. Researchers found the planet while conducting the Lick-Carnegie exoplanet survey of Gliese 581, a red dwarf. The planet, named 'Gliese 581 g', is approximately 20 light years away from Earth and is hypothesised to have a generally rocky landscape with enough gravitational pull to accumulate an atmosphere.Steven Vogt of the University of California stated that Gliese 581g potentially has a gravitational pull similar to that of Earth, which would allow humans to walk around upright on its surface although human inhabitation of the planet is in no foreseeable future. Vogt observed that there is a significant possibility that life exists on Gliese 581 g."Personally, given the ubiquity and propensity of life to flourish wherever it can, I would say, my own personal feeling is that the chances of life on this planet are 100 per cent," Vogt said. Only lichen, bacteria and other micro-organisms are expected to exist on the planet.Gliese 581 g is thought to have a temperature range from extremely hot to freezing cold depending on the side with respect to its star. The average temperature is expected to range from −31 to −12 degrees Celsius.Prior to this discovery, two other planets were discovered in the low or "cold" end and the high or "hot" end of the 'Habitable Zone', respectively, orbiting the same star.The current International Space Station commander, Russian cosmonaut Sergei Krikalev has set a new record of a total of 748 days spent in orbit – almost 2 years, as of Tuesday August 16th, 2005. This outstrips the record set by Sergei Avdeyev's missions on Mir station.Being in space presents many health concerns – both psychological and physiological difficulties, such as bone loss and radiation exposure. Krikalev's longterm experience of life in space could help to shed light on what physical and mental factors will be needed for future long-duration flights – such as a manned mission to Mars. University of Texas, Austin psychology researcher David Musson is studying the phenomenon of irritability, fatigue, and lack of sleep which manyspace-travellers experience. He hopes to determine which mental traits will help astronauts and cosmonauts deal with or avoid these problems. He also considers Krikalev's experience important for understanding ways to counter the physical side effects of space-travel, stating that "I imagine he's gotten pretty good over time in adhering to a countermeasure programme to minimise bone mass loss".Krikalev and his American counterpart John L. Phillips are due to return to Earth on 7 October 2005, but not before celebrating Krikalev's 47th birthday in orbit. They are also expecting to perform two spacewalks. The first of these EVAs is intended to move equipment, install a television camera, and replace experiments.Astronomers have found a huge new ring around the planet Saturn. The faint dust ring extends up to 7.4 million miles (12 million km) from the planet and could fit over a billion Earths inside it, making it the largest in the Solar System. It could also solve a mystery about one of Saturn's moons that has puzzled scientists for centuries.The ring was found with the help of NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope, with details published today in the journal Nature. It is thought to consist of ice and dust from Saturn's moon Phoebe, which is kicked up by collisions with comets and then drifts in towards the planet. The ring and moon both orbit in a plane inclined at 27 degrees to the other rings."This is one supersized ring," said Dr Anne Verbiscer of the University of Virginia, one of the authors of the paper. Of Saturn's other rings, the largest is the E-ring, a mere 150,000 miles (240,000 km) in diameter. Jupiter also has "gossamer rings" of a similar diameter to the E-ring. If the Phoebe ring was visible from Earth, it would appear twice as large in the sky as the full Moon.However the newly found ring is extremely faint. It is made up of dust particles around 10 microns (thousandths of a millimetre) in size, and according to Verbiscer, "In a cubic km of space, there are all of 10-20 particles." This explains why it has evaded discovery until now. "If you were standing in the ring itself, you wouldn't even know it."The Phoebe ring does not reflect much visible light, but the Spitzer telescope was able to pick up the dust's faint infra-red glow. The telescope, launched in 2003, orbits the Sun and is roughly 66 million miles (107 million km) from Earth. It is one of NASA's four Great Observatories.The discovery could also finally account for the unusual appearance of Iapetus, another of the planet's moons. When Iapetus was first observed in 1671 by astronomer Giovanni Cassini, its leading side was seen to be much darker than the other. Until now scientists had been unsure why this was. Now it is thought that the moon orbits in the opposite direction to the ring, and as Iapetus moves through the ring, dust builds up on its front surface. Verbiscer likens it to "bugs on a windshield.""Astronomers have long suspected that there is a connection between Saturn's outer moon Phoebe and the dark material on Iapetus," said Douglas Hamilton, another author of the paper. The material has been found to have a similar composition to Phoebe's surface. "This new ring provided convincing evidence of that relationship."This is the second major discovery for astronomers studying Saturn in the past month. In September, evidence from the Cassini orbiter showed that Saturn's other rings were far less flat than expected.A new Earth-like planet, called Gliese 876 d, has been discovered orbiting a star called Gliese 876 about 15 light years from Earth.  It is the first rocky planet to be discovered orbiting a star, although three other rocky planets have in the past been discovered in orbit around a pulsar.  There are two other gaseous, Jupiter-like planets in orbit around the same star."This is the smallest extrasolar planet yet detected and the first of a new class of rocky terrestrial planets," said Paul Butler of the Carnegie Institution, one of the teams that discovered the new planet. "It's like Earth's bigger cousin."The newly discovered world has about 7½ times the mass of Earth.  Its orbital period, or "year", is a mere 2 days in length and its path takes it 10 times closer to its star than the closest planet is to our Sun.  The temperature on the surface is estimated between 400 to 750 degrees Fahrenheit (200 to 400 degrees Celsius), and is too hot for life forms that are similar to those found on Earth."A planet seven and a half times the mass of the Earth could easily hold onto an atmosphere," explained Gregory Laughlin, an assistant professor of astronomy at the University of California in Santa Cruz. "It would still be considered a rocky planet, probably with an iron core and a silicate mantle. It could even have a dense steamy water layer. I think what we are seeing here is something that's intermediate between a true terrestrial planet like the Earth and a hot version of the ice giants Uranus and Neptune."Astronomers are continuing to advance the science of detecting extrasolar worlds.  "We are pushing a whole new regime at Keck [Observatory in Hawaii] to achieve one meter per second precision, triple our old precision, that should also allow us to see Earth-mass planets around sun-like stars within the next few years," Butler said.The new South Pole Telescope has recently collected its first light in a long-term project to learn about the nature of dark energy. It will use the cold and dry conditions in Antarctica to detect cosmic microwave background radiation, which is said to be the afterglow of the Big Bang. The study will help determine if dark energy affected the development of galaxy clusters. Most of the $19.2 million funding for the telescope came from the National Science Foundation.New stars have been recently discovered in the Southern Cross, or Crux, by scientists in the United States. This discovery could affect the flags of New Zealand, Australia, Papua New Guinea, Samoa and Brazil, although the new star is located very close to the westernmost star and invisible to the naked eye.The American scientists found the new stars in the Southern Cross by using the Chandra X-ray Observatory, a space satellite run by NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration) which uses x-rays.When the scientist team, led by David Cohen of Swarthmore College in Pennsylvania, were using the Chandra telescope, they, to their surprise, saw two x-ray glows, each representing stars, where they expected to see one. The new star appears to be orbiting Beta Crucis, the westernmost star in the Southern Cross, once every 2,000 years. Doctor Nick Lomb, an astronomer at the Powerhouse Museum, Sydney, Australia, said that the reason the star had not been found before was because the glare from Beta Crucis is too great and "It would be like looking for a glow worm next to a floodlight." Before the recent discovery, it was already known that Beta Crucis had a partner, which is invisible to the human-eye.Mr Cohen said that they found it by accident, as they were really trying to get information about the x-rays emitted by Beta Crucis. "We were interested in how the highly supersonic stellar winds of hot, luminous stars produce X-rays."The star found at the bottom of the Southern Cross, Alpha Crucis "Acrux", also has a partner star, which is also invisible to the human-eye. This invisible partner is not featured on any flags.Dr Lomb said the apparent separation between each star is like looking at two headlights from 100 kilometres away, even though the two stars are actually 60 billion kilometres away from each other.Dr Lomb said that if Australia was to put all eight stars in the Southern Cross onto the Australia flag then "the flag would have to be huge, probably the size of Sydney." Astronomer Alan Gilmore from University of Canterbury's Mount John observatory, also agreed that flags should not be altered because it is not about how many stars there are in the Southern Cross, but the magnitude of the stars. Mr Gilmore said: "What you see by eye is what you see on the flag. If you wanted to add more stars, there's no end of stars you can put on if you go down in order of brightness. It would get very confusing."Mr Gilmore has said that in 20,000 years that Southern Cross will be different anyway, because the top star, Gamma Crucis is 90 light years away from Earth, while Alpha Crucis, Beta Crucis and Delta Crucis are all around 350 light years away and they are all moving in different directions. And Dr Lomb said that Alpha, Beta and Delta Crucis will die in a few million years.These findings were presented to the American Astronomical Society, Seattle, Washington, by an undergraduate of Mr Cohen's team, Michael Kuhn.A planet 50% greater in radius and with about 5 times earth mass orbiting the red dwarf Gliese 581 has been discovered inside the constellation of Libra. A 2005 search revealed that the star Gliese 581 possessed a Neptune sized planet, prompting astronomers to take a closer look.Gliese 581 c, as the planet is aptly named, has an estimated surface temperature between 0 and 40°C (32 and 104°F). Scientists claim the planet is likely to have an atmosphere and liquid water. A second planet, about 8 times the mass of earth, was also discovered not too far from Gliese 581 c.A team of scientists from France, Switzerland and Portugal discovered the planets using the ESO 3.6-m telescope from the High Accuracy Radial Velocity Planet Searcher or HARPS, located at the European Southern Observatory (ESO) in La Silla, Chile."The separation between the planet and its star is just right for having liquid water at its surface," said team spokesperson Stephane Udry of the Observatory of Geneva in Versoix, Switzerland. "That's why we are a bit excited.""Liquid water is critical to life as we know it and because of its temperature and relative proximity, this planet will most probably be a very important [focus] of future space missions dedicated to the search for extra-terrestrial life. On the treasure map of the Universe, one would be tempted to mark this planet with an X," added Xavier Delfosse, from Grenoble University in France.The newly discovered planet is 20.5 light-years away from the Earth.The following stories made international headlines Thurssday:Wikinews Staff Reports —The following stories made international headlines today:Commander Sergei Krikalev and flight engineer John Phillips began a planned six-hour spacewalk earlier today, their first in the four months both men have been on the station.  This week Krikalev exceeded Sergei Avdeyev's record of 748 (non-consecutive) days in space.Their tasks include retrieval and replacement of several experiments, photographing a materials science experiment, retrieving radiation sensors, installation of a television camera for the first arrival of Europe's new cargo vessel and relocation of a grapple fixture for a crane.  This will make room for the next shuttle crew to deliver radiation shields.However, that delivery is going to have to wait.NASA delayed the next Shuttle flight until next year so their engineers have time to address the foam problem that occurred during the most recent flight.  A rushed timetable for the previous launch has been criticised as a major contributing factor to the "same behavioral problems that contributed to the Columbia tragedy," an AP story stated.Two hangars at the Kennedy Space Center in which space shuttles are processed were evacuated when a leak of hydrazine was detected coming from Atlantis's Orbital Maneuvering System. The leak was first discovered in Bay No 1, where Atlantis is being post-flight serviced. Nearly 150 people were evacuated from Bay No. 1 hangar and Bay No 2. Both the space shuttle Atlantis and Endeavour were inside the hangar when the leak was detected.Hydrazine is a toxic fuel which combines with nitrogen tetroxide to provide power for the shuttle's two maneuvering engines while it is in space. A concentration of 60 parts per million was detected near Atlantis's engines, which is not a dangerous level."That's not what we consider a dangerous level. But with any reading above zero, we would take precautionary measures and evacuate the facility," said Jessica Rye, a spokeswoman for Kennedy Space Center.NASA said that no workers were exposed to fumes or injured."We wanted to make sure to take the employees who were around that area, make sure they were OK and there was no exposure to the hydrazine. Then what they'll do is make sure the bay is ready for people to go back, and I would anticipate if people aren't already back they will be shortly," added Rye.Despite international appeals, North Korea has gone ahead with a long publicised rocket launch. Authorities from the United States, Japan, and South Korea confirm that the rocket lifted off at 11.32 local time (02.32 GMT) on Sunday April 5, 2009."A short time ago a flying object appeared to have been launched from North Korea," read a statement by the Japanese government. The rocket seems to have passed over the Japanese capital of Tokyo and headed over the Pacific Ocean. Two parts of the rocket, the first and second stages, fell either side of the Japanese home islands, falling into the Sea of Japan and the Pacific.A statement by the North Korean official news agency said that the rocket had successfully launched a satellite which is now broadcasting "data" and North Korean propaganda songs. A South Korean source told the South Korean Yonhap news agency that the rocket did appear to be carrying a satellite. The North Korean statement calls the rocket Unha-2 ("Galaxy-2") and the satellite Kwangmyŏngsŏng-2 ("Lodestar 2").However, the US Northern Command stated that the launch of the rocket failed, and that the payload and second stage have fallen into the Pacific Ocean.President Obama of the United States condemned the launch as "provocative" and stated that "North Korea has ignored its international obligations...and further isolated itself from the community of nations." America, Japan and South Korea will discuss the launch at an emergency UN Security Council meeting at 15:00 EDT (1900 GMT).Pyongyang's one ally, China, has called for "restraint" on all sides. Both China and fellow veto power Russia oppose further sanctions on North Korea.Resolution 1718 enacted in the wake of a stated 2006 nuclear weapons test bans North Korea from missile development. North Korea claims that the rocket is a launch vehicle to orbit a satellite, however its neighbours suggest that this is simply a cover for a long-range missile test, a missile that could potentially hit Alaska and the West Coast of the United States.North Korea may be planning to launch one of its Taepodong-2 missiles in the next few days, having announced earlier that it intends to put a communications satellite into space. U.S. intelligence officials announced Wednesday that a missile had been rolled out to a pad at its Musudan launch facility. It is unknown whether the missile is in fact carrying a satellite, or if a warhead may be in its place. The missile is reported to be capable of carrying either. Only after a post-launch analysis will officials be able to determine what the missile may have been carrying. United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton commented that were North Korea to launch a missile, they would be in violation of a United Nations Security Council resolution, and that the U.S. would voice its opposition with the U.N. if North Korea went through with the plan.Fears abound over the possibility of the missile being used in warfare, with the Taepodong-2 rumored to be able to reach the U.S. states of Alaska and Hawaii.Japan has warned that it will shoot down any such missiles launched by North Korea with its U.S.-made Patriot anti-missile defense system.South Korea's response was less specific, with chief nuclear envoy Wi Sung-lac saying "If North Korea launches [a] rocket, certain countermeasures are unavoidable."The previous launch of a Taepodong-2 missile was in 2006, which ended in failure after it went out of control and was destroyed.North Korea has denied in a statement that the nation's military is preparing to test-fire a long range ballistic missile. The country instead says that they are preparing to launch a space program."One will come to know later what will be launched in the DPRK. Space development is the independent right of the DPRK and the requirement of the developing reality," said the statement according to the Korean Central News Agency.The statement also went on to accuse the United States and other nations of "viciously tricking [the country into putting] a brake on the wheel of not only the DPRK's building of military capability for self-defense but also scientific researches for peaceful purpose under the pretext of missile," added the statement.Earlier reports from the U.S. and South Korean government had said that N. Korea was planning a test launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile, the Taepodong-2. In 2006 the country test launched the same kind of missile, but military officials in the U.S. said the missile failed.Previous reports say that N. Korea was trying to gain the attention of the new U.S. president Barack Obama, but the country denies those claims, saying, "the DPRK has no need to draw anyone's attention and does not want anybody to interfere or meddle in the issue of the Korean Peninsula."In what has been interpreted as a thinly veiled threat, the North Korean government in Pyongyang has issued a statement saying that it could not guarantee the safety of airliners transiting its airspace.The warning has led to Korean Air, Asiana Airlines and international carriers Air Canada and Singapore Airlines to reroute services that normally pass through North Korean airspace.The statement has been widely condemned, with South Korean spokesman Kim Ho-nyeon saying "Threatening civilian airliners' normal operations under international aviation regulations is not only against the international rules but is an act against humanity..." The latest interchange of words comes on the eve of two events. The first a launch of a North Korean satellite seen by the United States, Japan and South Korea as a test launch of North Korea's Taepodong-2 ballistic missile.This satellite launch coincides with an annual joint United States, South Korean military exercise, which the North has condemned in the past as a dress rehearsal for an invasion. An expansion of this year's exercises in length and scale is being seen by Pyongyang as cover for preparations to shoot down its launch vehicle.Pyongyang has threatened both Japan and the United States, the two nations in the region capable of shooting down its satellite with "...merciless retaliatory blows" and has placed its 1.2 million strong army on alert.Forecasters predict that northern lights could be visible to the naked eye late tonight and early tomorrow morning across Canada, northern parts of the U.S., and possibly the United Kingdom. Solar storms caused a large ejection of plasma from the Sun's surface on Sunday, and the plasma is heading directly towards Earth. The plasma, a cloud of rapidly moving hydrogen gas atoms and subatomic particles, is expected to reach us late Tuesday. The plasma will interact with the Earth's magnetic field and atmosphere, which will cause northern lights, or aurora borealis, to be visible much further south than is usual. Northern lights usually appear as green or red rivers of lights across the sky."It's the first major Earth-directed eruption in quite some time" said astronomer Leon Golub of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. The eruption was detected by NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory, which was launched in February 2010, and is currently orbiting the Earth. The Sun goes through approximately eleven-year long activity cycles, with the last maximum occurring in 2001. Sunday's eruption is a sign that the many years of inactivity is over, and the Sun is heading towards another maximum.An object that fell through the roof of a New Jersey home in January was not a meteorite, according to Jeremy Delaney, a geologist at Rutgers University. Instead, it appears the object was space junk or orbital debris."Basically, it's a piece of stainless steel. There's huge amounts of material that have been left by the various space programs of the world," said Delaney.The meteorite shaped object was not from a naturally occurring substance and had a silver like reflection. It weighed about the same as a small can of soup, 13 ounces (about 370 grams), but was no bigger than a golf ball.Earlier during the incident, scientists from Rutgers examined the object visually along with police who were at the scene, and determined it was a meteorite. But further tests by geologists confirmed that it was not a meteorite, but probably a metal piece from a rocket or satellite. They had earlier thought it was made of iron."That's the nature of science. If the conclusion from the test says it's not a meteorite, then it's not a meteorite. We have to move forward," said Srinivasan Nageswaran, a member of the family that found the object.Researchers in San Joaquin County, California have discovered what appears to be a massive impact crater made by an asteroid nearly 50 million years ago, while exploring the area for possible oil deposits. The period in which it struck the Earth, say researchers, is called the Eocene Epoch.Images from a seismic survey has shown the crater is about 3 miles (6 kilometers) wide, buried under sediment at nearly 4,300 feet and may even still contain the asteroid which is said to still be inside the crater nearly 10 miles below the Earth's surface. The crater is reported to be below an area previously covered by water."Analyses of a 3-D seismic survey and well logs in the southwestern Sacramento basin, San Joaquin County, California, have revealed a subsurface, circular, 3 mile (~5.5-km-) diameter anomaly that may represent a previously unrecognized complex impact crater. This unique anomaly, buried 4,500-5,000 ft (1,490–1,600 m) below sea level under the southwestern part of the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta, is provisionally named the Victoria Island structure for an overlying surface geographic feature," J. R. Morrow of San Diego State University during the 38th Lunar and Planetary Science Conference, held in Houston, Texas.In the images, researchers found that the crater contained a "central uplift," or the peak near the center, which researchers say is a good sign that the discovery is a crater created by an asteroid. Researchers plan to look at rock samples that will be retrieved during a drilling mission surrounding the impact area. They hope to find shocked quartz, melted rock and glass. The element known as iridium is also expected to be found in elevated levels.This is the second such crater to be found in the central valley of California. The "Cowell structure" which is said to be 0.8 miles wide, is said to be nearly 25 million years old.Researchers now call the crater "The Victoria Island Structure." The impact would have been as strong as 100,000 nuclear bombs all going off at once.NASA has finally accomplished its first spaceflight with the new Orion spacecraft, uncrewed, on Friday morning.  The spacecraft has now traveled farther from the Earth than any other spacecraft designed to carry a crew has traveled in over four decades.The Orion crew module was launched off from Space Launch Complex 37 at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida mounted on top of a United Launch Alliance Delta IV Heavy rocket. Four and a half hours later, the space module landed in the Pacific Ocean.During the mission, the spacecraft reached an altitude of 3,600 miles (5800 kilometers) and experienced periods of intense radiation when traveling twice through the Van Allen belt. Upon re-entry in the Earth's atmosphere, Orion achieved speeds of 20,000 miles per hour (32,000 kilometers per hour) and temperatures reached 4,000 degrees Fahrenheit (2200 degrees Celsius).NASA has reported the entire spacecraft remained in one piece, with all the onboard computers still working despite the high radiation in the Van Allen belt. All the parachutes deployed without incident.NASA said this is the farthest spacecraft have flown since the Apollo 17 mission 42 years ago, opening up new human explorations of space and getting closer to the goal of putting people on Mars.Had astronauts been on board Orion, they would have experienced 8.2 times the force of gravity on Earth, NASA said.  Astronaut Rex Walheim, of the last Space Shuttle mission, talked about future crewed Mars missions and becoming "a multi-planetary species".The Orion program manager hopes NASA will look at information from this spaceflight and apply it to the next Orion spacecraft, to be launched by the Space Launch System rocket.A 182-page report issued September 1 by the United States National Research Council warns that the amount of debris in space is reaching "a tipping point", and could cause damage to satellites or spacecraft. The report calls for regulations to reduce the amount of debris, and suggests that scientists increase research into methods to remove some of the debris from orbit, though it makes no recommendations about how to do so.NASA sponsored the study.A statement released along with the report warns that, according to some computer models, the debris "has reached a tipping point, with enough currently in orbit to continually collide and create even more debris, raising the risk of spacecraft failures". According to the Satellite Industry Association, there are now about 1,000 working satellites in Earth orbit, and industry revenues last year were US$168 billion (£104.33 billion,€119.01 billion).The unmanned Progress M-06M spacecraft, which failed to dock with the International Space Station a few days ago, succeeded in a second attempt Sunday. Russian officials said that today's docking went flawlessly and exactly as planned, save for the fact that the docking occurred two days behind schedule.NASA officials made clear that in the event of a total failure of the cargo ship, the orbital outpost's crew would have had enough surplus supplies to utilize until October or possibly November. By that time, a space shuttle and another Progress spacecraft would have arrived at the station to deliver supplies.According to NASA, Friday's abort was most likely due to the faulty activation of a TV transmitter, which led to loss of telemetry and the initiation of an abort sequence. This, in turn, caused the spacecraft to fly past the station. The station's crew, however, were never in any danger, as the craft bypassed the outpost at a safe distance. The spacecraft, which was launched last week, delivered food, water, oxygen, and other utilities to the orbiting American-Russian crew.A group of 41 paleontologists and researchers reaffirmed the cause of dinosaur extinction.  The research team concluded that a giant asteroid killed dinosaurs over 65 million years ago.  The asteroid crashed into Yucatán, Mexico creating the Chicxulub crater.  Their report was published Friday in the academic journal Science.In 1980, Louis Alvarez and son, Walter, had published a paper stating that an asteroid had killed the dinosaurs.  The Chicxulub crater was also discovered in Mexico at approximately that same time, therefore the theory gained scientific acceptance.  More recent explanations of the cause of dinosaur's extinction included that perhaps volcanic eruptions on Deccan traps or multiple asteroid crashes ended the dinosaurs' existence.The team performed chemical analyses of soil and fossil samples, where a high concentration of iridium (which is commonly found in asteroids and meteors) was found, which dated back to the approximate time of the asteroid crash. The asteroid measured approximately 7.5 miles wide, and hit with an impact of one billion times the force of the Hiroshima atomic bomb.  The impact would have immediately killed all animals and plant life within the radius of half of a continent.  With such an impact, debris would have flown into the air and then fallen back into the atmosphere with the force of a ballistic missile.The crash of this asteroid into the earth would have also caused the equivalent of the heat of ten noonday suns, which would have burned the skin or feathers of dinosaurs, and created wildfires on any plant life which had survived to that point. The crash would have also triggered massive earthquakes and tsunamis, possibly causing parts of continents to fall into the ocean.The area of Yucatán which the asteroid struck had also been rich in sulfur, which was blasted out of the earth and into the sky, where it would have mixed with water vapors, creating clouds that rained sulfuric acid, and which would block out the sun for approximately a decade.Sir Paul McCartney is scheduled on Saturday, November 12, to perform the first concert broadcast live into space.  Performing in Anaheim, CA, McCartney will awaken astronaut Bill McArther and cosmonaut Valery Tokarev on the International Space Station.  Songs played will include "English Tea" from his newly-released album "Chaos and Creation in the Backyard."  Also on the playlist is the Beatles classic "Good Day Sunshine".The idea for the show originally came from a report McCartney received about "Good Day Sunshine" being used to wake astronauts aboard the space shuttle Discovery as it prepared to land in August.  Said Sir Paul "I was extremely proud to find out that one of my songs was played for Discovery this summer.  In our concert we hope to return the favor."This event will mark the first time a live music show is broadcast into space.  It should be noted that only his voice will be heard, as there is no video feed from the site.  The former Beatle has seen interest in his work climb recently with the release of a critically-acclaimed album and a children's book, as well as a series of American commercials feature songs from his new album and a collage of video clips and photos detailing his life's work.A Pegasus-XL carrier rocket, air-launched by a Lockheed L-1011 TriStar flying from Kwajalein Atoll in the Marshall Islands, has placed the much-delayed C/NOFS satellite into a low Earth orbit.C/NOFS, which stands for Communications/Navigation Outage Forecasting System, will investigate and forecast scintillations in the Earth's ionosphere, which are responsible for degradation of signals from navigation and communications satellites. It was originally scheduled to launch in 2003, but owing to a string of delays, it was finally launched at 17:01 GMT today. It will be operated by the Air Force Research Laboratory and Space Test Program offices of the United States Air Force.The launch was conducted by Orbital Sciences Corporation. It is the first launch of a Pegasus rocket in almost a year. The next Pegasus is scheduled to launch in July, with NASA's IBEX satellite. The launch of C/NOFS is the 17th launch to orbit this year and the 39th orbital Pegasus launch.Just after sunrise on Sunday (1:21 UTC), NASA astronaut and biochemist Peggy Whitson, 57, returned to Earth in Kazakhstan, in a Soyuz capsule, after a 288-day mission in the International Space Station (ISS), bringing her lifetime total days in space to 665, the most for any U.S. astronaut, most for any female astronaut internationally, and eighth overall.Whitson was greeted with flowers, a pair of sunglasses and a medical team.  All three arriving on the capsule, Whitson, fellow top-ten endurance astronaut Fyodor Yurchikhin, and NASA astronaut Jack Fischer, were carried from the capsule in chairs because they were no longer used to Earth's gravity.  Because of Hurricane Harvey, which flooded the Johnson Space Center and much of the rest of Texas the previous week, NASA was unable to send a plane to pick them up at their landing site.  Instead the European Space Agency transported all three to Cologne, Germany.The astronaut left in command of the ISS, Randy Bresnik, had left them with, "We are in your debt for the supreme dedication that you guys have to the human mission of exploration," and called Whitson in particular an "American space ninja."Whitson's colleagues on the ground said she worked at great speed, continually seeking and performing new experiments. Her team completed work on plant physiology, chemotherapy drugs, and the effects of microgravity on stem cells and human eyes.Whitson's home, in Houston, was not destroyed by Hurricane Harvey, though NASA's staff there has experienced some hardship, with many sleeping at Mission Control. Whitson commented, "Any trepidations I might have about returning in the aftermath of a hurricane are entirely eclipsed by all those folks keeping our mission going."According to the Associated Press, Whitson has broken a few other records: She is the oldest woman to serve in space and the most experienced female spacewalker, at ten spacewalks.  She is also the first woman to have commanded the ISS more than once.Peruvian scientists confirmed on September 20 that the crater found Saturday in the Puno region, of Peru by local villagers and blamed for a mass illness affecting 200 people was likely caused by a meteorite. Jose Ishitsuka, of Peru's Geophysics Institute, found a three-inch magnetic fragment that contained iron, which is common in all rocks from space. The impact also registered a magnitude 1.5 earthquake, equivalent to 4.9 tons of dynamite exploding. Jay Melosh, an expert on impact craters and professor of planetary science at the University of Arizona, was initially skeptical that the crater was caused by a meteorite, but recently said, "It begins to sound more likely to me that this object could indeed be a meteorite."The crater made by the meteorite measured 15 feet deep and 65 feet wide.Scientists from the European Space Agency (ESA) announced yesterday the Philae space probe, as part of the Rosetta mission, has landed on a comet called Comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko. It is the first time ever a controlled landing has been made on a comet.Scientists say the anchors that hold the probe on the comet's surface malfunctioned and they are investigating this. Although the anchors malfunctioned, many have treated the mission as a success.The ESA director general said, "Our ambitious Rosetta mission has secured a place in the history books".The space probe took a decade and traveled six billion kilometers to reach the comet, as it orbited through the solar system.The purpose of the Rosetta mission is to learn how a comet works and to investigate the origins of planets. Scientists plan on gathering data on the comet from the probe for about a year. They plan to see how the comet interacts with the sun's solar winds.Comets may possibly have been a source of water delivery to the earth along with organic matter that can form proteins and support life. Scientists hope to understand how planets form, especially how the Earth formed, since comets collided with the Earth long ago.For the first time ever, NASA has confirmed the presence of water ice on Mars. The Phoenix lander, which landed on Mars on May 25, has confirmed to NASA scientists that the white substance it found while digging a trench on June 15 is water ice."It is with great pride and a lot of joy that I announce today that we have found proof that this hard bright material is really water ice and not some other substance," said Peter Smith, the primary investigator for Phoenix, at the University of Arizona in Tucson, Arizona.The chunks were left at the bottom of a trench informally called "Dodo-Goldilocks" when Phoenix's Robotic Arm enlarged that trench on June 15, during the 20th Martian day, or sol, since landing. Several were gone when Phoenix looked at the trench days later. The chunks were visible on June 16, but when Phoenix looked at the trench again on June 19, some of the material had disappeared, implying that it may have evaporated or melted."This tells us we've got water ice within reach of the arm, which means we can continue this investigation with the tools we brought with us," said primary investigator for Phoenix's stereo imager, Mark Lemmon.Scientists are planning to examine the substance and the soil surrounding it more closely. They plan to test it for signs of organic material and minerals, and hope to find out if the ice was ever a liquid which could have supported microbial life.In December of 2006, scientists announced that the Mars Global Surveyor captured images of deposits in gullies on the surface of the planet Mars which have been created since the areas were photographed nine years ago. These deposits were believed to be the residue of liquid water breaking out of cliffs and crater walls, carrying sediment downhill through the gullies, and later evaporating. The gullies are located inside the Terra Sirenum crater and the Centauri Montes regions.In June 2007 the ESA's Mars Express spacecraft discovered ice deposits in the South Pole of Mars that are larger than the state of Texas. Scientists say that there is enough water in the deposits to cover the entire planet with up to 36 feet of water if the ice was to melt.NASA's Phoenix spacecraft has launched from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, atop a Delta II 7925 rocket, on the first leg of its mission to land on Mars. Lift-off occurred from LC-17A, at 5:26:34 a.m. EDT (UTC-4). The spacecraft separated from its carrier rocket about 85 minutes after launch.The mission is the first in NASA's Mars Scout program. It was originally scheduled to launch on August 3, but was delayed 24 hours due to a weather concern preventing second stage fueling on August 1.The robotic arm scoop on the Phoenix lander on Mars has made its first impression on the red planet, leaving behind a mark that resembles a human footprint. It began its first dig on Saturday, May 31, and the camera on board the arm caught an image."This first touch allows us to utilize the Robotic Arm accurately. We are in a good situation for the upcoming sample acquisition and transfer," stated Phoenix's surface mission manager from NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, David Spencer.Scientists named the initial impression Yeti in an area they describe as 'The King of Hearts'. NASA has decided to name the various tasks and operations performed by Phoenix after fairy tale and mythological characters.On Friday May 30, 2008, the same camera captured images of what appears to be ice under the lander. Scientists, who named the exposed area Snow Queen, say that as Phoenix landed the exhaust from its thrusters cleared away a three- to four-inch layer of Martian soil which exposed a flat layer of a white substance that NASA says could be ice. The image shows the white layer which is shiny and smooth. Scientists expect to find more of the alleged ice when Phoenix begins its digging mission not far from the initial test dig."What we see in the images is in agreement with the notion that it may be ice, and we suspect we will see the same thing in the digging area," stated Uwe Keller, Robotic Arm Camera lead scientist for Phoenix.Phoenix is searching for evidence of water and microbial life on Mars. Its mission is to determine Mars's ability or inability to host life and hold water. The Phoenix lander uses a robotic arm to dig through the protective top soil layer to the alleged water ice below and ultimately bring both soil and water ice to the lander platform for sophisticated scientific analysis.A rare, but normal, astronomical event occurred today as the planet Mercury passed in front of the Sun from the perspective of the Earth. The event, called a transit was at least partially visible from most of the planet, except from Europe when the transit happened during local nighttime.Visible as a perfectly round dot only 1/195th the diameter of the Sun, Mercury took about an hour and a half to move across the southern limb of the Sun, starting at 7:12PM UTC and ending at 9:41PM UTC.From the point of view of the Earth, transits of this type can only occur with the two innermost planets - Mercury and Venus. Due to the orbital inclination of Mercury - 7° relative to the Earth - transits do not happen every time Mercury passes the Earth every 116 days. Only once every 23 times does a transit happen. The last time Mercury transited the Sun was May 7, 2003. The next transit will occur on May 9, 2016.Such rare events have fascinated astronomers since the invention of the telescope first allowed them to view them. Captain Cook, for example,  found Australia's east coast while on a voyage to track the transit of Venus in 1769. Recording these transits allowed astronomers to make the first accurate calculations of the distance between the Sun and the Earth.While not scientifically used for this purpose anymore, transits provide a glimpse into one way  astronomers can currently search for extra-solar planets. Astronomers using this method of searching will monitor other stars to see if the star dims ever so slightly as an extra-solar planet passes between the star it is orbiting and the Earth. Being able to detect such a small, temporary drop in brightness may indicate the presence of such a planet.Viewing solar transits are fascinating, but only if done safely. People must never look directly at the Sun at any time! The safest way of viewing a transit is to project the image of the Sun as seen through a telescope onto a screen. It may also be viewed with properly made and placed solar filters.Stargazers in Massachusetts will get a rare show on Sunday night, just before the local Sunrise.The planets Mars, Mercury and Jupiter will line up and will be seen in clear skies at least 45 minutes before sunrise, and will be seen each morning until December 14, 2006."Jupiter will be very bright and it will look like it has two bright lights next to it, and they won't twinkle because they're planets. When I look at something like this, I realize that all the powers on Earth, all the emperors, all the money, cannot change it one iota. We are observers, but the wonderful part of that is that we are the only species on this planet that can observe it and understand it," said television show host of Star Gazer, Jack Horkheimer. He is also director of the Space Transit Planetarium in Miami, Florida.This will be the closest planet-lineup to Earth until 2053. The previous closest viewing occurred in 1925.On Wednesday, NASA scientists said that, unlike green plants on the planet Earth, plants on other planets may be the color red or yellow.Plants on Earth are green because they contain chlorophyll.  The chlorophyll appears green because it absorbs mainly blue and red light in order to produce food for the plant via photosynthesis, while reflecting the green light frequency.Scientists at NASA point out that if the stars for other planets were in a different state than our sun and if the light frequency that reached the planets' surface was different, then the plants on those planets would have also evolved a different type of photosynthetic pigment other than chlorophyll. This pigment would be dedicated towards the different light frequencies received by the planet causing the plant to appear a different color from green such as red and yellow.Carl Pilcher, director of the NASA Astrobiology Institute, said, "This work broadens our understanding of how life may be detected on Earth-like planets around other stars, while simultaneously improving our understanding of life on Earth. This approach--studying Earth life to guide our search for life on other worlds--is the essence of astrobiology."The research into the color of plants on other planets was started by California Institute of Technology astrobiologist Vikki Meadows and a host of other scientists who were studying how light is absorbed and reflected by plants and some bacteria on Earth. Using this data, a computer model was designed to predict the color of plants and bacteria on other planets.Nancy Kiang, a biometeorologist at NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies, noted that it was unlikely any of the plants would be the color blue, "It appears that harvesting blue light is very common across the board for photosynthetic organisms. I think it is unlikely that anything will be blue."File:Pluto Earth size comparison.jpgToday, astronomers have endorsed a proposal about the definition of the word "planet". As a consequence, our solar system now counts only 8 planets. They are Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Pluto no longer meets the criteria and loses its planet status, but becomes the prototype of a distinct class of dwarf planets.Ceres and 2003 UB313 also have been recognised as dwarf planets. Charon, which was previously in the run for promotion, did not meet the final criteria for a dwarf planet.Some 2500 astronomers from over 75 countries gathered this week in Prague at the Congress of the International Astronomical Union (IAU) to decide on several issues like a formal definition of a planet. Previously, there was no definition and with the discovery of new objects beyond Pluto there was much need for a clear criterion. The scientists also discussed new research findings in their field.Louis Friedman, the executive director of the Planetary Society in California said: "The classification doesn't matter. Pluto — and all Solar System objects — are mysterious and exciting new worlds that need to be explored and better understood."The final draft states: "A planet is a celestial body that is in orbit around the Sunhas sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shapehas cleared the neighbourhood around its orbit.A dwarf planet is a celestial body thatis in orbit around the Sun,has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape,has not cleared the neighbourhood around its orbit,is not a satellite.All other objects except satellites orbiting the Sun shall be referred to collectively as Small Solar-System Bodies."Pluto did not meet one of the criteria for planet: its orbit is highly eccentric, causing it to overlap with Neptune's. The IAU has a dozen other objects similar to Pluto on its "watchlist" and is expected to announce new dwarf planets in the coming months and years.Ever since its discovery by American Clyde Tombaugh in 1930, Pluto has been considered a planet, though its status has been questioned many times after it was discovered to be far less massive than earlier calculations suggested, and because of its many other eccentricities. As a consequence of the vote, many textbooks, encyclopedias and other sources will need rewriting.The two recently discovered moons of the planet Pluto were officially named Hydra and Nix by the International Astronomical Union, the internationally recognized authority for assigning designations to celestial bodies. The moons were discovered in May last year by the Pluto Companion Search Team, a team of scientists from the Southwest Research Institute (SwRI), the Johns Hopkins University's Applied Physics Laboratory (APL), the Space Telescope Science Institute and Lowell Observatory, using images taken from the Hubble space telescope. The moons were  designated as S/2005 P1 (Hydra) and P2 (Nix) upon discovery. Their discovery comes 27 years after the discovery of Pluto's largest moon Charon. The two moons are roughly 5000 times fainter than Pluto and two to three times farther from Pluto, compared to Charon. The two bodies are roughly 50 km in diameter. The names are derived from Greek mythology, where Hydra is a monster with the body of a serpent and nine heads and Nix is the goddess of darkness and night. Nix is also the mother of Charon, an allusion to the giant impact which is believed to have created the three satellites of Pluto, with Charon borne of the material from which Nix formed. Pluto himself is the god of the underworld.Pope Benedict XVI spoke with astronauts aboard the International Space Station yesterday, marking the first time a pope has conversed with astronauts in orbit. Organized by the European Space Agency (ESA), the call originated from the Vatican Library at 7:11 am Eastern time. German ESA astronaut Thomas Reiter, president of the Italian Space Agency Enrico Saggese, and General Giuseppe Bernardis of the Italian Air Force were also in the room at the Vatican. Aboard the spacecraft were Italian, U.S., and Russian crew members of the Endeavour STS-134 mission and Expedition 27. Endeavour commander and U.S. astronaut Mark Kelly greeted His Holiness aboard the spacecraft. The Pope wished Kelly's wife, Arizona Rep. Gabrielle Giffords, well as she recovers from an assassination attempt that took place in January. Doctors inserted a hard plastic implant, or a bone flap, into Giffords's skull last Wednesday. The Pope also asked of the astronauts' impressions of the planet from space."We fly over most of the world and we don't see borders, but at the same time we realize that people fight with each other and there is a lot of violence in this world," Kelly said. The Pope sent his condolences to Italian astronaut Paolo Nespoli, whose mother died earlier this month while he was in space.On Tuesday U.S. President Donald Trump signed a bill authorizing US$19.5 billion in funding for the 2018 fiscal year to go to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and specifically naming the exploration of Mars as one of the agency's goals. According to Senator Ted Cruz, NASA has not been the recipient of this kind of authorization bill for seven years."NASA's work has inspired millions and millions of Americans to imagine distant worlds and a better future right here on earth," President Trump said in a statement. "I'm delighted to sign this bill. [...] reaffirming our commitment to the core mission of NASA: human space exploration, space science and technology." The bill was also sponsored by former 2016 presidential candidates Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz who joined astronauts and other notables in the Oval Office for the signing.A budget of US$19.1 billion is proposed for the following year, which would be a slight decrease from the current year, but overall, President Trump's plans for the U.S. annual budget have been controversial.  In what presidential advisor Steve Bannon calls "deconstruction of the administrative state," there have been large cuts to — amongst other things — the Environmental Protection Agency and rural job training programs such as the Appalachian Regional Commission.The NASA Transition Authorization Act also allocates funds for commercial space flight, the International Space Station and other related projects. The goal of landing humans on Mars is set for the 2030s.  NASA already has a multi-step plan to accomplish this, including testing the Orion spacecraft and Space Launch System rocket and manipulating asteroids.The primary camera on the Hubble Space Telescope has shut down and is likely to only be restored to partial functionality, according to reports from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA).The camera on the telescope, known as the "Advanced Camera for Surveys" or ACS, can be reactivated but will be restored to only one-third of its operating capacity. The restoration will probably take place in mid-February. The camera shut down over the weekend, probably due to a failure of its backup power supply. It was the third such shutdown of the camera in the past calendar year. The camera had been operating on its backup power since June 30, 2006, when engineers switched from the primary power supply ("Side A") to the backup ("Side B") due to a malfunction. A review board was convened on January 29 to assess all options and to decide on a course of action. Their findings will be reported to NASA on March 2, 2007.The ACS, developed jointly by four American agencies, was installed in March of 2002. It is a system of three cameras, filters, and dispersers which act to detect wavelengths of light ranging from near-infrared to ultraviolet. It is a system that was designed to last five years, according to Preston Burch, associate director and program manager for the Hubble Space Telescope. NASA also indicated that the other four main systems on the telescope remain unaffected and functioning normally. Research work will resume this week using those systems.A scheduled mission to the space telescope in 2008 is expected to deliver instruments to further upgrade the capabilities of the telescope. It is not known what the effect of the ACS failure will have on the scheduled mission. Burch said in a press release posted on the NASA main website, "It is important that the review board conduct a thorough investigation that will allow us to determine if there are any changes needed in the new instruments that will be installed on the upcoming servicing mission so that we can be sure of maximizing the telescope's scientific output. We are continuing to make excellent progress in our preparations for the servicing mission, which is presently targeted to fly in September 2008."Progress spacecraft M-63, serial number 363, also designated Progress 28P, has been launched by the Russian Federal Space Agency on a mission to resupply the International Space Station. Liftoff, atop a Soyuz-U carrier rocket occurred at 13:02 GMT, from Area 1/5 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.The spacecraft will dock with the space station on Thursday, a few hours ahead of the scheduled launch of Space Shuttle Atlantis on STS-122, with the Columbus module, a new laboratory which will enhance the outpost's research capabilities.The Progress spacecraft is used to deliver supplies and experiments to the station. Typically four or five are launched each year, with the two most recently launched remaining on station, the oldest being undocked and de-orbited shortly before the arrival of a new one.  However in this case, owing to the imminent Space Shuttle launch, there is currently no Progress spacecraft at the ISS, following the undocking of Progress M-62 yesterday.Progress spacecraft, which are loose analogues of the Soyuz spacecraft, have been used as resupply craft in space station programmes since Salyut 6.  Progress M-63 is the 28th Progress spacecraft to fly as part of the ISS programme.This is the fourth orbital launch of 2008, and the second for Russia.The unmanned Progress M-06M supply ship failed to dock with the International Space Station Friday due to an apparent critical communications failure. The spacecraft bypassed the station at a safe distance and NASA officials report that the six member American-Russian space station crew were never in any danger; however, flight controllers are struggling to determine what exactly went wrong.It is believed that the abort was caused by a malfunction in the Progress spacecraft's automatic docking system, resulting in the loss of telemetry data. The malfunction occurred while the spacecraft was at a distance of several kilometers from the orbital outpost, and there was never any threat to the spacecraft or the station, report NASA officials. "The Progress literally flew past the station, but at a safe distance from the outpost," says NASA commentator Rob Navias, "The station crew reported seeing the Progress drift beyond their view, as they worked to reestablish telemetry with the spacecraft."The Progress supply ship was intended to deliver food, water, fuel, and other supplies to the space station and was launched earlier this week. According to Russian officials, no additional docking attempts will be made today. Flight controllers in Moscow are analyzing the problem and are weighing the possibility of a second docking attempt within 48 hours, but this still remains to be determined.During a NASA competition, a group of researchers managed to create a robot, powered by a ground based laser, to climb a cable 1 kilometer high dangling from a helicopter.The contest winners will receive US$2 million for inventing a functioning robot which climbs to the set height in a reasonable amount of time. The competition took place in the Mojave desert at NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center on Edwards Air Force Base, and teams from Missouri, Alaska, and Seattle competed for the prize. It was held to further the research on technology capable of making the 22,000 mile journey into outer space.The laws of physics are playing against the researchers. The cost of implementing a project where these laws could be handled and orbit achieved is very high: an estimated $22 Billion. Although a working space elevator is a futuristic idea, the projects used in the research today could potentially create such an elevator.A team from Seattle was announced as the second place winner, winning $990,000 in prize money. They did not earn the full $2 million because they were unable to achieve the required speeds. Despite their research, none of the teams were able to get their robots to the top.A Proton rocket which was intended to launch the JCSAT-11 satellite into a geostationary transfer orbit lifted off and successfully completed its first stage burn, but the second stage failed leading to loss of the rocket and satellite.The launch vehicle was a Proton M booster with a Breeze M upper stage. More than 300 Proton rockets have been launched, all from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. Following the launch failure, Kazakhstan suspended the launch of Proton rockets from Baikonur, Interfax news agency reported.JSAT Corporation immediately placed an order with Lockheed Martin, the satellite manufacturer, for an identical replacement satellite based on the A2100AX design.At 23:18:55 GMT this evening, a Russian Proton-M/Briz-M rocket launched from Area 200/39 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, with the AMC-14 satellite for American communications organisation SES Americom. The rocket, operated by International Launch Services (ILS), lifted off on time, and headed towards a Geosynchronous orbit. Around forty minutes after lift-off, ILS reported that an anomaly had occurred during the second burn of the upper stage. AMC-14, which would have been operated in conjunction with Echostar was to provide direct-to-home satellite television services. It was based on the Lockheed Martin A2100 satellite bus.This is the 11th orbital launch of 2008, and the first to fail. It is also the 334th launch of the Proton rocket, the 41st Proton launch failure, the 2,800th Russian orbital launch, and the 45th Proton launch to be conducted by ILS. It is also the third failure of a Proton during an ILS launch in as many years, following a malfunction during a launch last September, and another in February 2006.The Proton itself performed nominally, and the Briz-M upper stage successfully completed the first of three burns. During the second burn, however, an undisclosed malfunction occurred, leaving the satellite stranded in a much lower orbit than planned. It is unclear whether the satllite is recoverable. There are currently three options, which are to declare the satellite a write-off and de-orbit it, attempt to raise it to geosynchronous orbit under its own power, or propel it towards the Moon, using lunar gravity to slingshot it back into the correct orbit. If either of the latter options are chosen, it will be at great cost to the satellite's on-orbit life expectancy.A Russian Proton-M/Briz-M carrier rocket launched this morning at 00:18 UTC, carrying the Ekspress AM-33 (also known as Express AM-33) communication satellite.Launch, from area 200/39 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan took place on schedule, and the satellite was successfully placed into an intermediate transfer orbit. Operations to place the satellite into its final Geosynchronous orbit, through further burns of the Briz-M upper stage, should have been completed, however no official announcement has yet been made.This is the third orbital launch of 2008, and the first to be conducted by Russia.The satellite will provide C, L and Ku-band communication services. It has a mass of 2600kg, and an expected orbital lifetime of 12 years. It was constructed by NPO PM and Thales Alenia Space, and will be operated by the Russian Space Communication Company, and RKA. It will be placed in a geosynchronous orbit, about 36,000 kilometres above the Earth, at a longitude of 95.5°E. It will replace the AM-11 satellite, which malfunctioned in 2006.At 23:59 GMT yesterday, a Russian Proton rocket, with a Block DM-3 upper stage, launched from Site 81/24 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, placing a Prognoz satellite for the Russian Ministry of Defence into a geosynchronous orbit. Prognoz satellites are used for missile detection, as a defence against nuclear attacks.The Proton-K configuration was used for this launch. The Proton-K, also known as the Proton 8K72K, is an old configuration, which is out of production. It is believed that three more Proton-K rockets are in storage. The modernised Proton-M, which will replace it, has been in use for commercial launches for several years, and made its first military launch last December.This is the first launch of a Proton since a failure in March, which left the AMC-14 satellite stranded in a useless orbit. The Briz-M upper stage, whose malfunction resulted in the launch failure, was not used in today's launch, with an older Block DM stage being flown instead. The Briz-M has been cleared for return to flight, and was not used on this mission due to payload requirements, rather than reliability concerns. AMC-14 has now been sold to a new company, and is now in the process of raising itself into a geosynchronous orbit, where it will operate in a limited capacity for a fraction of its planned lifetime. The launch is the 33rd of 2008, and the 335th flight of a Proton rocket. The next Proton launch is currently planned for July, when a Proton-M with a Block DM-2 upper stage will launch three GLONASS navigation satellites.In the sixth orbital launch of 2008, an International Launch Services Proton-M/Briz-M rocket has launched from area 200/39 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, with the Norwegian Thor 5 communication satellite aboard. Liftoff of the 53 metre long Russian rocket occurred at 11:33 GMT, and the launch ended with the satellite's injection into a geosynchronous orbit, some 9 hours and 23 minutes later.At 13:20, the second burn of the Briz-M upper stage was confirmed to have been successful. At 15:50, the third burn, and separation of the upper stage's auxiliary propellant tank, were reported to have been completed successfully. The fourth burn occurred about five hours later, and spacecraft separation followed at 20:57 GMT.Thor 5 will be positioned at 1°W longitude, and will provide direct-to-home broadcasting services to Europe. The satellite was constructed by Orbital Sciences Corporation, and is based on the Star-2 satellite bus. It will be operated by Telenor, and is equipped with 24 Ku-band transponders.The launch was delayed from 2007 after the failure of another Proton rocket, and scrubbed yesterday due to a problem with the rocket's guidance system, detected shortly before fuelling.File:Pslv-pad.jpgAn Indian Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) has successfully launched ten satellites. The 44-metre long rocket lifted off from the second launch pad at the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at 03:53:51 GMT (09:24 local time), and reached a polar, Sun-synchronous low Earth orbit a little over seven minutes later. Following burnout of the fourth stage of the carrier rocket, the payloads were released. The PSLV flew in the CA, or Core Alone, configuration, with no solid rocket boosters around the first stage.The ten satellites aboard the rocket will be used for several purposes by a variety of organisations. The primary payload, Cartosat-2A, is a remote sensing satellite, which will be operated by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). IMS-1, also known as TWSAT, another ISRO remote sensing satellite, was the secondary payload. In addition, eight commercial payloads were flown, as part of the Nanosat Launch Service-4 and 5 programmes. There satellites were Cute 1.7+APD-2 and SEEDS-2 for the University of Tokyo, Japan, CanX-2 and CanX-6 for the University of Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies, Canada, Delfi-C3 for the Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands, AAUSAT-II for the University of Aalborg, Denmark, COMPASS-1 for Aachen University, Germany, and RUBIN-8 for German aerospace company OHB System. This is the 21st orbital launch of 2008, and the second to be conducted by a PSLV. It is the 13th total PSLV launch. The next PSLV launch is scheduled for either July or December, with the Chandrayaan-I spacecraft, India's first Lunar probe.German and American scientists have announced that the recent planet, Gliese 581c is too hot to host any life that would be found on Earth. It orbits around the star Gliese 581."It’s just too hot. I would not recommend mankind to move to that planet right now," said Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research astronomer who was part of the study, Dr. Manfred Cuntz who also said that the same system that Gliese 581c is in may have another planet that could be comfortable for humans.The planet, Gliese 581d orbits the same star as Gliese 581c but at a distance of 23 million miles. The researchers say that the planet could have a "greenhouse" effect and that water that may be present on the planet would be liquid. If no greenhouse effect is present, the planet would have frozen water."We cannot cool down an atmosphere of a planet, but we can heat it up. Despite the adverse conditions of this planet, at least some primitive forms of life may be able to exist on its surface," added Cuntz.Some scientists disagree and say that Gliese 581 is very old and that its light is dimmer than that of a newer star.Scientists began to monitor Gliese 581c right after the announcement of its discovery in April for six weeks using the Microvariability and Oscillations of STars (MOST), operated by the Canadian Space Agency."Gliese 581 seems remarkably stable over the six weeks it was monitored by MOST. The brightness of the star changed by only a few tenths of a percent over that time. This level of stability means that it provides a stable source of light -- hence heat -- to the surface of planet Gliese 581c. The climate there should not be a wild rollercoaster ride that would make it difficult for life to get a foothold," said astronomer at the University of British Columbia, Jaymie Matthews.Matthews says that Gliese 581 is much older than the Sun and Earth and that life should have already evolved on the surface."So if Gliese 581 has been around for at least that long, it’s more encouraging for the prospects of complex life on any planet around it," added Matthews.A team of European and American astronomers say that a recently discovered extrasolar planet, located not far from Earth, contains oceans and rivers of hot solid water.The team discovered the planet, Gliese 436 b, which is roughly the size of Neptune, using the Geneva Observatory and it is roughly 33 light-years away from Earth."The water is frozen by the pressure but it's hot. It's a bit strange -- we are used to water changing conditions because of temperature, but in fact water can also be solidified by pressure. It's not a very welcoming planet," said one of the astronomers who discovered the planet, Frederic Pont.Scientists say that there is not likely to be any life on the planet, but that if there is such a large amount of water on it, then it is likely that other planets will also have water. It orbits closely around the Red M-dwarf star Gliese 436 which is significantly smaller and cooler than the Sun. The planet's surface temperature is believed to be near 540 degrees Fahrenheit (250 degrees Celsius). It circles Gliese 436 every 2.6 days at a small fraction of the distance between the Sun and Earth, or 4.1 million kilometers (2.6 million miles)."It shows there are many ocean planets. From the size and the mass we get the density," added Pont who wrote in a report about the planet saying "the mass and radius that we measure for GJ 436b indicate that it is mainly composed of water ice. It is an 'ice giant' planet like Uranus and Neptune rather than a small-mass gas giant or a very heavy 'super-Earth."American astronomers first discovered GJ 436b back in 2004, but no clear indication was found on what it might contain on its surface.The same team of astronomers were made famous when they discovered the first "earth-like planet" Gliese 581 c in April.NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has discovered more evidence on the Planet Mars that water may have flowed beneath the surface and that "cracks" that lead below the surface may have, at one time, been "habitable" for "microbial life," according to the head investigater for the orbiter's camera, Dr. Alfred McEwen. The location of the find is near the Candor Chasma canyon and images of the cracks were taken in September of 2006."This result shows how orbital observations can identify features of particular interest for future exploration on the surface or in the subsurface or by sample return. The alteration along fractures, concentrated by the underground fluids, marks locations where we can expect to find key information about chemical and perhaps biologic processes in a subsurface environment that may have been habitable," said McEwen.According to NASA scientists, "mineralization" was found on the surface of the cracks and the crack's fractures. Scientists say the minerals became visible after layers of sand and dirt eroded away from the cracks. The minerals were likely placed on the rocks after dissolving in water and then evaporating onto the rocks, causing the minerals to become rock. Another possibility on how the minerals were placed there is that the "fluid" circulating on the rock was a gas, which might or might not have contained water."What caught my eye was the bleaching or lack of dark material along the fracture. That is a sign of mineral alteration by fluids that moved through those joints. It reminded me of something I had seen during field studies in Utah, that is light-tone zones, or 'haloes,' on either side of cracks through darker sandstone," said University of Arizona, Tucson geologist, Dr. Chris Okubo."The haloes visible along fractures seen in the Candor Chasma image appear to be slightly raised relative to surrounding, darker rock. This is evidence that the circulating fluids hardened the lining of the fractures, as well as bleaching it. The harder material would not erode away as quickly as softer material farther from the fractures," said a statement on NASA's website.It is not clear how long the minerals might have been present or how long it took them to get on the rocks."It is hard to say how long ago the fluids were there - hundreds of millions or perhaps a billion years ago. But the fact that we see evidence for chemical reactions between the fluids and the rock means that the fluids were sitting there for quite a long time ... that's perhaps good if you want to look for any habitable areas that might support any biological activity," added Okubo."This publication is just the first of many, many to come. The analysis is based on test observations taken even before the start of our main science phase. Since then, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has returned several terabits of science data, sustaining a pace greater than any other deep space mission. This flood of data will require years of study to exploit their full value, forever increasing our understanding of Mars and its history of climate change," added Okubo.The Soyuz TMA-01M spacecraft launched from Kazakhstan to the International Space Station Thursday with Expedition 25 Astronaut Scott Kelly and Cosmonauts Oleg Skripochka and Alexander Kaleri on board.The rocket, a Soyuz-FG, launched at 23:10 UTC (5:10 AM Kazakhstan time) and reached orbit in just under ten minutes. The Soyuz launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome.The crew members of Soyuz TMA-01M will join fellow Expedition 25 crew members Doug Wheelock, Fyodor Yurchikhin and Shannon Walker aboard the space station on Saturday. Docking is expected to occur at about 8:02 PM EDT (0:02 UTC Sunday) to the Poisk module of the ISS. Upon arrival, the remaining Expedition 25 crew will begin a five month stay aboard the space station.The Soyuz TMA-01M mission is the 107th flight utilizing the Soyuz spacecraft and the first to utilize digital flight control systems.The remaining members of the Expedition 25 crew are set to launch to the International Space Station on Thursday at 7:10 pm EDT from the Baikonur Cosmodrome, which will return the station to its full complement of 6 persons.  They will launch in the Russian Soyuz TMA-01M vehicle and dock on Saturday.  According to Space Fellowship there is only one Soyuz capsule currently docked to the station, for emergency escape.Currently there are three astronauts on the station: Commander Doug Wheelock and Flight Engineers Shannon Walker and Fyodor Yurchikhin.  The additional crew scheduled to join them are Flight Engineers Oleg Skripochka, Alexander Kaleri, and Scott Kelly.The three crew now on the station were part of Expedition 24; the other half of that Expedition crew have returned to Earth.  When the three now on the station are replaced, the three now about to join them will become half of Expedition 26.While the astronauts wait for their counterparts' arrival, they continue work on the station.  Wheelock and Walker both participated in an experiment to study the long term effects of exposure to microgravity on crew members.  Wheelock was collecting biological samples to place into the Human Research Facility which is a science rack in the station's Destiny module.  Meanwhile, Flight Engineer Fyodor Yurchikhin was working in the Russian segment of the station, swapping mechanical gear and installing new software.  He also updated the station's inventory management system.The crew is also doing daily exercises to strengthen their muscles and bones to compensate for the effects of microgravity. The exercise machines include a cycle ergometer, a treadmill, and a device that simulates free-weights on Earth and pistons in vacuum cylinders.Researchers have found a giant asteroid impact crater under the Wilkes Land ice sheet of Antarctica and it may have been responsible for creating the conditions in which dinosaurs evolved, but may also have been the cause of a mass extinction."This Wilkes Land impact is much bigger than the impact that killed the dinosaurs, and probably would have caused catastrophic damage at the time," said Ohio State University Professor of geological sciences, Ralph von Fres."All the environmental changes that would have resulted from the impact would have created a highly caustic environment that was really hard to endure. So it makes sense that a lot of life went extinct at that time," added von Fres.The crater is over 300 miles wide and was made about 250 million years ago by an asteroid nearly 30 miles wide. Researchers say that it may have caused an Earth-wide Extinction Level Event (ELE), but also may have created the conditions under which dinosaurs evolved. The species that benefited include the archosaurs, the immediate ancestors of the dinosaurs.It is thought that nearly 96% of Earth's ocean life and at least 70% of animals on land were made extinct. The impact itself may also have caused the supercontinent Gondwana to break, ultimately forming Australia.On Wednesday, George Djorgovski and collaborators reported in the journal Nature on an unusual light signal they say suggests two supermassive black holes are merging, a phenomenon never seen before, though theorized.The discovery could clarify how black holes merge and galaxies evolve, and could also provide a better understanding of the so-called "final parsec problem" — the inability of theories to predict how, or even how quickly, the final phases of black hole mergers happen.The team discovered the light coming from quasar PG 1302-102 in data from the Catalina Real-time Transient Survey (CTRS), which is able to study light sources from four fifths of the night sky using three ground-based US and Australian telescopes.Coauthor and Caltech computational scientist Matthew Graham emphasized the final stages of these black hole mergers are not well understood.CTRS has so far identified 20 quasars with similar signals, but Graham said this one is the best example because it has a clear signal that recurs about every five years, similar to a sine wave (see the 2D graph shown on the left).Space scientists located on three continents have published a survey of hot flow anomalies (HFAs) observed at the bow shock of Venus, in Journal of Geophysical Research on Tuesday. HFAs, discontinuities in the solar wind, were found to have much larger repercussions for Venus than for Earth.While the common HFA space weather phenomenon is deflected by the Earth's magnetosphere, Venus does not have such a reliable protection against the constant solar wind. Venus's ionosphere is generally in a sensitive balance with the outside pressure from the solar wind, and is regularly disrupted by the anomalies.The survey was conducted using data collected during roughly three Venusian days (about two Earth years) by the European Space Agency's Venus Express, expanding on an initial case study of a HFA at Venus published in 2012. "Not only are they gigantic," said Glyn Collinson of NASA, the first author of the papers published in 2012 and 2014, "[b]ut as Venus doesn’t have a magnetic field to protect itself, the hot flow anomalies happen right on top of the planet. They could swallow the planet whole." Seven events were observed during the surveyed time.The rocket carrying NASA's Orbiting Carbon Observatory has crashed, sending the remains of the atmosphere observation satellite into the ocean off the coast of Antarctica. Shortly before the crash, the 'payload fairing' failed to deploy from the craft."Several minutes into the flight of the Taurus rocket carrying NASA's Orbiting Carbon Observatory spacecraft, launch managers declared a contingency after the payload fairing failed to separate," said NASA in a statement on their website. "The spacecraft did not reach orbit and likely landed in the Pacific Ocean near Antarctica". The cause of the failure to deploy and the crash are still under investigation."A Mishap Investigation Board will be immediately convened to determine the cause of the launch failure," added the statement.Steve Cole, a spokesperson for NASA told Bloomberg L.P., "the mission is lost. At this point no one is exactly sure what the cause is". The rocket that would have carried the observatory into space, a Taurus XL, took off from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California in the United States, at approximately 4:55 a.m. EST. Approximately 10 minutes into the mission, the payload failed to separate and a contingency was activated, but was unsuccessful.The Orbiting Carbon Observatory was the latest mission in NASA's ongoing study of the global carbon cycle. It would have been the first spacecraft dedicated to studying atmospheric carbon dioxide, the most significant human-produced greenhouse gas and the principal human-produced driver of climate change. The cost of the project was US$273 million.Imagine coming back from a camping trip in the desert.  Then a few months later you notice in your photos from the trip that you camped inside a giant impact crater so big that no one documented it before.  Could it happen?During several trips to the Black Rock Desert, mostly while supporting the Stratofox Aerospace Tracking Team for suborbital space rocket launch efforts, Ian Kluft KO6YQ noticed some oddities in rock formations.  He had a little experience with volcanoes, and some rocks in the area looked unusual.  There seemed to be some lava here and there - but where was the volcano?  He observed that even a large caldera should have mostly volcanic rocks.  He then noticed some curved geographic structures in satellite imagery which made him curious if it might be an impact crater.A TV documentary about meteor impacts mentioned some characteristics of impact craters. He went to the Internet to learn more.  He noticed some of his own pictures of the area had cone shaped structures which might be "shatter cones" due to an impact shock wave that passed through the rocks.  Discussion with others produced suggestions and volunteers who joined the effort.  More circular features in satellite photographs were found.  Igneous dikes through white layers of rock had been described and were visible in many photos.The possible impact crater is 30 miles (48 km) wide east-to-west and 40 miles (64 km) north-to-south centered around 40.984045 N, 118.916016 W.  That is in northwestern Nevada halfway between Reno and the Oregon border.  The apparent ancient geological structure is so old that much of it is eroded away.  The forces that eroded the Black Rock Desert itself, whether glacier or stream, have apparently cut through the crater rims and floor to do it.Following an expedition to the area in late January, more possible shatter cones were observed in one of the rock samples collected.  These are only formed by the shock wave of an impact event or nuclear explosion.  The nearest nuclear test was underground at Sand Springs Range in central Nevada.  Atmospheric tests at the Nevada Test Site were at the southern, and opposite, end of the state.  So that points toward an impact if confirmed.  But professional geologists will want to have the final word on confirming them.In addition to shatter cones, rock samples were thought to contain shocked quartz because the criss-cross fractures looked like examples in online documents.  But this group of volunteers doesn't have equipment for proper photography of shocked quartz.  If found, that would be another way to prove the impact origin of the rocks.Columnar jointed columns hundreds of feet tall appear on some bluffs in locations that appeared consistent with part of a slowly cooling crater floor.  But that alone only helps as part of a bigger picture, because volcanoes can have lava cool in columnar joints as well.They also found local geological studies which described oddities which could be explained by an impact event.  Layers of rocks in the mining district called Sulphur left geologists with a mystery about the cause of chemical alterations since 1980.  The group compared it with information in online geological texts like "Traces of Catastrophe" by  Dr Bevan M French of the Smithsonian Institution.  Layers of impact ejecta seemed to explain the rock layers better than the previous theory about acid uniformly cooking the rocks across the region, and only in one layer of rocks.  A separate 1980 study 40 miles away identified an immense air-fall tuff layer in the Soldier Meadows area as having been deposited in a single unit, yet couldn't locate the volcano which produced this enormous volume. Fault diagrams published online by a mining operation at Sulphur on the edge of the circular structure from the satellite photo also look like curved terraced faults in the wall of a crater.The mining geologists who wrote papers from 1980 to 2002 had not mentioned the possibility of a crater.  But they were each gathering single puzzling pieces of information.  A larger image seemed to be forming when putting the pieces together.  The group hopes the information will be helpful to geologists who do further work in the region.The theory hasn't been put to any test by professionals yet. Some responses point out that the elliptical region reported as the possible impact crater could also be the volcanic caldera that the 1980 study was looking for.  If so, such a large volcanic caldera would still be a significant discovery for the region.This will remain officially a mystery for a while until the professional geologists get to study it. There is a lot of information available online for those who are interested.Three Gonets satellites have been launched by the Russian Space Forces atop a Ukranian-built Rokot carrier rocket. Lift-off, from site 133 at the Plesetsk Cosmodrome in Northern Russia, occurred at 15:20:09 GMT this afternoon.The three Gonets satellites will be used to provide store-dump communication services. This is the second launch of modernised Gonets-D1M satellites. They will be operated by Gonets SatCom, an organisation which was previously part of the Russian Federal Space Agency, but which was privatised in 1996. Whilst Gonets is a civilian system, it has been reported that these satellites will also be used for military applications. Reports have suggested that the satellites have received military designations of Kosmos-2437, 2438 and 2439 under the Kosmos system. Such designations have previously been assigned to, and in some cases later removed from, civilian satellites.A small technology demonstration satellite, Yubileiny, was also launched. It was built to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the launch of Sputnik 1, and will be operated by NPO PM. It will broadcast audio and visual programmes on amateur radio frequencies, detailing the history of the space programmes of Russia and the Soviet Union, as well as signals imitating those of Sputnik 1.The Rokot is a small carrier rocket derived from the UR-100 missile. Its upper stage, the Briz-KM, is a scaled-down version of the Briz-M upper stage used on Proton rockets. This is the first launch of a Briz upper stage of either type since the failure of a Briz-M during a March Proton launch, which left the AMC-14 satellite stranded in Medium Earth orbit.This is the 25th orbital launch of 2008 in spaceflight, and the 13th launch of a Rokot. The next Rokot launch is scheduled for early-mid September, with the GOCE satellite for the European Space Agency.Horia Teodorescu, a student in 10th grade at Costache Negruzzi College in Iaşi, northeastern Romania, won the annual worldwide NASA Space Settlement Design Contest. The contest is sponsored by the Fundamental Space Biology Program of the United States' space agency, NASA. The task of the contest is for students to develop designs for a permanent orbital space colony. For his design, Teodorescu was awarded a visit to a NASA base in the USA.Concerning the contest, Teodorescu said, "I designed a space colony which is called 'Temis', a personification of the Greek goddess of wisdom. The project is made up of four parts." He said that the development of the space colony in his design has two phases - "Firstly, there is the construction period, in which the Moon is used as a base for extracting and processing materials. This would last about one year. After that, there would be a period of 4-5 years, in which the population of the colony would reach 10,000." In 15 years, Teodorescu projects in his design that the population would reach 100,000, and reach the stage where the colony would be able to sustain itself and to start developing its own economic, social and educational systems.During the design's conception, Teodorescu was aided by his teachers, Adrian Koriloff, Margareta Constantinescu, Nicolae Hirtan and Lucia Miron, as well as his father Horia Neculai Teodorescu, who is a professor at the Iaşi University. Teodorescu also participated in the same contest in 2004, where he received second place. The first prize was also obtained by Romanians, more precisely a group of students from Constanţa.The Costache Negruzzi College, founded in 1895, is, with over 1500 students, the largest secondary education facility in Iaşi, a city of 320,000 people.The unmanned Rosetta spacecraft made its closest approach to the Lutetia asteroid Saturday.  Rosetta flew within 3,162 kilometers of the asteroid.  The spacecraft took high-resolution photos and searched for traces of an atmosphere and magnetic effects.  It also studied the composition and mass of the asteroid."As Rosetta drew close, a giant bowl-shaped depression stretching across much of the asteroid rotated into view," said Holger Sierks of the Max Planck Institute, "The images confirm that Lutetia is an elongated body, with its longest side around 130 kilometers. I think this is a very old object. Tonight we have seen a remnant of the Solar System's creation." Around 400 photographs were taken during the flyby; however, it will take several days for in-depth data to be transferred to Earth."Little is known about asteroid Lutetia other than it is about 100 kilometers (62 miles) wide," says American project scientist Claudia Alexander, "Allowing Rosetta's suite of science instruments to focus on this target of opportunity should greatly expand our knowledge of this huge space rock, while at the same time giving the mission's scientific instruments a real out-of-this-world workout."The Lutetia asteroid is the largest asteroid yet visited by a spacecraft. Throughout its 4.5 billion year lifespan, its surface has been bombarded repeatedly by other space debris. Very little is known about the asteroid and scientists hope that this flyby will help determine the asteroid's origin. They hope to make their findings public at the Europlanet conference in Rome, Italy, late this September.The Rosetta spacecraft, a project led by the European Space Agency, flew by the asteroid on its way to the Churyumov-Gerasimenko comet. Launched in 2004, the spacecraft is expected to arrive at its final destination in 2014. Once there, it will deploy the Philae lander to explore the comet's surface. The spacecraft's visit to this asteroid marks the final major scientific milestone before it is put into hibernation mode to be reactivated in 2011.NASA's Mars Exploration Rover Opportunity has found a basketball-sized iron meteorite near heat shield debris at Meridiani Planum, Opportunity's landing location on Mars.It is the first meteorite of any type ever identified on another planet."This is a huge surprise, though maybe it shouldn't have been," said Dr. Steve Squyres of Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., principal investigator for the science instruments on Opportunity and its twin, Spirit.Opportunity and Spirit successfully completed their primary three-month missions on Mars in April 2004. NASA has extended their missions twice because the rovers have remained in good enough condition to continue exploring Mars longer than anticipated. They have found geological evidence of past wet environmental conditions that might have been hospitable to life.With the problem with the fuel gauge still unexplained NASA has announced that in may bend some of its long-standing safety rules to launch the Space Shuttle Discovery on time.  NASA managers have decided to launch with just three of the four fuel gauges working if the problem reappears Tuesday, however this would mean disregarding the rule created in 1986 after the Challenger explosion.  In a press conference on July 13, NASA officials commented that they have never in the past flown a shuttle with less than four sensors working."There's very little in life that is 100 percent guaranteed, and there's probably less in rocket science that's 100 percent guaranteed," deputy shuttle program manager Wayne Hale said over the weekend. "That is part of the risk we take."Discovery and the crew of 7 are set to blast-off for the International Space Station at 10:39 a.m. Tuesday morning.  This will be the first launch since the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster two and a half years ago.A Russian Soyuz rocket successfully launched a civilian Earth observation satellite into orbit today at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in central Kazakhstan. The satellite's mission is mainly to assist exploration of natural resources, monitor pollution and natural or man-made disasters.The three-stage Soyuz rocket lifted off at 0800 UTC (4:00 a.m. EDT), little under nine minutes later in an orbit with an apogee of approximately 230 miles, a perigee of around 125 miles, and an inclination of about 70 degrees.  The Resurs DK1 spacecraft, weighing close to 15,000-pound, successfully separated from the Soyuz upper stage. The DK1 is the newest member of the Resurs satellite fleet, the first in an upgraded series of spacecraft, and is capable of producing one-meter resolution images in black-and-white(two meters in color). The DK1 can document an area of up to 270,000 square miles a day and its advanced communications system allows fast downlinking of recent images to ground stations. Images from the new satellite will be used by Russian government agencies, international groups, as well as sold commercially. The satellite will also monitor sea surface status, polar weather and ice conditions as well as assist in topographic and thematic mapping in remote regions. In addition to the DK1, two secondary payloads were attached. One is the Italian PAMELA (Payload for Antimatter-Matter Exploration and Light-nuclei Astrophysics) instrument, housed on the upper side of the satellite designed to examine cosmic rays in order to learn more about dark matter and the relationship between matter and antimatter. The other is a Russian particle detector for designed for identifying earthquake precursors in Earth's magnetic field. Further launches of these updated satellites are expected in the next few years. The Soyuz rocket's next scheduled launch is a cargo delivery flight to the International Space Station, to be followed by the launch of the Eurosat MetOp-A weather satellite.At 20:22:54 GMT yesterday evening, a Russian Soyuz-U carrier rocket lifted off from Launch Complex 1/5 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, and successfully placed a Progress spacecraft into low Earth orbit. The spacecraft, designated Progress M-64 and 29P, is flying to resupply the International Space Station (ISS). Following a series of manoeuvres, it is expected to dock with the Space Station's Zarya module at 21:36 GMT tomorrow evening.Progress spacecraft are launched every few months to deliver new supplies to the astronauts and cosmonauts aboard the Station. The current crew aboard the ISS are Russians Sergei Volkov and Oleg Kononenko, and American Garrett Reisman, who make up Expedition 17. The next manned launch to the Station is planned to occur at the end of the month, when Space Shuttle Endeavour will launch on mission STS-124 with the main pressurised component of the Japanese Experiment Module.The freighter is carrying 1300kg of dry cargo, 350kg of propellant, 30kg of oxygen and 20kg air for the life support system, and 420kg of water. This cargo will be removed from the Progress spacecraft, and replaced with waste. The spacecraft will undock, de-orbit, and be destroyed during controlled atmospheric re-entry in several months time.This is the 23rd orbital launch of 2008, and the second Progress launch of the year. The next Progress launch is scheduled to occur in August.Russian space officials have said that the launch of the new Angara carrier rocket might be delayed for about a year due to lack of funds. Anatoly Perminov, head of the Federal Space Agency Roscosmos, made the announcement today."There is a serious delay in the construction of launch facilities [for Angara] due to the shortage of financing from the Defense Ministry. The problem is that this is not in our control, we are doing everything that we can on our part," Perminov said. He noted that the ministry didn't completely cut the budget, but lowered it substantially.Launch facilities for the rocket were initially to be made ready by 2010, with the launch scheduled for the year after that. Perminov commented that the rocket itself was being constructed on schedule.The Angara rocket, which is being constructed by the Khrunichev center, is intended to transport heavy loads of up to 24.5 metric tons into orbit, but with a low level of impact on the environment. They will be used for both military and civilian purposes, and are to be used in joint space station projects and for launching satellites into orbit.The American civilian communications satellite Iridium 33 and the defunct Russian military communications satellite Kosmos-2251 collided over Siberia on Tuesday, according to NASA. The satellites, each weighing in excess of 1,000 pounds, and traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour, collided 491 miles above the earth.The Iridium satellite was launched in 1997, and the Russian satellite was a Strela-2M model. The American satellite is expected to be replaced within the coming month as Iridium will maneuver one of its in-orbit satellites to replace the lost unit.Although the first such satellite crash in space, such an event has been long predicted. Nicholas Johnson, chief scientist of NASA's Orbital Debris Office at the Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center stated, "We knew this was going to happen eventually and this is it — this was the big one." While the International Space Station and the Hubble Space Telescope are at minimal risk, the event does raise concerns that the debris cloud could collide with other satellites in the region, triggering an exponentially growing series of collisions and debris known as an ablation cascade. The United States Strategic Command of the U.S. Department of Defense office is tracking the debris. The result of plotting analysis will be posted to a public website.Progress M-08M, an unmanned Russian cargo spacecraft, departed for the International Space Station (ISS) on Wednesday from the Baikonur Cosmodrome to resupply the orbital outpost.The rocket carrying the craft, a Soyuz-U, lifted off at 7:11 pm Moscow time (15:11 GMT). Russian Space Agency officials deemed the launch a success after the Progress successfully achieved orbit and separated from the third stage of the rocket. Docking of the spacecraft with the ISS is expected to occur on Saturday.The Progress will deliver more than 2.5 metric tons of supplies and essentials to the orbiting American-Russian crew, as well as gifts and letters from the crew members' families.The Soyuz TMA-19 spacecraft has landed safely today in Kazakhstan with International Space Station crew members Fyodor Yurchikhin, Shannon Walker, and Douglas Wheelock. Walker and Wheelock are both NASA astronauts, while Yurchikhin is a Russian cosmonaut.The spacecraft landed at 4:46 GMT (11:46 PM yesterday EST), ending a five-month stay on the International Space Station (ISS) for its crew. They launched on June 15 this year.During their months aboard the space station, the crew performed scientific experiments as well as maintenance to upkeep the orbital outpost.The landing was originally scheduled for Tuesday, but was brought forward so as not to interfere with the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe summit that is being held on Wednesday and Thursday in Astana, Kazakhstan.The crew of Soyuz TMA-01M remain aboard the ISS; Russian cosmonauts Aleksandr Kaleri and Oleg Skripochka, and NASA astronaut Scott Kelly.The Russian spacecraft Phobos-Grunt fell into the Pacific Ocean some 1,250 kilometers west of Wellington, Chile yesterday after circling in Earth orbit for two months. The spacecraft was designed to retrieve soil samples from the largest moon of Mars, Phobos, but its engines failed and it had remained in Earth orbit ever since.According to the Russian Federal Space Agency (Roscosmos), the spacecraft was in a near-Earth orbit with perigee 113.8 km and apogee 133.2 km at 8.15 p.m. UTC yesterday. It fell into the Pacific ocean around 9.45 p.m.Predictions had varied on whether any segments would reach the Earth's surface, and it is still unknown whether any did so. People from New Zealand and London reported sighting the spacecraft glowing bright orange as it passed eastwards.Russian authorities plan to determine the reasons behind the accident. The failure of the mission is being considered as a major setback in Russia’s interplanetary programme. Vadim Lukashevich, a space expert, commented, "Five and half billion rubles and all the hopes of Russian space science for a revival… today burn up without any glory in the earth’s atmosphere."NASA's Cassini–Huygens spacecraft has discovered evidence for a large-scale saltwater reservoir beneath the icy crust of Saturn's moon Enceladus. The data came from the spacecraft's direct analysis of salt-rich ice grains close to the jets ejected from the moon. The study has been published in this week's edition of the journal Nature.Data from Cassini's cosmic dust analyzer show the grains expelled from fissures, known as tiger stripes, are relatively small and usually low in salt far away from the moon. Closer to the moon's surface, Cassini found that relatively large grains rich with sodium and potassium dominate the plumes. The salt-rich particles have an "ocean-like" composition and indicate that most, if not all, of the expelled ice and water vapor comes from the evaporation of liquid salt-water. When water freezes, the salt is squeezed out, leaving pure water ice behind. Cassini's ultraviolet imaging spectrograph also recently obtained complementary results that support the presence of a subsurface ocean. A team of Cassini researchers led by Candice Hansen of the Planetary Science Institute in Tucson, Arizona, measured gas shooting out of distinct jets originating in the moon's south polar region at five to eight times the speed of sound, several times faster than previously measured. These observations of distinct jets, from a 2010 flyby, are consistent with results showing a difference in composition of ice grains close to the moon's surface and those that made it out to the E ring, the outermost ring that gets its material primarily from Enceladean jets. If the plumes emanated from ice, they should have very little salt in them."There currently is no plausible way to produce a steady outflow of salt-rich grains from solid ice across all the tiger stripes other than salt water under Enceladus's icy surface," said Frank Postberg, a Cassini team scientist at the University of Heidelberg in Germany.The data suggests a layer of water between the moon's rocky core and its icy mantle, possibly as deep as about 50 miles (80 kilometers) beneath the surface. As this water washes against the rocks, it dissolves salt compounds and rises through fractures in the overlying ice to form reserves nearer the surface. If the outermost layer cracks open, the decrease in pressure from these reserves to space causes a plume to shoot out. Roughly 400 pounds (200 kilograms) of water vapor is lost every second in the plumes, with smaller amounts being lost as ice grains. The team calculates the water reserves must have large evaporating surfaces, or they would freeze easily and stop the plumes."We imagine that between the ice and the ice core there is an ocean of depth and this is somehow connected to the surface reservoir," added Postberg.The Cassini mission discovered Enceladus' water-vapor and ice jets in 2005. In 2009, scientists working with the cosmic dust analyzer examined some sodium salts found in ice grains of Saturn's E ring but the link to subsurface salt water was not definitive. The new paper analyzes three Enceladus flybys in 2008 and 2009 with the same instrument, focusing on the composition of freshly ejected plume grains. In 2008, Cassini discovered a high "density of volatile gases, water vapor, carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide, as well as organic materials, some 20 times denser than expected" in geysers erupting from the moon. The icy particles hit the detector target at speeds between 15,000 and 39,000 MPH (23,000 and 63,000 KPH), vaporizing instantly. Electrical fields inside the cosmic dust analyzer separated the various constituents of the impact cloud."Enceladus has got warmth, water and organic chemicals, some of the essential building blocks needed for life," said Dennis Matson in 2008, Cassini project scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California."This finding is a crucial new piece of evidence showing that environmental conditions favorable to the emergence of life can be sustained on icy bodies orbiting gas giant planets," said Nicolas Altobelli, the European Space Agency's project scientist for Cassini."If there is water in such an unexpected place, it leaves possibility for the rest of the universe," said Postberg.A report published in the scientific journal Nature of results from the Cassini probe indicates the discovery  of the existence of liquid water on Saturn's moon Enceladus, and with it the possibility of extraterrestrial life.Analysis of ice particles once thought to be emitted by geysers from the moon revealed the presence of sodium salt in the ice. As on Earth, the most plausible explanation of the presence of salt water is the prolonged contact of liquid water with mineral bearing rocks.The currently accepted scientific theory for how life occurs requires the presence of three elements: the existence of complex organic molecules, liquid water and a source of energy. All three appear to be present on Enceladus.The possibility of discovering a global ocean on the moon has receded, and has been replaced by the idea of large subterranean caverns with large pools or lakes of water, created by tidal forces acting upon Enceladus, and it is from these mist filled caverns that the water evaporates into the atmosphere in a steady jet. However, until further flybys and missions can be carried out other mechanisms for the presence of salt water ice cannot yet be dismissed.Scientists at NASA say that new satellite images of Saturn's moon Enceladus taken in 2005, has shown that the moon has begun to spew geysers which contain liquid water, and that the internal heat produced by the moon's core may be able to host life below the icy surface, but scientists also stress that life has not yet been found on the moon.Scientists say that the heat source producing the geysers is "organic" and that the material used to spew them is caused by the decaying of radioactive material from inside the moon."Deep inside Enceladus, our model indicates we've got an organic brew, a heat source and liquid water, all key ingredients for life. And while no one is claiming that we have found life by any means, we probably have evidence for a place that might be hospitable to life," said Dennis Matson, a scientist for the Cassini project.In a new model created by NASA scientists, data shows that Enceladus might have been created by aluminum and iron isotopes which have begun to decay causing large amounts of heat to build up in the moon and over billions of years later, the icy mass has began to melt near the moon's core, causing the water to spew into outer space."Enceladus is a very small body, and it's made almost entirely of ice and rock. The puzzle is how the moon developed a warm core. The only way to achieve such high temperatures at Enceladus is through the very rapid decay of some radioactive species," said Dr. Julie Castillo, the lead scientist developing the new model at the Jet Propulsion laboratory or JPL."The decomposition of those isotopes - over a period of about 7 million years - would produce enormous amounts of heat. This would result in the consolidation of rocky material at the core surrounded by a shell of ice. According to the theory, the remaining, more slowly decaying radioactivity in the core could continue to warm and melt the moon's interior for billions of years, along with tidal forces from Saturn's gravitational tug," said a statement on NASA"s website.Data from Cassini's ion and neutral mass spectrometer further shows that the natural building blocks of life are also present within Enceladus. The results show that carbon dioxide, acetylene, methane, propane and nitrogen, the basic building blocks for life, are all present within the moon."The team concludes that so far, all the findings and the hot start model indicate that a warm, organic-rich mixture was produced below the surface of Enceladus and might still be present today, making the moon a promising kitchen for the cooking of primordial soup," added the statement.Cassini will make a flyby on Enceladus in march of 2008. The mission will "measure the gas emanating from the plume," ended the statement.The Cassini Spacecraft has taken images from July 22, 2006 that show rivers and lakes present on Saturn's moon Titan."At the time we first announced it, we were like, 'Well, we think these are probably lakes,’ but that was about our level of confidence. I would say at this point, we've analyzed the data to the extent that we feel very confident that they are liquid-filled lakes," said University College London and Caltech and Cassini team member, Ellen Stofan.The rivers and lakes are likely to contain ethane or methane in a liquid form, but the liquids are said to "act like water" and are "clear" like water. Both ethane and methane are organic gases on Earth. "Dark surfaces are smooth and most likely liquid, rock, ice or organics. More than 75 radar-dark patches or lakes were seen, ranging from 3 kilometers (1.8 miles) to more than 70 kilometers (43 miles) across. Some lakes appear partly dry, while others seem liquid-filled. Some of the partly filled lakes may never have filled fully, or may have partly evaporated at some point in the past. The dry lakes have margins or rims and a radar brightness similar to the rest of the surrounding terrain, making them appear devoid of liquid," said a statement by NASA on their website."It's going to behave like water. It's transparent just the way water is. So if you were standing by the shoreline, you would be able to see down to whatever pebbles or gunk that was on the bottom. As far as we know, there is only one planetary body that displays more dynamism than Titan, and its name is Earth," added Stofan.Cassini will be performing at least 22 more flybys of Titan. The next flyby is expected to take place this month.Recent scans on the planet Saturn by the space probe Cassini–Huygens have shown that the planet's rings are much older than previously thought. Recent data says they may be as old as the solar system itself.The new scans have indicated that the rings are likely three to five billion years old, and will probably be around for billions of years longer. Scientists previously thought the rings to be only about 100 million years old."Despite what was thought after the [1970s] Voyager investigations of Saturn - that Saturn's rings might be very youthful, perhaps only as ancient as the dinosaurs - we have results that show the rings could have lasted as long as the Solar System and maybe will be around for billions of years. Recycling allows the rings to be as old as the solar system although continually changing," said researcher Professor Larry Esposito.The determination was made when Cassini's Ultraviolet Imaging Spectrograph (UVIS) analyzed the light from the Sun reflecting off particles in the rings of all different sizes. The data had shown that there was a lot more clumpy material and as much as three times more mass than what was previously  found in the Voyager missions.Scientists assumed that particles from an exploding comet may have caused the rings to form, but the new data says that it is unlikely to be the case, because the particles are all of different ages."Although the Voyager observations indicated Saturn's rings were youthful, Cassini shows even younger ages; and because we see such transient, dynamic phenomena in the rings we are able to reach the paradoxical conclusion - because the rings appear so young, they may actually be as old as the Solar System," added Esposito.Cassini is operated jointly by NASA and the European Space Agency.A study of the amount of dark matter in the universe suggests that the universe itself may continue to expand indefinitely. Researchers say that the universe will likely then become a cold, dead cosmic wasteland.The study was conducted by an international team of researchers led by Professor Eric Jullo at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California. The researchers used data from the Hubble Space Telescope showing the way that light was distorted, known as a gravitational lens, from a large galactic cluster known as Abell 1689 to estimate the amount of dark energy to be about three quarters of the universe.Dark energy is a completely invisible force that is constantly acting upon the universe. Its existence is known only because of its effects on the expansion of the universe.As the universe expands and cools, the temperature will approach absolute zero.Jullo says that scientists can now say, for the first time, that the universe "will continue to accelerate and the universe will expand forever".An international group of 73 scientists using 4 projects (PLANET led by Jean-Philippe Beaulieu and Martin Dominik, RoboNet led by MichaelBode and Keith Horne, OGLE led by Andrzej Udalski, and MOA led by Phil Yock) from 32 institutions in 12 countries have discovered the smallest Earth-like planet yet.The new planet is about 25,000 light years away and is close to the center of the Milky Way.The discovery was announced in the journal Nature. The journal also states the planet was found using a method called gravitational microlensing, which detects small planets with a mass like that of Earth.Gravitational microlensing is where a light from a distant star is bent and magnified by the gravitational field of a foreground star. The presence of a planet around the foreground star causes light from the distant star to become momentarily brighter.However, scientists say that the cold temperatures on the planet make the chance of finding any life on it "unlikely.""We may predict with reasonable probability that microlensing will discover planets with masses like that of Earth at a similar distance from their stars and with comparable surface temperature," said study co-author Bohdan Paczynski from Princeton University.So far the planet only goes by OGLE-2005-BLG-390Lb, and takes about ten years to orbit its parent star, a red dwarf, a star that is smaller and much cooler than our own Sun.Scientists say the new planet, which is about five and a half times the mass of Earth, could either have a rocky core and a thin atmosphere, or be a small ice/gas world like Neptune , but in either case, its "very large orbit and cooler parent star, makes it a very cold world."The predicted surface temperature is -220° Celsius (-364° F), which means that should it have a rocky core, the planet may more closely resemble a massive version of Pluto with a surface of frozen liquids and gas. Otherwise the planet would be a liquid mass, wrapped in clouds of ice crystals and gas, much like Neptune."This is very exciting and important," said Professor Michael Bode from Liverpool John Moores University, a principal investigator for the RoboNet project which helped to collaborate on the research. "This is the most Earth-like planet we have discovered to date, in terms of its mass and the distance from its parent star. Most of the other planets that have been discovered are either much more massive, much hotter or both."This is the third planet in two years that scientists have found using gravitational microlensing.In the past, more than 150 planets outside our solar system were found using a technique known as the radial velocity method. This method observes a wobble in stars caused by the planet's gravitational effects.Astronomers reported on Tuesday in The Astrophysical Journal they have found an ancient solar system with several Earth-like planets.They said the system dates roughly to the formation of the Milky Way galaxy. They found the planets orbiting around Kepler-444, about 117 light years from Earth. Researchers investigated Kepler-444 with NASA's Kepler telescope using a method called astroseismology.Scientists explain they studied the star and noticed planets passing in front of it because it created a dimming effect in which the star seems less bright for a short period of time, when there are actually planets passing between the observer and the star. Because these planets are older than Earth, this suggests life might have existed in the early universe, the researchers say. According to Daniel Huber, part of the research team at the University of Sydney, it takes under ten days for these five planets to orbit the star and all of them are too close to it to sustain life. These planets are smaller than Earth, with the largest compared to Venus.This month, the number of exoplanets found using the Kepler telescope passed 1,000.NASA's Cassini spacecraft has discovered evidence that points to the existence of an underground ocean of water and ammonia on Saturn's moon Titan."We believe that about 100 kilometers (62 miles) beneath the ice and organic-rich surface is an internal ocean of liquid water mixed with ammonia," said Bryan Stiles of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.If the findings turn out to be true, this will be the fourth such moon in our solar system found to have some form of water on it. Currently only three other moons, all from Jupiter, have been found to have known water sources. Ganymede, Callisto and Europa are so far the only known moons with a water source.Members of the mission's science team used Cassini's Synthetic Aperture Radar to collect imaging data during 19 separate passes over Titan between October 2005 and May 2007. The radar can see through Titan's dense, methane-rich atmospheric haze, detailing never-before-seen surface features and establishing their locations on the moon's surface.Using data from the radar's early observations, the scientists and radar engineers established the locations of 50 unique landmarks on Titan's surface. They then searched for these same lakes, canyons and mountains in the reams of data returned by Cassini in its later flybys of Titan. They found prominent surface features had shifted from their expected positions by up to 30 kilometers (19 miles). A systematic displacement of surface features would be difficult to explain unless the moon's icy crust was decoupled from its core by an internal ocean, making it easier for the crust to move.Cassini scientists will not have long to wait before another go at Titan. On March 25, just prior to its closest approach at an altitude of 1,000 kilometers (620 miles), Cassini will employ its Ion and Neutral Mass Spectrometer to examine Titan's upper atmosphere. Immediately after closest approach, the spacecraft's Visual and Infrared Mapping Spectrometer will capture high-resolution images of Titan's southeast quadrant. The study of Titan is a major goal of the Cassini-Huygens mission because it may preserve, in deep-freeze, many of the chemical compounds that preceded life on Earth. Titan is the only moon in the solar system that possesses a dense atmosphere. The moon's atmosphere is 1.5 times denser than Earth's. Titan is the largest of Saturn's moons, bigger than the planet Mercury.New research identifies cracks over the moon's crust that may have been created by the cooling and shrinking of it over the past billion or so years. Scientists have discovered landforms littered across the moon's surface called lobate scarps that have apparently resulted from the moon's shrinking very slowly. These scarps were found all over the moon and appear to be minimally weathered, indicating that the geologic events that created them were fairly recent. This theory contradicts the claim that the moon is completely devoid of geologic activity.Over the past billion years, about a quarter of the moon's 4.5 billion-year lifespan, it has shrunk about 200 meters (700 feet) in diameter. The scarps that are thought to have resulted from the contraction scenario were first identified near the lunar equator by cameras aboard the Apollo moon missions of the early 1970's.NASA's Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter recently photographed similar landforms in other locations on the moon, further supporting the theory that Earth's closest neighbor in space may in fact be shrinking.The concept, however, is not a recent one. Scientists know that the moon's core was once very hot, causing it to expand. As the core cools, the moon naturally begins to contract.For nearly half a century the world's largest telescope, the Arecibo Observatory in Arecibo, Puerto Rico, has been observing our solar system and the universe around it. Completed by Cornell University along with the National Science Foundation (NSF) in 1963, Arecibo's enormous size gives it the ability to collect more light than any other telescope, allowing it to observe objects that are  too faint for other radio telescopes to see. Its main purposes are radio astronomy, aeronomy and radar astronomy, but is probably most famous for its continuing use to search for and attempt to communicate with extraterrestrial life outside our solar system and beyond.Now Arecibo is facing severe budget cuts which could ultimately close the facility. In an in depth exclusive report, Wikinews examined how much of the observatory's budget was at risk, and what the possible outcomes could be for the programs currently relying on Arecibo as their main research tool. Wikinews spoke to several individuals closely affiliated with projects and facilities who use significant time at the observatory.Currently, the NSF funds the operations of Arecibo with just over US$10 million every year. By 2011 they plan to drastically cut that funding to only $4 million a year, nearly 65% less than the current budget. To counter that loss, the United States House of Representatives passed a bill that would authorize NASA to spend at least 2 million dollars of their nearly $21 billion budget to fund portions of Arecibo until 2009. But that still leaves more than half of the loss to be recovered, and if something isn't done soon the facility will be closed by 2011 — or sooner if additional cuts are made.Arecibo is 305 meters in diameter and 300 meters tall at its highest point. It also has an on-site remote sensing LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) system to detect light and range of a given object in space. Construction began in 1960 and the observatory officially opened on November 1, 1963. Since then, several projects, programs and discoveries were made possible because of the telescope. Its platform also received a fresh coat of paint in late 2007, the first since it was built.In 1989, the first images of an asteroid named 4769 Castalia were captured using Arecibo. In 1992 Aleksander Wolszczan, an astronomer from Poland used Arecibo to discover pulsar PSR B1257+12 which then led him to discover the first three extrasolar planets in history, and possibly a comet. Scientists with the Near Earth Object Program also use the observatory to track possible meteors and asteroids that have the potential to strike the Earth. Arecibo is also part of the Express Production Real-time e-VLBI Service (EXPReS) project which is aimed at connecting telescopes from Africa, Europe and North and South America to create a 6,000 mile wide telescope. This allows all connected telescopes to observe the exact same spot in the sky giving scientists images 100 times better than any single telescope on Earth. A successful test of this system was completed on May 22. The observatory was also featured in the movie Contact starring Jodie Foster and several James Bond films.Perhaps the most well known use of Arecibo is its ongoing attempt to find and or communicate with extraterrestrial life. The popular distributed computing SETI@home project launched in 1999 (started by scientists at the University of California, Berkeley), uses Arecibo on a daily basis to record radio data. SETI@home users from around the world can then donate computer time to analyze the data for potential artificial signals, and maybe some day find a message from another intelligent civilization."If this occurs [budget cuts], all projects using Arecibo would stop, including uncompleted surveys looking for pulsars, mapping Galactic hydrogen and of course our SETI surveys (SETI@home and SERENDIP V)," stated Eric Korpela, the project scientist for SETI@home, to Wikinews. This would also include the NEO Program. Currently the NEO is mandated by Congress to keep a record of all near-Earth objects that are more than 1 kilometer in diameter.According to Korpela, the cuts began several years ago when United States senators earmarked funds for other observatories located in West Virginia and New Mexico. He says that those actions "diverted money away from the rest of astronomy" causing the NSF to take the shortfall from the Arecibo budget."About two years ago, NSF decided that because of additional funding problems Arecibo wouldhave to close in 2011 with substantial budget cuts before then," added Korpela who also said the he is sure that SETI@home and SERNDIP V could find an alternative science source, but nothing as powerful and as sensitive as Arecibo. Korpela also adds that there is not yet any planned move of SETI@home, and no agreements between them and other observatories."I'm certain the both SETI@home and SERENDIP V would find another telescope to use.  But no other telescope comes close to the sensitivity of Arecibo, with the next largest telescopes having afactor of 10 less collecting area and therefore a factor of 10 less sensitivity.  The same is true for the pulsar searches.  For the hydrogen mapping Arecibo has 3 times the angular resolution of thenearest competitors," added Korpela but also stated that "there currently aren't any plans" to move SETI@home and that they don't "have any agreements from any of the telescopes" to host SETI@home; there are several possible telescopes SETI@home could use adds Korpela."Of course we'd like the largest telescopes available if we could get them. Parkes (a 64m telescope in Australia) would be a good candidate. Effelsberg (a 100m dish in Germany) or the 100m Green Bank Telescope in the U.S. would also be good candidates, but as I said much discussion would need to take place before a change could happen," said Korpela.In June, former U.S. President Bill Clinton and his daughter Chelsea visited the observatory in an effort to bring awareness to the importance of Arecibo; he called the funding for the facility "gravely inadequate." He also stated that his wife, and former 2008 U.S. presidential candidate Hillary Clinton, supports the need for "basic science", and notes Hillary's continued support for a defeated congressional bill that would have given Arecibo the funding it needed.The bill, named H.R. 2862 'Departments of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill', was rejected by the House of Representatives because "it exceed[ed] the President's request by $1.4 billion." The House stated that the need for more funding for the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina was more important."The Administration shares the priority the Senate Committee affords basic research and fundamental science and education at NSF, but is concerned that the bill does not fully support the President's request," stated the bill which also added that "the Committee has identified areas, such as facilities oversight, that need increased investment to maintain NSF's efficient operations" and that the NSF didn't "provide [a] full request for salaries and expenses that would allow NSF to continue to perform to high standards." A new bill was then resubmitted and reintroduced as H.R. 3737 on October 3, 2007. It is specifically aimed at providing  the "National Science Foundation and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) utilization of the Arecibo Observatory.""[This bill will] ensure that the Arecibo Observatory is fully funded to continue its research on Earth's ionosphere, continue its research in radio astronomy, and continue research on the solar system; and coordinate with the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to ensure that the capabilities of the Arecibo Observatory continue to be available for National Aeronautics and Space Administration research in characterizing and mitigating Near Earth Objects, and other research as needed," states the Bill.If Arecibo were to close, Korpela states that it would take only a short time for SETI@home to move its project elsewhere, but that any agreements made with other observatories will take a much longer time to work out. "Setting up the equipment at a new telescope would be a matter of days, arranging an agreement to do so would take much longer. If we can't find an alternative telescope after an Arecibo shutdown, the project would end once the existing data was analyzed. We're still hoping that Arecibo will be spared," added Korpela. He calls for more support of bill H.R. 3737 to continue Arecibo's science, and SETI@home urges individuals to write to Congress to show support for the bill.As for the NEO Program, packing up and moving to another location is not possible. There are no other observatories sensitive or large enough to perform the task of tracking near-Earth objects, especially ones at great distances. If Arecibo were to close, the NEO Program, despite a U.S. Congressional mandate and recognition from the Astronomical Science Senior Review Committee, would come to a screeching halt. Wikinews contacted the NSF for a statement, but a Dan MacMillan directed us to the Committee's report."The SR endorses its future discovery potential and archival value. The SR recognizes the significant and unique scientific contributions that the Arecibo Observatory has made to astronomy and astrophysics and it congratulates NAIC and Cornell on operating the facility so effectively," said the Committee in a 94 page report on the NSF's budget."However, the committee was not persuaded of the primacy of the science program beyond the end of the decade and found that the case for long term support at the present level was not as strong as that for other facilities. The SR recommends that NAIC plan either to close Arecibo or to operate it with a much smaller AST budget. The SR recommends closure after 2011 if the necessary support is not forthcoming. It recommends that operation of the Angel Ramos Visitor Center continue," added the Committee which also said that "that there were no reliable de-commissioning estimates and recommends that AST engage an independent study to advise on the viability and cost of decommissioning the telescope."In an attempt to cover the budget shortfall Arecibo faces, Don Campbell, Professor of Astronomy at Cornell's Department of Astronomy, who specializes in radio and radar astronomy, tells Wikinews that the university is looking at all possible sources of funding to keep Arecibo open."Cornell/NAIC is looking at all possibilities for raising the funds needed to keep the Observatory operating as a forefront institution for research in astronomy and atmospheric sciences. This includes funding from federal agencies, from within Puerto Rico, via international agreements and from private sources," said Campbell who added that "the NSF's Division of the Senior Review (SR) panel recommended that NAIC's budget - NAIC is head quartered at Cornell University and manages the Arecibo - from NSF/AST be reduced from about $10.5M to $8M in FY 2010. It also recommended that there be a further 50% reduction in FY 2011 and that Cornell must find the additional funds needed to operate Arecibo from other sources."Campbell also adds that Arecibo is so unique and sensitive, closing it makes no sense."Closing Arecibo would be closing the world's largest and most sensitive single dish radio telescope. It is  4 to 5 times more sensitive, and has a higher resolving power at the same frequencies, than the next largest single dish radio telescope, the 100 m Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope," said Campbell."Arecibo is also, of course, the source of the data that is processed by all the volunteers working with the SETI@home project. Given its relatively small operating budget, closing Arecibo makes no sense," added Campbell.The U.S. Senate unanimously confirmed on Wednsday the nomination of Dr. Michael Griffin to head the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), making him the 11th administrator of the US-based space agency. He takes office at a time when NASA is busy with preparations for the return to flight of the space shuttle Discovery, expected sometime during the launch window of May 15 through June 3, 2005.The presidential nominee Griffin was the head of the Applied Physics Laboratory's Space Department at Johns Hopkins University, a position he held almost a year. Prior to that, he was a chief engineer at NASA before coming over from service as Deputy for Technology at the Strategic Defense Initiative Organization. He has made a career of the aerospace field.Griffin was critical at times of U.S. priorities in space exploration by questioning its continued commitment to the International Space Station.  Griffin, in testimony before the House Science Committee in 2004, outlined more ambitious plans for human exploration and settlement of the solar system in which he believes the United States should play a key role.  In a statement during his April 12, 2005, confirmation hearing before the Senate Commerce Committee, Griffin said, "In the twenty-first century and beyond, for America to continue to be preeminent among nations, it is necessary for us also to be the preeminent spacefaring nation," with a spirit of discovery similar to the exploration of the New World by Columbus with the support of the Spanish crown.Griffin, 55, notably holds seven academic degrees from various institutions, including a bachelor's degree in physics; master's degrees in aerospace science, electrical engineering, applied physics, civil engineering and business administration; and a PhD in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Maryland.The SETI Institute, shut down since mid-April due to budget cuts, has announced that it will reopen in mid-September due to a recent influx of funds from several donors.Over 2,500 donors, including actress Jodie Foster who popularized SETI ("Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence") in the movie Contact, provided $220,000 to keep the Institute's telescopes functioning."We are absolutely thrilled that thousands of people from all over the world stepped forward to declare their support for SETI science just when help was needed the most," said SETI through a press release.As they continue to search for long-term funding, the Institute plans to use the money to study several Kepler planets, which were discovered by NASA scientists in early February. These planets are thought to be within a certain distance from their corresponding stars to be capable of supporting liquid water and thus potential life.New images from Mars, taken by NASA's Mars Odyssey spacecraft and the Mars Global Surveyor have shown what appears to be at least seven entrances to large caves on the slope of Arsia Mons, a Martian volcano. Scientists believe the caves are very large and they believe that they lead to the subsurface of Mars.All of the cave entrances, which were named "The Seven Sisters", are at least 100 to 250 meters (328 to 820 feet) in diameter.  Infrared images show that the temperature variations from night and day show that they are likely caves.  "They are cooler than the surrounding surface in the day and warmer at night. Their thermal behavior is not as steady as large caves on Earth that often maintain a fairly constant temperature, but it is consistent with these being deep holes in the ground," said Glen Cushing of the United States Geological Survey (USGS) Astrogeology Team and of Northern Arizona University located in Flagstaff, Arizona.While some scientists say that "somewhere on Mars, caves might provide a protected niche for past or current life, or shelter for humans in the future" (Tim Titus of the U.S. Geological Survey), others disagree as to this possibility, since most of the caves "...are at such extreme altitude, they are poor candidates either for use as human habitation or for having microbial life. Even if life has ever existed on Mars, it may not have migrated to this height," added Cushing.The caves are believed to have been formed as underground stresses around the volcano caused spreading and faults that opened spaces beneath the surface. Some of the holes are in line with strings of bowl-shaped pits where surface material has apparently collapsed to fill the gap created by a linear fault.NASA plans to use the Odyssey to find more possible caves at lower altitudes in the future.At 2:01:56 p.m EDT Monday, Space Shuttle Atlantis lifted off above Florida on its two day journey to the Hubble Space Telescope (HST) to make repairs.During the 11 day repair mission to the HST, astronauts will perform five spacewalks, installing two new instruments and repairing two others.  The two new instruments are the US$126 million Wide Field Camera 3 and the $81 million Cosmic Origins Spectrograph.  The crew has set out to repair the Space Telescope Imaging Spectrograph, Advanced Camera for Surveys which are malfunctioning. The mission will also see the installation of a new Science Instrument Command and Data Handling Unit to replace the existing one."On Servicing Mission 4, we're going to give Hubble another extreme makeover. This makeover will be the best one yet because we will outfit Hubble with the most powerful and advanced imaging and spectrographic instruments available and we will extend Hubble's operating lifetime for five additional years,"  said Program Manager Preston Burch.Scott D. Altman is the mission commander of the fifth and final mission to service the HST. This will be his fourth space flight, and his second one to service the telescope. John Grunsfeld, Michael Massimino, two of the crews space walkers has also been to HST previously.  Andrew Feustel and Michael Good are the other two spacewalkers.  Pilot Gregory C. Johnson, and flight engineer Megan McArthur complete the crew's complement.Space shuttle Endeavour is on standby due to an increased probability of an impact with space debris compared to previous missions. "There are very small odds we would, in fact, have a problem on ascent for which the remedy would be a launch on need shuttle, a rescue shuttle. But against the very small probability that it could occur, we will carry that rescue option in the manifest. ... The safety of our crew conducting this mission will be as much as we can possibly do," explained former NASA Administrator Mike Griffin.Space Shuttle Atlantis today undocked from the International Space Station, beginning its return to Earth. The Shuttle, which had been visiting the station for mission STS-122, delivering the Columbus laboratory to the orbital outpost. Undocking occurred at 09:24 GMT, after connecting hatches between the spacecraft were closed at 18:03 GMT yesterday evening.Atlantis is scheduled to land on Wednesday. While NASA hope that it can land at the Kennedy Space Center's Shuttle Landing Facility (SLF), they are prepared to use their backup site at Edwards Air Force Base, should the conditions at the SLF be unacceptable for landing. The backup site is not usually considered for the first landing attempt, but is being considered an option for STS-122 because of the US Navy's intention to destroy a failed spy satellite in orbit. This is expected to create debris, which could potentially damage spacecraft passing through the orbit that the spy satellite is in, such as a re-entering Shuttle.During STS-122, the Columbus module was added to the ISS, and a nitrogen coolant tank was replaced. Atlantis also collected a failed control gyroscope from the station, which had been replaced during the earlier STS-118 mission. A crew rotation also occurred, with French astronaut Léopold Eyharts replacing American Daniel M. Tani as a member of the Station's Expedition 16 crew.Meanwhile, Endeavour, which is scheduled to fly the next Shuttle Mission, has been moved to the launch pad. The fully-stacked Shuttle and Mobile Launch Platform rolled out of the Kennedy Space Center's Vehicle Assembly Building at 04:26 GMT, and is made its way down the Crawlerway, arriving at Launch Complex 39A at about 09:45 GMT, and had been secured in place by 11:22. The US Air Force Thunderbirds display team performed a flyby of the Shuttle at 15:15 GMT. Endeavour is scheduled to begin the STS-123 mission in early-mid March, with a component for the Japanese Experiment Module, and the Canadian Dextre component for the Space Station's robotic arm.The Space Shuttle Discovery STS-114 has been given a 'go' for landing at Edwards Air Force Base today. The de-orbit burn is expected at 6:06 a.m. Central Daylight Time (CDT) (Mission Control's local time), and landing is expected at 7:12 a.m. CDT. Weather conditions are clear at landing site, with scattered clouds at approximately 20,000 feet, with winds peaking at about 12 knots at the number 22 runway, which is where Discovery has been cleared to land. Shuttle Pilot Jim Kelly will be providing the human piloting for the main part of the flight, with Shuttle Commander Eileen Collins taking over most of the piloting duties as Discovery enters the subsonic range.Today at 11:07 GMT (07:07 local time), US Space Shuttle Discovery departed its hangar at the Kennedy Space Center Orbiter Processing Facility (OPF), and was towed into the Vehicle Assembly Building (VAB), arriving at 12:05 GMT (08:05 local time). Its next scheduled launch, STS-124, is currently targeted for the end of May. This procedure, known as a rollover, occurs around five to six weeks ahead of launch, and is followed by stacking, or attachment of Discovery to an External Tank and a pair of Solid Rocket Boosters, which are waiting in the VAB. Once this has been completed, electrical tests will be conducted on the Shuttle, and then it will be rolled out to Launch Complex 39A in a week's time.Discovery's next mission, STS-124, will carry seven astronauts to the International Space Station (ISS), and deliver the main component of the Japanese Experiment Module. The crew who are scheduled to fly aboard Discovery are Mission Commander Mark E. Kelly, Pilot Kenneth Ham, Mission Specialists Karen L. Nyberg, Ronald J. Garan, Michael E. Fossum and Akihiko Hoshide, and Expedition 17 ISS crewmember Gregory Chamitoff.The U.S. space agency NASA called off the launch of Space shuttle Discovery today after a problem with a fuel sensor in the external tank used to detect fuel exhaustion. According to the agency-run NASA TV, the low-fuel sensor was either malfunctioning or damaged. The launch was already facing the threat of a scrub due to thunderstorms in the area.The sensor is one of four used to trigger the engine cutout after launch. Although only two are required for normal operation, and the Shuttle can be flown with one, NASA elected to maintain full redundancy. Should more of the sensors fail, the engine might burn out due to lack of fuel, a situation that has not been tested.The problem was detected during a simulation of an empty tank. When placed in a mode simulating an empty tank, three of the sensors correctly registered that the tank was empty, while the faulty sensor stayed in the "full" state. NASA is currently unsure whether the problem relates to the sensor, the instrumentation circuits reporting the sensor's state, or the simulation circuits.The problem comes after a separate incident yesterday when a cockpit window cover fell from the Orbiter, damaging thermal protection tiles. A similar problem caused the replacement of the fuel tank in June. NASA described the problem as an "intermittent fault".The launch, which was scheduled for 3:51 ET (20:51 UTC), would have been the first launch of a shuttle since Columbia's February 2003 crash which killed all crew members aboard.It is still unknown to NASA officials what caused the sensor to become defective.  It is also unknown at the moment whether the issue will be fixed on the launch pad, or in the Vehicle Assembly Building - in which it takes close to a full day's time to transport a shuttle between the two areas.In the interim, the crew of the shuttle will stay at KSC unless there are further delays, in which case the crew might be transported back to JSC in Houston for refresher training.The 'Return to Flight' mission for the Space Shuttle Discovery is to go ahead later today despite an accident on the launch pad yesterday.At about 5pm EDT Tuesday one of Discovery's cockpit window covers became detached and fell sixty feet. The falling cover struck the left Orbital Maneuvering System pod (situated to one side of the tail fin), damaging several thermal protection tiles. The tiles provide vital protection to the Orbiter as it makes its fiery re-entry to Earth's atmosphere.A replacement panel was fitted in less than an hour, with the only effect being a delay in rolling back the pad's Rotating Service Structure.This has been the only issue in the build up to today's launch, the first Shuttle flight since the Columbia Orbiter broke up during re-entry in February 2003. All crew were lost in that incident, which has been blamed on damage to a wing thermal protection system panel, caused by a block of fuel tank insulation that became detached and hit the Orbiter during the first moments of flight.Discovery is due to take off at 3.51pm EDT today. The chance of a weather-related delay to the launch has increased to 40% - due to the possibility of thunderstorms in the area.NASA has stated that they may extend the STS-117 Space Shuttle Atlantis mission by another two days to assist in the repair of 4 of the 6 computers that control the position, oxygen and water levels of the International Space Station (ISS) which failed, and have not come back on. As a result of the computer's failure, the thrusters on the station and the shuttle have been stabilizing the station's orbit.So far, only partial restoration has been made to at least some of the computer that controls the station's position, oxygen and water, but NASA says that some of the system still needs to be cleaned up."They've made a lot of progress. There are some cleanup steps to do still and some investigation," said space station flight director for NASA, Holly Ridings.Earlier NASA stated that, "Russian flight controllers will be working overnight to resolve a problem with the Russian segment computers that provide backup attitude control and orbital altitude adjustments. For now, the station’s control moment gyroscopes are handling attitude control, with the shuttle’s propulsion providing backup."It is not known what caused the computers to fail, but Russian engineers say that it could be a problem with power supply. This type of failure has not been observed before on the space station as re-booting the computers have fixed any problems that occurred in the past, but today, that did not work."We have plenty of resources, so we have plenty of time to sort this out," said manager of the space station program at NASA, Mike Suffredini.NASA officials state that there is an "option to depart" if at least one of the station's stabilizing computers cannot be fixed and the three member crew that is currently there, will have to be taken back to Earth in Atlantis. Without the computer that controls the oxygen levels, there is only 56 days of oxygen left available.NASA had already extended the shuttle's mission by two days on June 11 to repair a tear of at least four inches in the shuttle's Thermal Protection System (TPS), which occurred during liftoff on June 8.NASA says that the Space Shuttle Discovery will launch in July as planned and that no more safety changes will take place until after July's launch.Tests that NASA performed on the shuttle have found that there is no way to stop the "ice frost ramps" that fall off the shuttles when they launch."The decision was to fly these ice frost ramps as is, knowing that we can expect to have some small foam loss that could pose a risk," said the shuttle's project director, Wayne Hale in a press conference."There was a strong concern from several folks that we should wait until we have a good design on those pieces of foam and then change them as well before we go fly. We considered that very strongly. However, at the end of the day, we came back to the fact that it is more appropriate to make one change at a time to take care of the biggest problem and then work toward the next situation we would like to improve." added Hale.In February 2003, shuttle Columbia broke up during its return to Earth because 2 foam pieces that fell off the shuttle's fuel tank hit the wing of the shuttle. NASA grounded the fleet until modifications were made to its fuel tank.In 2005, another piece of foam was seen falling off Discovery, and the fleet was grounded again and the fuel tank had to be redesigned. The redesign removed two pieces of foam from cables that were insulated from wind when the shuttle was taking off.Hale called the changes the "largest aerodynamic change that we have made since the shuttle first flew.""We're in a flight test program. When you make a major change, you should fly that major change and if you have to make additional changes then you make them after the flight," said Hale.NASA is expected to completely retire the shuttles by 2010, but plans at least 16 more flights to complete the International Space Station.The Spirit Rover, one of two planetary rovers operated by NASA on the planet Mars, has made an important, though unintentional discovery on the red planet, due to a wheel which has been inoperable on the rover making large gouges in the soil of Mars wherever it goes.Scientists say they can confirm that images from the planet taken in May of 2007 at Gusev Crater, show that a white substance in the soil that was turned up as the rover moved along its path is Silicon dioxide or silica. Scientists at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York who made the discovery, have determined it to be nearly 90 percent pure. They also say the only way for the substance to be present there is if there was an abundance of water present on the planet sometime in its past. The water would have been superheated and coming up through hydrothermal vents or even hot springs which scientists say would have been similar to ones already present at Yellowstone National Park in Wyoming.Hydrothermal vents are fissures with superheated water and gases venting from the planet's surface. The vents are usually found around highly volcanic areas at the bottoms of seas and oceans. To this day, these vents or evidence of them have only been found on Earth. "On Earth, the only way to have this kind of silica enrichment is by hot water reacting with rocks. Home Plate came from an explosive volcanic event with water or ice being involved. We saw where rocks were thrown into the air and landed to make small indentations in the soft, wet ash sediment around the vent," said Dr. Steven Ruff of Arizona State University (ASU) in Arizona, one of the authors of the announcement of the findings published in Science.The finding has lead to more questions about Mars and whether or not it once had life present on it, and if so, where and how much."On Earth, hydrothermal deposits teem with life and the associated silica deposits typically contain fossil remains of microbes. What we can say is that this was once a habitable environment where liquid water and the energy needed for life were present," said another author of the report, Dr. Jack Farmer also from ASU.Ruff also states that much of the area Mars already searched seems to be covered with silica. "It's not just the soil in a trench in one place. It's a broader story of outcrops that extend 50 meters [about 150 feet] away from Home Plate. It's not a small scale, modest phenomenon."Spirit is the first of two rovers which landed on Mars in January of 2004. The second rover is Opportunity and both are still operating nearly 20 times longer than NASA has expected.Planetary scientist Vlada Stamenković of the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory and colleagues have developed a new chemical model of how oxygen dissolves in Martian conditions, which raises the possibility of oxygen-rich brines; enough, the work suggests, to support simple animals such as sponges. The model was published in Nature on October 22. Wikinews caught up with him in an email interview to find out more about his team's research and their plans for the future.The atmosphere of Mars  is far too thin for humans to breathe or for lungs like ours to extract any oxygen at all. It has on average only around 0.6% of the pressure of Earth's atmosphere, and this is mainly carbon dioxide; only 0.145% of the thin Martian atmosphere is oxygen. The new model indicated these minute traces of oxygen should be able to enter salty seeps of water on or near the planet's surface at levels high enough to support life forms comparable to Earth's microbes, possibly even simple sponges.  Some life forms can survive without oxygen, but oxygen permits more energy-intensive metabolism. Almost all complex multicellular life on Earth depends on oxygen."We were absolutely flabbergasted [...] I went back to recalculate everything like five different times to make sure it's a real thing," Stamenković told National Geographic."Our work is calling for a complete revision for how we think about the potential for life on Mars, and the work oxygen can do," he told Scientific American, "implying that if life ever existed on Mars it might have been breathing oxygen". Stamenković et al cite research from 2014 showing some simple sponges can survive with only 0.002 moles of oxygen per cubic meter (0.064 mg per liter). Some microbes that need oxygen can survive with as little as a millionth of a mole per cubic meter (0.000032 mg per liter). In their model, they found there can be enough oxygen for microbes throughout Mars, and enough for simple sponges in oases near the poles.In 2014, also suggesting multicellular life could exist on Mars, de Vera et al, using the facilities at the German Aerospace Center (DLR), studied some lichens, including Pleopsidium chlorophanum, which can grow high up in Antarctic mountain ranges. They showed those lichens can also survive and even grow in Mars simulation chambers. The lichens can do this because their algal component is able to produce the oxygen needed by the fungal component. Stamenković et al's research provides a way for oxygen to get into the Martian brines without algae or photosynthesis.Stamenković et al found oxygen levels throughout Mars would be high enough for the least demanding aerobic (oxygen-using) microbes, for all the brines they considered, and all the methods of calculation. They published a detailed map[3] of the distributions of solubility for calcium perchlorates for their more optimistic calculations, which they reckoned were closer to the true case, with and without supercooling. The lowest concentrations were shown in the tropical southern uplands. Brine in regions poleward of about 67.5° to the north and about 72.5° to the south could have oxygen concentrations high enough for simple sponges. Closer to the poles, concentrations could go higher, approaching levels typical of sea water on Earth, 0.2 moles per cubic meter (6.4 mg per liter), for calcium perchlorates. On Earth, worms and clams that live in the muddy sea beds require 1 mg per liter, bottom feeders such as crabs and oysters 3 mg per liter, and spawning migratory fish 6 mg per liter, all within 0.2 moles per cubic meter, 6.4 mg per liter.((Wikinews))   Does your paper's value of up to 0.2 moles of oxygen per cubic meter, the same as Earth's sea water, mean that there could potentially be life on Mars as active as our sea worms or even fish?Stamenković: Mars is such a different place than the Earth and we still need to do so much more work before we can even start to speculate.Stamenković et al studied magnesium and calcium perchlorates, common on Mars. They found the highest oxygen concentrations occur when the water is colder, which happens most in polar regions.((WN))   The temperatures for the highest levels of oxygen are really low, -133 °C, so, is the idea that this oxygen would be retained when the brines warm up to more habitable temperatures during the day or seasonally? Or would the oxygen be lost as it warms up? Or — is the idea that it has to be some exotic biochemistry that works only at ultra low temperatures like Dirk Schulze-Makuch's life based on hydrogen peroxide and perchlorates internal to the cells as antifreeze?Stamenković: The options are both: first, cool oxygen-rich environments do not need to be habitats. They could be reservoirs packed with a necessary nutrient that can be accessed from a deeper and warmer region. Second, the major reason for limiting life at low temperature is ice nucleation, which would not occur in the type of brines that we study.Stamenković et al's paper is theoretical and is based on a simplified general circulation model of the Mars atmosphere — it ignores distinctions of seasons and the day / night cycle. Stamenković's team combined it with a chemical model of how oxygen would dissolve in the brines and used this to predict oxygen levels in such brines at various locations on Mars. When asked about plans for a future model that might include seasonal timescales, Stamenković told Wikinews, "Yes, we are now exploring the kinetics part and want to see what happens on shorter timescales."Stamenković et al's model also takes account of the tilt of the Mars axis, which varies much more than Earth's does.  Wikinews asked Stamenković if he had any ideas about whether and how sponges could survive through times when the tilt was higher and less oxygen would be available:((WN))   I notice from your figure[4]  that there is enough oxygen for sponges only at tilts of about 45 degrees or less. Do you have any thoughts about how sponges could survive periods of time in the distant past when the Mars axial tilt exceeds 45 degrees, for instance, might there be subsurface oxygen-rich oases in caves that recolonize the surface? Also what is the exact figure for the tilt at which oxygen levels sufficient for sponges become possible? (It looks like about 45 degrees from the figure but the paper doesn't seem to give a figure for this.)Stamenković: 45 deg is approx. the correct degree. We were also tempted to speculate about this temporal driver but realized that we still know so little about the potential for life on Mars/principles of life that anything related to this question would be pure speculation, unfortunately.((WN))   How quickly would the oxygen get into the brines — did you investigate the timescale?Stamenković: No, we did not yet study the dynamics. We first needed to show that the potential is there. We are now studying the timescales and processes.((WN))   Could the brines that Nilton Renno and his teams simulated, forming on salt/ice interfaces within minutes in Mars simulation conditions, get oxygenated in the process of formation? If not, how long would it take for them to get oxygenated to levels sufficient for aerobic microbes? For instance could the Phoenix leg droplets have taken up enough oxygen for aerobic respiration by microbes?Stamenković: Just like the answer above. Dynamics is still to be explored. (But this is a really good question 😉).Wikinews also asked Stamenković how their research is linked to the recent discovery of possible large subglacial lake below the Martian South Pole found through radar mapping. ((WN))   Some news stories coupled your research with the subglacial lakes announcement earlier this year. Could the oxygen get through ice into layers of brines such as the possible subglacial lakes at a depth of 1.5 km?Stamenković: There are other ways to create oxygen. Radiolysis of water molecules into hydrogen and oxygen can liberate oxygen in the deep and that O2 could be dissolved in deep groundwater. The radiolytic power for this would come from radionuclides naturally contained in rocks, something we observe in diverse regions on Earth.((WN))   And I'd also like to know about your experiment you want to send to Mars to help with the search for these oxygenated brines.Stamenković: We are now developing at "NASA/JPL-California Institute of Technology" a small tool, called TH2OR (Transmissive H2O Reconnaissance) that might one day fly with a yet-to-be-determined mission. It will use low frequency sounding techniques, capable of detecting groundwater at depths down to ideally a few km under the Martian surface, thanks to the high electric conductivity of only slightly salty water and Faraday's law of induction. Most likely, such a small and affordable instrument could be placed stationary on the planet’s surface or be carried passively or actively on mobile surface assets; TH2OR might be also used in combination with existing orbiting assets to increase its sounding depth. Next to determining the depth of groundwater, we should also be able to estimate its salinity and indirectly its potential chemistry, which is critical information for astrobiology and ISRU (in situ resource utilization).((WN))   Does your TH2OR use TDEM like the Mars 94 mission — and will it use natural ULF sources such as solar wind, diurnal variations in ionosphere heating and lightning?Stamenković: The physical principle it uses is the same and this has been used for groundwater detection on the Earth for many decades; it’s Faraday’s law of induction in media that are electrically conducting (as slightly saline water is).Stamenković: However, we will focus on creating our own signal as we do not know whether the EM fields needed for such measurements exist on Mars. However, we will also account for the possibility of already existing fields.In findings published Tuesday in Astronomy and Astrophysics, a team of scientists led by Ian Boutle at the University of Exeter have created successful simulations of two possible atmospheres of Proxima B, an exoplanet orbiting Proxima Centauri, one a simple atmosphere of nitrogen tinged with carbon dioxide and another an Earth-like mix of gases.  They found it possible that liquid water, a prerequisite for life as we know it, might exist on parts of the planet.The University of Exeter's lead exoplanet modeller, Dr. Nathan Mayne, in remarks to Wired, said, "If, and it is a huge if, the composition of the atmosphere was Earth-like then we showed the planet could indeed support temperatures which would allow liquid water on the surface". In another statement, he emphasized researchers could also "exploit this to hopefully improve our understanding of how our own climate has and will evolve".Proxima B is believed roughly Earth-sized and in its solar system's habitable zone, meaning it would have similar gravity to Earth and at least the possibility of liquid water.  The exoplanet was discovered in August 2016 about 4.2 light years from Earth. Last year, NASA put out a statement expressing doubt that the planet could have an atmosphere in the sense that most of us understand it: "Considering the host star's age and the planet's proximity to its host star, the scientists expect that Proxima B is subjected to torrents of X-ray and extreme ultraviolet radiation from superflares occurring roughly every two hours."Co-author Dr. James Manners said, "One of the main features that distinguishes this planet from Earth is that the light from its star is mostly in the near infra-red[...] These frequencies of light interact much more strongly with water vapour and carbon dioxide in the atmosphere which affects the climate that emerges in our model."This new model allowed scientists to evaluate the effects of Proxima B's possible orbits and likely exposure to radiation and solar flares from its red dwarf sun on two types of atmospheres. The specifics of Proxima B's orbit are not yet established.  It might rotate around its axis quickly the way Earth does or it might be tidally locked to its sun, with one side of the planet always lit and the other always dark.  It might have a near-circular orbit or an elliptical one.  All these variations would have different effects on the flow of any gases over its surface.  The models described in this paper review two possible orbits: one tidally locked and one modeled after Mercury's, with a slow-rotating three days per year.The team used the Met Office Unified Model to produce the simulations.A small hole has been found on the Space Shuttle Atlantis  on the right hand payload bay door radiator, NASA officials have stated and it is not known what exactly caused the hole."The impact occurred sometime during the STS-115 mission last month. The nature of the object that hit the shuttle radiator isn't known. The hit, which left a hole about one-tenth of an inch in diameter, didn't endanger the spacecraft or the crew, nor did it affect mission operations," said NASA in a statement on their website.Monsters and Critics.com reports that a small rock or meteroid may have hit the shuttle "when returning from its mission" and CBS News reports that "space debris" are to blame. The hole did not cause any damage to any of the vital instruments or systems on Atlantis.Observatories around the world watched the skies early on Sunday morning as a European space probe, the SMART-1 crash landed on the Moon; the first time a European made object has landed there and, as the first, it made quite a bang. For the culmination of its three-year mission the probe left its orbit around our nearest neighbor and smashed into the Lake of Excellence at around 4,500 mph. The impact created a brand new crater and scattered debris up to 30 miles, in contrast to the gentle touchdown of the Eagle lander (when Neil Armstrong became the first man on the moon) 37 years ago.The Planetary Society have stated that their experimental solar sail craft Cosmos 1 is probably lost, but intermittent signals have given them some hope the mission has made orbit.The 100kg vehicle was launched atop a converted ICBM from a Russian nuclear submarine, however it is believed the first stage of the Volna booster rocket failed 83 seconds into the flight. The team behind the $4m craft have a slim hope that it managed to reach a low orbit, and efforts to pick up the tracking beacon are continuing.Signals have apparently been received by at least two tracking stations around the globe - in the Czech Republic, and in the Marshall Islands. The Planetary Society are being assisted by the US Strategic Command in an effort to find the spacecraft, if it did make orbit.However a scientist from the Czech station has said they have received only noise.If Cosmos-1 is in orbit, the onboard computer may still be functioning and could begin to unfurl the 30 meter diameter sail in three days time.A solar sail harnesses pressure exerted upon the sail by photons from the sun to push the craft along. Although its acceleration is very slow, it can go on nearly indefinitely (as long as the Sun exists). It was hoped Cosmos-1 would use a 30 m diameter sail to reach an orbit 800km above the Earth, as a demonstration of the potential of the technology.South Korea has lost contact with its Naro-1 rocket, just 137 seconds after take-off. Officials believe the rocket exploded.Korea Aerospace Research Institute (KARI) and Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center had hoped to use a Naro-1, South Korea's first carrier rocket, to launch a STSAT-2B satellite.South Korea had postponed the launch on Wednesday due to problems with the rocket's fire extinguisher system. Science Ministry spokesman Pyun Kyung-bum said, "We expect that it will be difficult to launch today".The rocket lifted off from Goheung's Naro Space Centre at 1701 (0801 GMT) today.  The rocket apparently exploded 137 seconds after launch, when a flash was seen from an on-board camera and communication was lost.  The loss of communication occurred when the rocket had achieved an altitude of around 70 kilometers (43 mi). Television cameras captured a white speck, presumably part of the rocket, falling into the sea.Analysts say the failure is a setback for South Korea. If it had been successful, it would have been the first Naro-1 launch to reach orbit. The launch cost South Korea an estimated US$400 million, and if successful, would have launched a satellite called the STSAT-2B into orbit.  The satellite was designed to examine climate change and its effects.The incident is seen as a major setback for South Korea's space program, which had been aiming to become the 10th country to achieve the capability to launch satellites, and the fourth Asian country, after China, Japan, and India.  A successful launch would have helped South Korea to become a player in commercial space launches, an industry valued at around US$250 billion.Since 1992, South Korea has launched 11 satellites from overseas sites with foreign-made rockets.At 22:16 GMT yesterday (04:16 today local time), a Russian Soyuz-FG/Fregat carrier rocket was launched from Site 31/6 the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, carrying the European GIOVE-B experimental Navigation satellite. The launch was conducted by Starsem, a Russo-European organisation which commercially markets Soyuz-FG and Soyuz-2 launches. GIOVE-B was successfully deployed into a medium Earth orbit at 02:01 GMT this morning, after an ascent lasting nearly four hours. GIOVE-B will serve as a prototype for the Galileo positioning system. It is the second such prototype, GIOVE-A is already in orbit, having been launched in December 2005. GIOVE-B was originally scheduled to launch in April 2006, but was delayed for a number of reasons. The next Galileo launch is scheduled to be the first cluster of operational satellites, which will be launched in 2010. The next Soyuz launch will be a Soyuz-U in mid-may, with a Progress spacecraft to resupply the International Space Station.This was the 20th orbital launch of 2008, the 24th Soyuz-FG launch, and the 1,732nd flight of a Soyuz rocket of any variant.Soyuz TMA-08M, a Russian spacecraft with a crew of three aboard, launched from Kazakhstan to the International Space Station (ISS) Thursday at 20:43 UTC (2:43 AM Friday, local time) and docked with the orbital outpost at 2:28 UTC on Friday after following a flight plan enabling a docking in record time.Soyuz TMA-08M is the first manned Soyuz spaceflight to follow a new flight plan which allowed the spacecraft to dock with the ISS in a record-breaking time of approximately six hours, or four orbits, rather than the usual two days. This new flight plan, described as "a fast track to the International Space Station" by NASA spokesman Josh Byerly, had been tested successfully prior to Thursday's launch by three unmanned Progress cargo ships delivering supplies to the station.The three-member crew of the mission consists of two Russian cosmonauts, Commander Pavel Vinogradov and Flight Engineer Aleksandr Misurkin, and one U.S. astronaut, Flight Engineer Christopher Cassidy. Soyuz TMA-08M is the third spaceflight for Vinogradov and the second for Cassidy. Aleksandr Misurkin is making his maiden trip into space aboard the mission.The Soyuz spacecraft docked with the ISS at 2:28 UTC on Friday, about four minutes ahead of schedule and just short of six hours after liftoff. After docking with the station, the hatches separating the Soyuz and the ISS were opened at 4:35 UTC, after which the new crewmembers were welcomed aboard by the three-man crew currently aboard the outpost, Russian cosmonaut Roman Romanenko, Canadian astronaut Chris Hadfield, and U.S. astronaut Thomas Marshburn.The combined six-person Expedition 35 space station crew is slated to perform scientific research and prepare for upcoming departures and arrivals of other spacecraft. The next of these is scheduled for April 15 when Progress M-17M is to undock from the station. The trio already aboard the ISS—consisting of Romanenko, Hadfield, and Marshburn—are to depart and return to Earth aboard Soyuz TMA-07M on May 14, leaving the Soyuz TMA-08M crew behind. Soyuz TMA-09M, also using the new flight plan, is scheduled to arrive at the ISS with three new crewmembers two weeks later on May 28.Soyuz TMA-08M—with Vinogradov, Misurkin, and Cassidy aboard—is scheduled to return to Earth on September 11, after approximately six months in space.This morning, the Soyuz TMA-11 spacecraft landed in Kazakhstan, with three cosmonauts aboard. Russian Yuri Malenchenko, and American Peggy Whitson were returning from the International Space Station, where they had spent six months as the Expedition 16 crew. South Korean Yi So-yeon, the first South Korean to fly in space, was also aboard the spacecraft, having spent eleven days in orbit. Landing was scheduled for 08:30 UTC, however due to an anomaly during re-entry, it occurred at 08:51, 21 minutes behind schedule. Owing to a communication outage, it took some time to confirm that the spacecraft was on the ground.A controlled ballistic descent profile was used, which differs from the planned re-entry profile in that it is steeper. The command to switch to this profile was given by the on-board computer during re-entry, after an unspecified anomaly was detected. RSC Energia, the manufacturer of the Soyuz spacecraft stated that this profile is considered a nominal backup, and that it was too early to speculate what caused it. Landing occurred 475 kilometres short, to the west of the scheduled landing site. The same backup profile was used during the landing of the previous Soyuz mission, Soyuz TMA-10, last October.All three crewmembers were reported to be in satisfactory health. During re-entry, there was an unusually long loss-of-signal, which caused concern for flight controllers, as well as the Expedition 17 crew of the ISS.At 11:16 GMT (17:16 local time) this morning, a Russian Soyuz-FG carrier rocket launched from Site 1/5 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, with the Soyuz TMA-12 spacecraft, on a mission to the International Space Station (ISS). Aboard were three cosmonauts; Russians Sergei Volkov and Oleg Kononenko, and South Korean Yi So-yeon. Volkov and Kononenko make up the ISS Expedition 17 crew, whilst Yi is flying as a Spaceflight Participant through the Korean Astronaut Programme. All three are making their first trip into space.Two major firsts are being achieved on this mission. Yi is the first South Korean to fly in space, and Volkov is the first second-generation space traveller, his father Alexander Volkov having flown three space missions, Soyuz T-14, TM-7 and TM-13, spending over a year aboard the Mir space station across the three missions.Soyuz TMA-12 successfully separated from the carrier rocket about nine minutes after lift off. Docking with the Pirs module of International Space Station is planned for Thursday at 13:00 GMT. In preparation for docking, the Progress M-63 cargo spacecraft undocked at 08:30 GMT yesterday morning, and was de-orbited to burn-up in the Earth's atmosphere at 11:50.The TMA-12 spacecraft will remain docked to the ISS as an emergency escape capsule until October, when it will be used to return the Expedition 17 crew to Earth, along with space tourist Richard Garriott. Yi So-yeon will return to Earth aboard Soyuz TMA-11, which is scheduled to land in just under a fortnight's time.This is the 99th manned flight of the Soyuz programme, the first of which was launched in late April 1967, and the 107th manned flight of the Soviet/Russian space programme. It is the fifteenth orbital, and third manned launch of 2008.Soyuz TMA-12M, a Russian spacecraft carrying a crew of three, arrived at the International Space Station (ISS) at 2353 UTC yesterday, after a technical setback prevented a planned rendezvous and docking on Tuesday.The spacecraft, which launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan at 2117 UTC on Tuesday (3:17 AM, Wednesday local time), was originally scheduled to dock with the space station at 0304 UTC on Wednesday. It was not in the proper orientation to execute one of the engine burns required as part of the expedited rendezvous procedure used since last year, however, and docking with the ISS was delayed until yesterday. The mission reverted to the flight plan used on Soyuz flights to the ISS previously: a longer, two-day, 34-orbit rendezvous.The precise cause of the malfunction has not yet been publicly announced, but NASA said Wednesday, all systems aboard the Soyuz appeared to be functioning normally despite the setback which prevented a docking approximately six hours after launch. Also according to NASA, engineers understand the issue and have developed methods to prevent a recurrence on a future flight and the crew was never in any danger.Soyuz TMA-12M successfully docked with the station 252 miles (406 km) above Brazil at 2353 UTC yesterday, with hatch opening between the two spacecraft occurring at 0235 UTC today.On board the Soyuz were two Russian cosmonauts: Commander Aleksandr Skvortsov and Flight Engineer Oleg Artemyev, as well as one NASA astronaut: Flight Engineer Steven Swanson. TMA-12M is a return to space for both Skvortsov and Swanson, who are making the trip for the second and third times, respectively. Artemyev is visiting space for the first time.Filling out the full six person contingent on the station, they join three Expedition 39 crew members aboard the ISS: Japanese astronaut and station commander Koichi Wakata, NASA astronaut Richard Mastracchio and Russian cosmonaut Mikhail Tyurin. They launched aboard Soyuz TMA-11M in November of last year and were the sole inhabitants of the station since the departure of Soyuz TMA-10M on March 11.Skvortsov, Artemyev and Swanson are to become the crew of Expedition 40 when TMA-11M is scheduled to depart in May with Wakata, Mastracchio and Tyurin aboard, at which time Swanson is to assume command of the station. The trio are slated to remain aboard the orbital outpost for approximately six months, until TMA-12M undocks in mid-September and returns to Earth.At 10:34 UTC (4:34 p.m. local time) Wednesday, a Russian Soyuz-FG carrier rocket launched from Site 1/5 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, with the Soyuz TMA-15 spacecraft, on a manned spaceflight to the International Space Station (ISS). Aboard were three Expedition 20 crew members, Roman Romanenko of the Russian Federal Space Agency (RSA), Belgian Frank De Winne of the European Space Agency (ESA) and Robert Thirsk of the Canadian Space Agency (CSA).The launch was almost cancelled due to strong winds and the threat of swine flu carried by a journalist however, the flight was just delayed by eight hours.  "The Russians do a magnificent record of taking people to space and back. They don't have a launch window, they don't have launch date, they have a launch second," said Chris Hadfield, a Canadian astronaut.It will be a two day journey to the ISS with the crew expecting to arrive on Friday.  Then there will be six crew members aboard the ISS who will represent all five global space agencies; National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, RSA, ESA and CSA.Thirsk will spend six months aboard the ISS, "It's only in those situations where you are able to realize what your own weakness and strengths are and the weaknesses and strengths of your astronaut colleagues as well, and then work as a team to meet everyone's needs."Romanenko follows his father's footsteps, cosmonaut Yuri Romanenko, into space.DeWinne will become the ISS commander in October following Gennady Padalka.  "It is quite an achievement," said Crown Prince Philippe of Belgium, "He represents Europe, he represents Belgium, he represents international collaboration for peaceful application of science."The crew currently of the International Space Station (ISS) was briefly evacuated to the Russian Soyuz capsule in preparation for a possible impact with space debris. In memos published by NASAspaceflight.com, the object was described as "elliptical with a low perigee". It was unclear what kind of damage the debris would have caused if it had collided with the ISS. "Tracking of the small piece of debris/MMOD (Micrometeoroid Orbital Debris) was initially classed as a low threat of collision with the ISS. Universe Today reported the object as being large, while BNOnews said the object was small, about 0.009 meters.At 12:34 EDT, "as a contingency, NASA’s Expedition 18 Commander Mike Fincke, Russian Flight Engineer Yury Lonchakov, and NASA’s Sandra Magnus were asked to 'evacuate' into the Russian Soyuz, which would serve as their means of departing from the Station - should it be required," added NASA.  Approximately 10 minutes later, after the threat had passed, the crew returned to its normal duties.NASA has given the 'ok' for the Space Shuttle Atlantis to land on Thursday September 21. NASA also says that there was "no damage" to the shuttle when astronauts spotted a piece of debris floating next to the shuttle."We are cleared for entry. Nothing was found to be missing or damaged from the thermal protection system, the heat shield of the space shuttle Atlantis, or, in fact, any other part of the shuttle Atlantis," said N. Wayne Hale Jr., the shuttle's program director.The debris is believed to be a piece of plastic from under the shuttle's heat tiles. A similar piece was seen by cameras falling from inbetween the heat shield tiles, but when the camera took another look, there was nothing to be found. Hale says that the source of the debris is unknown and that "we [NASA] may never know" where it came from."This is most likely the culprit. It was there before, it's not there now. It was most likely shaken loose during the flight control system checkout. We probably will never know for sure," added Hale.Astronauts used Atlantis's robotic arm to check the shuttle and its heat shield for any signs of damage.Space Shuttle Atlantis has landed on runway 15 of the Kennedy Space Center Shuttle Landing Facility, completing the STS-122 mission to the International Space Station (ISS). Landing occurred at the earliest opportunity today, with Atlantis touching down at 14:07:10 GMT (09:07:10 local time), following a de-orbit burn at 13:00 GMT, and entry interface at 13:35. Wheel-stop occurred at 14:08:08 GMT.During STS-122, the Columbus module was installed on the space station, a nitrogen coolant tank was replaced, and a the CMG-3 control gyroscope, which had been removed during the STS-118 mission last August, was collected for return to Earth. Three spacewalks were conducted. The mission lasted 12 days, 18 hours, 21 minutes, and 40 seconds.Seven astronauts returned to Earth aboard Atlantis; Stephen Frick, Alan G. Poindexter, Leland D. Melvin, Rex J. Walheim, Hans Schlegel, Stanley G. Love, and Daniel M. Tani. Léopold Eyharts was launched aboard Atlantis, but remained aboard the station, replacing Tani as part of the Expedition 16 crew. Tani returned to Earth after 120 days in space as a member of Expedition 16. He was originally scheduled to return in December, however this was delayed because of problems launching Atlantis. Atlantis' successful landing means that there is now no impediment to the US Navy's attempt to destroy a failed satellite in orbit, which is expected to occur at 03:30 GMT tomorrow morning. This could not have been conducted before Atlantis landed, as the debris it is expected to create could have damaged the Shuttle as it descended from orbit.The next Space Shuttle mission, STS-123, using the Space Shuttle Endeavour, is scheduled to launch in early March, with Japanese and Canadian components for the Space Station. Atlantis' next mission will be STS-125, the final mission to service the Hubble Space Telescope, which is scheduled for launch in late August.Space Shuttle Atlantis, on mission STS-122, has docked with the PMA-2 docking port on the Harmony module of the International Space Station. Atlantis, carrying seven astronauts, launched on Thursday on a mission to deliver the European Columbus module to the Station.Soft docking occurred at 17:17 GMT, followed by a hard dock at 17:35. This is the first time a Shuttle has docked to the Harmony module, since its installation in October 2007, during Shuttle mission STS-120.Prior to docking, Atlantis performed a rendezvous pitch maneuver (RPM), rotating the orbiter through 360 degrees in order to allow an inspection of its heat shield. This was completed between 16:24 and 16:32.NASA engineers are particularly interested in a loose insulation blanket on one of the OMS engine pods at the aft end of the Shuttle, which was discovered during inspections on Friday. The problem is similar to one which occurred on Atlantis' previous flight, STS-117.Around three hundred pictures of the heat shield and OMS pods were taken, and transmitted to Earth for analysis.Other problems under evaluation are reported to include a damaged tile towards the front of the shuttle, and an entire tile falling away from the rear of the shuttle when its engines ignited at launch. It is not believed that any of these issues will threaten the Shuttle or its crew.Leak checks were then conducted, ahead of the opening of connecting hatches, which occurred at 18:40, and the subsequent boarding of the ISS by the crew of Atlantis.Space Shuttle Atlantis has completed its last journey with a landing at Kennedy Space Center, located in Florida, United States. Two thousand employees, including employees, families and friends, witnessed the landing of Atlantis at 0557 EDT (0957 UTC) yesterday. This landing has brought mission STS-135 to a close, as well as the Space Shuttle program from NASA. The program, which experienced a total of one hundred and thirty-five missions, had been in operation for thirty years, since 1981.During the landing, Christopher Ferguson, the flight's commander, commented that "[t]he space shuttle changed the way we view the world and it changed the way we view the universe". Citing "a lot of emotion" in relation to this landing, Ferguson clarified that "one thing's indisputable: America's not going to stop exploring".Amongst the aftermath of the landing, NASA Administrator Charles F. Bolden, Jr. produced a speech while standing in front of the spacecraft and its crew and spoke of "the rare opportunity to witness history". Atlantis launched for the final time on July 8 this year. Bolden commented: "This final shuttle flight marks the end of an era, but today we recommit ourselves to continuing human spaceflight and taking the necessary and difficult steps to ensure America's leadership in human spaceflight for years to come."The United States government gave the order to abandon the program, partially attributing their cancellation to the expense of vehicle maintenance. Due to the program's conclusion, in excess of three thousand space shuttle operation contributions are now anticipated to lose their occupations. Bolden spoke of how grateful NASA were to the "thousands, literally tens of thousands, of folks all around the country who made all this possible". There is now no way for individuals to travel into space from the United States. To do this, NASA will utilise the services of the Russian spacecraft Soyuz.Space Shuttle Atlantis has made a night landing at the Kennedy Space Center on Thursday finishing off STS-115 which lasted 13 days. The orbiter landed safely at 6:21:30 a.m. EDT, on runway 33 at KSC. The return of Atlantis to Earth avoided a traffic jam at the space station, as Soyuz TMA-9 Expedition 14 docked with the ISS on September 20, 2006 at 12:21AM CDT (09:21AM Moscow Time) which included space tourist Anousheh Ansari.The Space Shuttle Atlantis has performed a successful landing at Edwards Air Force Base in California, completing STS-117, a troubled but successful mission to upgrade the International Space Station (ISS). The mission had a total duration of 13 days, 20 hours and 11 minutes, much longer than originally intended due to a mission extension and a missed landing opportunity.The landing in California is the result of the latest in a string of difficulties for the mission, as poor weather forced Atlantis first to postpone its landing at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, then to cancel it altogether, opting instead to land in California. NASA had previously expressed their desire to avoid a landing in California if possible due to logistical difficulties that would be caused by the diversion. Atlantis will now be flown back to Florida on the back of a modified Boeing 747 at a cost of around US$1 million. The flight is expected to begin next Thursday and will take at least a day or two from then. According to officials at the Kennedy Space Center, the delay is already accounted for as a previously identified possibility as part of plans for the next Atlantis mission, scheduled for departure on October 20, again for ISS construction work.During this mission, the Atlantis crew added the 17.5 ton S3/S4 Truss, the second of the trusses on the starboard side, as well as adding its associated energy systems, including the unfurling a set of solar arrays with a 240 foot tip-to-tip length. The arrays will generate power for European and Japanese science laboratories set to be added to the ISS at a later date. During the same mission, another solar array was folded up to allow the truss it is mounted to to be relocated later this year. The shuttle also left crewmember Clay Anderson at the ISS and returned with ISS crewmember Sunita Williams, who earlier set the record for female space endurance during her latest ISS mission.Although successful, there were numerous problems during the mission. A computer failure in the Russian segments of the ISS almost forced the shuttle's mission to be extended and left the ISS struggling to maintain thrusters, oxygen generation, carbon dioxide scrubber, and other environmental control systems, and relying on Atlantis to help. Officials even looked at the possibility of an unprecedented emergency evacuation of the ISS, although astronauts were ultimately able to repair the systems.Other concerns included hail damage, which delayed the mission's launch; damage to the thermal blanket, which required a spacewalk to repair; and discovery of unidentified debris shortly after Atlantis docked with the ISS. The mission had to be extended by two days in order to give astronauts time to repair the damaged heat-protection equipment. NASA officials held an emergency meeting Wednesday while engineers confirmed that they thought the repair would withstand the rigors of re-entry with the Earth's atmosphere.Space Shuttle Atlantis has landed safely at Edwards Air Force Base in California. Atlantis landed at approximately 11:39 a.m. (EDT).Atlantis had spent just under thirteen days in space. Its mission, STS-125, was to make the final repairs to the Hubble Space Telescope before the shuttle fleet is retired. Over the course of the mission’s five spacewalks, the crew added two new science instruments, repaired two others and replaced hardware that will extend the telescope's life at least through 2014.Atlantis arrived at Hubble on May 13.  The crew performed five spacewalks on five consecutive days to repair and upgrade the telescope.  Taking a total of almost thirty-seven hours of spacewalks, the repairs were one of the most extensive set of spacewalks on a single mission. The landing was scrubbed twice after bad weather forced NASA to land Atlantis at Edwards AFB. Atlantis was originally scheduled to land on Thursday. The shuttle is scheduled to be transported back to Florida's Kennedy Space Center on the back of a modified Boeing 747 next week. It will cost NASA US$2 million to transport the shuttle.The mission almost did not occur. First, after the Columbia disaster, there was extensive worry about whether a mission to Hubble made sense given that it would force the shuttle into an orbit in which the crew could not be easily rescued or rendevous with the International Space Station. There was also debate over whether the cost of the repairs would be worth the expense of the mission.NASA have today announced that the launch of Space Shuttle Atlantis, mission STS-122, which is a module delivery mission to the International Space Station (ISS), will be delayed until January 2nd, 2008 at the earliest, after scrubbing today's launch attempt, and an earlier attempt on December 6th.The decision to scrub the launch attempt was made at 7:24 a.m. EST by shuttle program managers. The reason behind the scrubbing is to allow shuttle engineers to spend time diagnosing and fixing the erroneous readings presented to the crew and Mission Control by the intermittent malfunctioning of a critical engine cutoff sensor (ECO). While only one of the four sensors was malfunctioning, the current launch criteria for the mission state that all four ECOs must be functioning correctly in order to launch.At a meeting held at 9 a.m., NASA's Mission Management Team for STS-122 decided on a postponement until January 2nd at the very earliest. Atlantis is due to deliver the European Space Agency's (ESA) Columbus laboratory module to the ISS. Alan Thirkettle, ESA's Space Station Program Manager, said, regarding the delay in launch: "In the big picture, it's not a setback. [But] it is disappointing because we have 750 people over here."The Space Shuttle Atlantis launched today for its final planned mission in space, STS-132.Atlantis lifted off in fair weather at 2:20 p.m. EDT (1820 UTC) from the Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida. The launch was viewed by over 40,000 spectators at Kennedy, including a small group chosen by NASA for a space "tweetup". Carrying six veteran astronauts and an assortment of parts for the International Space Station (ISS), the shuttle took off without any delays. This mission, scheduled to take twelve days, is the aging shuttle's 32nd voyage into space of its 25-year career.While no damage to the shuttle was seen, a piece of space junk near the ISS caused minor concern (but no delays). The shuttle is expected to dock at the ISS early Sunday morning, and the crew will perform maintenance work on the ISS next week. If everything proceeds without incident, Atlantis will leave the ISS on May 23 and land on May 26.This flight also marks the third-to-last mission of NASA's Space Shuttle program, which is being retired this year. However, Atlantis will still be maintained as an emergency rescue shuttle for the final Space Shuttle mission, and while NASA could also use Atlantis to resupply the ISS, it has not yet made a final decision regarding the plan.Space Shuttle Atlantis has launched from LC-39A at the Kennedy Space Center on mission STS-122 to deliver the European Columbus module to the International Space Station. Liftoff occurred at 19:45 UTC, which is 14:45 local time at the launch site. Atlantis successfully reached orbit about eight and a half minutes later. Columbus is the first research module to be added to the Space Station since 2001, and its launch came seven years to the day after the last research module, Destiny was launched, also aboard Atlantis. Docking with the International Space Station, on the PMA-2 docking port, is scheduled for Saturday. Earlier today, a Progress spacecraft docked with the Space Station, carrying new supplies for the outpost.The Shuttle is carrying a crew of seven Astronauts; Stephen Frick, Alan G. Poindexter, Leland D. Melvin, Rex J. Walheim, Hans Schlegel, Stanley G. Love, and Léopold Eyharts.The launch had previously been delayed twice due to problems with fuel sensors in the Shuttle's external tank. A connector was replaced, and the third launch attempt proceeded without any sensor problems.During the post launch press conference, it was reported that three pieces of foam debris were observed falling from the External Tank, however these were all small pieces of debris, so it is expected that any damage caused would not be mission-threatening.STS-122 is the fifth orbital launch of 2008, the 24th Shuttle mission to the ISS, the29th flight of Atlantis and the 121st overall Shuttle mission. It is scheduled to last 11 days, and conclude with a landing at the Kennedy Space Center on 19 February. Twelve further Shuttle missions remain before its retirement in 2010.After having its launch delayed three months due to  damage caused by hail stones during a storm, Space Shuttle Atlantis has been given the green light by NASA to launch on June 8."NASA's senior managers have signed the Certification of Flight Readiness confirming that Space Shuttle Atlantis, her flight crew and payloads are fit to fly," said a statement posted on NASA's website.Atlantis's main engines, orbital maneuvering system and forward reaction control system was pressurized this past weekend and the crew's equipment has been put into stowage.NASA plans to launch Atlantis despite a vote reached by the International Association of Machinist and Aerospace Workers, IAMAW, a union that is representing 570 workers that work with the shuttle program, but according to a union spokeswoman, the strike is not going to affect the launching of Atlantis."The bottom line is, a strike would not affect the next launch or the next one after that," said IAMAW spokeswoman, Tracy Yates. The union voted down a contract because the workers believed that NASA's wage offer is "substandard."Atlantis will deliver equipment to the International Space Station and to make repairs to it. Commanding Atlantis for its mission will be Rick Sturckow and Lee Archambault will serve as Atlantis' pilot. Mission Specialists James Reilly, Steven Swanson, John Olivas and Flight Engineer Clayton Anderson round out the crew to deliver the S3/S4 starboard truss segments, batteries and another pair of solar arrays to the space station.The United States Space Shuttle Atlantis and the European space station module Columbus are ready for launch from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, although NASA and ESA have said that there is only a “40 percent chance of acceptable conditions at launch times.”The launch director of Atlantis said that “the scope of the mission is first of course to bring the Columbus laboratory to space, to install it on the international space station, make all the connections, and of course activate the module, power it and bring the cooling and do all the activation."The ESA Program manager for the International Space Station said that he thought the “the European team are looking forward to the launch on Thursday." Leroy Cain, the American manager of the mission said that he believed "the team is in great shape and we're ready to move forward," NASA said that “the five mission specialists for the flight are also spending full days with checklists and practicing their flight tasks.” He also said that the astronauts  “have simulators at their disposal that let them rehearse the complex duties required in orbit.” The flight is due to be launched at 19:45 UTC (14:45 local time) tomorrow.NASA says it will launch the space shuttle Atlantis on Wednesday, September 6, at 12:29 p.m. Countdown until launch will begin on Sunday.NASA officials also say that the shuttle, launch pad and facilities at the space center suffered no damage from tropical depression Ernesto."We had no damage. Zero. Nada. We fully anticipate being ready to go as early as September 6," said Bruce Buckingham, a spokesman for NASA's Kennedy Space Center."There was no water intrusion in any operational areas, and so basically we came through this one unscathed," said Bill Johnson, a spokesman for NASA.If any delay causes the shuttle not to launch on Wednesday, NASA will attempt another launch two days from Wednesday.A bolt of lightning struck the launch pad which caused NASA to delay the shuttle launch. No damage was sustained when the bolt hit.The Space Shuttle Discovery, flying the STS-133 mission, has successfully rendezvoused and docked with the International Space Station (ISS) today at 18:14 UTC for what is scheduled to be the final time in its career.Discovery is delivering six astronauts to the orbiting outpost, as well as station parts and supplies including the Permanent Multipurpose Module Leonardo, the ExPRESS Logistics Carrier-4 and Robonaut2, the first dexterous humanoid robot in space.The docking, Discovery's 13th and final scheduled docking, occurred two minutes ahead of schedule, having been originally scheduled for 19:16 GMT today.The hatch between the space shuttle and the ISS was opened at 20:16 UTC, after which the crew members of Expedition 26 welcomed the crew of STS-133 aboard the station. The crew then participated in a safety briefing with Expedition 26 commander Scott Kelly, while Shuttle Flight Director Bryan Lunney took part in a mission status briefing on the ground which began at 20:50 UTC.Later on today, crew members Nicole Stott and Michael Barratt are scheduled to move the ExPRESS Logistics Carrier-4 from the payload bay using the shuttle's robotic arm to the station's own robot arm for placement on the exterior of the orbital laboratory.There was a delay in the docking mechanism's ability to make a seal between the two spacecraft during docking operations, so activities occurring later on in the day, including the transfer of ELC-4, may be delayed. This was primarily because of a mis-alignment between the docking systems of the shuttle and station due to gravitational effects. The entire delay took up approximately 40 minutes.During Discovery's approach to the station earlier on today, the crew of Expedition 26 took pictures of the shuttle's underside from the station's windows in order to assist in analysis of the heat shield of the spacecraft.NASA officials are debating whether or not to extend the mission an additional day for a photo shoot of the International Space Station, as it is currently host to six docked spacecraft from the United States, Russia, Europe, and Japan. A decision regarding this possibility is expected on Tuesday.STS-133 is Space Shuttle Discovery's 39th and final scheduled mission into space and the program's 35th mission to the ISS, as well as the 133rd in the entire Shuttle Program. There are two flights remaining before the retirement of the fleet that are still in planning: STS-134 and STS-135.The Space Shuttle Discovery has returned to the Kennedy Space Center in Florida.File:125750main in-flight-lg.jpgThe 109 ton vehicle was flown back from Edwards Airforce Base (AFB) in California on top of a modified Boeing 747 known as the Shuttle Carrier Aircraft. The 3,591 km journey across the United States took 2 days and cost about one million dollars. The Shuttle Carrier Aircraft made pit-stops in Oklahoma and Louisiana before landing in Florida this morning.On its way back from space, Discovery had to land at Edwards AFB on August 9 because its homebase in Florida reported bad weather.On Saturday, mission managers unanimously voted to proceed with the mission after engineers ruled out any safety concerns with the shuttle's booster rockets.  During off-site testing, two problems with the boosters appeared, though both were determined to have no impact if they were to occur during lift-off.  According to the launch director, Pete Nickolenko, "We're on track and ready to go for Monday." The launch is expected to occur at 0621 local time (1121 UTC) Monday morning, about an hour before sunrise, and will be the 131st space shuttle mission.The mission is planned to deliver around 10 tons of supplies to the International Space Station (ISS), including both new science equipment and spare parts. The mission will have a crew of seven people, and three spacewalks will be conducted during Discovery's time at the ISS.Discovery's mission will be one of the last flights for the space shuttle program, with only three flights remaining after Discovery's. That shuttle will undertake one more mission before the program ends. The future of American spaceflight is uncertain, as President Barack Obama recently canceled the Constellation Program, planned to be the successor to the shuttle program.  Obama is scheduled to make a speech on April 15 in the Cape Canaveral area while Discovery is in orbit, outlining his plans for spaceflight after the shuttles are retired later this year.The Space Shuttle Discovery successfully landed Wednesday at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida at 11:57 AM EST (16:57 UTC) for what is scheduled to be the final time in its operational career.Upon landing, the shuttle and its six-person crew wrapped up the STS-133 mission, the Discovery's 39th and final flight into space. STS-133 launched on February 24, after several launch delays since last November due to numerous technical issues. During the twelve-day mission, the crew transported supplies and parts to the International Space Station (ISS) including Robonaut2, the first dexterous humanoid robot in space, the Permanent Multipurpose Module, and ExPRESS Logistics Carrier-4.During the mission, two spacewalks were performed by astronauts Stephen Bowen and Alvin Drew to install parts and perform maintenance on the exterior of the orbiting laboratory.Six astronauts and cosmonauts, members of the Expedition 26 crew, remain aboard the ISS to carry out a long-duration mission aboard the outpost.STS-133 is Discovery's 39th and final mission into space, the 35th shuttle mission to the ISS, and the 133rd flight in the entire shuttle program. Discovery has docked with two different space stations, Mir and the ISS, and was the first shuttle to fly after both the Challenger and Columbia disasters. Discovery made its maiden flight on STS-41-D in 1984, having since become the most experienced and oldest surviving space shuttle, and delivering payloads to orbit such as the Hubble Space Telescope and becoming the first shuttle to fly a Russian cosmonaut into space.Discovery, having completed its final flight, has been offered by NASA to the National Air and Space Museum of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., to display to the public. The museum, however, is in the process of determining how to obtain the funds necessary to transfer the shuttle. A decision regarding this possibility is expected to be made in April.A NASA commentator describes Wednesday's landing as "the end of a historic journey. To a ship that has led the way, time and time again, we bid farewell to Discovery."Two remaining shuttle flights are scheduled later this year, STS-134 and STS-135, before the retirement of the space shuttle fleet.The space shuttle Discovery landed at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida on Saturday, ending its thirteen-day mission to the International Space Station (ISS). The spacecraft's landing was delayed for two hours due to low-lying clouds and heavy winds.Discovery had been sent out to the ISS in order to install a new set of solar panels that would increase its power supply.“Welcome home, Discovery, after a great mission to bring the International Space Station to full power,” said an astronaut, George Zamka, radioing from the mission control center in Houston, Texas.NASA tested an experimental tile under the Discovery's left wing during its approach for landing. The tile was almost eight centimetres thick, and had a bump in it, intended to disturb the otherwise smooth airflow over the shuttle's wing, thus exposing it to high amounts of heat. Engineers installed the tile in order to measure the excess heat that was generated on downstream tiles. A military airplane monitored the heat with an infrared camera. The findings will be used to help determine better designs for future shuttles.The US Space Shuttle Orbiter Discovery has returned to Earth safely, landing at Edwards Air Force Base, California, touching down on runway 22 at 8:11:22 am EDT (1211 GMT), and rolling to a stop. Commander Eileen Collins and the rest of her crew on Discovery are going through check-out procedures to secure the vehicle and assure safety. A convoy of specially-designed vehicles have parked near Discovery, ready to assist in debarkation of the astronauts from on-board the shuttle, and other initial post-flight processing of the orbiter.The astronauts on board Discovery (Orbital Vehicle 103 (OV-103)) are expected to disembark at approximately 9 am EDT.A press conference has been scheduled for 8:30 am CDT, including Dr. Michael Griffin, NASA Administrator, among others. NASA-TV will be providing live coverage, among others.NASA engineers announced on Friday that the Discovery's launch is being put on hold indefinitely."We are going forward on a day by day basis," Space Shuttle Program Deputy Manager Wayne Hale said at a press conference this afternoon. "As soon as we fix the problem, we will be four days from launch. What is that date going to be? We don't know."Launch controllers are still optimistic about a launch in the current window of opportunity, which lasts until the end of the month. Twelve teams of engineers are working across the US in order to resolve the problem with the fuel tank sensor.The fuel tank sensor is vital as it shuts down the main engines when fuel is exhausted - if the engines run dry, the results could be disastrous.When the huge main fuel tank was drained on Wednesday, the sensor continued to indicate "wet" instead of "dry", but in a series of later tests the sensor began performing properly.NASA has announced that the Space Shuttle Discovery is due to blast off on Tuesday 26 July at 10.39 am EDT.The news that the 43 hour countdown will be restarted on Saturday comes after the successful resolution of the problems that forced the aborting of the previous launch attempt.The countdown includes 28 hours of scheduled "hold time" bringing the total time period up to Tuesday.The launch had been scrubbed previously due to a faulty main fuel tank sensor which was sufferring from electromagnetic interference. Engineers fixed the problem by improving the electrical grounding of the system to reduce interference.The NASA Space Shuttle Discovery roared into the Florida sky at 10:39AM ET (14:39 UTC), 2 weeks after the launch was scrubbed due to a faulty sensor.  The launch was the start of the STS-114 mission, which is planned to be completed on August 7, 2005.Solid rocket booster separation was triggered two minutes and five seconds into the flight after burnout of the putty-like fuel packed inside each rocket. The firing of explosive bolts freed the twin boosters from the side of the external tank, allowing them to peel away from the space shuttle. Parachutes were then automatically deployed from the boosters, allowing them to slowly descend into the Atlantic Ocean where they will be towed back to shore.Discovery initiated the command for main engine cutoff, or MECO, at the 8-minute, 23-second mark. MECO shuts down the orbiter's three powerful engines in the rear of Discovery after completing the "uphill" climb into space.With the ascent into space complete and fuel in the external tank exhausted, Discovery jettisoned the orange canister. Following jettison, Commander Eileen Collins pitched the orbiter up until the tank could be sighted through the orbiter´s upper windows. Mission Specialist Soichi Noguchi then took digital photographs and video of the external tank from a distance of just 1,500 feet.Space Shuttle Discovery successfully launched this morning from Launch Complex 39A at the Kennedy Space Center at 11:38 EDT (UTC-4).During the two-week mission, the shuttle will deliver the Harmony Module to the International Space Station as well as preparing the space station for future additions.About two hours before the scheduled launch, NASA discovered and assessed the threat posed by a 4 by 1.5-inch (10.16 by 3.81-cm) chunk of ice that had formed on a pipe that connects the external tank and the space shuttle main engines. A strike from debris at launch was responsible for the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia in February 2003.The Space Shuttle Discovery has been launched from Kennedy Space Center, on mission STS-121. This is 115th Space Shuttle Flight and the second since the loss of  Space Shuttle Columbia on February 1, 2003.The ascent was described as "smooth", however NASA engineers will be looking for traces of damage to the shuttle's heat shield that may be caused by foam falling from the external tank.Launch occurred on schedule at 2:38 p.m. EDT (18:38 UTC), with the spacecraft reaching orbit 8 minutes later.Around 3 minutes into the launch, an on-board camera showed numerous pieces of insulation foam break away from the fuel tank. However, they are not thought to have caused any damage to the shuttle. NASA's shuttle program chief N. Wayne Hale Jr. said the foam had fallen "after the time we are concerned about."This is the first time an American manned spacecraft has added its own launch fireworks to Fourth of July celebrations in the United States.At 4:53 p.m. (EDT), Space Shuttle Discovery took off from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida on its final mission, STS-133. Its mission is to deliver and install onto the International Space Station (ISS), the Permanent Multipurpose Module Leonardo, the ExPRESS Logistics Carrier-4 and provide critical spare components for the station. Six astronauts, Steve Lindsey, Eric Boe, Alvin Drew, Nicole Stott, Michael Barratt, and Steve Bowen, are participating in the mission. The shuttle is also carrying Robonaut2, the first dexterous humanoid robot to be in space. Although its first priority will be to test its operation in microgravity, upgrades could eventually allow it to fulfill its ultimate purpose of becoming an astronaut helper on boring or dangerous tasks. The launch of Discovery, which was supposed to occur at 4:50 p.m., was delayed for three minutes due to a technical problem in the shuttle's command system and a chipped heat shield tile near the crew hatch which needed to be patched. The launch was also repeatedly postponed since November 1 due to various technical problems with the shuttle's systems and a hydrogen leak in the fuel tank along with cracks and bad weather. A small piece of foam broke off during the launch but NASA has reported that it is unlikely to cause problems. Discovery and the crew of STS-133 are scheduled to spend about two weeks in space and aboard the ISS, logging 4.5 million additional miles of flight.The launch comes just hours after an unmanned automated European cargo spacecraft, ATV-2, docked with the orbiting outpost to deliver supplies and equipment to the crew.STS-133 is scheduled to be the final mission of Discovery, with its first being STS-41-D in 1984. Discovery flew 39 flights in its operational history, including the current mission, delivering several payloads to space including the Hubble Space Telescope and visiting two different space stations: Mir and the ISS. STS-133 is the 133rd shuttle mission and the 35th mission to the ISS. Discovery is the oldest surviving shuttle, and has flown more missions than any other shuttle. It was also the first shuttle to fly after the Challenger disaster and was the first shuttle to fly after the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster. Later, Discovery became the first shuttle to fly a Russian cosmonaut. After the current mission, there will be at most two remaining shuttle flights. Endeavor has one more mission remaining, and if an emergency rescue is needed or more funding is secured, Atlantis will also fly once more before the entire fleet is retired."The shuttle has provided an amazing capacity for this country to gather data. I think we’re still sorting through a lot of it, trying to figure out what all we’ve learned from it. This chapter in our space history known as the space shuttle has been incredible," said Bryan Lunney, lead space shuttle flight director for the mission.Space Shuttle Discovery has successfully launched from Launch Complex 39A at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida, beginning mission STS-124. Discovery will deliver the main pressurised module of the Japanese Experiment Module to the International Space Station. Lift-off occurred at 21:02:12 GMT this evening, with the ascent to an initial sub-orbital trajectory lasting approximately eight and a half minutes. Orbital insertion occurred shortly afterwards, with a circularisation burn which concluded at 21:42 GMT.This is the third Space Shuttle mission of 2008. STS-124 is the second of three missions to assemble the Japanese Experiment Module, also known as Kibo. The JEM Pressurised Module (JEM PM or JPM) is the largest laboratory module of the International Space Station, and one of the largest payloads ever launched by the Space Shuttle. The main Japanese robot arm, or RMS, will also be launched on this mission. Discovery's mission is scheduled to last for fourteen days, however it can be extended by two days if necessary. Three spacewalks, or EVAs, are planned to be conducted.STS-124 has a crew of seven astronauts; Mission Commander Mark E. Kelly, Pilot Kenneth Ham, Mission specialists Karen L. Nyberg, Ronald J. Garan, Michael E. Fossum and Akihiko Hoshide, and Expedition 17 crewmember Gregory Chamitoff. All crewmembers are American, except Hoshide, who is Japanese. The astronauts were awoken at 11:30 GMT on launch day, and began preparations for their launch. This is the first spaceflight for Ham, Nyberg, Garan, Hoshide and Chamitoff, the second for Fossum, and the third for Kelly. The launch coincides with Kelly's father's birthday.Preparations for launch had been underway for several months. The External Tank arrived at the Kennedy Space Center in late March. Following tests in a checkout cell, it was mated with two solid rocket boosters which had been assembled on a Mobile Launch Platform. Discovery was then rolled from the Orbiter Processing Facility to the Vehicle Assembly Building for mating with the External Tank and boosters. Rollover occurred in late April, and was followed by rollout to the launch pad about a week later.The Kibo pressurised module arrived at the Kennedy Space Center in May 2003 by ship. It was then moved to the Space Station Processing Facility. Electrical interface tests with the Harmony node were conducted in August 2003. At the end of April 2008, the module was placed in a transportation canister, and moved to the launch pad. The payload arrived at the launch pad about a week ahead of the Shuttle. Once Discovery arrived at the launch pad, the module was placed into Discovery's payload bay. Owing to the size of the payload, there was no room in Discovery's' payload bay for the Orbiter Boom Sensor System (OBSS), a safety device used primarily to inspect the Shuttle Orbiter's heat shield. As a result of this, Endeavour left its OBSS at the International Space Station, during the last Shuttle Mission, STS-123. Discovery's crew will collect this during an EVA.Fueling of Discovery's External Tank in preparation for launch began at 11:50 GMT. By 12:50, it had been confirmed that initial tests on Engine Cutoff (ECO) sensors in the External Tank had been conducted successfully. ECO sensor failures had caused a number of delays to recent Shuttle launch attempts, and STS-124 is the first mission to use a modified tank, which is intended to eliminate such faults. At the time at which tanking began, weather forecasters predicted an 80 percent chance of acceptable conditions at the scheduled launch time. Fuelling was completed, and topping up of cryogenic propellant began, at 15:36. In addition to the ECO sensor modifications, this was the first mission to use an External Tank manufactured after the Columbia accident in 2003, and therefore the first tank to have all safety enhancements built into it, rather than retrofitted.The terminal countdown resumed after a planned hold at T-3 hours, at 17:07 GMT. Crew walkout from the Operations and Checkout building at the Kennedy Space Center occurred at 17:12. Following walkout, the crew boarded a bus known as the "astrovan", which was used to transport them to the launch pad. The crew arrived at the launch pad at 17:31, and began boarding Discovery at 17:38. As Mission Commander, Mark Kelly was the first to board the orbiter. He was followed by Chamitoff at 17:42, Ham at 17:52, Fossum at 17:55, Nyberg at 18:08 and Hoshide at 18:11. Ron Garan was the last to board the orbiter at 18:21. Pad technicians known as the closeout crew, assisted the astronauts with boarding the Shuttle, and getting strapped in. The pad technicians were cleared to close the orbiter's access hatch at 19:02 GMT, and the hatch door was closed two minutes later at 19:04. Sealing the hatch was completed at 19:54.A scheduled ten-minute hold at T-20 minutes began at 19:47 GMT. During this hold, the closeout crew put thermal insulation plugs into screwholes on the orbiter's hatch, removed protective covers, and disassembled the white room, a collapsible structure at the end of the crew access arm which is used to access the spacecraft. The countdown resumed at 19:57. At that time, no problems were being worked.The final built in hold, at T-9 minutes and lasting for 45 minutes and 12 seconds, began at 20:08. During this hold, flight controllers set the exact launch time to be 21:02:12 GMT, and confirmed that the launch window would end at 21:08:59 GMT. The countdown was set to resume at 20:53:12. Shortly before the end of the hold, the launch director described conditions as a "gorgeous day to launch", and wished the crew "good luck and Godspeed". Mark Kelly thanked him, and replied "whilst we tend to live for today, Discovery, with Kibo, will certainly deliver hope for tomorrow". Countdown resumed on time at the end of the hold, and the automated Ground Launch Sequencer was initiated.When giving clearance to retract the Orbiter Access arm from the Shuttle, seven minutes before launch, the Orbiter Test Conductor wished the crew "best of luck delivering JEM to the International Space Station". Four minutes before launch, the engines were purged of gasses, and tests of the flight control surfaces began. Liquid hydrogen tanks were pressurised shortly after at T-3 minutes, and the fuel vent cap was retracted. Two minutes before lift-off, the crew were instructed to close and lock their visors, and the liquid oxygen tank was pressurised. At T-50 seconds, the orbiter switched to internal power, and the Shuttle's flight computers took over control of the countdown at T-31 seconds.Launch occurred on schedule at 21:02:12 GMT. The Solid Rocket Boosters separated about 120 seconds into the flight, and around eight and a half minutes after launch, the Main Engines (SSMEs) shut down, and the External Tank was jettisoned. At this time, Discovery was on a 65km x 217km x 51.6° sub-orbital trajectory. Orbital insertion followed about thirty minutes later, with a firing of Discovery's OMS engines. This burn started at 21:39 GMT, and ended at 21:42, lasting two minutes and 44 seconds.At the time of launch, the International Space Station was flying over the Atlantic Ocean, South-East of Canada. Following launch, a fault was detected with the backup electrical system controlling the left OMS engine gimbal actuator. As it was a backup, flight controllers predicted that it would have no effect on the mission, and all scheduled burns will go ahead. The fault was later traced to the failure of both transducers in the unit, and it was reported that the problem was probably due to an equipment malfunction as opposed to a faulty sensor. When asked about the faulty actuator, NASA Administrator Mike Griffin stated that at the "worst case it would be a loss of redundancy but we will still be able to use that system". Discovery's payload bay doors were opened at 22:35 GMT. At 23:09, the crew were cleared to begin on-orbit operations.Processing and countdown progressed smoothly, and were described by Discovery's processing and launch flow director, Stephanie Stilson, as being "a very clean flow". Mission Commander Mark Kelly remarked that there had been a "historic low on spacecraft issues". Around four hours prior to launch, Stilson remarked that there had been 73 anomalies detected so far. The smallest number of anomalies during the countdown for a previous mission was 76, for STS-103.Moron AFB in Spain was considered the primary transoceanic abort landing (TAL) site, should an engine failure, or other major problem have occurred during early ascent. Istres in France was considered the backup TAL site. The weather at both of these sites was good, however no abort was required during the launch.This is the 123rd Space Shuttle mission, and the 35th to be flown by Discovery. Ten further missions are planned, including two contingency logistics flights, prior to the Shuttle's retirement in 2010. Discovery is assigned to three of these missions. It is next scheduled to fly in early 2009, on mission STS-119. The next Space Shuttle mission will be conducted by Atlantis, which will fly STS-125, the final mission to service the Hubble Space Telescope. This is the fourth manned, and 27th orbital launch of 2008.At a press conference following launch, NASA Administrator Mike Griffin stated that it was "a huge day for the space station partnership", and that the International Space Station was "a place in orbit where we can learn to live and work in space". He congratulated JAXA on the launch of the Japanese Experiment Module, saying that "Japan has now built a first class laboratory...which is capable of supporting humans in space", and that "with this step Japan has shown itself to be capable of performing at the highest levels of space exploration". Griffin also stated the STS-124 is "an essential step" in the Space Station programme. When asked by a reporter how he felt about recent NASA successes, including the STS-124 launch, and the landing of the Phoenix probe on Mars last Sunday, he joked that it felt "so great that not even having to do a press conference, two press conferences in a week can ruin it". When asked about the difficulty of what NASA was doing, he remarked that flight controllers "make it look easy", but "it is so far from being easy that I could talk until 6am tomorrow, and I wouldn't touch on how difficult it is".NASA Associate Administrator for Space Operations Bill Gerstenmaier said that it was "a great day for the launch", and described STS-124 as a "pretty challenging mission". Gerstenmair stated that five foam debris impacts had been identified during ascent, but that NASA "don't consider this a big deal, they were all late". When asked what he meant by 'late', he explained that after 123 seconds into the flight, pieces of falling foam debris "can't build up enough velocity to hit the orbiter, or if they hit the orbiter they will just bounce off" He went on to say that "things look really well and look really good", and that NASA have "no concern" about foam, "It's not an issue to us".Launch Integration manager LeRoy Cain described it as a "flawless countdown and a flawless launch". He said that STS-124 is "a big milestone for us", and went on to explain that "this is the most important mission we have going right now". He also stated that the "tank's performance looks really good". Launch Director Mike Linebach stated that it was a "Fantastic launch", that was tying for the lowest faults during a countdown, with 74 issues reported. Stephanie Stilson has previously stated that the record was 76 issues, so it is unclear whether STS-124 has set a new record, or is tying with the previous record. Linebach went on to describe the launch as "outstanding".Keiji Tachikawa, the President of JAXA said that he "was very delighted to see the Shuttle Discovery successfully launched". He stated that the Kibo module would "significantly enhance the capability to perform experiments in orbit", and that experiments conducted aboard the Space Station, and the Kibo module, would lead to "better daily lives for the people of our planet". He also expressed his "profound appreciation to NASA, and all international and domestic organisations" involved in the launch, explaining that the mission is "very significant to Japan".Expedition 10 Commander Leroy Chiao, on board the International Space Station (ISS), caught a candid shot of the Shuttle craft Discovery on its way to launch pad 39-B at the Kennedy Space Center.Chiao used a digital camera from an altitude of 220 statute miles to photograph Discovery during its roll out in preparation for the first launch of a shuttle in the two years since the Columbia disaster. The shot was made at 4:35 Eastern Daylight Time when the ISS flew over the launch site.Two pads at Launch Complex 39 are visible in the image. Discovery's launch pad, 39-B, is on the left.Inset points to Discovery.NASA reports that the Return to Flight mission has started to roll toward the launch pad once again. The rollout of the shuttle Discovery, scheduled for April 5 around midnight local time, was moved forward as a precaution when a small crack was discovered in the foam insulation on an external fuel tank. Officials decided it was no reason for concern.As of 2:04 p.m. EDT (18:04 UTC) today the orbiter began inching out of the Vehicle Assembly Building's hanger at Kennedy Space Center in Florida and onto the access road for the launch pad 39B. It is expected to reach the launch pad around 8 p.m. EDT.The actual launch window for the 114th Space Shuttle flight, and the 31st flight of the orbiter Discovery, will be no earlier than May 15 to June 3, 2005.The trip to the International Space Station, "Return to Flight" STS-114, will last 12 days and be the first flight since the Shuttle Columbia tragedy in 2003. This flight will test a new robot extension arm, the Canadian-built Orbiter Boom Sensor System, used to repair the exterior of the International Space Station. The Space Shuttle goes from standing still on the launch pad to more than 17,000 miles per hour in just over eight minutes. That means the astronauts go 2,000 miles per hour faster every minute.File:148888main sts121atpad lg.jpgOn Friday in Cape Canaveral, Florida, Space Shuttle Discovery began its 4.2 mile, 7 hour long journey to the launch pad, completing successfully. Discovery weighs approximately 4.5 million pounds.The launch was supposed to occur in May, but NASA pushed back the date because of a faulty fuel sensor.This will be Discovery's second mission since the space shuttle Columbia broke apart during re-entry in 2003. Engineers believed that foam falling from the shuttle and smashing into the wing caused the disaster. After the accident, NASA grounded the shuttle fleet to determine the cause.In 2005 cameras had shown during launch that a piece of foam being shed from the external tank, as well as smaller tile and foam dings. NASA and the crew decided that mission specialist Stephen Robinson should attempt to pull out the protruding gap fillers. Cameras also detected a small piece of thermal blanket near the cockpit that fell off, but later tests in wind tunnels had shown the piece to be of little concern and Discover landed safely.NASA is scheduling the launch for Discovery to be between July 1 and July 19, 2006 and Steve Lindsey will Commander of the mission, flying with pilot Mark Kelly, two spacewalkers, Mike Fossum and Piers Sellers and mission specialists Stephanie Wilson and Lisa Nowak. European Space Agency (ESA) astronaut Thomas Reiter is also part of the crew but he will remain on the International Space Station (ISS) for several months.NASA has postponed the landing of the Space Shuttle Discovery mission STS-114, planned for today.Officials initially delayed the landing, but finally cancelled any attempts for today citing the reason as "unstable, unacceptable cloud cover [with the] potential for showers in vicinity of landing site."Landing the space shuttle craft has been likened to landing a "brick". The approach to the landing field is at a steep pitch (nose up) and a high rate of descent. The shuttle is not very maneuverable and has one shot at the correct landing approach. Pilots cannot re-fire the engines to circle around for another approach, which is why low cloud cover is of such concern.Discovery has spent twelve days in orbit. On Tuesday, there will be six landing opportunities: two each at Kennedy Space Center in Florida, Edwards Air Force Base in California, and White Sands Space Harbor in New Mexico. Shuttle managers prefer a landing at Kennedy, but will consider the alternate sites if bad weather in Florida rules out landing there. NASA administrators insist that the shuttle will land tomorrow at one of the three sites, rather than spending yet another day in orbit.The flight marked the first time a shuttle has been inspected in orbit. The crew made two space walks to effect minor repairs to the Orbiter's thermal protection system as a result.NASA has successfully launched Space Shuttle Discovery after over a month of delays. Discovery lifted off at 7:43 p.m. (EDT) from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida in the United States after NASA declared the weather to be "100% go for launch"."The clouds broke up and that's why we were go for launch," stated mission control on NASA TV. A crystal clear blue sky could be seen in Discovery's background about 40 minutes before launch. NASA earlier had made jokes about a small black bat attached to the rear of the external fuel tank delaying launch, but NASA assured it would not be a problem for launch. NASA also said that there was a bat on STS-72 which managed to fly away just before the shuttle launched.The current scheduled mission, STS-119, is set to fly the Integrated Truss Structure segment ("S" for starboard, the right side of the station, and "6" for its place at the very end of the starboard truss) and install the final set of power-generating solar arrays to the International Space Station. The arrays consist of two 115-foot-long arrays, for a total wing span of 240 feet, including the equipment that connects the two halves and allows them to twist as they track the sun. Altogether, the four sets of arrays can generate 84 to 120 kilowatts of electricity – enough to provide power for more than 40 average homes.Commander Lee Archambault will lead Discovery's crew of seven, along with Pilot Tony Antonelli, and Mission Specialists Joseph Acaba, John Phillips, Steve Swanson, Richard Arnold, and Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency astronaut Koichi Wakata.Discovery's original proposed launch was for July of 2008. Later it was changed to December 4, 2008. The next change scheduled the liftoff date for February 12, 2009. It was then delayed until February 27, but was then delayed indefinitely on February 20 after NASA discovered an issue with the hydrogen control valves.Space Shuttle Discovery has successfully launched from Kennedy Space Center in Florida on mission STS-128.  Discovery took off at 11:59 p.m. (EDT) for a 13-day mission to the International Space Station (ISS).The shuttle's payload consists of a Multi-Purpose Logistics Module or 'Leonardo' and a Lightweight Multi-Purpose Experiment Support Structure Carrier. The treadmill named for comedian Stephen Colbert also is aboard Discovery. Colbert had previously won a contest to have one of the modules named after him, but officials at NASA decided on the name Tranquility."Space Shuttle Discovery completed a flawless ascent into orbit Friday night to begin a two-day chase of the International Space Station," said NASA in a statement on their website.After flying up on Discovery, astronaut Nicole Stott will trade places with station resident Tim Kopra, who went into space last month aboard Space Shuttle Endeavour.The space shuttle Discovery is coming back to Earth after 11 days in orbit. The a scan of the Shuttle's heat shield (now routine since the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster) showed no cause for concern and Discovery was cleared for the voyage home.The current mission, STS-120 was launched on October 23. The mission's primary purposes were to deliver the Harmony module to the International Space Station and to help reposition and extend solar power arrays. The mission gained wide attention for including a space walk to repair damage in the solar power array. The space walk had not been planned until the mission was already underway when the damage was then detected. However, additional problems with a rotary joint were not repaired and if they are not repaired they could interfere with further station construction. The return will also bring back Clay Anderson who is being replaced on the International Space Station by Dan Tani. Discovery is scheduled to land at Kennedy Space Center at 1:02 PM EST (UTC-5) on November 7.The Space Shuttle Endeavour landed on runway 15 at the Kennedy Space Center's Shuttle Landing Facility in Florida at 00:39 GMT this morning. Endeavour's landing marks the completion of the STS-123 mission, which saw two new components installed aboard the International Space Station during a 15 day, 18 hour, 10 minute and 54 second mission. Endeavour had travelled 6,758,000 miles, and orbited the Earth 250 times.During the mission the JEM ELM-PS module was installed, and the Dextre robotic arm component was assembled during a series of spacewalks. Dextre was delivered to the Station aboard a Spacelab pallet. This British-built component, which was first flown aboard the Space Shuttle in the early-mid 1980s as part of the European Spacelab programme, was making its final flight. It was returned to Earth by Endeavour.Landing aboard Endeavour were astronauts Dominic Gorie, Gregory H. Johnson, Robert L. Behnken, Michael Foreman, Richard M. Linnehan, Takao Doi and Expedition 16 crewmember Léopold Eyharts. The landing was waved off on the first attempt due to overcast skies at the landing site. This resulted in a 90 minute delay to landing.Main gear touchdown occurred at 00:39:08 GMT, followed nine seconds later by nose gear touchdown. Wheels-stop occurred at 00:40:41.This mission was the 21st for Endeavour, the 122nd Space Shuttle mission, and the 25th and longest Shuttle mission to the ISS. The next Shuttle mission is STS-124, which will be flown by Discovery. This is currently scheduled to launch in late May. Before this, Soyuz TMA-12 will be launched, in early April, with the Space Station's Expedition 17 crew, and Yi So-yeon, who will become the first South Korean in space. Endeavour's next mission, STS-126, is planned for October.Space Shuttle Endeavour landed for the final time at 2:34 a.m. EDT (0534 UTC) at Cape Canaveral, Florida, U.S. Wednesday, marking the end of its nineteen-year operational career. The mission, STS-134, is the penultimate of the NASA Space Shuttle program; Atlantis is scheduled to fly the final mission in July.The commander of the mission, Mark Kelly, paid tribute to the spaceship shortly after touchdown, saying, "It's sad to see her land for the last time, but she really has a great legacy." Endeavour launched earlier this month on a mission to carry the Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer (AMS) and several spare parts to the International Space Station (ISS). The AMS will enable scientists to examine cosmic rays and learn more about the history of the universe.The six-member crew of STS-134 consists of commander Mark Kelly, pilot Greg Johnson, and mission specialists Michael Fincke, Roberto Vittori, Andrew Feustel, and Gregory Chamitoff. European Space Agency's Vittori is scheduled to be the last non-American to fly aboard the Shuttle.Kelly is the husband of U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who was wounded during a January shooting in Tucson, Arizona. Giffords watched the launch from the Kennedy Space Center on May 16, but was asleep in a hospital during the early morning landing, according to Kelly.The end of the shuttle program comes after NASA opted to phase out the aging fleet, which has been in use since 1981, due to financial problems with maintaining the crafts. According to BBC News Online, NASA thinks that allowing private businesses to win space transportation contracts will generate enough revenue to pay for sending astronauts to and from the International Space Station. In a statement, NASA Administrator Charles F. Bolden, Jr., said, "We are very proud of Endeavour's legacy, and this penultimate flight of the space shuttle program once again demonstrated the amazing skill and dedication of our astronauts and the entire workforce." He stated that as NASA "begin[s] the transition from the shuttle program to the commercial transportation of [its] crews and cargo, [its] ability to tackle big challenges remains steadfast and will ensure that NASA reaches even more destinations farther in the Solar System."Space Shuttle Endeavour began service after the Space Shuttle Challenger exploded shortly after lifting off in 1986; all seven astronauts aboard died as a result of the disaster. Endeavour launched on its maiden flight, STS-49, in May 1992. During her career, Endeavour has orbited the planet 4,671 times, spent 299 days in space, and transported a total of 170 astronauts. The vehicle has traveled a total distance longer than 197.6 million kilometres (122.8 million miles). While in space, NASA's Michael Fincke set a space endurance record, spending the longest total time of any American in space at 382 days. STS-134 was Fincke's third spaceflight and first on the Space Shuttle. The spaceflight was the 25th and final flight of Endeavour, as well as the 134th and second-to-last of the entire Space Shuttle Program.During the crew's stay at the ISS, the crew completed the final four spacewalks scheduled to be performed by Space Shuttle crews. During these spacewalks, the crew installed components to the exterior of the station. Space Shuttle crews performed a total of 164 spacewalks, 159 of which contributed to the maintenance and completion of the International Space Station. Preparations are currently underway for Endeavour to go on public display in Los Angeles, California.The final mission in the Space Shuttle program, STS-135, is scheduled to launch on July 8.After windy and stormy conditions in Florida prevented its planned landing at Kennedy Space Center, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) decided to redirect the space shuttle Endeavour to California. It touched down successfully at Edwards Air Force Base at 1:25 p.m. local time, or 21:25, November 30, 2008 (UTC).NASA normally prefers to land space shuttles at its home base, Kennedy Space Center. In this case, NASA will have to transfer Endeavour atop a jumbo jet from California to Florida at an estimated cost of US$1.8 million.NASA had launched mission STS-126 on November 14 with eight astronauts led by Commander Christopher J. Ferguson. The mission was intended to make improvements to the International Space Station, including a new bathroom, sleeping quarters, and urine recycling system. The crew also successfully cleared metal shavings from a jammed solar wing rotary joint, which had affected energy production.Upon the landing, Mission Control radioed, "Welcome back. That was a great way to finish a fantastic flight.""And we're happy to be here in California," replied Ferguson.The Space Shuttle Endeavour launched on its final mission, STS-134, at 8:56 AM EDT Monday. The mission's primary objectives are to deliver Alpha Magnetic Spectrometer 2 and ExPRESS Logistics Carrier 3, as well as other materials and supplies, to the International Space Station (ISS).The shuttle launched from the Kennedy Space Center in Florida with six crewmembers aboard, including mission commander Mark Kelly, pilot Gregory Johnson, and mission specialists Roberto Vittori, Andrew Feustel, and Gregory Chamitoff.The shuttle is scheduled to arrive and dock with the ISS on Wednesday morning (EDT) to begin a two-week stay aboard the orbiting laboratory. While aboard the station, the crew is scheduled to perform four extra-vehicular activities, or spacewalks, to install components to the exterior of the ISS.Endeavour is scheduled to land for the final time on June 1st.Mission commander Mark Kelly is the husband of U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who was wounded in the 2011 Tucson shooting. Rep. Giffords flew to Kennedy Space Center to witness the launch.The launch was originally scheduled for April 29, but was delayed hours before the launch after the discovery of a technical problem that required that the launch be scrubbed in order to be fixed.Before liftoff, commander Mark Kelly shared his thoughts on the mission: "As Americans, we endeavour to build a better life than the generation before and endeavour to be a united nation. In those efforts we are often tested. This mission represents the power of teamwork, commitment and exploration. It is in the DNA of our country to reach for the stars and explore. We must not stop."Approximately 500,000 spectators came to Kennedy Space Center in Florida for the launch, but a passenger aboard a commercial flight from New York to Palm Beach, Stefanie Gordon, obtained video from her seat on the airplane.STS-134 is the 25th and final mission of the Space Shuttle Endeavour, and the 134th and penultimate mission of the Space Shuttle Program. Endeavour, NASA's youngest space shuttle, was originally built to replace the Space Shuttle Challenger after the 1986 disaster that killed its seven crewmembers during the ill-fated launch of the STS-51-L mission. Endeavour's first flight was STS-49 in May 1992.There is only one scheduled shuttle mission remaining after STS-134, which will be STS-135. That mission, using Space Shuttle Atlantis, is currently scheduled for a July launch."Today's final launch of Endeavour is a testament to American ingenuity and leadership in human spaceflight," commented NASA Administrator Charles Bolden, who is a former astronaut and veteran of four spaceflights himself. "As we look toward a bright future with the International Space Station as our anchor and new destinations in deep space on the horizon, we salute the astronauts and ground crews who have ensured the orbiter's successful missions. The presence of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords at the launch inspired us all, just as America's space program has done for the past 50 years."Space Shuttle Endeavour successfully launched this morning from Launch Complex 39A at the Kennedy Space Center, on mission STS-123 to assemble the International Space Station (ISS). Lift-off occurred at 06:28:14 UTC (02:28 local time). On board was a crew of seven astronauts; Mission Commander Dominic Gorie, Pilot Gregory Johnson, Robert Behnken, Michael Foreman, Richard Linnehan, Takao Doi and Garrett Reisman. All except Reisman will return to Earth aboard Endeavour in two week's time. Reisman, a member of the ISS Expedition 16 and 17 crews, will remain aboard the Space Station, replacing Léopold Eyharts who launched aboard STS-122 last month.During the 16-day mission - the longest Shuttle flight in support of the ISS - the crew will install two major ISS components. the Kibō Pressurised Logistics Module and the Canadian Special Purpose Dexterous Manipulator (SPDM). The Kibō Pressurised Logistics Module is the first of three components which will form the Japanese Experiment Module (JEM). It will be temporarily installed on a spare docking port of the Harmony module of the Station, and will later be fitted to the main pressurised experiment module, which is slated for launch aboard STS-124, to be flown by Discovery in late May. SPDM, also known as Dextre, is a twin robotic arm system, or Remote Manipulator System (RMS), which will be installed on the end of the Space Station's Canadarm2 robotic arm. It will allow complex tasks to be completed without the need for a spacewalk.Five extra-vehicular activities are planned for the mission. The first three of these will be to assemble, install and test the Dextre SPDM. This will be followed by an EVA to test new tile repair techniques in the event of a Shuttle becoming damaged on a later mission. This test comes ahead of the planned STS-125 mission to service the Hubble Space Telescope in August. The final EVA will be to stow the Orbiter Boom Sensor System (OBSS) on the Space Station. This usually remains on the Shuttle for launch and landing, however as the next mission, STS-124, is carrying a very large payload - the JEM pressurised experiment module - the OBSS cannot be accommodated in its payload bay for launch. Because it will be needed once the Shuttle reaches orbit, Discovery will collect the OBSS from the ISS, and return it to Earth at the end of its mission. The OBSS is used to conduct photography of the orbiter's heat shield, in order to check for damage, similar to that which caused the Columbia accident.Two minor problems occurred during the launch. Firstly, the primary Flash Evaporator System failed, resulting in a switch to the backup system, which performed normally. The Flash Evaporator System is used to cool the Shuttle prior to the deployment of its radiators. The radiators were deployed normally following payload bay door opening, once the Shuttle was in orbit. The other issue was that instrumentation failed for a small number of Reaction Control System (RCS) thrusters, which are used to control the Shuttles attitude. Neither problem is expected to affect the mission. The ascent to orbit has been initially assessed as "clean" in terms of debris impacts, the only concern is a suspected birdstrike ten seconds after launch, however it is believed that Endeavour was not travelling fast enough to sustain damage.This is the 122nd launch of the Space Shuttle, the 21st of Endeavour, and the 25th Shuttle mission to the ISS. It also marks the ninth, and second manned, orbital launch of 2008. Launch occurred at night, making this the Shuttle's 30th night launch.  This flight was originally scheduled to launch on February 14th, but after the previous mission, STS-122, was delayed due to bad sensors inside the external fuel tank, STS-123 was pushed back to no earlier than March 11.The launch of Endeavour has been delayed at least 24 hours after the shuttle's launchpad area was struck by lightning at least 11 times this afternoon. According to NASA, technicians are currently evaluating the incident, but so far there appears to be no major damage."Sensors indicated there were 11 lightning strikes within 0.35 miles, which is inside the launch pad's threshold," said a statement on NASA's website. "The Mission Management Team will meet at 8:00 a.m. (EDT) Sunday to evaluate the latest data," it added. "We've seen nothing so far that shows anything affected any of the systems. We need to be 100 percent confident that we have a good system across the board," said chairman of the pre-launch Mission Management Team, Mike Moses. None of the strikes hit the external fuel tank or the rocket boosters, but "there were strikes to the lightning mast and water tower," added NASA. Two of the strikes were strong enough to trigger an evaluation by engineers just to make sure all of Endeavour's systems are ready for flight. Although early evaluations showed no problems, engineers wanted more time to make sure they have checked everything correctly.A new launch date is set for Sunday evening at 7:13 p.m. (EDT). The shuttle was previously scheduled to lift off at 7:39 this evening after two previous delays in June which were caused by a hydrogen fuel leak.The mission, STS-127, will feature five spacewalks and complete construction of the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency's Kibo laboratory. Astronauts will attach a platform to the outside of the Japanese module that will allow experiments to be exposed to space.Commander Leroy Chiao (U.S.A.) and Flight Engineer Salizhan Sharipov (Russia), suited in Russian Orlan spacesuits, left the International Space Station on a 4.5 hour long spacewalk to install antennas for the European Automated Transfer Vehicle (ATV), inspect and photograph other exterior equipment and launched the Nanosatellite mini-satellite.  This is the last scheduled walk for the Expedition 10 crew.At 06:25 UTC, the two astronauts left the station from the Pirs DC1 docking compartment/airlock and proceeded to install the last three of six space-to-space communication antennas for the ATV's rendezvous and docking with the ISS next year.Sharipov next deployed the foot long, 11 pound Russian Nanosatellite, tossing it into space by hand. The object of the experiment is to develop small satellite control techniques, monitor satellite operations and develop new attitude system sensors. Russian ground crews reported good signal reception from the satellite two hours after its release. The two astronauts next proceeded to the aft end of the Zvezda service module. A Global Positioning System (GPS) antenna and necessary cabling for the ATV was installed and the men worked their way back to the airlock.The station maintained its attitude, despite the loss of a gyroscope earlier in the space station mission, until the end of the spacewalk.  Chiao and Sharipov reported being a safe distance from the attitude adjustment thrusters.  Russian ground control activated the jets and normal attitude ofthe station was regained.They returned to the airlock at 1055 UTC, completing the mission an hour earlier than scheduled.Chiao and Sharipov arrived on the station October 16, 2004.  They are scheduled to return to Earth on April 25, 2005. This marks Sharipov's second walk in space and Chiao's sixth.Charles Simonyi, a billionaire software engineer born in Hungary, has returned to Earth after a 25 million dollar trip to the International Space Station with mission Soyuz TMA-10. The original mission, planned to last 13 days, was extended to 14 days when landing was made impossible due to "boggy ground". Mr. Simonyi, Russian cosmonaut Mikhail Tyurin, and American astronaut Michael Lopez-Alegria made a successful landing in the Soyuz TMA-9 spacecraft on the Kazakh steppe in Central Asia on Saturday.Mr. Simonyi was said to be "ecstatic" after rescuers helped him from the capsule and into a fur-lined chair. His first piece of food back on Earth was an offering to returning space crews landing in Kazakstan - a green apple. The controllers supervising the landing burst into applause along with the families of the space crew as a giant screen displayed "It has landed!" in  large red letters.Simonyi commented "I feel terrific, it was a fantastic trip, it is good to be back," before relaxing in a special reclining chair. The two other returning men were said to be very tired after their 7-month visit to the ISS. "It is natural that those who spend a quite long period of time [in space] find it harder now," said Anatoly Grigoryev, head of a Russian biomedical institute responsible for the health of the cosmonauts.Rocket company SpaceX, notorious for repeatedly pre-announcing its first flight on Wikinews, cancels its latest attempt and defers further flights until 2006.This latest launch attempt on the 19th December was cancelled due to structural issues with the first-stage fuel tank of the Falcon 1 rocket. An electrical fault caused a valve to shut inappropriately, and as fuel drained out a vacuum was created causing the side of the fuel tank to buckle inwards.On Sunday, the SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule successfully docked with the International Space Station in orbit around the Earth.  Although the Crew Dragon was carrying only cargo and a mannequin equipped with sensors, this was the first time since the retirement of the space shuttles in 2011 a United States spacecraft capable of carrying humans has made it to the station.Most of the docking process was automatic by the capsule, though the crew of the ISS were able to send the capsule commands to perform simple movements.  Previous SpaceX pods have relied on the station's own robotic arm apparatus to take hold of them.At 2:49 a.m. local time (7:49 a.m. UTC) on Saturday morning, the Crew Dragon was launched via a Falcon 9 rocket from the Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Florida in the southeastern United States.Crew Dragon has enough room for seven people but on this occasion carried only a mannequin, nicknamed "Ripley" for Sigourney Weaver's character in the film Alien.  The Crew Dragon is scheduled to remain at the station during the week and return to Earth on Friday.Bill Gerstenmaier of NASA spoke of the collaboration between his agency and SpaceX: "It's fun working with a new partner that approaches the problem in a slightly different way. They don't carry the same background that we did in NASA, and they don't approach the design exactly the same way we do. [...] And that's cool. I mean, that's really neat.""To be frank I'm a little emotionally exhausted because that was super stressful. But it worked — so far," SpaceX founder Elon Musk told the press after the launch. "We have to dock to the station, and we have to come back, but so far it's worked. [...] We've passed some of the riskiest items." The short-term goal of NASA's Commercial Crew Program is to restore NASA's ability to send humans into orbit, which it has been unable to do since retiring the space shuttles in 2011.  Longer term, according to NASA administrator Jim Bridenstine, the goal is to render space accessible to many customers and, through commercial competition, do so at a lower cost than the space shuttle missions, which ran about US$1.5 billion apiece. Currently, NASA pays for Russian spacecraft to carry living people, at roughly US$80 million per astronaut.NASA has selected two astronauts, Doug Hurley and Bob Behnken, for Crew Dragon's first manned mission, which NASA said might take place this summer.The Boeing airframe company is also collaborating with NASA on human-crewable spacecraft and its Starliner craft is scheduled to undergo flight test this spring.  NASA's contract with Boeing is currently valued at US$4.2 billion.  The contract with SpaceX is valued at US$2.6 billion.Last year, SpaceX tested its Falcon Heavy rocket by launching company founder Elon Musk's personal Tesla convertible into space.SpaceX Corporation has postponed the launch of the maiden flight of their Falcon 1 rocket again at their Kwajalein launch facility.  Although not as damaging as the previous delay on November 11, this is certainly a significant set back for Elon Musk, the founder and CEO of SpaceX.A full engine test was conducted on the rocket, and the launch pad equipment which holds the rocket on the launch pad after engine firing seemed to work as planned.  This safety equipment is designed to keep the rocket from causing damage or being destroyed in the event that some equipment malfunction occurs immediately after the rocket engines start.  Under similar circumstances with other rockets the entire rocket together with its payload would have been destroyed due to a computer report of malfunction.The exact reasons for failure were not disclosed by SpaceX, but Elon Musk said on his web site, "I will post a longer update next week, after we have enough time to finish forensics of recent events and formulate next steps."Space Exploration Technologies Corp., a commercial spaceflight company better known as SpaceX, has received Federal Aviation Administration certification for its Dragon spacecraft. This certification, the first of its kind granted by the FAA, serves as a commercial license to re-enter a spacecraft from earth orbit.According to NASA administrator Charlie Bolden, "With this license in hand, SpaceX can proceed with its launch of the Dragon capsule. The flight of Dragon will be an important step toward commercial cargo delivery to the International Space Station." NASA is contracting SpaceX to provide commercial transport of future crews and cargo to the International Space Station (ISS).The maiden launch of the Dragon spacecraft is currently scheduled for December 7. The launch vehicle will be the Falcon 9 rocket, which made its maiden flight in June. During this first flight, the Dragon capsule is to launch, orbit the earth, and splash down in the Pacific Ocean."Milestones are an important part of space exploration and SpaceX achieved a very important one today," according to NASA official Doug Cooke, "I congratulate SpaceX on this landmark achievement and wish them the best with their launch of the Dragon capsule."Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (SpaceX), a commercial spaceflight company, has successfully launched its Dragon spacecraft on its maiden voyage to orbit atop a Falcon 9 rocket from Cape Canaveral, Florida on Wednesday. The launch was followed by a successful landing of the unmanned capsule in the Pacific Ocean hours later.During its maiden flight, the Dragon capsule completed about two orbits around the Earth and executed successful de-orbiting operations, followed by successful reentry, parachute deployment, and splashdown in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Mexico. The Dragon spacecraft is the first commercial space transport certified to reach orbit and return to Earth. The successful flight of the Dragon spacecraft makes SpaceX the first private firm to launch its own craft to orbit and return it to Earth.The Dragon spacecraft is part of a contract between the California-based commercial spaceflight company and the United States' space agency, NASA, to provide transport for crews and supplies to and from the International Space Station.SpaceX Corporation launched its Falcon I rocket today from Kwajalein Atoll.  Liftoff occurred at 6:00 PM PDT, following two previous launch aborts this week.The first stage was completely successful, although there appeared to be some problems with the second stage. The sub-orbital flight reached an altitude of 300 km, and is on a traectory for re-entry. It was intended to go into orbit, but contact was lost before this could be accomplishedThis is the second launch for the low-cost SpaceX rocket, and the first successful launch for the company.  The previous launch had a successful lift-off, but failed 35 seconds into the flight and crashed near to the launch pad due to a fuel leak in the engine.The SpaceX Falcon 1 rocket has failed to place a DARPA demonstration payload into orbit, on its first flight into space. The rocket launched from Omelek Island, at 01:10 GMT on 21 March, just less than a year after its maiden flight which failed just seconds after launch.The rocket, which is the first privately-funded liquid-fueled launch vehicle, was intended to place the payload into a low-Earth orbit, but all contact with the rocket was lost just over five minutes into the flight.The first stage burn proceeded nominally, and separation occurred on schedule. As the first stage fell away from the second, it was observed to have impacted on the engine bell of the second stage. About five minutes into the flight, the second stage began to roll out of control. All data was lost at T+5 minutes, 5 seconds.Space transport services company SpaceX launched their fifth Dragon resupply vehicle to the International Space Station  yesterday. The spacecraft — containing more than 2,200kg (5,000 pounds) of food, experiments, and spare parts — successfully decoupled from the launch rocket and should reach the station early tomorrow.The launch was postponed from Tuesday because of a technical issue on the second stage of the rocket. The shipment includes replacements for cargo aboard the spaceship Cygnus, destroyed during a failed launch in October. Cygnus belonged to the rival Orbital Sciences Corporation.SpaceX tried unsuccessfully to land the Falcon 9 delivery rocket for reuse. The rocket reached an unmanned  barge in the Atlantic, but landed too hard. SpaceX CEO Elon Musk said the landing "bodes well for the future, though". The attempted salvage of the rocket was experimental, using new retractable fins. Next time they will add extra hydraulic fluid, Musk said.The ship's support equipment was damaged but, according to Musk, the barge is intact. Last year saw two successful SpaceX splashdowns but landing on such a small target as a ship is unique.Space Exploration Technologies, also known as SpaceX, successfully launched their Falcon 9 rocket for the first time at 1845 UTC ( 2:45 pm EDT) from Kennedy Space Center at Cape Canaveral, Florida, United States.The Falcon 9, second in the Falcon series of rockets, has a first stage that is powered by nine Merlin 1C engines, and a second stage powered by one Merlin vacuum engine. Today's inaugural launch carried the Dragon Spacecraft Qualification Unit (DSQU), a boilerplate version of the Dragon capsule. The Dragon is intended to take cargo — and possibly people — to the International Space Station through NASA's COTS program. The program is intended to help develop commercial space transportation, a goal that fits with President Obama's recent change of direction for NASA. Under President Obama's new plan, NASA would hand over the mundane task of Low Earth Orbit (LEO) launches to private companies, and instead concentrate on new technology development.However, no private firms yet have the capability to independently launch humans into space, without NASA assistance. SpaceX CEO and founder Elon Musk hopes that the Falcon 9 will eventually fill the void in human rated commercial rockets, but he also recognizes the inherent risk and danger of rocket launches. "There's nothing more fear and anxiety-inducing than a rocket launch," said Musk.Not everyone agrees with President Obama and Elon Musk. Republican Senator Richard Shelby doesn't think private firms are ready for the challenge of taking humans into space, preferring that government funding be directed to NASA instead. "Today the commercial providers that NASA has contracted with cannot even carry the trash back from the space station, much less carry humans to or from space safely," the Senator said.Although today's launch succeeded, Musk had said earlier neither the success nor failure of the Falcon 9 would be the ultimate arbitrator of the fate of NASA's new commercial-friendly direction. "They sort of focus everything on us and try to create a situation where our first launch of Falcon 9 is somehow a verdict on the president's policy, which is not right," he said.Space Exploration Technologies Corporation (SpaceX) successfully launched and sent into orbit a Falcon 1 rocket, which was launched yesterday at 23:15 UTC from the Ronald Reagan Ballistic Missile Defense Test Site at Kwajalein Atoll in the Pacific Ocean.  This was the fourth attempt to launch this class of rocket, and the first vehicle to be successfully launched by private spacecraft developers.  Previous attempts to launch this vehicle ended in failure due to engineering errors.  Perhaps the most critical part of this flight occurred during the stage separation between the first and second stages of this rocket.  In this flight, unlike previous attempts, the separation was without incident and the second stage maintained the planned trajectory into orbit.  The rocket achieved an orbit at an altitude of 135 miles above the Earth after approximately ten minutes of powered flight.The main technical difference between the third and fourth attempts was an adjustment in the timing between shutting down the first stage rocket engine and when the stage separation takes place.  On the third attempt, the first and second stages collided into each other immediately after stage separation, which in turn damaged the second stage engine and resulted in a mission failure.  For this fourth attempt, the stage separation occurred without any problem, and was greeted with loud cheers and applause by SpaceX employees who were watching a live telecast of the launch at the Hawthorne, California, USA manufacturing plant.  This telecast was also released as a live video feed on the SpaceX website during the launch.While other rocket companies have been successful at sending vehicles into orbit before, this is the first vehicle that has been designed from scratch without any components that came from previous government-sponsored vehicles.  This is also the first privately developed liquid-fueled vehicle that has achieved orbit.Elon Musk, founder, primary investor, and CEO of SpaceX, congratulated his employees upon reaching this milestone, saying "That was frickin' awesome! There's only a handful of countries on Earth that have done this. It's usually a country thing, not a company thing. We did it."  He also said later on, "Definitely one of the best days of my life."The payload of this rocket consisted of a 360 pound engineering test object made of aluminum, which was also fabricated by SpaceX in their Hawthorne manufacturing facility.  Called the Ratsat, it was decorated with a logo of a rat by the SpaceX team that built it.  Elon Musk estimates that it will remain in orbit for between five and ten years before burning up in the atmosphere.Additional milestones accomplished by SpaceX on this flight included a successful deployment of parachutes on the first stage of this rocket, where SpaceX hopes to be able to recover this stage and be able to re-use that portion of the rocket on a future flight with some refurbishing.  The second stage also performed an additional test by restarting its engine and moving to a higher orbit at between 300 to 450 miles (500 to 700 km) above the Earth with an inclination of 9.2 degrees, passing above the International Space Station during the maneuver."This is a great day for SpaceX and the culmination of an enormous amount of work by a great team," said Elon Musk,  "The data shows we achieved a super precise orbit insertion—middle of the bull's-eye — and then went on to coast and restart the second stage, which was icing on the cake."SpaceX is offering future flights of the Falcon 1 to the public for a price of about $7.9 million USD each, although Mr. Musk estimated that the total cost to test and develop this rocket, including the three previous failed launch attempts, came to about $100 million USD.The next launch of the Falcon 1 is slated to happen sometime toward the end of the year, with a satellite that was manufactured and paid by the Malaysian government.  Also scheduled for early next year is the maiden flight of the Falcon 9 rocket, which uses a multiples of nine rocket engines that are identical to the engine that was used in today's launch as well as many of the other components that were used on the Falcon 1.  SpaceX is also under contract with NASA to develop a vehicle called the Dragon that will be supplying cargo to the International Space Station under the Commercial Orbital Transportation Services program.  This spacecraft is also intended to eventually be capable of manned spaceflight.SpaceX called off the much-delayed inaugural launch of their new Falcon 1 rocket on Saturday from Kwajalein’s Omelek Island launch site. The intent was to launch the U.S. Air Force Academy's FalconSat 2 satellite, which will monitor plasma interactions with the Earth's upper atmosphere and magnetosphere.The launch was delayed, then finally cancelled after an oxygen boil-off vent had accidentally been left open. The oxygen was unable to cool the helium pressurant, which then proceeded to evaporate faster than it could be replenished. A main computer issue, probably serious enough to cause a scrub on its own, was also discovered.This long-anticipated flight was originally expected to be launched in January 2005, however a series of setbacks forced a series of delays, with the flight most recently scheduled to be in early 2006. It was intended to be launched from the Kwajalein atoll in the middle of the Pacific Ocean.The maiden voyage was originally intended to launch from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California with a Naval Research Laboratory satellite and a Space Services Incorporated space burial payload.At 10:30pm on November 23, 2008, near the airport in McGregor, Texas, Space Exploration Technologies Corporation (SpaceX) tested their new Falcon 9 rocket at full thrust for nearly 3 minutes (160 seconds). The engineers then shut down two of the nine engines — in order to limit potential damage to the launch pad — and continued the test for 18 more seconds before finally shutting the rocket down. "We ran the engines just like they would run during flight, but instead of being up in the air, they were held down. They weren’t moving," said Lauren Dreyer, SpaceX's manager for business development. This was the Falcon 9's first major test firing, and it marks a milestone for the company in its plans to capture a section of the commercial launch market.The test reportedly shook the windows of houses 5 miles away, causing agitation among residents who felt that they had not received adequate warning. "I appreciate the fact that the company notified [the City of] McGregor, but did they not think the test would affect the surrounding communities?" asked commenter Lorena Resident on the website for the Waco Tribune-Herald. Waco lies just east of McGregor.The Falcon 9 rocket, and its smaller sibling the Falcon 1, are the first rockets capable of entering Low Earth Orbit (LEO) to have their design be privately funded in its entirety. According to SpaceX the Falcon 9 can generate 4 times the maximum thrust of a Boeing 747 while firing in a vacuum, and will eventually be able to perform interplanetary missions in addition to its initial role as an orbital launch vehicle. SpaceX is also designing a crew and cargo capsule for the Falcon 9, which it has named the "Dragon".SpaceX is a contender for future commercial contracts from various government run space agencies, with NASA expressing particular interest. NASA will be retiring their fleet of Columbia Class Space Shuttles in 2010, but will not have the Shuttles' replacements (the Ares I and Ares V rockets) ready until at least 2014. NASA hopes to fill some of this gap using commercial launches from companies such as SpaceX. SpaceX has already reached an agreement with NASA to conduct three test flights of the Dragon capsule in conjunction with the Falcon 9. The first of these flights is expected in 2009.Elon Musk, CEO and CTO of SpaceX, said, "The full mission-length test firing clears the highest hurdle for the Falcon 9 first stage before launch. In the next few months, we will have the first Falcon 9 flight vehicle on its launch pad at Cape Canaveral, preparing for lift-off in 2009."SpaceX's F9R test vehicle self-destructed yesterday during a test flight at their McGregor, Texas test facility. There were no injuries. According to a witness, "there is a big grass fire from falling debris."According to a statement issued by SpaceX, "Throughout the test and subsequent flight termination, the vehicle remained in the designated flight area. There were no injuries or near injuries. An FAA representative was present at all times."John Taylor, a SpaceX spokesman, said that "[d]uring the flight, an anomaly was detected in the vehicle and the flight termination system automatically terminated the mission." SpaceX has said that more information will be forthcoming once they've analyzed the flight data.NASA's Spirit Rover on Mars has found "silica-rich soil" in Gusev Crater that scientists say is so rich that it would require that water have been present at some point, in order for the deposits to be there."You could hear people gasp in astonishment. This is a remarkable discovery. And the fact that we found something this new and different after nearly 1,200 days on Mars makes it even more remarkable. It makes you wonder what else is still out there," said Steve Squyres, principal investigator for the Mars rovers' science instruments at Cornell University located in Ithaca, New York.The Martian soil was analyzed by Spirit's alpha particle X-ray spectrometer, and the soil was found to contain at least 90% pure silica. The findings were announced during a teleconference between Squyres and the other rovers' team members.But Spirit did not make this discovery on purpose. One of the six wheels on the rover is no longer functioning, and where ever Spirit goes, a deep gash is left in the soil in its wake. That is what caused the soil to be exposed and this discovery to be made. Spirit has made other discoveries using this 'method'. Spirit had previously found other indicators of long-ago water at the site, such as patches of water-bearing, sulfur-rich soil and alteration of minerals."This unexpected new discovery is a reminder that Spirit and Opportunity are still doing cutting-edge exploration more than three years into their extended missions. It also reinforces the fact that significant amounts of water were present in Mars' past, which continues to spur the hope that we can show that Mars was once habitable and possibly supported life."The discovery is being called the best one yet to support the theory that Mars once had an abundance of water on it."This is some of the best evidence Spirit has found for water at Gusev," said a geochemist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, Albert Yen who also added that this is the best indication so far that there could have been "favorable conditions" for there to have been life on Mars in the past.There are some interactions that scientists say could have caused the silica to be deposited, but all of them include water. One is that volcanic activity, which produces acid vapors, interacted with the water inside the soil. Another theory is an ancient hot spring located in the area.Both Spirit, and its partner rover Opportunity have both been in operation on Mars for almost 1,200 days. Both of the rovers finished their initial mission back in 2004, but both have been operating since and making new discoveries.A close encounter with the supermassive black hole at the center  of the Milky Way has set a star on a one way trip into intergalactic space.  The star, detected at the MMT Observatory in Tucson, Arizona, is zipping outward at a speed of 1.5 million miles per hour. Rocketing along at twice the galactic escape velocity, the Milky Way's gravitational attraction doesn't have the holding power to keep the star from disappearing into the emptiness between galaxies."We have never before seen a star moving fast enough to completely escape the confines of our galaxy," Warren Brown of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA) said.  "We're tempted to call it the outcast star because it was forcefully tossed from its home.  Only the powerful gravity of a very massive black hole could propel a star with enough force to exit our galaxy."Using measurements of the star's line-of-sight velocity, the scientists have concluded the star, cataloged as SDSS J090745.0+24507, is moving almost directly away from galactic center.  Composition and age of the star also provide evidence of the star's origin and ultimate fate. "Because this is a metal-rich star, we believe that it recently came from a star-forming region like that in the galactic center," said Brown. Less than 80 million years were needed for the star to reach its current location, which is consistent with its estimated age.Margaret J. Geller, Michael J. Kurtz and Scott J. Kenyon, along with Brown, will publish their find in an upcoming issue of The Astrophysical Journal.The Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics is based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where scientists study the origin, evolution and ultimate fate of the universe.A flash of energy from across the galaxy on December 27 was 100 times larger than any previously seen.  The x-ray burst was powerful enough to affect our ionosphere in the same way a solar flare does.According to astronomers at the NRAO, the enormous energy burst from a remote magnetar was likely caused by an abrupt adjustment, or "starquake", in the outer layer of the magnetar, causing a "catastrophic" disruption of its magnetic field.More energy was released in a tenth of a second than our sun has emitted since the dawning of the human race.The magnetar, known as SGR 1806-20, is 50,000 light years away in the direction of the constellation Sagittarius.  That places it on the opposite side of our Milky Way galaxy, which is roughly a disk 100,000 light years across.Magnetars are a rare type of neutron star with unusually strong magnetic fields.  SGR 1806-20 is only 20 kilometers in diameter, rotates once every 7.5 seconds, and has a mass comparable to our sun.Neutron stars are stars which have exhausted their nuclear fuel and collapsed.  There are no electrons or atoms in the cores of these massive objects, just neutrons packed tightly together.An article from the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics will be published soon in Nature magazine.Stardust, a NASA space probe, returned with more than scientists bargained for."I didn't see anything," said University of Washington astronomer, Don Brownlee, from NASA's Johnson Space Center Tuesday.But then, technicians flipped over the collection grid and scientists all around let out a huge gasp of excitement."It's better than we could have possibly hoped for," Brownlee said. "It exceeds all expectations. We have a huge number of impacts, and some are quite big and visible to the naked eye. It's a huge success."In a memo from NASA, scientists said "hundreds of particles" could be seen in the collection tray. "There were two particularly large comet particles that had 'exploded' inside," said the memo.A lot of the largest particles shattered into little bits of black debris when they landed on the collecter. But many other visible particles left tracks as they landed at 13,000 MPH and stopped fully intact. "I remember warning people not to be disappointed if these tracks were very hard to see, but they are absolutely stunning," Brownlee said.Before they opened the collector, Brownlee admitted that no one really knew whether or not the device had actually caught any particles. "You just don't know if nature is going to cooperate or not. It has been a magic mission.""The capsule tumbled several times when it landed by parachute in the Utah desert, but the impact didn't crack the aerogel," said Brownlee.NASA researcher Scott Sandford said the collection effort "succeeded well beyond our wildest hopes. I am not sure if it is good clean-room protocol to hug each other, but there was a lot of it going on for the first 10 minutes or so," he added.Stardust traveled nearly 3 billion miles and went around the Sun 3 times. Stardust's mission in space lasted 7 years.Scientists also hope to use Distributed Computing to help with looking over the samples. They will use a VM (Virtual Microscope) which will be developed by the University of California at Berkeley. The developers, computer scientist David Anderson, director of the SETI@home project and physics graduate student, Joshua Von Korff, are expected to design the program which is expected to go public in March."All stations, we have touchdown," an announcer declared.Stardust, a capsule carrying dust from Comet Wild 2, has landed safely in the Utah desert. It also is the first time in history that a space mission has brought back such material."The tiny particles that the Stardust mission is bringing back are the most scientifically exciting and technically challenging material that we have ever had the opportunity to study," said Monica Grady of the Planetary and Space Science Research Institute (PSSRI).When the landing was complete, it drew cheers from excited scientists. "It's an absolutely fantastic end to the mission," said Carlton Allen of NASA's Johnson Space Center."Everything worked so well. What an exciting moment," said Allan Cheuvront, Stardust spacecraft engineer at Lockheed Martin Space Systems. Many reports are stating from skywatchers, that sighted the speeding capsule as it shot across the sky over the western United States. "We saw it in the sky…it was great," said Paula Nicholson, Public Affairs Officer at the U.S. Army Dugway Proving Ground.In 2004, another collector capsule from another spacecraft, Genesis, which collected solar wind particles crashed into the Utah desert, however, the samples did not survive.After the capsule landed, it activated its locator beacon and helicopter recovery crews successfully located the capsule in the dark. The capsule is reportedly intact from the helicopter observations, and the unofficial touch down time was 5:10 a.m. EST. It will be transferred to a "cleanroom" and is expected to be flown to Johnson Space Center early next week where the capsule will be unlocked for the first time since it landed.When opened, scientists will find the microscopic dust particles trapped in a porous, pale-blue smokelike material known as aerogel made up of 99.8 percent air that was used to snag the dust in space. The dust then will be looked at under a microscope to be examined and because this comet is nearly 5 billion years old, they hope it will unlock some of the secrets to the formation of our galaxy and universe.The capsules speed when it was going through Earth's atmosphere was a record breaking 29,000 mph, making it the fastest man-made probe to return to Earth. Its first parachute opened at nearly 100,000 feet from the ground where it was then guided to a 10-MPH landing in the desert.The capsule also brought back with it 72 black-and-white pictures showing broad mesas, craters, pinnacles and canyons with flat floors on the surface of Wild 2, which was a staggering 500 million miles from Earth at the time Stardust was launched.Stardust was launched in 1999 and its trip lasted over 7 years. Stardust traveled about 4.5 billion kilometers (2.88 billion miles), and went around the sun 3 times. In the end, a magnificent achievement for NASA and science in general.Stephen Hawking, a renowned physicist known for having Lou Gehrig's Disease, believes that the survival of the human race depends on whether or not we colonize other planets."The long-term survival of the human race is at risk as long as it is confined to a single planet," he said during a Thursday radio interview with BBC. "Sooner or later, disasters such as an asteroid collision or nuclear war could wipe us all out. But once we spread out into space and establish independent colonies, our future should be safe."The idea of 'warp drive', popularized by science fiction writers and televised in the series Star Trek, enables space ships to travel vast distances in a short time."Unfortunately, this would violate the scientific law which says that nothing can travel faster than light," said Hawking. By using a yet-to-be developed 'matter/anti-matter annihilation' propulsion system, space travel velocities could approach the speed of light, according to Hawking. The closest stars could be reached in 6 years. "It wouldn't seem so long for those on board," he said.After three years working on a new television series for the Discovery Channel, Stephen Hawking concludes that aliens are "almost certain to exist" and could even be dangerous.Hawking says that it is rational to assume that intelligent life exists somewhere in the universe, and mathematically unlikely that life is unique to the Earth, given the existence of a hundred billion galaxies, each of them containing hundreds of millions of stars.Hawking imagines nomadic aliens, having exhausted their home's resources, could attempt to take control of other planets, invading with "massive ships", and draws a comparison with Christopher Columbus discovering America, resulting in similar devastating consequences. With this in mind he advises "intelligent life might develop into something we wouldn't want to meet." However, he believes that the most likely forms of life would be microbes or simple animals on planets, in the centre of stars or drifting through space.His declaration comes in the month of the 20th anniversary of the Hubble Space Telescope's launch into space.The Drake equation, created in the 1960s, estimates the probability of extraterrestrial civilizations; feeding in modern research gives a high likelihood. The contradiction between this and actual discovery is known as the Fermi paradox.Sir Martin Rees, the Astronomer Royal, supports efforts to search for transmissions that might be artificial in origin. "Even if we couldn't make much sense of it, we'd have learnt that 'intelligence' wasn't unique to the hardware inside human skulls, and had emerged elsewhere," he said.Into the Universe with Stephen Hawking will begin on May 9 on the Discovery Channel.Stephen Hawking, 68, retired as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge in 2009. Known for his research into cosmology, quantum gravity and black holes, he became a household name following the publication of his 1988 book A Brief History of Time, which remained on the Sunday Times bestseller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks.The launch of the Space Shuttle Atlantis, on mission STS-115 has been delayed by at least 24 hours due to a short in number one of the Orbiter's three Fuel cells. NASA expects to have more information available at 1pm EDT when they will have a meeting followed by a press conference.The delay could result in a rollback, as the problem cannot be resolved on the pad. The flight has been delayed multiple times since August 27th.NASA managers have extended their hold on the Space Shuttle  Atlantis launch until at least Friday, due to a problem in the shuttle's electrical power system. At a 6 p.m. briefing on Wednesday, NASA's STS-115 Mission Management Team announced that because of the fuel cell anomaly it would be prudent to spend another 24 hours to research the issue. The management team will meet again at 1 p.m. on Thursday to assess the data gathered about the fuel cell issue and decide whether the launch will take place on Friday.Space Shuttle Atlantis and the STS-115 crew is set to launch Friday morning on an assembly mission to the International Space Station. The launch time for Atlantis is targeted for 11:41 a.m. EDTNASA has scrubbed the launch of Space Shuttle Discovery on mission STS-116 to the International Space Station during the final stages of the countdown, after the weather conditions were considered unfavourable for launch, due to a low cloud ceiling and strong winds caused by a low front.The launch, which was scheduled to be the third Shuttle launch this year, was to have occurred at 02:35 GMT at the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, however it has now been rescheduled. The next possible launch can occur at the same time on December 9.The scrub occurred during an unscheduled hold in the countdown, 5 minutes before the launch was to have occurred.The STS-116 mission is a flight to the International Space Station, to install a new truss segment, and deploy 4 nanosats. It will also perform a crew change. The mission duration is 12 days.Two astronauts have performed the third and final spacewalk, or Extra-vehicular activity (EVA), of the STS- 122 mission. Rex Walheim and Stan Love began the spacewalk at 13:07 GMT, departing the Quest airlock of the International Space Station (ISS). The EVA ended with their return to the airlock, seven hours and 25 minutes later, at 20:32 GMT.The goals of the spacewalk were to install two experiments onto the outside of the newly delivered Columbus module of the space station, and to load a failed gyroscope onto the visiting Space Shuttle, Atlantis, for return to Earth next Wednesday. The gyroscope, CMG-3 was one of four used to control the space station's attitude. It was replaced during an EVA made by the STS-118 crew during August 2007. It has been stored outside the Space Station since then, awaiting collection.The experiments installed on the Columbus module are a solar observatory, SOLAR, and a materials research experiment, EuTEF. Subsequent to this, the astronauts fitted handrails to the Columbus module, to assist with future EVAs. Following the successful completion of these primary tasks, the astronauts performed several other tasks, which included collecting safety tethers from previous EVAs, and inspecting micrometeroite damage on a handrail.This is the 104th spacewalk conducted as part of the International Space Station programme.According to Dutch astronomers at Leiden University, a distant star is "shooting" water bullets into space. Astronomers say the amount of water released from the young sun-like Protostar is 100 million times what the Amazon Rainforest produces every second. "If we picture these jets as giant hoses and the water droplets as bullets, the amount shooting out equals a hundred million times the water flowing through the Amazon River every second. We are talking about velocities reaching 200,000 kilometers (124,274 mi) per hour, which is about 80 times faster than bullets flying out of a machine gun," said lead scientist and author of the study, Lars Kristensen.The discovery was made by the Herschel Space Observatory, of the European Space Agency. The astronomers studied the lights of particles they saw while looking through the clouds of a young star in the constellation Perseus, about 750 light years from earth. Both oxygen and hydrogen atoms were detected and are believed to be created inside the star. When the drops of water are pushed out by the star's gases, they are released as a superheated steam, before they are cooled by the surrounding space, just enough to condense them into water."We are only now beginning to understand that sunlike stars probably all undergo a very energetic phase when they are young," added Kristensen. "It's at this point in their lives when they spew out a lot of high-velocity material—part of which we now know is water."In a new study announced on Monday and available in the current volume of Earth and Planetary Science Letters, an international team led by scientists from Brown University in the United States said the planet Mars once had the right water and temperatures to host simple life forms — just not on its surface.  Mars's rocky, subterranean layer once, for some hundreds of millions of years, had enough water and reductants to support some of the same kinds of microbial communities seen on Earth."We showed, based on basic physics and chemistry calculations, that the ancient Martian subsurface likely had enough dissolved hydrogen to power a global subsurface biosphere," reported lead author and current Brown graduate student Jesse Tarnas.  The paper does not claim life on Mars did exist but rather that conditions suitable for life are very likely to have lasted for an extended time.  This habitable zone, located beneath Mars's then-frozen surface, would have reached several kilometers into Mars's surface, potentially protected by ice above.The study showed that, during Mars's Noachian period (4.1–3.7 billion years ago), radiolysis, the process by which radiation splits water molecules apart, produced enough hydrogen gas (H2) for microbial organisms to live on so long as they remained within the area just beneath the cryosphere, the SHZ (subcryospheric highly-fractured zone).  The concentration of hydrogen in the groundwater could have ranged from about 35 to about 55 millimoles per liter depending on whether ancient Mars was warm or cold, respectively, and higher if the subsurface medium also contained enough salt.  The researchers determined this by establishing three factors.  First, they examined data from the gamma ray spectrometer aboard NASA's Odyssey spacecraft, from which they inferred how much of various radioactive elements would have been present in Mars's crust during the Noachian, and therefore how much radiation would have been available to split water and so produce hydrogen.  They then built on existing models of water flow on Mars to determine how much groundwater would have been present. Third, they used climate and geothermal modeling to determine how much of that water would have been in liquid form and at a suitable temperature for living things.In subterranean environments on Earth called subsurface lithotrophic microbial ecosystems, or SLiMEs, ecosystems sustain themselves not on plants that harness sunlight through photosynthesis but on microbes that harvest electrons from nearby molecules.  Molecular hydrogen is an especially good electron donor.One of the study authors, Brown Professor John Mustard, is on the team designing the next Mars Rover mission, scheduled for 2020.  He and Tarnas recommended the Rover examine the sites of meteorite crashes, which may have excavated rocks from this possibly habitable depth that may hold traces of ancient life.Space Shuttle Atlantis successfully launched this morning after 4 years of inactivity. Liftoff, from Launch Complex 39B at the Kennedy Space Center occurred at 15:14:55 GMT, with the spacecraft reaching orbit about 8 1/2 minutes later. Television coverage included a live camera on the external fuel tank that remained on after separation.Early indications suggest that there was no serious damage caused by foam debris, which was responsible for the loss of the Space Shuttle Columbia in February 2003.The mission marks the resumption of the International Space Station assembly program, which began in 1998, but was halted after the Columbia disaster. The Shuttle, which is crewed  by six astronauts, will install a truss section and solar panels at the space station.The first sunspot marking a new solar cycle has been identified, physicists at the NOAA announced on January 4. This sunspot is a precursor for the normal increase in activity which takes place during the 11-year solar cycle."This sunspot is like the first robin of spring. In this case, it’s an early omen of solar storms that will gradually increase over the next few years," said solar physicist Douglas Biesecker of National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA) Space Weather Prediction Center.The new sunspot, identified as #10,981, is the latest visible spot to appear since NOAA began numbering them on January 5, 1972. Its high-latitude location at 27 degrees North, and its negative polarity leading to the right in the Northern Hemisphere are clear-cut signs of a new solar cycle, according to NOAA experts. The first active regions and sunspots of a new solar cycle can emerge at high latitudes while those from the previous cycle continue to form closer to the equator.The sunspot has been reported by several observatories, confirming this is the first spot which developed into a visible sunspot group.  SpaceWeather.com reported that it produced auroras on Jan. 5th. "It was a nice flowing display that persisted for an hour and a half," reports photographer Calvin Hall of Palmer, Alaska.A sunspot is an area of highly organized magnetic activity on the surface of the sun. The new 11-year cycle is expected to build gradually, with the number of sunspots and solar storms reaching a maximum by 2011 or 2012, though devastating storms can occur at any time.In findings published Friday in Science, a multinational team of scientists led by Antoine Strugarek of the University of Montreal announced the Sun may not be the cosmic oddball amongst solar-type stars some astronomers had believed it to be. They found that, although the Sun's cycles appear to differ from those of other stars of its type, they are governed by the same laws working in the same way.The Sun has long been known to go through eleven-year cycles of high and low activity, including sunspots, which Strugarek likened to solar volcanoes. Times of high activity are also the most likely time for coronal mass ejections, which often emanate from sunspot regions. On rare occasions these eruptions of plasma may hit the Earth's magnetic field, setting it oscillating. It then releases previously trapped particles as the Aurora Borealis and Australis. Occasionally, the effects are so intense that these charged particles and magnetic effects can ding the performance of satellites and power grids. The poles flip at the time of high activity, and the intensity of the magnetic field peaks when the Sun is least active. A hypothetical heat-proof compass on the surface of the Sun would point toward one pole during one eleven-year period but toward the other during the next.To predict and explain this activity, Strugarek and colleagues developed a model of the plasma, high-energy matter, inside the sun and examined how its flow and change could create magnetic fields.  To build this model, they incorporated data from 27 different stars. .They found the Sun operated on the same basic principles as other stars: The activity of all stars in the system was found to be driven by their luminosity, their rotation, and nothing else.  The luminosity and rotation are used together to determine a star's Rossby number, which is related to plasma flow.  The smaller the Rossby number, the less active the star with respect to magnetic reversals.On Tuesday, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences announced the winners of the 2019 Nobel Prize in Physics in Stockholm, Sweden. The prize was shared between James Peebles and the duo of Didier Queloz and Michel Mayor. They are to share a monetary award of SEK9 million (approximately GBP738 thousand or USD910 thousand) from the Nobel Foundation.Canadian-US scientist James Peebles won his half of the prize for his work in predicting cosmic microwave background and creating a theoretical framework from which other scientists have been able to calculate the age and structure of the universe, including the calculation that the universe is 95% dark matter and dark energy. He is a professor at Princeton University.Queloz and Mayor, both from Switzerland, won their prize for discovering the first known exoplanet in 1995. The planet they found was 51 Pegasi b, a Jupiter-like gas giant some 50 light years away from Earth. Since their discovery, according to the academy, over four thousand other exoplanets have been discovered. Both are professors at the University of Geneva; Queloz is also a professor at the University of Cambridge."Both these prizes [...] tell us something essential, something existential about our place in the Universe", said selection committee member Ulf Danielsson. "The first one, tracing the history back to an unknown origin, is so fascinating. The other one tries to answer these questions about: 'are we alone — is there life anywhere else in the Universe?' "In another first for the NASA-led space telescope mission calledSwift, five months into its mission it measured the distance to twogamma-ray bursts (GRB), back to back, from opposite parts of the sky.The GRB's are over nine billion light years away from the Earth.The measurements were obtained utilizing the Ultraviolet/OpticalTelescope (UVOT)."Swift will detect more gamma-ray bursts than any satellite that hascome before it, and now will be able to pin down distances to many ofthese bursts too," said Peter Roming, UVOT Lead Scientist at PennState. "These two aren't distance record-breakers, but they'recertainly from far out there. The second of the two bursts was brightenough to be seen from Earth with a good backyard telescope."The Swift science team said these types of distance measurementswill become routine, allowing scientists to create a map to understandwhere, when and how these brilliant, fleeting bursts of light arecreated.Gamma-ray bursts, the most powerfulexplosions known in the Universe, are thought to signal the birth ofblack holes; either from a massive star explosion or a merger ofsmaller black holes or neutron stars. Severalappear each day from Earth's vantage point. They are difficult todetect and study because they occur randomly from any point in the skyand last only a few milliseconds to about a minute.Swift, with three telescopes, is designed to detect bursts and turn onits own to focus its telescopes, within seconds, on the burstafterglow, which can linger for hours to weeks. The UVOT is a jointproduct of Penn State University and the Mullard Space Science Laboratory inEngland.Swift detected the bursts on March 18 and 19, as indicted in theirnames: GRB 050318 and GRB 050319. The UVOT team estimated that theredshifts are 1.44 and 3.24, respectively, which corresponds todistances of about 9.2 billion and 11.6 billion light years. (Thesecond estimate reflects a more precise measurement made with theground-based Nordic Optical Telescope.)Distance measurements are attained through analysis of the burstafterglow.Swift detected 24 bursts so far. GRB 050318 was the first burstwhere the UVOT detected an afterglow. The lack of afterglow detectionis interesting in its own right, Roming said, because it helpsscientists understand why some bursts create certain kinds ofafterglows, if any. For example, Swift's X-RayTelescope (XRT) has detected afterglows from several bursts. The UVOTdetected afterglows in GRB 050318 and GRB 050319 in optical light, butnot significantly in ultraviolet."Every burst is a little different, and when we add them all up wewill begin to see the full picture," said Keith Mason, the U.K. UVOTLead at University College London's Mullard Space Science Laboratory.Mason said UVOT distance measurements will become more precise inthe upcoming months as new instruments aboard Swift are employed.Swift is a medium-class explorer mission managed by NASA Goddard SpaceFlight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland. Swift is a NASA mission withparticipation of the Italian Space Agency and the Particle Physics andAstronomy Research Council in the United Kingdom. It was built incollaboration with national laboratories, universities andinternational partners, including Penn State; Los Alamos NationalLaboratory in New Mexico; Sonoma State University in California; theUniversity of Leicester in Leicester, England; the Mullard SpaceScience Laboratory in Dorking, England; the Brera Observatory of theUniversity of Milan in Italy; and the ASI Science Data Center in Rome,Italy.NASA's Swift satellite has completed all tests sinceits launch last November and with the Ultravioliet/Optical Telescope(UVOT) now on line, is now fully functional for the mission's 2 year questfor gamma-ray bursts.The UVOT was tested on the Pinwheel Galaxy (M101)."After many years of effort building the UVOT, it was exciting topoint it toward the famous Pinwheel Galaxy, M101," said Dr. PeterRoming, UVOT Lead Scientist at Penn State University. "The ultravioletwavelengths in particular reveal regions of star formation in thegalaxy's wispy spiral arms. But more than a pretty image, thisfirst-light observation is a test of the UVOT's capabilities."Gamma ray bursts are some of the most powerful objects observedin the Universe and are thought to signal the birth of blackholes.Swift is designed to detect the bursts and automaticallyre-orient itself to gather images and data of the phenomenon.Swift detected and imaged its first official burst on January 17,2005, before the UVOT was operational with the aid of the BurstAlert (BAT) and X-ray (XRT) telescopes activated several weeksearlier.  The BAT detects the gamma-ray bursts, automatically andimmediately turns the telescope, bringing the XRTand UVOT to bear on the location of the event which recorddetailed observations of the burst afterglow.The UVOT is a joint product of Penn State University and the Mullard SpaceScience Laboratory.A faulty ammonia line fitting delayed repairs to a cooling pump on the International Space Station Saturday during an eight-hour spacewalk.During the spacewalk, astronauts Doug Wheelock and Tracy Caldwell Dyson were to repair a faulty cooling system, which failed on July 31. The faulty cooling unit was to be swapped with a new one that was previously in storage to solve the problem; however, an ammonia leak in the final line to be disconnected from the unit halted attempts for a repair.Upon discovering the problem, the astronauts were instructed to reconnect the line and install a positioning device to maintain the proper pressure on the line.Upon completing the spacewalk, Wheelock and Dyson spent additional time in the airlock to get rid of any ammonia particles that may have attached themselves to their spacesuits.NASA officials are analyzing possible solutions to the issue to attempt during a planned spacewalk Wednesday. Wednesday's spacewalk was previously intended to be second in the series to repair the cooling system by reattaching fluid and electrical lines.Before Saturday's spacewalk, NASA officials projected that up to three spacewalks may be needed to repair the cooling system.Most of the space station's non-critical scientific components have been temporarily shut-down in order to reduce heat generation with only one cooling loop available to the station.NASA reports that the station's crew, three Russians and three Americans, are not in any danger; however, it is in the best interests of the crew to restore systems to nominal condition as soon as possible.The eight-hour spacewalk is reportedly the longest ISS-based spacewalk, and the sixth longest in the history of human spaceflight.Space.com reported yesterday on a picture of a planet taken by the Very Large Telescope located in Chile. The European Southern Observatory's telescope, which was used to capture the picture, has made the first confirmed discovery of a planet orbiting another star.Scientists have been trying to locate planets outside our own solar system for nearly 10 years. Inferences of nearly 150 planets in other solar systems have been observed so far by using instruments and measurements that only suggest the existence of another planet. Until now, no planet has been confirmed by the means of a photographed image. There was, months earlier, another team of scientists who took pictures of what might be another planet, but that image remains controversial because it shows what may be an even more distant object instead.The research team that photographed the planet with its host star was led by Ralph Neuhaeuser of the Astrophysical Institute & University Observatory (AIU). "The detection of the faint object near the bright star is certain," he told Space.com on Friday.The new image contains the star, GQ Lupi, with an orbiting planet. It is smaller than our sun, 70% the size, and is located 400 light-years away from our solar system. The planet is nearly twice the size of Jupiter. Unlike our sun which is 4.6 billion years old, the GQ Lupi star is approximately 1 million years old and is considered very young for a star. The planet orbiting GQ Lupi is three times further out than Neptune's orbit around our sun, and scientists estimate the orbiting period to be about 1,200 years. The planets wide orbiting distance from the GQ Lupi was an important element for enabling the photograph to be taken.The planet, much like the star it orbits, is very hot — about 2,000 degrees Kelvin — so despite the detection of water in the planet's atmosphere, which at that temperature would make it gaseous, there is no expectation it might support life.The discovery will be detailed in an upcoming issue of the journal Astronomy & Astrophysics.Alex Wolszczan of Penn State and Maciej Konacki of Caltech announced the discovery of the smallest planet detected outside our solar system.  The new body is located in the same planetary system where Wolszczan found the very first extrasolar planets in 1992.The planet, approximately one-fifth the mass of Pluto, orbits the pulsar PSR B1257+12, 1500 light years from Earth.  "Despite the extreme conditions that must have existed at the time these planets were forming, nature has managed to create a planetary system that looks like a scaled-down copy of our own inner solar system," Wolszczan said.Three terrestrial planets discovered earlier occupy orbits similar in proportion to the orbits of Mercury, Venus, and Earth.  The new fourth planet is in an orbit six times larger than the third planet's position, corresponding to our own asteroid belt."Surprisingly, the planetary system around this pulsar resembles our own solar system more than any extrasolar planetary system discovered around a Sun-like star," Konacki said."Because our observations practically rule out a possible presence of an even more distant, massive planet or planets around the pulsar, it is quite possible that the tiny fourth planet is the largest member of a cloud of interplanetary debris at the outer edge of the pulsar's planetary system, a remnant of the original protoplanetary disk that created the three inner planets," Wolszczan explained.Since the original discovery of planets in 1992, Wolszczan and colleagues, using the Arecibo radio telescope in Puerto Rico, ". . . feel now, with this discovery, that the basic inventory of this planetary system has been completed."According to a NASA status report, the lone toilet on the International Space Station (ISS) has broken, leaving the astronauts on board having to use a rigged-up system of bags to collect any liquid waste. According to NASA, the collection fan motor broke sometime last week after one of the crew used the Russian-made toilet in the space station.  The NASA status report quotes the crew as hearing "a loud noise and the fan stopped working". Russian officials have yet to solve the cause of the breakage and fix it.  The seven-year old toilet has broken once before but not for a long period of time.The crew had been temporarily using the toilet in the Soyuz capsule, but this has a very limited capacity.  NASA officials are now considering flying in replacement parts for the toilet and putting them on Space Shuttle Discovery, which is due to launch on Saturday and scheduled to arrive at the ISS on Monday.On Friday–Saturday —depending on observer's timezone— a total lunar eclipse occurred as the Moon was in the shadow of the Earth. As normal during such an eclipse, the Moon became faint and turned completely red as bluer light was scattered by the Earth's atmosphere.  Totality of 1 hour and 43 minutes was the longest in the 21st century.People were able to observe the eclipse from Australia, Africa, Asia, Europe, and South America.  A volunteer named José Jiménez uploaded a photo of the incident today from Alt Empordà in Girona, Catalonia, Spain, featuring the Moon, Mars, and the milky way on the same photo.German astronaut Alexander Gerst took photos of the Moon from the International Space Station and uploaded them to Flickr on the same day.According to timeanddate.com, the timeline of the eclipse was as follows.Mars was also visible near the Moon; coming this week, reported 9News, closer to Earth than at any time since 2003.																								File:The Moon Before Eclipse in 20180727, Fuzhou 01.jpgAstronomers at the University of Hawaii Institute for Astronomy today announced their discovery of twelve further moons of Saturn, bringing the total number of moons discovered so far to 46.  The initial discovery of the satellites was on December 12, 2004, and was made using the 8.2 metre Subaru telescope at the Mauna Kea Observatory.  Confirmational observations were then conducted throughout January, February, and March from the Subaru telescope and from the Gemini North telescope.Similar teams at the university led by David Jewitt discovered 11 moons of Jupiter in 2001, and a further 11 in 2002, before turning their attentions to Saturn.11 of the newly discovered moons are in retrograde orbits, leading astronomers to hypothesize that they were originally asteroids, attracted out of the asteroid belt by Jupiter's gravity and then captured by Saturn.  All of the moons are in inclined elliptical orbits, that range from 16 million to 22 million kilometres in distance from Saturn.  As a point of reference, Earth's moon is an average of 384,403 kilometres from the Earth.  The new moons of Saturn are provisionally named S/2004 S07 through to S/2004 S18.On Friday, European Space Agency's (ESA) spacecraft Rosetta ended its mission, crashing into Jupiter-family comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko. Rosetta is the first spacecraft to orbit a comet; it traveled in space for twelve years and about eight billion kilometres (about five billion miles).The ESA's Darmstadt, Germany control centre ceased to receive signals from the spacecraft, confirming the Rosetta mission's end, at 11:19 UTC. Mission controllers said it was traveling about 90 centimeters per second on impact (two miles per hour), about a walking pace.Almost two years ago, in November 2014, Rosetta successfully landed a probe called Philae onto 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko, with amongst its goals better understanding how the Solar System was formed. Philae's discoveries included the presence of molecular oxygen and nitrogen on the comet. It also discovered water on the comet which, according to the scientists, had a different distribution of hydrogen isotopes from the water on earth.The spacecraft studied the gas, dust, and plasma immediately surrounding the comet during its final approach.ESA's director general Johann-Dietrich Wörner said, "Rosetta has entered the history books once again[...] Today we celebrate the success of a game-changing mission, one that has surpassed all our dreams and expectations, and one that continues ESA's legacy of 'firsts' at comets."The 11th crew of the International Space Station rocketed into space Thursday at 8:46 EDT. The Expedition 11 crew rode aboard a Russian Soyuz spacecraft, and two of them will remain in their new home-away-from-home for six months.They were given a heartfelt send-off by Russian Mission Control chief Vladimir Solovyov:"The people who are doing the job are real romantics who are involved in fascinating work for a miserable salary," he told reporters after the launch, which he called a "remarkable event."Cosmonauts typically earn $144 to $179 a month.The launch from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, came as ISS was on a north east heading approximately 230 miles above the southern Atlantic Ocean.At the controls were Commander Sergei Krikalev, NASA Station Science Officer and Flight Engineer John Phillips, and European Space Agency astronaut Roberto Vittori. Vittori will return April 24 with the prior crew, Expedition 10 Commander Leroy Chiao and Flight Engineer Salizhan Sharipov, after conducting some experiments.Soyuz will dock with ISS at 10:19 p.m. EDT on Saturday. Live NASA coverage of the docking and hatch opening will be shown on NASA TV beginning at 9 p.m. Saturday and can be viewed on Internet TV at http://www.nasa.gov/ntv (Free Real Player or Windows Media Player required).The United States Pentagon submitted a report to Congress on Monday, detailing the Chinese Space Agency's focus on developing means for "space warfare". The Pentagon claims that China has been "exploring" laser, microwave, particle beam and electromagnetic pulse weapons, and suggests that China has been "developing the ability to attack an adversary's space assets," and would be able to disable or destroy enemy satellites. Such an offensive could be used to "blind and deafen the enemy" prior to an attack, according to the study.The Pentagon analysis was released the same day that Yang Baohua, head of the Academy of Space Technology, announced that testing of a new EVA spacesuit and airlock had been successfully completed. The two units are being developed for China's first intended spacewalk as part of Shenzhou 7, one of ten Chinese spacecraft being launched this year.The move has caused aerospace analyst Jeff Foust to declare that "a full-fledged space race" has been gearing up between China and the United States.In September, NASA administrator Mike Griffin caused waves when he suggested that China is more likely to put the next man on the moon than the United States, suggesting that "Americans will not like it," but that nothing could be done about it.NASA, the space agency of the United States, filed a lawsuit on Wednesday against former astronaut and sixth human to walk on the Moon Edgar Mitchell. NASA filed the lawsuit in a Miami federal court after learning of Mitchell's plans to auction off a camera that was used on the surface of the Moon during the Apollo 14 mission.Mitchell, 80, claims that he had permission from NASA to keep the camera, saying that astronauts of his era were permitted to keep mementos from their missions. He argues that had he not kept the camera, it would have been destroyed: "It was government throwaways, government junk."According to the lawsuit, however, NASA claims that "All equipment and property used during NASA operations remains the property of NASA unless explicitly released or transferred to another party." NASA goes on to claim that there is no official record of the possession of the camera being transferred to Mitchell.The camera, which Mitchell planned to sell because of financial problems, was expected to catch about US$60,000 to $80,000.Mitchell, along with Commander Alan Shepard and Command Module Pilot Stuart Roosa, flew to the moon aboard the Apollo 14 mission in 1971, the third manned lunar landing. While Roosa orbited above, Shepard and Mitchell spent 33 hours on the surface of the Moon. Shepard and Mitchell became the fifth and sixth humans to walk on the Moon, respectively.Reaction Engines Limited, a firm in Oxford, United Kingdom, has recently been awarded €1 million by the European Space Agency. This money is to be used for development work for the firm's SABRE engines.The SABRE engines are for a reusable spaceplane that it is intended to be able to travel into space and return completely intact. Reaction Engines Limited says the Skylon plane could be in service within 10 years. When in service it would be intended to be regularly carrying up to 60 passengers into orbit much more cheaply than today.The cash will be used to test a precooled jet engine that would cool the very hot air entering the engines and should permit the aircraft to fly more economically, like a jet plane. The plane will fly through the air to 26 km (85,000 feet) altitude and five times the speed of sound before using rockets to push the aircraft the rest of the way to orbit.The BBC says that other aspects of the Skylon design will be investigated by EADS Astrium, the German space agency (DLR) and the University of Bristol.The Ulysses spacecraft has been retired from service today, following a successful 17-year mission. The probe was launched aboard Space Shuttle Discovery, in October 1990. Following separation from Discovery, Ulysses was boosted into a Heliocentric orbit by an Inertial Upper Stage, and a Payload Assist Module.Ulysses was a joint venture between the European Space Agency (ESA), and the United States National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). Its primary mission was to study the Sun. It made several significant discoveries, including that the density of dust particles in the solar wind was over 30 times what scientists had expected, and that the solar magnetic field was weaker, and more complex, than expected.Over the last few years, the spacecraft has started to show its age, and several major systems have failed. When one of the high-band communications antenna was shut down to conserve power, technicians were unable to restart it, and from January onwards, the low-band antenna had to be used to relay all data to and from the probe. When the main power system started to fail, the decision was taken to retire the spacecraft before its propellant froze, making it completely inoperable.Ulysses operated for over three times its design life. It was originally planned to survive for five years, and make a single orbit of the Sun. Its seventeen year mission duration made it one of the oldest spacecraft in service at the time of its retirment, along with the Hubble Space Telescope, which was launched just six months earlier, the Voyager probes, and the much older Pioneer Solar probes. It was also one of a handful of spacecraft to use a nuclear radioisotope thermoelectric generator to generate power.If you've noticed a fuzzy yellowish object at night in the northeast sky, immediately to the left of the constellation Perseus, that's because it is the Comet Holmes which has suddenly gotten brighter in what scientists say is  "absolutely unprecedented" in comet research.Earlier reports were that the object might have been a star that went super nova, or that a new star might have formed, but because the comet does not have a tail, the earlier reports were later dismissed."This is a terrific outburst, and since it doesn't have a tail right now, some observers have confused it with a nova. We've had at least two reports of a new star. When the Deep Impact probe hit Comet 9P Tempel, there was almost no change in brightness. This outburst by Comet Holmes is extreme!" said Minor Planet Center director, Brian Marsden.Not more than a few days ago, the comet began to get brighter and appear larger in the sky, in what scientists call an "outburst." The comet is usually only visible through telescopes, but the outburst has caused it to be visible through the naked eye and it will continue to grow brighter with its coma eventually reaching the size of The Moon. Currently, only people living in the Northern Hemisphere are able to get a glimpse of the show. Binoculars and a small telescope can be used to get a close up view.The comet took just 24 hours to get more than 400,000 times brighter than it usually is, and is currently over one million times brighter, but Marsden says the comet's brightness could dim in days or even weeks.The comet was discovered on November 6, 1892 by Edwin Holmes while he was looking at the Andromeda Galaxy through his telescope. Researchers say that the comet may also have had an outburst at the time it was discovered. It was seen once after that in 1899 and then 1906, but disappeared until it was "rediscovered" in 1964 after a prediction Marsden had made."Since then, it’s been behaving well – until now," added Marsden.Flight controllers in Houston, Texas, U.S.A observed an unidentified object at approximately 7:45 UTC today moving at an undetermined distance from the Space Shuttle Atlantis as it orbited the Earth at an altitude of over 190 nautical miles. As of 16:00 UTC, there was still uncertainty as to the object's size and distance from the orbiter. Video of the object showed it following an undeviating path between the shuttle and the Earth below. NASA released the following statement on its official website: "An object was observed by flight controllers using a TV camera on the shuttle in close proximity to the spacecraft. It was observed following standard tests of Atlantis' reaction control system about 2:45 a.m. today. Flight controllers continue to analyze the situation and are concerned the item may be something that came off of Atlantis."The shuttle had been scheduled to land at 15:45 UTC on Wednesday, but concerns raised by the object, in addition to an unfavorable weather forecast, prompted Mission Control Center to "wave off" the landing until 11:32 UTC Thursday at the earliest.ABC News is reporting that flight controllers first saw the object shortly after sensors in the shuttle's wings indicated the craft had been "hit by something", but the Associated Press reports that NASA officials believe the sensor reading was triggered by the spacecraft itself as it fired positional jets. As of 18:00 UTC the leading theory at NASA is that something escaped from the shuttle's cargo bay during that jet firing sequence. Cameras will be focused on the object throughout the night and a detailed inventory of cargo bay items will be taken in an effort to learn whether a safe landing can be made without the object, if it in fact belonged to the shuttle.A group of United Airlines employees said they saw a mysterious, elliptical-shaped (saucer-shaped) UFO hovering over a terminal at Chicago's O'Hare Airport.  The employees said that the UFO did not have any lights, and that after hovering over the airport's terminal, it went into the clouds and disappeared.  The employees said they were frustrated that their bosses, the United Airlines, and the FAA were not taking their report seriously.Brian Fields, a retired United States Air Force Colonel, has photographed what he claims are two UFOs hovering over his home in Van Buren, Arkansas.Fields said, "I believe these lights were not of this world, and I feel a duty and responsibility to come forward.  At first I thought they were landing lights from an aircraft.  As I continued to observe them they began to slowly disappear, then suddenly one reappeared, followed by two, then three. On at least one occasion four or five appeared. Each time they would slowly fade and eventually disappear. This occurred several times and when they would reappear they might do so in differing numbers and in different positions, sometimes in a triangular shape, sometimes stacked on top of each other, sometimes line abreast, etc. When the objects appeared they might stay illuminated 10 or more minutes.  I'm certain it wasn't an aircraft [from Earth].  It's not anything I ever had any experience with. ... They were some kind of energy or something.” Fields ruled out the possibility of the UFOs being flares saying that the movements made by the UFOs did not resemble that of a flare. In 1997, lights seen over Arizona and Nevada were also claimed to have been UFOs before the US Air Force identified them as flares dropped by an airplane on a training mission.  Fields, now 61, was in the military for almost 32 years of his life, flying F-16 fighter jets.At 08:01 GMT (01:01 local time) this morning, the United States Air Force launched a Minuteman III missile on a test mission from Launch Facility 09 at Vandenberg Air Force Base in California. Due to a large number of delays, this is the first time that a Minuteman missile has conducted an operational test in over a year.The missile flew 6,759 kilometres (4,200 miles) downrange on a sub-orbital trajectory, to the Kwajalein Atoll test site in the Marshall Islands. The apogee reached has not yet been released, however typical Minuteman launches reach between 1,000 and 1,300km. The mission, which was designated GT-196GM, or "Glory Trip 196GM", was conducted to test the missile's operational capabilities. The missile flew with a single MK.21 re-entry vehicle, which would be used to carry a nuclear warhead if the missile were launched in hostile circumstances.The next operational test of a Minuteman III is scheduled for early August.Former American astronaut Neil Armstrong has died at the age of 82, due to complications following heart bypass surgery earlier this month. He is known as the first person to walk on the moon when commander of Apollo 11, the first manned mission to land on the moon.Armstrong was born on August 5, 1930 in Wapakoneta, Ohio. On March 16, 1966, he became the first American civilian to orbit Earth whilst onboard Gemini VIII with crewmate Davis R. Scott. Following Gemini VIII's docking with another spacecraft in orbit, it began tumbling out of control due to a faulty thruster. Armstrong used an emergency set of thrusters to regain control; Gemini VIII then landed in the Pacific Ocean after ten hours of flight.Apollo 11 launched on July 16, 1969, with Armstrong and crewmates Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins. Whilst Collins stayed in lunar orbit, Armstrong and Aldrin landed on the moon on July 20; On touchdown, Armstrong said: "Tranquility Base here. The Eagle has landed". Upon stepping on to the surface of the Moon on July 20, 1969, he famously said, "That's one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind." The landing, and subsequent moonwalk, was watched by half a billion people around the world. Armstrong and Aldrin spent approximately two hours walking on the lunar surface before lifting off for Apollo 11's return to Earth on July 24.Armstrong later spent a few years as a NASA manager. Also teaching engineering at the University of Cincinnati, he was appointed to panels investigating the Apollo 13 and Challenger disasters. His first wife, Jan, divorced him in 1995; he married Carol Knight in 1999, and lived in Cincinnati.After Armstrong's death, his family released a statement saying, "While we mourn the loss of a very good man, we also celebrate his remarkable life and hope that it serves as an example to young people around the world to work hard to make their dreams come true, to be willing to explore and push the limits, and to selflessly serve a cause greater than themselves."Buzz Aldrin released a statement on his website paying tribute to Armstrong: "I will miss my friend Neil as I know our fellow citizens and people around world will miss this foremost aviation and space pioneer."United States astronaut Sunita Williams, currently on board the International Space Station, has today broken the record for the longest unbroken space flight by a woman. At 5:47 a.m. UTC Williams passed the previous record of 188 days and four hours set by Shannon Lucid in 1996.This is not the only record Williams has broken. Earlier this year she set a record of 29 hours and 17 minutes for time spent by a woman on space walks. In April 2007, Williams received much attention when she took part in the Boston Marathon on a treadmill whilst in orbit.On Tuesday, astronomers of the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington, DC, United States, announced the discovery of ten small satellites orbiting Jupiter. With this discovery, Jupiter now has 79 known satellites.The team led by Scott Sheppard had discovered twelve of the 79 Jovian satellites, including Tuesday's ten, mostly using a Blanco 4-meter telescope of Chile's Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory. The observatory is operated by the National Optical Astronomy Observatory in the US. The tiny satellites, none more than five kilometres in diameter, were first observed in 2017. Orbits of these new Jovian satellites were calculated by International Astronomical Union's Minor Planet Center's Gareth Williams. Williams explained, "It takes several observations to confirm an object actually orbits around Jupiter [...] So, the whole process took a year."The astronomers were looking for planets much farther out than Pluto. Sheppard said, "Jupiter just happened to be in the sky near the search fields where we were looking for extremely distant Solar System objects, so we were serendipitously able to look for new moons around Jupiter while at the same time looking for planets at the fringes of our Solar System".Of the twelve satellites discovered by the team, nine were found to be retrograde, revolving around the gas giant in the direction opposite to the planet's spin. These nine new retrograde satellites take about two years to complete one revolution around Jupiter.The remaining three satellites were prograde, spinning in the same direction as Jupiter's rotation. One of the prograde satellites, newly announced on Tuesday, took about one-and-half years to complete one revolution around Jupiter, and its orbit intersected with the outer retrograde satellites. Sheppard said, "Our other discovery is a real oddball and has an orbit like no other known Jovian moon [...] It's also likely Jupiter's smallest known moon, being less than one kilometre in diameter". The astronomer also said, "This is an unstable situation [...] Head-on collisions would quickly break apart and grind the objects down to dust."Sheppard said of the composition of those satellites, they "started orbiting Jupiter, instead of falling into it. So we think they are intermediate between rocky asteroids and icy comets. So they are probably half ice and half rock.""Valetudo" is the name suggested for the "oddball" satellite. Valetudo was the Roman god Jupiter's great-granddaughter, regarded as the goddess of health and hygiene.Sheppard said, "Jupiter is like a big vacuum cleaner because it is so massive". Jupiter is the largest planet in the Solar System, with a diameter about 142,984 kilometres. The largest known satellite in the Solar System is Jupiter's Ganymede, whose diameter is approximately 5268 kilometres. Saturn has the second-most known satellites: 62, while Uranus has 27.President Bush has declared space to be essential to US defense in a new National Space Policy document published on September 14. Not only has the United States declared that it has rights in space, but also said it will "deny, if necessary, adversaries the use of space capabilities hostile to U. S. national interests". The policy states that presence in space takes its place alongside sea and air power in the defense of the country. The US has announced officially that it is using space for surveillance and monitoring activities, including observing natural disasters on Earth, and it intends to develop the commercial potential of space.The new policy was agreed upon in August but the document was not released until October. In September, the BBC reported that the US Missile Defense Agency had announced the successful test firing of an interceptor missile from California which hit a target missile launched from Alaska. This followed the test firing of ballistic missiles by North Korea in July.The success of this US interceptor missile launch is the fifth out of eight attempts and the first to use the facilities at the Vandenberg base. In the last  two attempts, in December 2004 and February 2005, the interceptor missiles failed to take off. This whole program is reported to have cost $100 billion since 1983. The system employs radar and satellites to locate the target missile and to direct the interceptor towards it. The programme is not without its critics.The United States military Strategic Command (STRATCOM) has said that the 'fireballs' spotted over areas of Texas in the United States on Sunday February 15, are not related to the collision of a U.S. and Russian satellite in space. According to spaceweather.com, NASA says the object was a meteor."There is no correlation between the debris from that collision and those reports of re-entry," said STRATCOM military spokeswoman Major Maj. Regina."It's a natural meteor, definitely," said Bill Cooke, an astronomer at NASA's Meteoroid Environment Office. On Tuesday, February 10, the American civilian communications satellite Iridium 33, launched in 1997, and the defunct Russian military communications satellite Kosmos-2251, launched in 1993, collided over Siberia. On Friday February 13, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) issued an alert for falling debris from the satellites, following reports of "explosions and earthquakes" along with "flashes in the sky" in Jackson and Louisville, Kentucky.Then again on Sunday, calls to 9-1-1 began to come in to Williamson County, Texas sheriff's office around 12:30 p.m. (Central time) that burning debris and fireballs were seen falling from the sky onto parts of Austin, Houston, Waco and San Antonio."The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) reported to local law enforcement on Friday that these events are being caused by falling satellite debris. These pieces of debris have been causing sonic booms, resulting in vibrations felt by some residents, as well as flashes of light across the sky," said the NOAA on Friday in an public information alert posted on their website. The FAA says the burning material over Texas is not related to this alert."We don't know what it was [over Texas]," said Roland Herwig, a spokesman for the FAA on Monday. The alerts still remain in effect in Kentucky until further notice.Residents in Texas reported their homes and windows shaking and large explosions on Sunday morning. After a search of several areas, the Williamson county sheriff's office reported that no debris or impact sites were found. Earlier unconfirmed reports had said the debris could have been the result of a small plane exploding. There was previous speculation was that the object in Texas could have been a meteor. Doctor Marco Ciocca, a professor at Eastern Kentucky University told WKYT on Sunday that it's too early for the debris from the satellites to be reentering the planet's atmosphere. "[It could] be months" before any of the satellite wreckage enters the earth's atmosphere. "The debris doesn't simply fall out of its orbit. It will either vaporize or stay in orbit for some time before falling into earth's atmosphere."However, the Union of Concerned Scientists (UCS) said on February 12 that the debris could have taken 10 days or less to reenter over portions of the planet. "Within 24 hours of the collision, the U.S. space tracking system had identified 600 pieces of debris. This large number suggests that the collision must have been relatively head-on. If the two satellites hit head-on, rather than a glancing blow, the energy of the collision would completely disintegrate both satellites into clouds of debris," said the UCS in a statement on their website who also added that the collision took place in "the same region of space where China destroyed a defunct Chinese weather satellite with an anti-satellite (ASAT) weapon" in 2007. "That January 2007 test created a massive amount of debris." There have been at least eight major satellite collisions since 1991. The satellites, both of which had a mass in excess of 450 kilograms, and were traveling at approximately 17,500 miles per hour (28,150 km/hour), collided 491 miles (790 km) above the earth. Scientists say the explosion caused by the collision was massive. They are still trying to determine just how large the crash was and how the earth will be affected. STRATCOM continues to track the debris. The results of a plotting analysis will be posted to a public website.The United States military has announced their intention to use a missile to destroy USA-193, a spy satellite which failed immediately after launch in December 2006. Since launch, the satellite's orbit has decayed and it is approaching the point at which it will re-enter the atmosphere and potentially fall to Earth. The missile will be used as a kinetic anti-satellite weapon (ASAT), and will destroy the satellite through hitting it at high speed.The satellite potentially has hazardous materials on board, including hydrazine. Ordinarily, the hydrazine would be used as fuel, but since the satellite failed immediately after launch, this was never used. It is expected that about half of the satellite would be capable of surviving re-entry, potentially including the fuel tank. Since hydrazine is toxic, the satellite could pose a severe danger if it hits in a populated area, however it has been considered likely that the tank would probably rupture and explode during re-entry. Destroying the satellite on the grounds of safety is the stated purpose of shooting down the satellite. Officials have denied claims that it is to prevent secrets that the satellite is carrying from falling into the wrong hands, or that it is a demonstration in response to a Chinese ASAT test in January 2007.The missile which will be used to shoot down the satellite will be a Standard Missile 3 (SM-3), which will be launched from the USS Lake Erie in the North Pacific Ocean. The missile, which was designed to shoot down other missiles, will be modified slightly in order to allow it to recognise USA-193 as its target. If the attack is successful, the satellite will be broken into many small pieces. This will eliminate the hazard from the hydrazine and break into small enough pieces that nothing will survive reentry. Officials reported that the likelihood of success was "high". NASA Administrator Michael Griffin said that it was impossible to make the situation any worse. Missing the satellite would change nothing, while a slight blow would still result in the satellite returning to Earth, and a direct hit would destroy the satellite. It is believed that the missile will be aimed directly at the satellite's fuel tank.While the debris will not pass near enough to the International Space Station to cause disruption, it is not clear whether it could affect spacecraft passing through the lower orbit in which USA-193 currently resides. For this reason, the satellite will not be destroyed until the Space Shuttle Atlantis, which is currently conducting mission STS-122, has landed. The debris caused by the satellite's destruction is expected to re-enter the atmosphere within a few weeks.The United States Navy has successfully destroyed a crippled spy satellite in a decaying orbit, by intercepting it with a missile. A modified SM-3 missile was launched from the USS Lake Erie at 03:26 GMT this morning, and intercepted the USA-193 satellite around three minutes later. It has been reported that the satellite has broken into around 80 pieces, some of which have already re-entered the Earth's atmosphere. The SM-3 missile was designed to shoot down other missiles, however for this launch, it was modified to act as an anti-satellite weapon (ASAT). This was the first time the US military had used an ASAT since 1985. China, however,  destroyed an old orbiting satellite on January 11, 2007.The satellite, which was known by the designations USA-193 and NRO L-21, was launched in December 2006, by a Delta II rocket. It was believed to have been a new type of spy satellite, however it was reported to have failed within hours of launch. This resulted in it being stranded in a decaying orbit, with a full tank of potentially toxic hydrazine propellant. The officially stated purpose of destroying the satellite was to prevent possible contamination from the hydrazine, and protect public safety should it land in a populated area. Claims that the destruction was politically motivated — to demonstrate to China, who tested an anti-satellite weapon last year — or to ensure that the satellite's classified technology did not survive re-entry and land in a hostile country, have been denied by officials. Officials believe the hydrazine tank has been destroyed, however it will take about a day to confirm this.The Chinese government, who received criticism from the US government for shooting down one of their own satellites last year, have claimed the satellite's destruction represents "possible harm to outer space security". Bryan Whitman, a spokesman for the US government replied that destroying the satellite was "about reducing the risk to human life on Earth, nothing more".A team of researchers from the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, has confirmed that near-Earth asteroid (29075) 1950 DA is primarily held together by van der Waals forces rather than gravity. They have shown that the rotation rate of the 1.1 km asteroid is higher than could be possible if only gravity and friction were responsible for holding it together. Cohesive forces prevent large scale shedding of material and breakup of the asteroid. Their study was published Wednesday in Nature.The researchers found that the bulk density 1.7±0.7 g/cm³ of the asteroid is approximately two times lower than the value required for self-gravity to balance out the centrifugal forces caused by rotation. As Ben Rozitis, a planetary scientist and a co-author of the study, told Space.com: "I was expecting to find a high-density metallic asteroid, as such an asteroid wouldn't require cohesive forces to hold itself together under its fast rotation. Instead we found the opposite! [...] We knew from previous work that this asteroid was rotating faster than it should be, and we wanted to know why".Spectral observations of 1950DA indicated that it is either an E- or M-type asteroid in the Tholen classification. However, its low optical albedo and low radar circular polarization ratio (a very smooth surface at centimetre to decimetre scales) showed that it cannot be an E-type asteroid.Unusually for an M-type asteroid (which are mostly metallic), 1950DA has low radar albedo. It would have been puzzling, if it was not for the Rosetta observations of 21 Lutetia, which is also an M-type asteroid with very similar low radar albedo. Researchers have used for 1950DA the same meteorite analogue which was earlier found to fit best 21 Lutetia: enstatite chondrite with grain density of 3.55 g/cm³. It allowed to calculate macro-porosity of 51±19%, indicating that 1950DA is a rubble-pile asteroid.Taking into account thermal-infrared measurements of thermal inertia, presence of a fine-grained regolith is implied, primarily around 1950DA's equator. Negative ambient gravity near the equator of the asteroid (48±24% of its surface) requires existence of cohesive forces to prevent loss of material. This is similar to an effect noticed between the fine grains of regolith on the Moon. Lunar regolith was found to be highly cohesive because of van der Waals forces between grains by the Apollo 17 expedition in 1974.As Ben Rozitis explained: "We found a low-density rubble pile that traditionally would be unable to hold itself together unless cohesive forces were present. It's exciting because we've provided the first evidence that cohesive forces are important for small asteroids, which had only been predicted up until now."The balance between cohesion and negative gravity requires small grain sizes consistent with the grain size distribution on 1950DA, and similar to that of another rubble-pile asteroid, (25143) Itokawa. Unlike Itokawa, 1950DA does not have large boulders on the surface; they may have been lost as 1950DA's rotation accelerated due to YORP effect. This effect results in a change of the rotation rate of an asteroid (either faster or slower), and is caused when the Sun heats up an object unevenly, due to asymmetric surface topography. As the heat escapes, the rotation rate is slowly changed due to an uneven rate of cooling. The researchers find that a rubble-pile asteroid may have a high rotation rate, if it is held together by cohesive forces between the grains. But as the spin rate increases due to YORP effect, the centrifugal force may cause the rubble pile to eventually separate as it happened with P/2013 R3.The findings may have implications for asteroid impact avoidance. A very small impulse may break one potentially hazardous object into several pieces. As Ben Rozitis said: "You'd want to avoid interacting with the asteroid directly. An alternative is to use a 'gravity tractor,' or a heavy spacecraft placed near the asteroid, which uses the force of gravity to pull the asteroid off course". Bong Wie, an aerospace engineer at Iowa State University in Ames, noted: "I just hope that an asteroid on a collision course with Earth will not be spinning rapidly and it will not be a rubble-pile asteroid".According to Daniel Scheeres, an aerospace engineer at the University of Colorado, Boulder, understanding such cohesive forces may also be important for future asteroid mining. Ben Rozitis clarified: "Mining missions intend to visit small asteroids about 10 meters (33 feet) or less in size, as it is thought that they are predominantly solid bodies. However, cohesive forces enable such small asteroids to be rubble piles instead. A small rubble-pile asteroid would be harder to interact with and collect, as it can easily deform or break up when subject to external forces."The study was supported by Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology and the NASA.US President Barack Obama unveiled on Thursday plans for the future of American space exploration, committing to sending American astronauts to Mars by the mid-2030s.The president was speaking at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida during a speech to lay out his plans for the future of American space agency NASA.  His comments included assurances that America was not abandoning space exploration, contrary to claims he was doing so after he announced the US's budget for 2011, which would have ended most of NASA's current projects, including the development of new heavy-launch rockets called the Constellation Program.Under Obama's latest program, NASA would receive US $6 billion as supplementary funding over the next five years to develop new projects, which Obama emphasized, saying NASA was in the unusual position of having an expanded budget while other government agencies must comply to financial restrictions or cuts in efforts to reduce the US public debt. With the additional funding, NASA would extend the life of the International Space Station (ISS) by four years further, to at least 2020, design a new series of heavy-lift rockets by 2015, and continue development of the Orion crew capsule, a major part of the Constellation program.  Initially, the capsule would serve only as a rescue vehicle for the ISS, but would later serve as the "technological foundation for advanced spacecraft to be used in future deep space missions." The proposed project would also retain plans for private operators to service the ISS, despite criticism that such operators were not reliable enough for the task.The centerpiece of the plan would be manned missions to the moon and beyond, beginning with missions to asteroids around 2025, with missions to Mars following within a decade. Initially, Mars missions would consist of sending humans to orbit Mars, with missions to land on the surface of the planet coming shortly after. Obama said that under the plan, "we will push the boundaries not only of where we can go but what we can do."Obama said that under his new plan, NASA would be able to achieve more in a shorter amount of time than it would have under the Constellation Program.  He also said that, contrary to fears that changes in NASA would result in job losses in Florida, where most space missions are launched from, under his new plan, a total of 2,500 jobs would be created in the area.The new plan would, according to Obama, lead to "major breakthroughs" in the US space program.  He said that the goal of the new program would  be "no longer just a destination to reach. Our goal is the capacity for people to work and learn, operate and live safely beyond the Earth for extended periods of time, ultimately in ways that are more sustainable and even indefinite."  The president also emphasized the need for continued innovation, saying that "we’ve got to do it [space exploration] in a smart way and we can’t just keep on doing the same old things we’ve been doing and thinking that’s going to get us where we want to go."New data from the European Space Agency's Venus Express mission suggest that Venus was once Earth-like but later evolved in a different way.  The findings, published in the journal Nature on Thursday, also confirm that there is lightning on Venus."The two planets were, in fact, very similar in the earlier days of the solar system," said Venus Express team scientist Hakan Svendem, "And they have then evolved in different directions, but according to the same rules and explanations."  Professor Fred Taylor of the University of Oxford, another scientist on the mission, said "Our new data make it possible to construct a scenario in which Venus started out like the Earth - possibly including a habitable environment, billions of years ago - and then evolved to the state we see now."Unlike the Earth, Venus lacks a magnetic shield to protect it from the solar wind, a stream of charged particles ejected from the sun.  As a result, hydrogen, helium, and oxygen are blown away from the atmosphere on Venus much faster than on Earth.  The scientists believe that Venus may once have had liquid water oceans on its surface which, as a result of the solar wind, were largely removed during the first billion years after the formation of the Solar System.  "Eventually the oceans boiled off, and all the water ended up as water vapor in the atmosphere," Svedhem said.Data from the magnetometer instrument on Venus Express confirm that there is lightning on Venus, a once controversial idea.  In fact, the findings suggest that lightning is more common on Venus than on Earth.Unlike the Earth, Venus has undergone runaway greenhouse warming and now has an average surface temperature of 467 degrees Celsius.  Some believe that studying how this change came about could lead to insights into how to prevent undesired climate change on Earth.   "Understanding the influencing factors of global warming on Venus could help us in mitigating the threat here on Earth," said United Kingdom Minister for Science and Innovation Ian Pearson.As they have done for the last four years, United States Geological Survey (USGS) scientists were measuring an approximate 100 square mile bulge in central Oregon near the South Sister this past August. The bulge is located 25 miles outside of the city of Bend, Ore. and three miles from the South Sister.The results of this years survey won't be available for some weeks, but geologists have come to some conclusions based on the past four years of monitoring. The intial discovery was made by using information from the European Space Agency's (ESA) Interferometric Satellite Aperture Radar satellite. Scientists believe the bulge is rising at a rate of 1.4 inches per year and is due to a large lake of fluid (likely magma) that is 4.5 miles below the surface. They also think the fluid covers an area about one mile across and extends to a depth of 65 feet. The pooling fluid could be shifting magma or the creation of a new volcano.   Ground swells aren't an extraodinary occurrence in geology. Geologists suspect that these ground swellings occur in the Cascade Range and at other volcanoes, and the majority of them do not lead to eruptions. Using the same ESA satellite technology, geologists have seen lots of bulges in the Aleutian Islands that have not lead to eruptions.Volunteers began a 60 day bed-rest marathon on March 19 to study simulated weightlessness effects on women astronauts. The study, Women International Space Simulation for Exploration(WISE), is conducted at the MEDES Space Clinic in Toulouse, France.The 12 women, selected from 1600 applicants hailing from France,Great Britain, Germany, Finland, The Netherlands, Poland and the Czech Republic began the study after a 20 day screening for baseline comparison data as the study progressed.The women will conduct all activities from eating, bathing, and reading while lying in hospital beds tilted headfirst at a six degree angle.  This particular position, called head-down tilt bed rest was determined from previous studies to remove the vertical load of gravity on the body, inducing changes similar to what astronauts in a genuine weightless environment experience [1].Long term exposure to weightlessness creates  a number of physiological and psychological problems in astronauts such as:Reduced capacity for physical exertionMuscle atrophyAffects of confinement and isolationImpaired circulatory functionA total of 24 women will participate in the study. A second group of 12 will join in September.Three groups of eight women each will be studied over the course of the two campaigns of bed rest. One group will serve as a control, receiving no specific treatments, the second will exercise, while the third will receive nutritional supplements.The study is designed to fill in gaps of knowledge on the differences between men and women during extended weightlessness. It also aims to develop countermeasures for reducing the debilitating effects of long spaceflights.Participating agencies in the study include the European Space Agency, NASA, the French Space Agency and the Canadian Space Agency.The Voyager 1 spacecraft, launched in 1977 to explore the planets, is now agreed by scientists to have entered the heliosheath at the edge of the solar system 8.7 billion miles (14 billion kilometers) from the Sun.  In a few years, Voyager 1 is expected to become the first man-made object to cross into interstellar space."Voyager has entered the final lap on its race to the edge of interstellar space, as it begins exploring the solar system's final frontier," said Dr. Edward Stone, Voyager project scientist at the California Institute of Technology.As long ago as 2003, scientists thought Voyager 1 was entering the termination shock region of the solar system, but there was some dispute.  The termination shock is the area preceding the heliosheath, where the electrically charged solar wind is slowed and concentrated by contact with interstellar gas.The heliosheath is considered the outer edge of our solar system.  Around it is the heliopause, a cosmic bubble where the pressure of solar wind and interstellar wind is in balance.  The solar system as a whole is in orbit around the center of the Milky Way galaxy.  As it plows through clouds of interstellar gas and dust, a bow shock forms ahead of it, which has been compared to the turbulence a ship creates as it sails through ocean currents.  All this is illustrated in the NASA diagram shown here.Voyager 1 is still operational and sending back reams of scientific data.  Already notable for more than 27 years of successful operation, Voyager 1 is projected to continue operating on its plutonium power source possibly until the year 2020.Voyager 2, its companion probe launched the same year, has visited more planets than any other spacecraft.  It too is eventually expected to exit the solar system at a more downward angle, but is currently only 80% as far from the sun as Voyager 1.The Voyagers are not only gathering data about the cosmos, they are sending the greetings of the human world out to it.  Each Voyager contains what is known as the "Voyager Golden Record", which is an audio recording on a 12-inch gold plated copper disc.  The discs contain samples of nature sounds, spoken greetings in 55 human languages, and musical compositions.  The collection of samples was supervised by astronomer Carl Sagan, and is intended to convey the hopefulness of life on Earth for possible discovery by alien races or retrieval by some advanced human civilization.On March 31, 2006 the AMSAT-DL/IUZ team in Bochum, Germany managed to receive a signal by the American space probe Voyager 1 using the 20m antenna. It is the first time that a group of radio amateurs has successfully attempted this. The team included: Freddy de Guchteneire, James Miller, Hartmut Päsler and Achim Vollhardt. Voyager 1 had been launched on September 5, 1977 by NASA and was the first spacecraft to transmit close-up pictures of Jupiter and Saturn. In 2004 Voyager 1 entered the termination shock region, the region where the solar wind has weakened enough to mix with the interstellar medium, thereby leaving the Solar System.Voyager 1 is now 98 AU from Earth (14.7 billion km or three times the distance from Earth to Pluto). It is the most distant human-made object. The nuclear powered probe continues to measure the properties of the interstellar magnetic field.Interplanetary space probes Voyager 1 and 2, after traveling 28 yearsand 14 billion kilometers to the edge of the solar system and thethreshold of interstellar space, face a possible shutdown in Octoberof this year.NASA's Earth-Sun System division, which runs the program, amongstothers, has had to cut its budget for next year from 74 million to 53million dollars, calling for some project abandonments.  The cuts forVoyager and other missions are planned to help fund President GeorgeW. Bush's "Vision for Space Exploration", his plan to return to the moonand a manned mission to Mars.According to the Washington Post, Dick Fisher, NASA's deputy directorfor the Earth-Sun division, said the agency based its cuts on a"senior review" by outside experts, giving Voyager a low priorityamong the division's 13 "extended" missions.It costs NASA $4.2 million a year to run the Voyager scienceprograms which have an expected operating lifetime to the year 2020.Both spacecraft function well and continue to return valuablescientific data.  Most recently, information about massive solarflares that occurred in 2003 and the resulting shock waves thattraveled through the solar system were detected by Voyager 2 in Aprilof 2004."There are no other plans to reach the edge of the solar system," saidStamatios Krimigis, on board the Voyager mission since before thelaunch in 1977. "Now we're getting all this new information, and herecomes NASA saying, 'We want to pull the plug.' "Other missions possibly affected by the budget cuts include: Ulysses,to study the sun; Geotail, Wind, and Polar studying effects of solarevents on Earth; Fast Auroral SnapshoT (FAST), studying Earth's auroraand the Transition Region and Coronal Explorer (TRACE), studying solaratmosphere and magnetic fields.No final decisions have been made as of yet but are expected to comesometime this month, possibly by April 15.  Edward Stone of theCalifornia Institute of Technology told Nature magazine: "We arecurrently developing a plan for shutdown."A senior administration official, speaking anonymously, confirmed on Friday that the proposed NASA budget for the 2006 fiscal year will not contain additional funding for a Hubble servicing mission. The budget plan is to be announced Feb. 7.The White House eliminated funding for a service mission the Hubble Space Telescope from its 2006 budget request and directed NASA to focus on deorbiting the spacecraft at the end of its life, according to government and industry sources [1].Intensive work has been under way at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center to develop telerobotic servicing skills for the Hubble Space Telescope in the event that a space shuttle crew is never again sent to the orbiting facility. Aerospace firms in the United States and in Canada have teamed with NASA to develop a Hubble Robotic Vehicle Deorbit Module."Excellent progress is being made on a telerobotic approach to servicing the Hubble," said Jim Crocker, vice president of civil space at Lockheed Martin Space Systems of Denver. The firm has supported NASA's planning and, later, the repair and servicing of the HST with four space shuttle missions to date.The telerobotics team at work at Goddard Space Flight Center "have a good shot at pulling this off," Crocker told SPACE.com the day before the Space News story on the White House HST decision appeared[2].The estimated $1 billion plus cost for a robotic or shuttle servicing mission is considered too high by the White House in light of higher priority missions such as the shuttle "return to flight" project and NASA's "moon, Mars and beyond [3]."The anonymous U.S. official told Reuters the estimated cost of a robotic repair was $2 billion and one feasibility study gave it an 80 percent chance of failure[4]."Hubble is in year 14 of a planned 15-year mission," the official said. "Trying to send a robotic mission to extend that time period would be a $2 billion gamble with taxpayer dollars where the odds are 80-20 that it would fail."Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD) released the following statement January 25 condemning reports about eliminating funds to repair the Hubble Space Telescope.  The Hubble Space Telescope is managed by the Goddard Space Flight Center which is located in Congressman Hoyer's district."I am very concerned about reports that the Bush Administration may eliminate federal funds to repair and upgrade the Hubble Space Telescope from its budget for fiscal year 2006.  Since its launch in 1990, the Hubble Telescope's state of the art technology has dramatically changed our understanding of the universe and produced thousands of extraordinary discoveries[5]."A unmanned Sea Launch Zenit 3SL rocket which was supposed to carry a satellite to an orbit around Earth, has exploded on its Ocean Odyssey launch pad, just seconds before it was scheduled to launch. The engine had just been started when the rocket appeared to fall downwards, and was engulfed in a fireball. The rocket's payload, the NSS-8 communications satellite, for SES New Skies, is believed to have been destroyed in the incident.Sea Launch has confirmed that all launch personnel are safe.  During launch operations, they routinely are aboard another ship, the Sea Launch Commander, located approximately three miles away.  The extent of damage to the Odyssey platform is unclear at this stage.This is the ninth launch failure of the Zenit rocket, and the third for a 3SL variant, operated by Sea Launch.At 05:00 GMT this morning, the maiden flight of the Ukrainian-built Zenit-3SLB rocket lifted off from Site 45/1 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan. Atop it was the AMOS-3 communications satellite for Israeli company Spacecom. The satellite separated from the carrier rocket directly into a geosynchronous orbit, several hours after launch.The Zenit-3SLB is a modernised version of the Zenit-3SL, used by Sea Launch. New features include an upgraded guidance and control system, first flown on the Zenit-2M in June 2007. Today's flight was also the first conducted by Land Launch, a subsidiary of the international Sea Launch consortium, and the first launch of a three-stage Zenit rocket from Baikonur. The first Land Launch mission was originally scheduled for 2007, but was delayed after another Zenit exploded on its launch pad in late January 2007. A further delay from Thursday morning occurred when the errector/transporter component of the launch pad failed to back away from the rocket.This was the 22th orbital launch of 2008. The next Zenit launch is scheduled for late May, when a Sea Launch Zenit-3SL will place the Galaxy 18 satellite into orbit. Launched a little over an hour after an Indian PSLV placed ten satellites into orbit, it also marked the first occurrence for 2008 of two orbital launches on the same day as each other, in GMT.A Sea Launch Zenit-3SL rocket has successfully launched the DirecTV-11 Communications satellite for DirecTV. The Ukrainian-built rocket lifted off from the Norwegian Ocean Odyssey launch platform in the Pacific Ocean at 22:47:59 (UTC) yesterday evening, with spacecraft separation from the carrier rocket occurring at 23:49:03. The mission, which marked the 13th orbital launch of 2008, is the 25th commercial launch to be conducted by the international Sea Launch consortium, the first of which also lofted a DirecTV satellite. This is also the 250th flight of the Block DM upper stage, which is used on some variants of the Zenit and Proton rockets. Launch had been delayed from November 2007 due to damage to the launch platform caused by the failure of an earlier Zenit launch. Delays from earlier this month were caused by a problem with the satellite, resulting in a ten-day delay, and a further two-day delay from Monday evening due to an undisclosed problem with the rocket.DirecTV-11 is a Boeing 702 satellite, which will provide Direct-to-home High-definition television broadcasting services to houses in the United States, by means of Ka-band communications. It is one of three such satellites operated by DirecTV.  The satellite made its first contact with the ground several hours after launch, at 05:44 GMT.The launch was dedicated to Arthur C. Clarke who died on Tuesday. Clarke, who was most well known for writing the book which 2001: A Space Odyssey was based on, was also the first person to suggest placing satellites into geosynchronous and geostationary orbits. DirecTV-11 will be placed into such an orbit.Sea Launch President Rob Peckham said that he "feels good" about the mission success, and that Sea Launch was "proud of [its] role in DirecTV's continued success". Steve O'Neill, the President of Boeing Satellite Systems, said that the launch was "a great ride", and thanked Sea Launch for their "excellent work".The satellite's initial orbit was confirmed to be 250km x 36484.8km x 0°, differing by only 2.8km from the planned orbit.Sea Launch have a further four launches planned for this year. In addition, its subsidiary Land Launch will conduct its first launch, using a Zenit-3SLB rocket from area 45/1 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome to launch the AMOS-60 satellite. This is currently scheduled for mid-April. The next Sea Launch mission, with the Galaxy 18 satellite, is scheduled for May.A Sea Launch Zenit-3SL rocket has been launched from the Ocean Odyssey platform in the Pacific Ocean, carrying a communications satellite into geosynchronous transfer orbit. Lift-off occurred at 09:43 GMT this morning, and the satellite was deployed into its transfer orbit about an hour later.The satellite, Galaxy 18, will be operated by Intelsat from an orbital slot of 123° West longitude in geosynchronous orbit. It will provide communications services for Intelsat customers in Canada, Mexico and the United States.The launch of Galaxy 18 was delayed from last year, following the January 2007 explosion of a Zenit rocket on its launch pad. It was originally built for PanAmSat, which merged with Intelsat in August 2005. It had a launch mass, fully fuelled, of 4700 kilograms, and was built by Space Systems Loral around an LS-1300 satellite bus. It is expected to remain operational for around 15 years.This is the 24th orbital launch of 2008, and the 66th launch of the Ukranian-built Zenit rocket. The next scheduled Zenit launch is currently planned for July, with the Echostar XI satellite. Another Zenit-3SL will launch Intelsat's next satellite, Galaxy 19, in August.At 05:20:59 GMT this morning, the Echostar XI satellite was successfully launched into a geosynchronous transfer orbit atop a Zenit-3SL carrier rocket. Launch occurred from the Ocean Odyssey launch platform in the Pacific Ocean. The launch was conducted by Sea Launch, a partnership between companies in Norway, Russia, Ukraine and the United States. Echostar XI separated from the Block DM-SL upper stage of the carrier rocket at 06:21:00 GMT, one hour and one second after liftoff. It was confirmed 11 seconds later.Echostar XI is a commercial communications satellite, which will be operated by Echostar Corporation for DISH Network. The last DISH satellite to be launched, AMC-14 was lost in a launch failure involving the upper stage of its Proton carrier rocket, earlier this year. The satellite will be positioned at 110oW, in a geosynchronous transfer orbit, around 35,600 kilometres above the Equator. It will provide communications services to North America.The Echostar XI spacecraft was built by Space Systems Loral, and is based on the LS-1300 satellite bus. It has a mass of 5511 kilograms, and will provide communications within the NATO J-band, or the Ku-band under the old US IEEE system. Acquisition of the spacecraft's signal occurred at 06:31 GMT.Speaking after the launch, newly appointed Sea Launch President Kjell Karlsen described the launch as "perfect". He reported that the satellite had been placed into an orbit with a perigee of 750 kilometres, and an apogee of 35643 km. He also remarked on his predecessor, Rob Peckham, thanking him for his "unparallelled commitment and dedication". Rohan Zaven, the Vice President of space programmes at DISH Network thanked Sea Launch for the launch, telling viewers that "what you saw tonight was another flawless mission from these guys". Zia Oboodryat, of Space Systems Loral thanked Sea Launch, and told DISH Network that he was "sure that we'll deliver the rest of the fifteen years [expected lifetime] to you".This is the thirty-fifth orbital launch of 2008. It is also the fourth Sea Launch mission of the year, and the fifth Zenit launch. It is the 67th overall Zenit launch. The next is scheduled for mid-late August, with the Measat 3A satellite, from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.