Yesterday, Partido Popular candidate for the European Parliament Miguel Arias Cañete said of his performance during the previous night's debate against Spanish Socialist Workers' Party's Elena Valenciano on Spanish television's Antena 3 program Espejo Público, "Debating with a woman is complicated. If you demonstrate intellectual superiority or you corner her, it's sexist." ((es))Spanish language: ‍El debate con una mujer es complicado. Si demuestras superioridad intelectual o la acorralas, es machista.Cañete went on to say, "If I was debating with Señor Rubalcaba, we can say all kinds of barbaric things, but with a woman it's interpreted differently." ((es))Spanish language: ‍Si debato con el señor Rubalcaba nos podemos decir todas las barbaridades, pero con una mujer se interpreta de otra manera.  Later on the same program, he said, "With all the provocations from Señora Valenciano, all the demagoguery and populist statements, with all the half truths and lies, if I had been myself I would fear me.  I would have gone for the kill" ((es))Spanish language: ‍Con todas las provocaciones de la señora Valenciano, toda la demagogia y apelaciones al populismo, con todas las medias verdades y mentiras, si soy yo mismo me temo. Entraría a matar.  He then went on to admit he is sometimes not politically correct.Valenciano took to Twitter while the show aired to say, "So? What shall we do?? Remove women from debate??" ((es))Spanish language: ‍Entonces?? Qué hacemos? Fuera mujeres del debate??The quote was read live to Cañete, who responded by saying, "For me, it is more difficult, it is harder." ((es))Spanish language: ‍Para mí es más difícil, me cuesta más.  Spanish Socialist Workers' Party boss Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba  responded on Twitter, saying, "Cañete, the machismo of the sore loser." ((es))Spanish language: ‍Cañete, el machismo del mal perdedor.Both politicians spent most of the debate focusing on the failings of the other's political party.   Neither politician talked much about corruption, Catalonia or Europe.  The topic of abortion was brought up and discussed by Valenciano, but before Cañete had the chance to respond to her remarks, the debate televiser RTVE cut to commercial.  Partido Popular had supported changes in abortion law that were viewed as controversial, and led to protests by several thousand people claiming the changes encroached on the rights of women.  In the debate, Valenciano said Partido Popular had suspended their efforts to change the law in order to win this election.The European Parliament elections are scheduled to be held on May 25.Upholding a previous decision by a lower court, the U.S. 8th Circuit Court of Appeals in St. Louis ruled that the federal Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act is unconstitutional because it does not provide an exception for the health of the woman.While the ban does provide an exception for the life of the mother it does not for the health of the mother."When `substantial medical authority' supports the medical necessity of a procedure in some instances, a health exception is constitutionally required," Judge Kermit Bye of the 8th Circuit wrote in the opinion. "In effect, we believe when a lack of consensus exists in the medical community, the Constitution requires legislatures to err on the side of protecting women's health by including a health exception." Judge Bye went on to say.The decision upheld a previous ruling by U.S. District Judge Richard Kopf of Lincoln, Neb. Federal judges in New York and San Francisco have also ruled in decisions overturning the ban. The decisions have been appealed and are expected to eventually be addressed by the Supreme Court.President Bush signed the ban in 2003, but due to legal challenges it has not been enforced.Read the full opinion.An investigation into Scientology and Tom Cruise which was set to air this past Friday on the American television program 20/20 was removed from broadcast by ABC News. This is not the first time that ABC News has pulled an investigation into Scientology from airing on 20/20. A press release published by ABC on Thursday announced the scheduled airing of the investigation. It described the program as "an in-depth look" by Elizabeth Vargas into the recent report on Tom Cruise and Scientology by journalist Maureen Orth for Vanity Fair in its October 2012 publication.An analysis of the situation by Editor-in-Chief Tony Ortega of The Village Voice pointed out that in 2008, actor and former Scientologist Jason Beghe was interviewed by Elizabeth Vargas after he had flown to New York. Beghe recounted to Vargas his experiences within Scientology and his decision to cease activity in the organization. However, this interview by Vargas was never shown on ABC. Ortega noted, "Then, Friday night, ABC caved again, and this time much more publicly." He highlighted a television screenshot which displays clearly the description given by ABC for the 20/20 program scheduled for Friday: "20/20. New. 'Lovestyles of the Rich and Famous; The Camera Never Lies' Journalist Maureen Orth discusses her recent article in Vanity Fair on Scientology and actor Tom Cruise; celebrity".According to Ortega, this was to be a significant investigation into Scientology. It was going to cover topics including the recent divorce of actress Katie Holmes from Tom Cruise, the role of minors within the Scientology organization, material on Scientology's chief David Miscavige, and controversy regarding the elite Scientology group known as the Sea Org. Ortega was himself interviewed as part of the investigation, which he was told would comprise an hour-long broadcast. In addition to Ortega, former Scientologists Marc Headley and his wife Claire were interviewed by ABC News for the 20/20 piece which they were informed would be complemented by a news segment on Nightline. Claire told the camera of her two mandatory abortions she experienced while a member of the Sea Org in Scientology; Ortega reported that this interview moved the ABC television crew to tears.Marc Headley confirmed that he had learned of the ABC News decision. In a post Friday to a legal fund webpage he set up to support his family with litigation costs from Scientology, he commented: "We just got word that both ABC 20/20 & Nightline have pulled the TV shows that were going to air tonight. It appears that someone at OSA is trying to sandbag the downstats over the next few weeks." OSA is an abbreviation for the Office of Special Affairs — a department within Scientology which has been compared to an intelligence agency that handles legal affairs and public relations. Downstat refers to a negative impact on statistics gathered by Scientology members of the Sea Org due to critical investigations of the organization by the media.File:Nadine Strossen 5 by David Shankbone.jpgThere are few organizations in the United States that elicit a stronger emotional response than the American Civil Liberties Union, whose stated goal is "to defend and preserve the individual rights and liberties guaranteed to every person in this country by the Constitution and laws of the United States".  Those people include gays, Nazis, women seeking abortion, gun owners, SPAM mailers and drug users.  People who are often not popular with various segments of the public.  The ACLU's philosophy is not that it agrees or disagrees with any of these people and the choices that they make, but that they have personal liberties that must not be trampled upon.  In Wikinews reporter David Shankbone's interview with the President of the ACLU, Nadine Strossen, he wanted to cover some basic ground on the ACLU's beliefs.  Perhaps the area where they are most misunderstood or have their beliefs most misrepresented is their feelings about religion in the public sphere.  The ACLU categorically does not want to see religion disappear from schools or in the public forum; but they do not want to see government advocacy of any particular religion.  Thus, former Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore's placement of a ten ton monument to the Ten Commandments outside the courthouse is strenuously opposed; but "Lone Ranger of the Manger" Rita Warren's placement of nativity scenes in public parks is vigorously defended.  In the interview, Strossen talks about how certain politicians and televangelists purposefully misstate the law and the ACLU's work in order to raise funds for their campaigns.David Shankbone's discussion with Strossen touches upon many of the ACLU's hot button issues:  religion, Second Amendment rights, drug liberalization, "partial-birth abortion" and whether or not George W. Bush should be impeached.  It may surprise the reader that many ideas people have about the most visible of America's civil libertarian organizations are not factually correct and that the ACLU often works closely with many of the organizations people think despise its existence.File:Nathanson.jpgObstetrician Bernard Nathanson, who provided abortions and then became an anti-abortion activist, is dead at the age of 84. Nathanson died in New York; the cause of death was announced as cancer. During his time as an obstetrician he estimated that he was involved in nearly 75,000 abortions, about 5,000 of which he performed himself. He performed his last abortion in 1979; shortly thereafter he became an anti-abortion activist.Nathanson opened an abortion clinic in New York City in the 1960s but had performed abortions beforehand. In the 1940s he completed an abortion on his then girlfriend who was pregnant with his child. In 1969, he became one of the founders of the National Association for the Repeal of Abortion Laws, an organization that still exists today.After performing his last abortion and becoming an anti-abortion advocate, Nathanson narrated The Silent Scream, a film that showed a three month-old fetus being aborted. As well as films he also wrote books about abortion including his 1996 autobiography The Hand of God.His wife, Christine Reisner-Nathanson spoke about his change of views. She said, "When he was an abortion doctor he was seen as a pariah by the medical community and when he went pro-life he was scorned by the women in the pro-abortion movement."Yesterday,  thousands of anti-abortion protesters rallied in Washington, D.C. Unlike the half a million who walked to the White House waving signs last Saturday, these came to support one of the policies espoused by the United States president Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence: making abortion harder to come by.This event, called the March for Life, has taken place every year since 1973, the year abortion was ruled legal in the U.S. by the Roe v Wade Supreme Court decision. "Pro-life" is the umbrella term of choice of the U.S. political movement that favors rendering abortion illegal and less accessible and "pro-choice" is the corresponding term for the movement that favors keeping it legal and accessible.Donald Trump has recently reversed Barack Obama's repeal of a global funding ban, which prohibits the use of U.S. funds for any organization that provides or counsels for abortions abroad.Trump specifically asked Vice President Mike Pence to attend the march. "Life is winning in America!" he told the crowd, noting that he serves under "a president who I proudly say stands for the right to life." A Pew Research Institute poll taken this year shows that 69% of Americans support the Roe v Wade decision, up from 60% in 1992.One reason why many opponents of abortion say the procedure should be illegal is the belief, often religious, that life begins at conception. Correspondingly, the event was accompanied by religious music and speeches, including one by Catholic Archbishop Timothy Dolan. One reporter for the BBC noted a large number of young women in the crowd, especially college students. Signs included "Women DO Regret Abortion" and "I am the Pro-Life Generation," many held up by young women. Others showed pictures of fetuses, quoted Bible verses, or called for the defunding of Planned Parenthood by name. There is already a law in place, the Hyde Amendment, which bans the use of federal funds for abortions, though this money can go to organizations that also perform abortions so long as the funds are kept separate.As governor of Indiana, Mike Pence established some of the country's strictest abortion laws. Years ago, Donald Trump said publicly that he was "very pro-choice" but has since changed his stance. Trump commented, as is his custom, via Tweet, "To all of you marching — you have my full support!"The crowds in Washington, D.C. yesterday numbered in the tens of thousands, in contrast to the roughly 500,000 in last week's Women's March, though some organizations did attend both events. March for Life President Jeanne Mancini told National Public Radio, "I think we're a pretty different march — we're a one-issue march."The abortion rate in the United States hit a record low in 2013, but the pro- and anti-abortion rights movements are at odds about why. Both sides credit increased availability of contraceptives, but anti-abortion organizations tend to give more credit to state-level laws that have made it harder to keep abortion clinics open and limit abortions to only the early stages of pregnancy. As NARAL Pro-Choice America President Ilyse Hogue pointed out, the anti-abortion movement now has the opportunity to work at the federal level; "We're living at the apex of a 40-year, state-by-state effort by the anti-choice people [...] We have to be prepared for the fact that they've got all the pieces in place to do real damage."A Vatican City official has referred to abortion and euthanasia as "terrorism with a human face."Archbishop Angelo Amato is the acting Secretary of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith which is led by William Cardinal Levada. He was addressing Vatican chaplains, when he made the remarks on Monday in a keynote address that opened an April 23 to 27 seminar in Rome with Catholic airport chaplains. The seminar's main focus is security and preparedness against acts of terrorism. "[Abortion clinics are] slaughterhouses of human beings" and abortion is "abominable terrorism. [There are other] parliaments of so-called civilized nations where laws contrary to the nature of the human being are being promulgated, such as the approval of marriage between people of the same sex," said Amato, who has been a bishop for four years."For example, abortion is called voluntary interruption of pregnancy and not the killing of a defenceless human being, an abortion clinic is given a harmless, even attractive, name: centre for reproductive health and euthanasia is blandly called death with dignity," added Amato.Amato called the press "a perverse film about evil. Evils that remain almost invisible" and also accused the press of "manipulating" their news content "to hide the tragic reality of the facts."Australian churches have begun a public campaign opposing late-term abortion. Anglican, Catholic, Baptist, Presbyterian, Buddhist, Hindu, Lutheran, Sikh, Salvation Army, Wesleyan and Seventh-Day Adventist religious groups issued a signed statement yesterday calling for laws limiting abortions after a pregnancy has reached its 20th week. The statement also calls for information to be provided to women considering abortion. They should receive detailed information about the health risks, the stage of the actual foetal development and the exact nature of the medical procedure. Additionally, a seven day "cooling down period" should follow initial counseling to give women more time to consider their decision.But according to the document, the concerned church leaders are also aware that public opinion in Australia is predominantly pro-choice.And New South Wales Premier Bob Carr has revealed that of 31,600 abortions in NSW last year, only 200 were in fact late term. Prime Minister John Howard has welcomed the renewed debate about abortion without committing himself yet.The Australian Senate has been flooded with submissions into an inquiry about the possible use of the abortion drug Mifepristone (known as RU486) in Australia.The senate committee is to consider a private members bill, introduced by a group of female senators and MPs to strip the Australian health minister of his control over the drug. If successful, the drug would then have to be approved by the Threrapeutic Goods Administration before it would be allowed to be used in Australia.Senator Fiona Nash of the Nationals argues that the bill is not about abortion but about process. She said "What's been put forward here is who is best able to judge the quality, safety and efficacy of this particular drug and who is best able to judge whether it should be used in Australia".Ms Nash believes that the TGA should be responsible for allowing or denying the use of drugs in Australia, not the health minister.Lyn Elisson, leader of the Democrats said that only around 2,000 of the submissions would be considered as the remainder do not meet the senate's terms of reference. She also said "This bill is not about the morality or legality of abortion."It's really about whether the Minister for Health should have the power of veto over an alternative to legal surgical abortion."National's senator Barnaby Joyce argues that all opinions should be taken into account and that the enquiry should be conducted for at least a week.Peter Slipper, MP for the Liberal party claims that the proposed legislation can not be separated from the RU486 issue. He told ABC radio "I believe it would be a negation of our responsibility if we were to flick the decision to an unelected body, an unaccountable body, such as the TGA."It is believed that only 100 submissions are from those supporting the use of RU486.The inquiry has received international attention with submissions from the US, New Zealand and Austria.This pill has been available for use in France since 1988, in Switzerland since 1999.On October 14, 2008, Canadians will be heading to the polls for the federal election. Christian Heritage Party candidate Steven Elgersma is standing for election in the riding of Haldimand—Norfolk.Wikinews contacted Steven Elgersma, to talk about the issues facing Canadians, and what they and their party would do to address them. Wikinews is in the process of contacting every candidate, in every riding across the country, no matter their political stripe. All interviews are conducted over e-mail, and interviews are published unedited, allowing candidates to impart their full message to our readers, uninterrupted.On October 14, 2008, Canadians will be heading to the polls for the federal election. Christian Heritage Party candidate Ron Gray is standing for election in the riding of Langley.Wikinews contacted Ron Gray, to talk about the issues facing Canadians, and what they and their party would do to address them. Wikinews is in the process of contacting every candidate, in every riding across the country, no matter their political stripe. All interviews are conducted over e-mail, and interviews are published unedited, allowing candidates to impart their full message to our readers, uninterrupted.Mr. Gray has been leader of the Christian Heritage Party since 1995. He first ran for office in 1988.Far-right and far-left activists clashed Sunday, when the far-left were protesting Pope Benedict XVI's opposition to condoms, a police source in Paris, France said.A group of about 30 activists threw condoms on the ground outside Notre-Dame cathedral, when attendants of the Sunday mass left the cathedral.The police arrested three people after the incident. About 20 youths, some of whom were carrying signs reading "Leave my Pope alone" approached the protesters. One person was injured.On Tuesday, after arriving in Africa, the Pope stated that "you can't resolve it [AIDS] with the distribution of condoms. On the contrary, it increases the problem." He suggested that sexual behavior was the issue that should be focused on and that the solution must be found in "spiritual and human awakening" and "friendship for those who suffer".The comments were criticized by French politicians from all parties. Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner called the Pope's comments "the opposite of tolerance and understanding" and Human Rights Minister Rama Yade said she was "dumbfounded" by them. According to UNAIDS about 22 million people in sub-Saharan Africa are infected with HIV, about two-thirds of all people living with HIV. AIDS-awareness activists Act Up-Paris said in a statement that "by refusing to allow the promotion of condoms, the Catholic Church has millions of deaths on its conscience". Act Up-Paris also organized a "die-in" outside the Notre-Dame on Sunday and carried portraits of the Pope with the slogan "Benoit XVI Assasin."France is traditionally a Catholic country, although many are non-practicing. On the Pope's last visit to France in 2008, around 200,000 people visited the open-air service in Paris. However, a recent CSA poll by Le Parisien showed that 57% of the 1,102 adult respondents have a negative opinion of the Pope, up from 25% in September 2008, just before his visit to France; 23% has a positive opinion, down from 53%; the remainder has no opinion. A separate IFOP poll by Journal du Dimanche showed that 43% of French Catholics want the pontiff to leave.It was not the only incident during the Pope's journey through Africa that received a lot of criticism. Earlier this week, on the plane to Cameroon, the Pope judged sexual abuse of women, but at the same time stated that abortion in the case of incest or rape, which is legal in 45 African countries, should not be an option.Today, the Pope returns to The Vatican.Presidential candidate Hillary Clinton's trip to San Antonio, Texas renewed an intense debate about the abortion issue. The Democratic Senator held a rally at the Roman Catholic St. Mary's University after receiving an invitation from the school. San Antonio Archbishop Jose Gomez criticized the school for not consulting with him before offering the invitation. He stated that the candidate's pro-choice position on abortion contradicts the religion's rejection of the practice and added that her "positions against the teachings of the church and life issues" should deem her ineligible for a campaign visit. The University is privately owned and separate from the Catholic Church on decision-making authority. It stated in an official press release that the University does not endorse candidates and that it understood the ideological differences between Senator Clinton and the Catholic Church. Despite this, Archbishop Gomez believed the event involved him since it occurred in his archdiocese, and wondered why Senator Clinton decided to hold a rally at a Catholic University. Clinton's main strength in past primaries and caucuses have been among Latino voters who have propelled her to victories in California, Nevada and Florida. Most Latinos are Roman Catholic, which might explain Clinton's visit to the University in conjunction with the upcoming March 4 Texas Primary.Wikinews contributors have discovered that members of the United States Congress or members of their staff have recently been making questionable edits to Wikipedia, the free online encyclopedia anyone can edit. This continues the trend identified by four exclusive Wikinews reports over a four-year period exposing questionable and fraudulent edits made beginning in 2005 by Congress members or staff.Beginning in 2006, Wikinews reported that members of Congress or their staff were vandalizing Wikipedia by removing critical information in various articles, or adding false or offensive information. These edits were and continue to be done using computers owned or operated by the United States government.In this new investigation, Wikinews has found that at least two of the three major Internet Protocol Addresses (IP) attached to computers used by members of the U.S. House of Representatives and their staff have been the source of Wikipedia edits for several years. As recently as April 2009 they have been adding or removing false and/or offensive information from articles related to political figures or members of Congress.Although the IP addresses belong exclusively to the U.S Congress as a whole, they are linked to many different computers throughout the U.S. which are used by many different House representatives or their staff members. In response to an edit, another Wikipedia contributor posts a message on the user discussion page for the IP address, advising anyone that may view the page that the address belongs to Congress.In January, one individual using a Congressional computer removed a source in an article. Five minutes later, using the same congressional IP address, someone replaced the source with an apology saying, "sorry--House of Reps IPs should not be editing [Wikipedia], even other office's pages on lunch break." Despite the advisories, Wikinews has found that the individuals continued to make vandal-like edits to the encyclopedia.In one instance, Wikinews found that someone with one of the IP addresses, 143.231.249.141, began to edit the Wikipedia article for Steve Austria, the Republican representative for Ohio's 7th congressional district. The individual began to edit on March 18, 2009 at 23:32 UTC. He or she used the official House of Representatives gateway to remove a section of information relating to inaccurate comments Austria made about The Great Depression. Austria stated in an interview with The Columbus Dispatch in February that Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal in 1933 caused the U.S. to go into a depression."When Roosevelt did this, he put our country into a Great Depression. ... He tried to borrow and spend, he tried to use the Keynesian approach, and our country ended up in a Great Depression. That's just history," said Austria during the February 11 interview. He later admitted that his statement was wrong, saying Roosevelt's spending "did not have the desired effect," which caused the depression. Exactly two minutes later on March 18, the same IP address removed information relating to bloggers accusing Austria of plagiarism in 2008. They accused him of taking credit for a column that was published in his name in the Xenia Gazette on September 2, 2008. Bloggers had discovered that the column was a direct copy of a report on the history of Labor Day originally published by the U.S. Department of Labor. The edits were reverted, the last being over four hours after the information was removed. Despite some constructive edits, such as correcting the spelling of Wisconsin congressman Steve Kagen's name and correcting grammatical errors, the same IP removed the information in both sections a total of six times from March 18 to April 24, 2009.After seeing the suspicious edits, Wikinews examined the edit history for Austria's article to see if any other suspicious edits were made. After a brief search, Wikinews discovered that the IP address 65.189.244.162 removed the same information just 15 days earlier on March 3, being the first address to remove the information. Only one edit has been made to Wikipedia from that IP address so far. After tracing the address, Wikinews discovered the person who made the edits lives in or near Fairborn, which is located 8.5 miles from Beavercreek, where Austria currently resides. Austria also grew up in Xenia which is located just 12 miles from Fairborn and only 8 miles from Beavercreek. Another individual, with the IP address 75.187.63.132, also removed the allegations of plagiarism from Austria's article in February. The individual removed what they called "Politically Motivated BS [bullshit]" from the article of Deborah Pryce, former congresswoman for Ohio's 15th congressional district. The information was related to fundraisers between 2001 and 2004 that were held at restaurants belonging to convicted felon and former lobbyist Jack Abramoff. After tracing the IP address, Wikinews found that the edit was made from a computer located in Columbus, Ohio, the location of Pryce's offices and one of the cities in Pryce's district. Wikinews contacted Austria by e-mail for a statement, but so far there has been no response.Following those discoveries, Wikinews investigated another IP address used by the U.S. House of Representatives. On April 30, 2009, the address 143.231.249.138 made an edit that listed Devin Nunes, the representative for California's 21st congressional district, as being a member of the Nazi Party. The address also made less questionable edits, but after investigating further, it was discovered that the IP address removed critical information on April 29 from the article of Gregory Meeks, the representative for New York's 6th congressional district. The information removed was related to a column by the the New York Times which stated that Meeks initially supported former 2008 presidential candidate Hillary Clinton over Barack Obama in the race for the White House. According to the Times, Meeks changed his support to Obama because he was part of "a young black political class [which was] seeking to assert the neighborhood’s power against what it sees as an older establishment, based in Harlem, that has long exercised disproportionate influence in New York City." The address 143.231.249.138 was also responsible for adding highly biased statements to articles related to abortion. On March 16, 2009 it altered the Wikipedia article Crisis pregnancy center, adding that the centers were "abortion mills, which exist only to kill people, also present themselves as medical facilities." On March 20, the IP changed the Project Rachel article to include, "millions of women have deep regrets and, often, suffer psychological problems after undergoing an abortion--a fact the abortion industry and mass media will not admit." 143.231.249.141 also added racial slurs and references to gay pedophilia into William A. Donohue's article in February, saying he has "participated in the controversial act of 'tabeling', in which he takes a small child, places him upon a table, and 'puts the lord inside him.'"In an attempt to find out where the edits were being made and by whom, Wikinews contacted the Electronic Frontier Foundation to receive advice on how to file an information request with the U.S. government under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). The request would have been made to release the names of the individuals and offices responsible for the edits. However, according to Marcia Hofmann, a staff attorney for the EFF, who specializes in FOIA related matters, the U.S. government is not required to provide the information."None of the U.S. open government laws extends to records in the possession of members of Congress or their employees. Put differently, it's not so much a question of what the information is (identities of congressional staff) as where the information is (in congressional offices, which aren't covered by open government laws)," said Hoffmann in an exclusive interview with Wikinews. She also added that "FOIA [requests] cover records in executive branch agencies and departments" only.Suspicious and/or fraudulent edits to Wikipedia made by Congress and other government entities were first reported by Wikinews in February 2006, after the U.S. government engaged in Wikipedia vandalism and other forms of perceived biased editing of articles. The House of Representatives IP addresses were briefly banned from editing Wikipedia articles in the wake of the initial controversy. A few days later, Wikinews reported that staff members of the offices of United States Senators, using Senate-linked IP addresses, also edited Wikipedia, in some cases, removing facts and sourced material from articles. In 2008, Wikinews also reported that staff members for then 2008 candidates for U.S. president Barack Obama and John McCain made questionable edits to Wikipedia.A medical center, once the site of intense controversy over abortion in the 1990s, which has been vacant for nearly 10 years, was imploded in Buffalo, New York at 6:00 a.m. [eastern time] today.Several streets in about a 2 block radius were shut down until the implosion occurred and the dust settled. At least 200 people watched in nearby parking lots and on rooftops of buildings to get a good look at the implosion. The ground and the walls of buildings shook as the dynamite detonated and a brief shock wave could be felt as far as 1 1/2 blocks away. Witnesses even reported small pieces of bricks and concrete falling out of some buildings, but no one was injured.The building, owned by Kaleida Health, once housed several medical offices, including an abortion clinic. Hundreds of people protested about the abortions outside the center during the Spring of Life Movement in 1992, but other medical procedures and treatments were also part of the center's services. It was built in 1965 and was 14 floors tall.Kaleida Health had the building imploded so that the current Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus can be expanded. Several other major medical facilities are also in the same area including Roswell Cancer Institute and Buffalo General Hospital."This implosion of 50 High Street will continue the explosion of growth on the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus. This event will ensure future opportunity for investment, development and growth," said the CEO and President of Kaleida Health in a statement on Thursday.==Sources== Melinda Miller & Sharon Linstedt. "Onlookers watch from rooftops as 50 High St. implodes" — Buffalo News, May 26, 2007 "50 High Street Gone in a Flash" — WGRZ, May 26, 2007 "Medical campus building to go boom" — MSN Money, May 24, 2007George Tiller, a controversial doctor who performed late-term abortions, has been shot dead in a church in Kansas, United States. A man is in custody over the killing.67-year-old Tiller had been the target of many previous attacks. In 1986 his clinic was seriously damaged in a bombing and in 1993 he was shot in both arms. In 1991 his clinic saw summer-long protests that resulted in 2,000 arrests and he said that in 1994 he was put under police protection after FBI agents uncovered an anti-abortion 'hit list' naming him as a top target. The clinic was vandalized earlier this month.The controversy stemmed from the fact that his clinic is one of just three in the United States that performed late-term abortions, which are abortions of fetuses which are capable of surviving outside of the womb. This is legal in Kansas so long as two doctors agree the mother is in serious danger if she were to give birth.Tiller was recently tried on charges of performing nineteen illegal abortions in 2003; he was cleared of any wrongdoing at the end of a trial described by his lawyer as a 'witch-hunt'. It was alleged that there were irregularities and a financial involvement in his relationship with the doctor who gave second opinions in the abortions.Another controversy was sparked by donations Tiller made to support Kathleen Sebelius, then governor of Kansas. The donations, coupled with Sebelius' abortion-rights views, caused anti-abortion groups to oppose her nomination as U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, but the Senate confirmed her in a 65 to 31 vote in April.Tiller was killed at 10 a.m. local time in the Reformation Lutheran in Wichita. A white man was witnessed with a handgun killing the doctor before fleeing in a blue Ford Taurus. The vehicle's number plate was traced to Kansas City, 200 miles from Wichita.State police and the FBI were involved in the hunt for the gunman. A suspect is now in custody.A conservative Democratic United States senator has agreed to supply the key 60th vote needed for passage of a sweeping health care reform package. Senate Democrats have reached a breakthrough in their struggle to pass sweeping heath care reform legislation, lining up the 60 votes needed to overcome fierce Republican opposition. Senators met Saturday in Washington, D.C. during a driving snowstorm in a frenzied effort to move forward on President Barack Obama's top domestic priority.The spotlight was on moderate Democratic Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska, who had been the last holdout as Senate Democrats raced against the clock and against determined Republican opposition to pass their health care bill by their self-imposed deadline of December 25th, Christmas.Nelson said he is now ready to vote for cloture, which would advance the bill. "Change is never easy, but change is what is necessary in America today and and that is why I intend to vote for cloture, I intend to vote for cloture and for health care reform," he said.Nelson said he decided to support the bill after winning new concessions from Democratic Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to limit the availability of abortions in insurance sold under the new legislation along with millions of dollars in Medicaid funding for Nebraska.The legislation would extend health benefits to more than 30 million uninsured Americans and impose new regulations on the health insurance industry. Senator Reid of Nevada has been working for months to win over one holdout Democratic senator after another, repeatedly altering the bill to satisfy different demands. Reid says reform is essential. "The broken system cannot continue and it will not continue. When President Obama signs this bill into law, we will officially end the era in which insurance companies win only when patients lose," he said.Nelson's support should pave the way for Senate Democrats to win the first of a series of crucial procedural votes scheduled to begin at one o'clock in the morning on Monday and set to conclude — if everything goes smoothly for them — with final passage on Christmas Eve.Republicans have been using a number of parliamentary procedures to delay action on the bill, including forcing a reading on the Senate floor Saturday of Reid's 338-pages of last minute amendments. Republican Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky responded to the apparent Democratic breakthrough. "And Democrats are forcing a vote on it, as I indicated, over the weekend, counting on the fact that the American people are preoccupied with Christmas and not paying much attention to what they are doing," he said.Republicans are unified in their opposition, saying the bill is too expensive and will not solve the problems with the current health care system. Senator McConnell dismissed claims by Democrats that the bill is historic. "The history that is being made here, make no mistake about it, the history that is being made here, is the ignoring of the will of the American people," he said.Senator John McCain of Arizona echoed those comments in the weekly Republican radio address saying, "Regrettably, there’s nothing in this legislation that effectively addresses the problem of health care hyperinflation. In fact, experts tell us the Democrat legislation makes matters worse."Democrats say they have been trying to reform the nation's health care system for close to 70 years, ever since President Franklin Delano Roosevelt was in office. Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut was emotional as victory seemed within reach. "All we are trying to do is to guarantee that if you are a fellow citizen of ours, and you are struck with illness or a loved one is, that you will never again have that fear, that you will end up losing your home, your job, your retirement and your life savings because you have been afflicted with an illness through no fault of your own."If the Senate is able to pass a bill next week, it would be viewed as a major victory for President Obama. But the bill would still need to be reconciled with a health-care reform bill passed last month by the House of Representatives before the president could sign it into law next year.Billing records uncovered by the New York Times show that Fred Thompson was paid for about 20 hours of work as a Washington, DC lobbyist on behalf of a group to ease restrictive federal rules on abortion counseling in the 1990s. Recently Thompson "flatly denied" the charge and said he "did not recall doing any work for the organization."The records show that Thompson worked part-time from 1991 to 1994 for the National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association, and earned about US$5,000 for work he did in 1991 and 1992.According to the Los Angeles Times, "a new Thompson spokeswoman, Burson Snyder, did not return calls for comment on the billing records Thursday."A doctor, his assistant and three women who were found to have undergone abortion were convicted of violating abortion laws in Portugal. The three women were found to have undergone abortion in violation of Portuguese law. Abortion is illegal in Portugal except where a pregnancy is caused by rape or when the health of the mother is in danger due to the pregnancy. Further, abortion cannot be performed after the first trimester (the end of 12th week).Twelve other defendants, mostly women and their partners, were found not guilty. The doctor was sentenced to 3 years and 8 months in prison. His assistant was deemed an accomplice and sentenced to 1 year and 4 months in prison. The three women were given 6 month suspended sentences.All the defendants had earlier been acquitted of the charges in 2004 for lack of evidences. That decision was declared void by a superior court on appeal. The court decided that the medical examinations conducted on the women, which were performed without a court order or the presence of a state witness, were legal.Canadian MP Belinda Stronach has officially announced she will not run for re-election in her riding of Newmarket—Aurora in the next federal election. She will re-join her father Frank Stronach's company Magna International Inc., a large auto parts company, as the executive vice-chairwoman."My father is looking to the future, the company is facing important strategic decisions, and the Canadian and global auto sector and economy are in a period of great challenge," Stronach announced. "So I am stepping aside from elected politics for the time being and will now take part in public life in a different way...I will continue to represent the interests of the constituents I serve until such time as a federal election is called," she said. "I also plan to continue to play an active role in the community."During Stronach's career a series of events have made national headlines.In 2004, she ran against now Prime Minister Stephen Harper for leadership of then the new formed Conservative Party of Canada and finished second on the first ballot. She was later elected as Conservative MP for Newmarket—Aurora. Stronach had many differences to Stephen Harper and his Conservatives supporting abortion and same-sex marriages. She also claimed the party was going too far-right. In 2005, two days before a non-confidence vote to bring down the Liberal government, she crossed the floor to the Liberal Party of Canada and retained her seat. Upon her crossing she immediately became Minister of Human Resources and Social Development and Minister responsible for Democratic Renewal. It also ended her personal relationship with fellow Conservative MP Peter MacKay. If Stronach had not joined the Liberals an election would have been called. On April 6, 2006, Stronach held a news conference announcing that she would not seek the leadership of the Liberals, which was later won by Stephane Dion.In September, she was caught cheating with former NHL player Tie Domi. In October 2006, Peter MacKay referred to Stranach as a "dog". Stronach, a feminist, demanded an immediate apology and said that it offended all Canadian women.CTV bureau chief Robert Fife speculated the decision by Stronach, not to seek re-election, may have had something to do with her dissatisfaction over a diminished role in the new Dion caucus. "She did not have a high-profile critic's role and she had not been prominent in asking questions in question period after Mr. Dion took over," suggested Fife.Stronach has been serving as Critic for Competitiveness and New Economy. She previously served as Critic for the Minister of Transport under interim leader Bill Graham.The public is also questioning Stronach's move to keep her seat until the next federal election, they happen every five years or less. If she had decided to leave her seat completely, an immediate by-election would be called.Voters in California, Florida and Arizona voted on Tuesday to ban gay marriage, bringing about a victory for conservatives on a day which did not bring many conservative wins. Meanwhile, voters in Colorado, South Dakota and California voted on measures which would have restricted abortion in those states. In Massachusetts and Michigan, voters passed measures that loosen marijuana laws. Finally, in the state of Washington a measure was passed that allows physician-assisted suicide.The California ballot measure, Proposition 8, overturns the recent June ruling by the California State Supreme Court in the case In re Marriage Cases which reversed a 1977 statute passed by the California State Legislature and a 2000 ballot measure, Proposition 22, which also banned same-sex marriage by defining marriage as between a man and a woman. The wording of Proposition 8 is identical to Proposition 22. It was noted that many of the African-Americans and Latinos who cast their votes for Obama, also voted for the measure. The measure passed at 52% to 48%.Lesbian comedian Ellen DeGeneres noted, "This morning, when it was clear that Proposition 8 had passed in California, I can’t explain the feeling I had. I was saddened beyond belief. Here we just had a giant step toward equality and then on the very next day, we took a giant step away."Singer Melissa Etheridge, who is also a lesbian, stated that she would no longer pay taxes due to the passing of Proposition 8, announcing in a blog post, "Okay, so I am taking that to mean I do not have to pay my state taxes because I am not a full citizen."Also in California, voters rejected a measure which would require parental notification for a minor to receive an abortion. The measure was rejected with the same percentage as Proposition 8, 52% to 48%. Meanwhile in Colorado, voters rejected a measure that would define life as beginning at conception. While the measure did not specifically mention abortion it would have required legislators and courts to confront legal rights for fetuses - effectively preventing abortion. The measure was defeated in a wide margin, 73% to 27%In South Dakota, voters also defeated an anti-abortion measure which would have outlawed abortion in all cases except in the case of rape, incest or if the mother's health was in serious question. If passed, the law would most likely have been challenged as unconstitutional.In Michigan, voters approved a measure which legalizes medical marijuana. Meanwhile, in Massachusetts, voters approved a ballot question that decriminalizes possession of small amounts of marijuana in which the possession of an ounce or less would be punishable by a $100 fine. The measure will also require minors under the age 18 to participate in and complete a drug awareness program and do community service. Failure to do so, would net the minor a $1,000 fine."Tonight's results represent a sea change. Voters have spectacularly rejected eight years of the most intense government war on marijuana since the days of 'Reefer Madness,'" said Rob Kampia, executive director of the Marijuana Policy Project. "The people were ahead of the politicians on this issue; they recognize and want a more sensible approach to our marijuana policy," said Whitney Taylor, the chair of Committee for Sensible Marijuana Policy, which backed the Massachusetts proposition.Also, in Massachusetts, voters overwhelmingly, in every single Massachusetts city and town, rejected a ballot measure which would have eliminated the state income tax by 2010, the ballot measure was sponsored by the Committee for Small Government, which is headed up by two libertarians, Michael Cloud, a Libertarian Party candidate for U.S. Senate in 2002 and Carla Howell, Libertarian Party candidate for governor in the 2002 Massachusetts gubernatorial election. The last time the income tax elimination measure was on the ballot was in 2002, where it was defeated, narrowly by 45.3%. This stunned supporters of the income tax, who mounted a fierce campaign against the measure this time warning Massachusetts residents that repealing the income tax would have drastic effects on the state's finances, leading to cuts in services, education and local aid.Finally, voters passed a question which bans dog racing in Massachusetts, which will lead to the closure of Massachusetts' two greyhound racing tracks, Raynham-Taunton Greyhound Park and Wonderland Greyhound Park. The campaign against dog racing was headed up by the Committee to Protect Dogs and endorsed by GREY2K USA and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals along with other animal protection organizations who claimed that dog racing was inhumane as the dogs were stuffed into cramped cages and endured injuries. The measure was opposed by the park owners including George Carney who owns the Rayham-Taunton park and Charles Sarkis, a restaurateur who owns Wonderland."We did it. We did it for the dogs," said Carey Thiel, executive director of GREY2K USA. "For 75 years, greyhounds in our state have endured terrible confinement and suffered serious injuries. We're better than that," Thiel added.One campaign supporter,  Sandy Bigelow noted, "It means everything. We've worked so hard for the dogs and they heard us. It feels so good. Oh, God, it feels so good."George Carney said of the results, "It's not a very pleasant thing right now. Some of these people have been here 40 years. Here's a company that did nothing wrong, paid their federal taxes on time, paid the town on time. The town is going to be a severe loser, and a lot of people here dedicated their life to the company."Both sides used emotionally-charged advertisements, the anti-racing side showing “sad-eyed greyhounds,” while the pro-racing side highlighted the workers who would be out of work when the tracks close.Both measures must now come before the Massachusetts Governor's Council for approval. A ballot initiative approved by voters in the north-western state of Washington will make it the second state to permit physician-assisted suicide.   Initiative 1000 follows the ten-year-old example of the Death With Dignity Act of neighboring Oregon, and will allow physicians to prescribe a lethal dose of medication for a terminally ill patient to administer themselves.  It was approved by a margin of 16%, and the ‘Yes’ campaign outspent the ‘No’ campaign by more than three-to-one.  The law comes into effect in 2009.On Wednesday in the US state of Alabama, Governor Kay Ivey signed the Alabama Human Life Protection Act, officially outlawing nearly all circumstances of abortion in the state. This bill passed the Senate of the state on Tuesday.Republican state representative Terri Collins who sponsored the bill remarked the bill was not enforceable under the current interpretation of the US Constitution established by the US Supreme Court ruling in the Roe v. Wade case. Terri said the bill would become enforceable after the Supreme Court revisits the case.Apart from when the mother's life is threatened by the pregnancy, the bill provides for any terminations to potentially result in life sentence penalties.The bill has sparked controversy and protests. Planned Parenthood, along with the American Civil Liberties Union have announced their plans to oppose the bill by lawsuit.The governor tweeted her reasoning saying, "Today, I signed into law the Alabama Human Life Protection Act. To the bill’s many supporters, this legislation stands as a powerful testament to Alabamians’ deeply held belief that every life is precious & that every life is a sacred gift from God."Two days after  presidential hopeful Fred Thompson was branded a 'Mole' for  warning President Nixon's White House about information the investigating committee had on the Watergate scandal, an abortion-rights group claimed that Thompson lobbied for them in the past. A spokesman for Thompson "flatly denied" the claim.According to the National Family Planning and Reproductive Health Association, it hired Thompson "to lobby the administration of President George H.W. Bush to ease a regulation that prevented clinics that received federal money from offering any abortion counseling."Judith DeSarno, the association’s president at the time, provided the LA Times with the group’s board minutes of September 1991. In the documents Thompson was hired to "aid us in discussions with the administration." Ms. DeSarno said in an interview that Mr. Thompson served as the group’s liaison to the White House.Former Rep. Michael D. Barnes who recommended Thompson for the lobbying job, remarked that Thompson's denial is "absolutely bizarre".The Los Angeles Times opined that "Thompson's lobbying then would clash directly with the anti-abortion movement he now seeks to rally as a conservative candidate." Thompson has positioned himself as a conservative opponent of abortion rights.Previously, the Gannett News Service reported that on Thompson’s 1994 campaign questionnaire it contained a handwritten note that stated: "I do not believe abortion should be criminalized. This battle will be won in the hearts and souls of the American people." While in another questionnaire for his 1994 Senate campaign in Tennessee, "Mr. Thompson or his campaign staff checked a box stating that he believed abortion should be legal under any circumstance during the first three months of a pregnancy." Meanwhile in a televised debate the same year, Mr. Thompson told the moderator that he disagreed with outlawing abortion: "Should the government come in and criminalize let’s say a young girl and her parents and her doctor?" Mr. Thompson said. "I think not."According to the LA Times, while Thompson "sided with antiabortion advocates on most key issues" as Senator (1994 to January 2003) and publicly criticizes the Roe v Wade decision, the article noted "Some conservatives said the [abortion] lobbying claims added to anxieties" about Thomspon.A Cook County, Illinois Circuit Court judge has lifted a temporary restraining order on a law that requires a girl's parents to be notified before she has an abortion. In a complicated ruling, however, the judge also issued an order banning state officials from enforcing the law pending an appeal. The law, which was passed by the Illinois legislature in 1995, has never been enforced due to appeals. Last November, the Illinois medical disciplinary board allowed the law to be enforced, but hours later Judge Daniel A. Riley granted a temporary restraining order filed by the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) of Illinois.When Judge Riley issued another ruling yesterday, he said the ACLU lawsuit was flawed, finding the law itself to be constitutional. He added, however, that "the law in question is a rather unfortunate piece of legislation" that is inherently discriminatory against pregnant minors. ACLU lawyers plan to file an appeal, which Judge Riley will rule on with a new restraining order in place. They argue that the law is an invasion of privacy and dangerous to minors who live in an abusive environment. The Illinois Attorney General's office is defending the law, saying that parents should be able to give their children advice on complicated matters.In the official result of Friday's Irish referendum over the legality of abortion, referendum officer Barry Ryan announced yesterday 66.4% of voters favoured overturning the eighth amendment of the constitution. Introduced in 1983, the eighth amendment made abortion constitutionally illegal. Irish Taoiseach — Prime Minister — Leo Varadkar said supporting legislation, to be framed following the result of this referendum, is to be "enacted before the end of this year".More than 2.1 million people voted on the referendum on Friday. With a 64.1% turnout, 1,429,981 voted in favour of eliminating the abortion ban while 723,632 voted to keep it. The results were announced at Dublin Castle. About 6000 voters spoiled their votes. Calling it "an historic day", Prime Minister Varadkar said it was "a great act of democracy." Ministers said they would form laws allowing medical termination of pregnancy in the first trimester, twelve weeks, of pregnancy, and under special cases until the 24th week. The legislation is to be formed after discussion with medical experts.Since the amendment, Article 40.3.3 of the Irish constitution, in 1983, which gave an unborn child equal rights to life as the mother, hundreds of thousands of women traveled to different countries for the medical termination of pregnancy, while some used medical drugs illegal in Ireland to terminate the pregnancy."Savita Matters, Women Matter" was one of the slogans used by the supporters who wanted to repeal the amendment. In October 2012, a 31-year-old dentist of Indian origin, Savita Halappanavar, died from sepsis at a Galway hospital after she was denied abortion for a protracted miscarriage. She was told by a midwife that termination of pregnancy would not be possible since Ireland was a "Catholic country". Halappanavar's photo was used for posters by supporters who wanted the 35-year-old amendment repealed. In 2016, the current Roman Catholic Pope, Pope Francis, described abortion as a "very grave sin" and a "horrendous crime".Halappanavar's father Andanappa Yalagi told Hindustan Times, "We've got justice for Savita. What happened to her will not happen to any other family. I have no words to express my gratitude to the people of Ireland at this historic moment." 39 of 40 Irish constituencies voted in favour of repealing the law, while voters in only one constituency, Donegal, voted against — 51.87% opting to keep the anti-abortion laws. After the result was announced, the crowd were chanting Savita's name in front of Dublin Castle.Cora Sherlock, an anti-abortion activist, said, "what we voted on today is the ending of human life." "I will accept the will of the Irish people, at the same time I will make it very clear what I feel of the campaign that has taken place. We will now regroup and find out what our next move is", she added. Another activist, David Quinn, said, "The result today is basically a reversal of the 1983 result. On that occasion the defeated side did not simply slip away.""The people have said that we want a modern constitution for a modern country", Prime Minister Varadkar said. Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau later congratulated Varadkar on Twitter, saying: "What a moment for democracy and women's rights."Karen Handel, who was vice president of public policy for Susan G. Komen for the Cure, resigned yesterday, one week after the organization took flak for its decision not to fund Planned Parenthood. At her announcement, Handel criticized Planned Parenthood for leading an "orchestrated, clearly pre-meditated attack on Komen."The Komen Foundation is known for raising awareness of breast cancer and for its funding of breast cancer screening.Handel was a former Republican candidate for governor in the state of Georgia where she took a pro-life stance, but she lost the primary race to current Georgia Governor Nathan Deal, who took office in 2011. Unlike others at Komen, Handel said the organization faced pressure from groups that were against abortion to do something about its funding to Planned Parenthood.She said Komen's process for creating a policy that allowed the foundation to decline funding for any organization that was under investigation, even if it was not a criminal investigation, was a "thoughtful and thoroughly reviewed decision … that has unfortunately been turned into something about politics." Handel said while the guidelines behind the split were created before she had obtained her position at Komen, she was one person in the group who decided to apply them to Planned Parenthood and halt Komen's funding.In her statement, Handel said she was "deeply disappointed by the gross mischaracterizations of the strategy, its rationale, and my involvement in it."Handel declined a severance package from Komen.Nancy Brinker, who is Komen’s chief executive and founder, admitted the foundation made mistakes in handling the Planned Parenthood decision last week. "I accepted the resignation of Karen Handel," Brinker said. "I have known Karen for many years, and we both share a common commitment to our organization’s lifelong mission, which must always remain our sole focus. I wish her the best in future endeavors."While the Komen Foundation has since reinstated its funding of Planned Parenthood, several other board members have also resigned since the controversy began.Results of the second phase in an ongoing major study of the spiritual lives of college students was released Wednesday, April 13 by a research center at UCLA.  The study is a groundbreaking attempt to gain insight into the spiritual lives and concerns of students and improve how faculties and administrators at US colleges and universities address this part of their students' lives.The study, named The Spiritual Life of College Students,  was conducted by the Higher Education Research Institute (HERI), a research center of higher education in the United States.  HERI is based in the Graduate School of Education & Information Studies (GSE&IS) at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).  HERI also produces a widely-cited annual Survey of Entering Freshman through its Cooperative Institutional Research Program (CIRP) program.The Minnesota Republican Party is distributing a CD as part of a lobbying effort seeking a definition of marriage amendment, which would outlaw gay marriage.Along with its pitch for the definition of marriage amendment, the CD asks people their views on various controversial issues, including abortion, gun control, and illegal immigration.The CD has raised privacy concerns after it was discovered that the information is reported back to the Minnesota Republican Party along with the name of the person filling out the questionnaire, while the CD does not reveal that the data is being sent.Governor Tim Pawlenty has said that the CD "should make clear that [it] is mining information."On Thursday, Missouri Circuit Court Judge Werner Moentmann ruled that Planned Parenthood of Kansas and Planned Parenthood of Mid-Missouri must repay the state of Missouri $668,850 for grants they received illegally for fiscal years 2000 and 2003. The Judge said that the Planned Parenthood groups shared "office space, expenses, employee wages, equipment and supplies" with doctors who performed abortions and therefore was ineligible for the grant money.This is the third time the case has come before a circuit judge — twice previously circuit court judges ruled that Planned Parenthood was not eligible for grant funding from Missouri Department of Health and Senior Services. The Missouri Supreme Court overturned two previous rulings without addressing the merits of the case itself. The first ruling urged the lower court to reconsider the decision based on changes in federal law; the second ruling was overturned when the court found that Attorney General Jay Nixon had a conflict of interest in representing both the state legislature and the health department.An influential Nevada politician from the Republican Party has stated she opposes Sharron Angle's candidacy for United States Senate in that state due to Angle's "extreme" stance against abortion, and will vote against the candidate in the upcoming general election in November. Sharron Angle is against abortion in all cases, including incidents of rape and incest.Sue Wagner is a former Lieutenant Governor of Nevada. She has served as a member of the Nevada Gaming Commission, and as a state legislator. Wagner assisted in the formation of a 1990 voter-approved referendum safeguarding abortion rights in Nevada. Wagner characterized Sharron Angle's position against abortion as "extreme", but said she would not endorse the candidacy of Angle's major party opponent, Democratic United States Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. Sharron Angle was asked by the moderator Thursday in a debate with Reid if she would support any US federal tax revenue going towards funding for abortion; she responded with a curt, "No." Angle's campaign did not respond to queries from the Associated Press about Wagner's statements. Sharron Angle has invited controversy in the past due to her views on. In an article about "Tea Party extremism" in Nevada, {{w|The Globe and Mail]] reported, "Ms. Angle has suggested pregnant rape victims turn 'a lemon situation into lemonade' instead of having an abortion." The Washington Post reported that Senator Harry Reid's first negative campaign advertisement about Angle criticized the candidate for, "... supporting a Scientology-backed prisoner rehabilitation program."Yesterday, the Parliament of New South Wales (NSW), Australia voted to pass the "Reproductive Health Care Reform Bill 2019" which decriminalized abortion.  Until the new legislation, NSW had the most restrictive anti-abortion law in Australia.  The NSW legislature in Sydney abolished any existing common law rules about abortion and legalized terminations up to week 22 of a pregnancy.Since 1900, under the state's criminal code, abortions were only allowed if a doctor determined the mother was in danger, either mentally or physically. The bill was drafted by Alex Greenwich who said on the parliament floor, "It follows decades of work from women's rights campaigners, activists and people in the Parliament". The upper house debate involved 102 amendments, and was amongst the longest they have ever debated a bill.Member of parliament (MP) Kevin Conolly said a law allowing the termination of a life marked a "sad day for NSW". Former prime minister Tony Abbott said, "It is a license for sex-selection abortions. It is a license for late-term abortion [...] It is effectively infanticide on demand." MP Penny Sharpe, who co-sponsored the bill, said, "The current law has meant women and doctors have a threat of 10 years in jail for making this decision and that's not okay". Early opponent MP Tanya Davies said, "We have moved the bill to a better place".Premier Gladys Berejiklian was not present at the bill's final vote.New South Wales is the most populated Australian state. The state of South Australia still limits abortions to cases with two doctors' approval.According to organisers, more than one million people have marched across Madrid, Spain to oppose plans to liberalise abortion law. Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero wants to introduce abortion on demand, allowing women as young as 16 to have abortions without their parents' consent. Currently women may only terminate pregnancies in the predominantly Catholic country under specific circumstances.The 1.5-kilometer (one-mile) march contained members from 42 religious and civil society groups, with 600 buses and several planes used to bring anti-abortion supporters, according to organisers. The protest was also supported by the conservative opposition People's Party and the Roman Catholic Church.The march started under a banner emblazoned with "Every Life Matters", and tens of thousands of supporters carried banners and flags with "For Life, Women and Motherhood" and "Women Against Abortion" and "Madrid 2009, Capital of Life", along the route to the Plaza de Independencia, where many more waited.A spokesman for one of the rally organiser, HazteOir (Make Yourself Heard), reported that approximately 1.5 million people had participated in the rally and march. The Madrid regional government put the figures at around 1.2 million.The supporters want the government to withdraw the draft law currently up for debate in the parliament in November, which would introduce abortion on demand within the first 14 weeks of a pregnancy, based on laws currently in place in most other European Union countries. It would replace Spain's law introduced in 1985, which allows abortion in cases of rape, when there are signs of foetal abnormality, or when a woman's physical or psychological health is at risk. This latter category has been used to justify 112,000 abortions in 2007, a majority of which occurred in Spain."This new law is a barbarity. In this country, they protect animals more than human beings," said Jose Carlos Felicidad, aged 67, a retired naval technician, who had come to the rally in Madrid  from the town of Algeciras.Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero spoke in defence of the draft law, saying the state should not "intervene in the free and private decision of a woman, who is the one who has to take on the responsibility of a pregnancy during her entire life." According to the government, the law is about respect and women's rights, and that alternatives will be explained first to anyone wishing to terminate a pregnancy. It also said that the new law will make abortion less dangerous, by making sure that the procedure is not done after 22 weeks.The prime minister has passed a series of social reforms since he came to power in 2004. Among them were measures to legalise gay marriage, give more rights to transsexuals, and permit fast-track divorces.Bill Bernhardt is running for the Family Coalition Party in the Ontario provincial election, in the Kitchener Centre riding. Wikinews' Nick Moreau interviewed him regarding his values, his experience, and his campaign.Please note that Bill provided his answers in "ALL CAPS"; due to the time constraints of this election coverage, it remains in this typographic style.Stay tuned for further interviews; every candidate from every party is eligible, and will be contacted. Expect interviews from Liberals, Progressive Conservatives, New Democratic Party members, Ontario Greens, as well as members from the Family Coalition, Freedom, Communist, Libertarian, and Confederation of Regions parties, as well as independents.Bill McMaster is running for the Family Coalition Party in the Ontario provincial election, in the Lambton—Kent—Middlesex riding. Wikinews' Nick Moreau interviewed him regarding his values, his experience, and his campaign.Stay tuned for further interviews; every candidate from every party is eligible, and will be contacted. Expect interviews from Liberals, Progressive Conservatives, New Democratic Party members, Ontario Greens, as well as members from the Family Coalition, Freedom, Communist, Libertarian, and Confederation of Regions parties, as well as independents.Carita Murphy-Marketos is running for the Family Coalition Party in the Ontario provincial election, in the Sudbury riding. Wikinews' Nick Moreau interviewed her regarding her values, her experience, and her campaign.Carita did not answer "What prior political experience do you have? What skills and insight can you bring to office, from other non-political positions you may have held?"Stay tuned for further interviews; every candidate from every party is eligible, and will be contacted. Expect interviews from Liberals, Progressive Conservatives, New Democratic Party members, Ontario Greens, as well as members from the Family Coalition, Freedom, Communist, Libertarian, and Confederation of Regions parties, as well as independents.Joel Kidd is running for the Family Coalition Party in the Ontario provincial election, in the Beaches-East York riding. Wikinews' Nick Moreau interviewed him regarding his values, his experience, and his campaign.Stay tuned for further interviews; every candidate from every party is eligible, and will be contacted. Expect interviews from Liberals, Progressive Conservatives, New Democratic Party members, Ontario Greens, as well as members from the Family Coalition, Freedom, Communist, Libertarian, and Confederation of Regions parties, as well as independents.Ray Scott is running for the Family Coalition Party in the Ontario provincial election, in the Algoma-Manitoulin riding. Wikinews' Nick Moreau interviewed him regarding his values, his experience, and his campaign.Stay tuned for further interviews; every candidate from every party is eligible, and will be contacted. Expect interviews from Liberals, Progressive Conservatives, New Democratic Party members, Ontario Greens, as well as members from the Family Coalition, Freedom, Communist, Libertarian, and Confederation of Regions parties, as well as independents.Vicki Gunn is running for the Family Coalition Party in the Ontario provincial election, in the Glengarry-Prescott-Russell riding. Wikinews' Nick Moreau interviewed her regarding her values, her experience, and her campaign.Stay tuned for further interviews; every candidate from every party is eligible, and will be contacted. Expect interviews from Liberals, Progressive Conservatives, New Democratic Party members, Ontario Greens, as well as members from the Family Coalition, Freedom, Communist, Libertarian, and Confederation of Regions parties, as well as independents.The Planned Parenthood Federation of America is asking US federal District Judge David C. Bury to grant an injunction against a new Arizona abortion law. On Wednesday Planned Parenthood and Arizona attorney Mike Tryon were in court to present their arguments.The law passed in 2012 would take effect on April 1. According to Planned Parenthood, if the law takes effect, it will prevent some women from having an abortion. The Arizona state Attorney General's Office states it is only regulating one form of abortion.Abortions are usually medical abortions, meaning medication is taken to induce abortion. The new law would only allow use of abortion medication just as approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) or specified by the product label. It would also require they administer the medication before seven weeks into the pregnancy. Previous cut off time was set at nine weeks. It would also require the medication be administered at the abortion facility. Planned Parenthood says requiring administration at the facility is a problem particularly for those outside of cities, as the medication is administered over several days.Medical abortions commonly combine two drugs, mifepristone and misoprostol. These two drugs are taken together. Doctors don't usually give them at the "on-label" dosage. For abortions misoprostol is given at a higher amount than the label says. Planned Parenthood says when it is given at the lower level the abortions may be unsuccessful and require surgery, putting the woman at additional risk. The other drug mifepristone has the opposite problem. The FDA has not updated their approval since 2000. The FDA approval is for a larger dose. Most doctors use the two together. They have found that when the two are combined they are just as effective as mifepristone alone, at the higher dose.  Planned Parenthood says the combination of the two is the safest way to have an abortion. The state says this law is part of their responsibility to protect public health.The Judge is expected to rule before April 1, when the law would take effect.Congressman Todd Akin is facing pressure from fellow Republicans to drop out of the United States Senate election in Missouri after he made controversial comments about abortion in cases of rape. If he withdraws by 5 p.m. central time (1100 UTC) today, the Missouri state Republican party would have 28 days until it would require a court order to replace his name on the ballot.In an interview with the St. Louis television station KTVI-TV on Sunday, Akin said: "Well you know, people always want to try to make that as one of those things, well how do you, how do you slice this particularly tough sort of ethical question. First of all, from what I understand from doctors, that’s really rare. If it’s a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down. But let’s assume that maybe that didn’t work or something. I think there should be some punishment, but the punishment ought to be on the rapist and not attacking the child."Akin's comments soon gained national notoriety, with numerous politicians condemning his comments. Senators Scott Brown of Massachusetts and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin have both called for him to drop out of the race.  Presidential candidate Mitt Romney said Akin's comments were  "inexcusable".  President Barack Obama said in a press conference on Monday, "...We shouldn't have a bunch of politicians, a majority of whom are men, making health care decisions on behalf of women."The National Republican Senatorial committee has said it will no longer fund Akin's campaign, regardless if he drops out or not. Other groups who support Akin are considering stopping all campaigning in Missouri.Retired West Virginia engineer Lowell Jackson "Jack" Fellure won the presidential nomination of the Prohibition Party yesterday at the party's National Convention in Cullman, Alabama. He won on the second ballot, defeating Thompson Township tax accessor James Hedges of Pennsylvania, who initially ran unopposed. Party Chairman Toby Davis of Mississippi received the vice presidential nomination.The Prohibition Party is the third oldest existing political party in the United States, having been established in 1869. It reached its height of popularity during the late 19th century. As its name suggests, the party heavily supported the Eighteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which banned the sale of alcohol, and resulted in the US period known as Prohibition (1919–33). The party has declined since the repeal of Prohibition in 1933, but has continued to nominate candidates for the presidential election.Fellure, 79, has run for president in every election since 1988, though usually as a Republican. This run marks his first as a member of the Prohibition Party. On his campaign website, he cites the Authorized 1611 King James Bible as his presidential platform, and calls for the teaching of the Bible in public schools, criminalization of homosexuality, and the elimination of abortion, the liquor industry and pornography. On economics, he supports reducing taxes and balancing the federal budget.Hedges, the first Prohibition Party member elected to public office since 1959, announced his campaign in February 2010, and was the only candidate until last month. According to Vice Chairman June Griffin: "While Jim has contributed valuable resources to this Party...his positions regarding Environmentalism and passivity toward war forced me to vote for Jack Fellure. As well, his insistence on a moratorium on the building of nuclear plants caused much unrest among the membership. Yet he prevailed to install this plank." The ten voting Prohibition Party convention delegates and a few guests met for the National Convention, which began on Monday at the Holiday Inn Express in Cullman. Tuesday featured a short greeting from Cullman Mayor Max Townson, followed by addresses from Libertarian consultant Stephen P. Gordon, Ballot Access News publisher Richard Winger, and Eunie Smith of the Eagle Forum.Gordon, who previously worked as the e-Campaign manager for the 2008 Bob Barr presidential campaign, jokingly commented that his speech "stunk". He opened his address with the joke that "the way to pick out the libertarian at a Prohibition Party function is that I’m the one wearing the Jerry Garcia tie." He discussed how third party candidates could utilize new media to their advantage, but avoided any ideological topics.Winger, an expert on election law, discussed ballot access and the history of the Prohibition Party. He notably explained how the party had cost the Republicans presidential victories in the elections of 1884 and 1916, which forestalled the passage of the Eighteenth Amendment by Republicans, who wanted to do away with the alcohol issue. Gordon later commented that Winger's speech was well-received by the audience.After Winger's speech, the convention broke for lunch. Afterwards, Smith, the widow of former Congressman Albert L. Smith, Jr., focused on immigration and education in her address. When asked about the Eagle Forum's participation in the fight against alcohol, she commented that the group was focused on more pressing issues such as gambling.After the nomination, some party members traveled to the grave of Sidney Catts in Florida. Catts, who died in 1936, was the first and only state governor elected from the Prohibition Party. The party will now begin ballot access drives in Louisiana, Mississippi, Florida, New Jersey, Utah, Colorado, Tennessee and Arkansas. In 2008, the late Gene Amondson appeared on the ballot in Colorado, Florida and Louisiana and picked up a total of 653 votes.An Australian Senate inquiry into the abortion pill "RU486" has started public hearings in Melbourne. A controversial conscience vote on the issue to overturn laws which prohibit Australian women's access to the drug, will be held in Federal parliament on February 9.The Senate committee is considering a bill to remove ministerial control of the abortifacient drug Mifepristone - or RU486. Health Minister Tony Abbott says the issue of whether to allow women access to the drug  "is one of principle." Abbott, who is against abortion, insists he is the right person to control the drug's use in Australia.Besides its use internationally as an "abortion pill", there may also be a small chance that it may help treat various other medical disorders including prostate cancer, breast cancer, and inoperable brain tumours amongst other conditions. Mifepristone is effectively banned in Australia, with Minister Abbott controlling whether it is made available. The bill, sponsored by a group of female senators and MPs, would hand Mr Abbott's powers over to the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) - the body that controls all other pharmaceutical drugs in Australia. The bill seeks to have the TGA determine the drug's availability and not the Health Minister.Democrats Leader Lyn Allison, said she was "cautiously confident" the parliament will overturn the current arrangements when the conscience vote takes place. "Those who are in favour of the bill are saying this is a choice that ought to be available to women and that on the basis of the studies that have been done overseas it is at least as safe as surgical termination," Senator Allison said.Reproductive Choice Australia (RCA)say that medicine is placed at the whim of politics, saying that over 80% of Australians are pro-choice. A national survey found 87% of women aged 18 to 49 support a woman’s right to choose.RU486 is available in much of western Europe and North America, but was effectively banned in Australia under laws initiated by now-retired pro-life senator Brian Harradine.Christine Read, medical director of family planning group FPA Health, said Misoprostol, also known as Cytotec, is across the world to invoke contractions to expel the fetus after a woman had taken RU486. "It is used extensively in obstetrics and gynaecology for termination of pregnancy and to induce labour, so it's used in the medical management of miscarriage," Dr Read said.Dr Sharman Stone, said yesterday the issue was not about Misoprostol, but rather that "the TGA should make the decision about any drugs - that is its job. Any other conversations about other drugs are simply irrelevant to this argument," Dr Stone said.Family First senator Steve Fielding says lifting a ban on RU486 would pave the way for do-it-yourself home abortions. "RU486 is different to other drugs in that it is an abortion drug which could see do-it-yourself home abortions," he said in a statement. "The question is, should policy be made by bureaucrats or our elected leaders?Senator Fielding claims Australians are worried about the high number of abortions in Australia, as reflected in submissions received by the Senate committee.On Monday the committee will move to Sydney for a final day of hearings.The ongoing debate over whether the Australian Health Minister Tony Abbott, or the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) regulate the abortifacient mifepristone (RU486) has complicated with a number of members proposing amendments to the Senate bill, now in the House of Representatives.Jackie Kelly (Australian Liberal Party, Lindsay) has said that "There should be a transparent process in which the minister is accountable for his or her decision" on so-called restricted goods (of which RU486 is such a good) as listed in the TGA legislation. Kelly has proposed an amendment with points stating that "the Minister for Health and Ageing continuing to have the decision making role in relation to the approval of restricted goods...", "the Minister being required to obtain written advice from the Therapeutic Goods Administration prior to giving written approval or refusal to approve", "the Minister's decision being subject to disallowance".In the debate on February 14, Andrew Laming (Liberal, Bowman) noted his intent to propose an amendment in the later consideration in detail stage, noting his views that the TGA process is "so far removed...from the concerns and the beliefs of the community" and that he is "unable to convince [himself] that completely leaving these decisions to the TGA is the right thing to do". His amendment loosely aims to propose a "disallowable instrument in Parliament where there is a disagreement with the findings of the TGA."The introduction of amendments has caused confusion on procedural matters February 15 in the Questions to the Speaker period (that follows Question Time), where members can ask questions of the Speaker on procedural and other technical matters. In the following vote on the proposed legislation, if one of the votes on the amendments succeeds, this has the effect of discontinuing the other amendment proposals, as each of the amendments proposed has the effect of being a complete alternative bill.The RU486 debate will have precedence over all other matters in the House until it is dealt with. Voting is expected on Thursday.The looming debate on whether the Australian Health Minister Tony Abbott or the Theraputic Goods Administration (TGA) should regulate mifepristone, RU486, has entered the Australian Senate, February 8. A free vote is due to be conducted on this issue.The first speakers have been all women speaking in support of passing control from the Health Minister to the TGA: Australian National Party Senator Fiona Nash, Australian Democrats Senator Lyn Allison, Australian Labor Party Senator Claire Moore. They have drawn attention to the fact that abortion is already legal in Australia, the inappropriateness of a Parliament minister to regulate a single drug versus a scientific and independent body, and if RU486 is an unsafe drug then the TGA will not approve the drug. Petitions were presented by Moore with the undersigned stating "medical experts, not the health minister" should regulate the drug.Australian Liberal Party Senator Gary Humphries then spoke, stating that the bill is a "mistake", not because of the possible risks, or that the TGA is unfit to perform the evaluation, but because RU486 is "not just another drug", "facilitating a medical procedure that is not just a medical procedure". Australian Greens Senator Kerry Nettle spoke in favour of the bill, making mention of views of others on the supposed push polling of some groups opposing the bill. Liberal Senator Nick Minchin, the new Leader of the Government in the Senate, spoke in support of Humphries and his views, and "was not persuaded to support [the] bill", and expressed his "conservative" views that life begun "from conception onwards". Family First Party Senator Steven Fielding spoke out against the bill also, likening the TGA as comprising of "unelected bureaucrats". He further commented that Family First cannot consider the social policy issues without considering social views, and drew attention to the TGA's response in the earlier Senate inquiry that the TGA "cannot consider social and ethical issues". Fielding drew attention to the guillotine being placed on the debate of the bill and the attitudes of the non-Government senators earlier criticising the Government on the industrial relations legislation being "rammed through" late last year.Other senators, including Guy Barnett (Lib.), Helen Polley (Labor), also later spoke against the bill; Senators Judith Adams (Lib.), Ruth Webber (Labor) spoke in support.Sam Brownback is perplexed.  The U.S. Senator from Kansas and Presidential candidate is a Republican whose politics—he is against marriage for gay people, he is against abortion, and he has a clean image in a party tainted by scandal—should speak favorably to the party's base.  But it has not.  "I'm baffled by that myself," Senator Brownback told Wikinews reporter David Shankbone.  "We haven't been able to raise money."  A recent poll in Iowa has put him in eighth place, with 2% supporting his campaign.  "If we don't finish fourth or better in Iowa...we'll pull out."  Senator Brownback's relationship with God infuses almost every answer you find below.  Although he doesn't feel "competent" to explain why God would dislike gays, he does feel strongly that allowing two men or two women to enter into the union of marriage will destroy it for heterosexuals.  Pointing to the research of Stanley Kurtz at the Hoover Institution, Brownback asserts that Northern Europeans have "taken the sacredness out of the institution." In the interview, Senator Brownback discusses the tug-and-pull that befalls him when his constituents show up at his office and say, "Look, I'm a conservative, but we need this bridge, we need this subsidy, we need this hospital.”  Brownback feels this spending system needs to be changed; however, when it comes to energy policy, Brownback is there for his constituents.  David Shankbone asked the Kansas Senator, a supporter of cellulosic ethanol, why he doesn't support the lowering of tariffs on sugar since sugar ethanol delivers 8 times the energy output of cellulosic ethanol.  Brazil, in particular, has become energy independent because of its sugar ethanol program.  It's cheaper to produce, and there is vastly more bang for the buck in sugar fuel than in corn fuel; an entire country no longer needs to import oil because of it.  Federal tariffs currently make sugar ethanol too expensive in the United States.  "You're going to kill the ethanol industry here just as it gets going," was Senator Brownback's response.  However, there is a debate over whether the process to make corn ethanol uses more energy than the ethanol itself produces.  Below is David Shankbone's interview with Senator Sam Brownback.In an opinion piece published by CNN on Tuesday, Georgetown University law student and women's rights advocate Sandra Fluke insisted she will not allow slurs from critics to silence her and other women from continuing to speak out on issues regarding women's health and contraception.Fluke has faced slurs and personal attacks after speaking before the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee in the United States House of Representatives about women’s health and contraception. She was called a "slut" and a "prostitute" by talk radio show host Rush Limbaugh. In response to these attacks, Fluke has received public support from women, members of the media, and politicians including the President of the United States.In her piece for CNN, Fluke took the opportunity to thank her supporters, writing, “By now, many have heard the stories I wanted to share thanks to the congressional leaders and members of the media who have supported me and millions of women in speaking out.” She characterized the “opponents of reproductive health access” who issued personal attacks against her as being motivated by an attempt to change the topic of conversation away from a dialogue about women’s health, and “to silence women's voices regarding their own health care.”Fluke wrote that the efforts by some to drown out women from speaking out about women’s health were unsuccessful. She came to this conclusion due to the multitude of positive comments and encouragement sent to her by both female and male individuals urging that contraception medication be considered a medical necessity.Asserting that she would not remain silent on this issue of women’s health, Fluke wrote, “Attacking me and women who use contraception by calling us prostitutes and worse cannot silence us.”She noted that a significant majority of women have utilized contraception medication, and commented that there exists a social disconnect between politicians attempting to make it more difficult for women to access this type of health care, and the views of society-at-large about the matter: “Restricting access to such a basic health care service, which 99% of sexually experienced American women have used and 62% of American women are using right now, is out of touch with public sentiment.”Fluke concluded her piece by emphasizing that those in power should not govern based on ideology: “I am proud to stand with the millions of women and men who recognize that our government should legislate according to the reality of our lives -- not for ideology.”After being banned by Congressman Darrell Issa from speaking before a Committee on Oversight and Government Reform hearing on February 16 which consisted mainly of male panelists, Fluke appeared before a meeting of the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee convened by Minority leader of the United States House of Representatives Nancy Pelosi on February 23.Fluke spoke to the committee about the need for contraception to be covered by health care plans offered by employers, as a matter integral to women’s health. She cited multiple cases where women take contraception medication as part of their health care for treatment of medical conditions unrelated to birth control, including two women who suffer from polycystic ovarian syndrome, a woman who is afflicted with endometriosis and another who takes contraception in order to prevent seizures.Speaking before the United States Senate on February 17 along with fellow members Patty Murray, Kirsten Gillibrand, Barbara Boxer, and Charles Schumer, Senator Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire expressed her support for Fluke. Like Fluke, Senator Shaheen pointed out the need not to silence the voices of women in the public government debate about women’s health care: “Time and time again, women have been silenced in this discussion, a discussion about our own very personal health care decisions.” Senator Shaheen concluded her remarks with an explanation as to why she believes women should have significant representation in discussions about their health care: “Women deserve a voice in this debate because, after all, in the end this is about our health and it is about a health care decision that is between women, their families, their doctors, and their own faith.”President Barack Obama called Fluke on March 2 to express his support for her courage to speak out on issues of women’s health. In his first press conference of 2012 on March 6, he discussed his reasons for deciding to call Fluke. The President cited his personal thoughts about his own two daughters: “And the reason I called Ms. Fluke is because I thought about Malia and Sasha [Obama's daughters], and one of the things I want them to do as they get older is to engage in issues they care about, even ones I may not agree with them on. I want them to be able to speak their mind in a civil and thoughtful way. And I don't want them attacked or called horrible names because they're being good citizens.”President Obama went on to state that Fluke served as a positive role model for citizen participation in democracy and society: “And I wanted Sandra to know that I thought her parents should be proud of her, and that we want to send a message to all our young people that being part of a democracy involves argument and disagreements and debate, and we want you to be engaged, and there's a way to do it that doesn't involve you being demeaned and insulted, particularly when you’re a private citizen.”Sandra Fluke, Chelsea Clinton, and Speaker of the New York City Council Christine Quinn were among the guests who discussed the role of women in politics at the 92nd Street Y in New York City yesterday evening. The forum was co-hosted by Glamour magazine. Clinton led the panel; Fluke and Quinn were joined by additional panelists including the communications chief to former President George W. Bush, Nicolle Wallace; Abby Huntsman Livingston, daughter of former Republican presidential candidate and past governor of Utah and United States Ambassador to China Jon Huntsman; the President of EMILY's List, Stephanie Schriock; and news anchor Amy Holmes.Fluke remarked upon the slew of media reactions to her February 23 U.S. Congressional testimony about women's health and contraception,  "One of the things I was really concerned about when ... verbal attacks began was what kind of message this was going to send to young women... I was worried they would think, 'I should sit down and shut up, because if I speak out, this is what happens' ... I want women to see this as an empowering moment."Wallace commented that women should be inspired to work in government due to a motivation of public service, "If you were asked, 'Will you serve?' you'd say, 'Of course!'... Part of the problem is that our politics are so sick — there's very little young women see in our news about the essence of what the office once was, which is, public service." She noted the potential impact of women voters on the upcoming 2012 U.S. presidential election, "Women don't vote in a bloc, but they are the largest percentage of independent voters".Clinton pointed out that the United States is joined by the country of Turkmenistan for 78th place in a ranking of the proportion of female members of the federal government. She noted, "Until my mother ran for president, I wasn’t fully cognizant of how few women run for office and how few women hold office". Quinn informed the panel that when she initially decided to attempt to become Speaker of the New York City Council, critics told her why she would fail, "Because I was from the west side of Manhattan, cause I was too liberal, because I was a woman, because I was a lesbian, all things I knew when I woke up that morning, you know what I’m saying." She asserted that politics in New York need not be tied to a particular politician's sex, and stated, "the sky is the limit in New York."Schriock emphasized there are indeed women placed in federal elections in the U.S., "They're running for office right now in 2012. We have a historic number of women running for the United States Senate". She posed the question of how to ensure these candidates succeed in their elections.Wallace admitted that she authored novels It's Classified and Eighteen Acres as a cathartic form of expressing herself after viewing the pressures Hillary Clinton, Sarah Palin, and Michelle Obama experienced in the media during the 2008 campaign cycle. "I was so scarred by 2008 I made up an imaginary world".In a speech Tuesday in the Australian Senate, Senator Nick Xenophon called for a criminal investigation of Scientology. Senator Xenophon, an independent politician from South Australia, also requested that police and the Australian parliament investigate whether or not Scientology should retain its tax-exempt status within the country.Senator Xenophon tabled letters written to him from former members of the Church of Scientology, which asserted the organization had participated in coerced abortion, abuse, embezzlement, false imprisonment, and hiding information about the deaths of its members."Scientology is not a religious organisation. It is a criminal organisation that hides behind its so-called religious beliefs," said Senator Xenophon in his speech to the Australian Senate. He detailed statements made in the letters he received from former Scientologists that included a father who said he was pressured by Scientology executives to cover up the deaths of his two daughters, and a man who said he had participated in mandating that pregnant female members of the organization have abortions. "These victims of Scientology claim it is an abusive manipulative and violent organization," said the Senator. In his speech, he noted that the St. Petersburg Times newspaper of Florida reported on former executives within Scientology who had spoken out critically about the organization. These former Scientology executives said they had been subjected to physical abuse by the organization's leader, David Miscavige. They detailed attempts by the organization to manipulate staff members and perform intelligence operations intended to safeguard the organization's secrets.In a statement, the Church of Scientology called Senator Xenophon's speech an "outrageous abuse" of parliamentary privilege. Scientology representative Virginia Stewart questioned why the former Scientologists had not contacted the organization itself, "If these people had key issues, then how come they haven’t contacted the church officially? ... I think it's a bit disingenuous that someone stands up in parliament, where they can say whatever they want."Kevin Rudd, the prime minister of Australia, commented that Senator Xenophon brought up "grave allegations" against Scientology. The prime minister stated, "I share some of those concerns but let us proceed carefully and look carefully at the material which he has provided before we make a decision on further parliamentary action." Prime minister Rudd acknowledged, "many people in Australia have real concerns about Scientology".Science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard founded Scientology in 1953, and its activities have been the source of controversy in Australia for years. Until 1973, the organization was banned in Western Australia and Victoria. In 1983, a High Court ruling acknowledged its religious status.On October 27, the Church of Scientology was convicted of organized fraud by a court in France. On October 24, it was revealed that Academy Award-winning film director Paul Haggis had left the organization after a letter he wrote to Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis was made public. Scientology is currently under investigation in Belgium.In findings published Tuesday in Nature Communications, a team mostly from the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia announced they have successfully created an artificial womb in which premature lambs can be brought to term.  The researchers say this technology could develop into a means of helping premature human babies survive, but it has also drawn concern from bioethicists.According to first author Emily Partridge and her team, previous efforts at creating an artificial womb have failed because the pumps used, to provide oxygen and nutrients to the developing animal, put too much stress on the heart, causing circulatory failure; and because they used open-fluid systems, which were easily exposed to germs.  Partridge et al.'s system uses a closed-fluid apparatus, which they've called the Biobag. The sound of a maternal heartbeat was played in the room where the fetuses were kept.The animals housed in the artificial womb showed normal blood gases and their lungs, brains and nervous systems showed normal development.  They opened their eyes and grew wool. When they were removed from the circuit and dissected, their brains, lungs and other organs were found similar to those of lambs delivered by hysterotomy (Cesarean section) when nearly full term.Although lambs often serve as an experimental model of fetal development, the researchers concede that not all of their findings can be translated to humans.  While the lambs' brains appeared healthy, they also develop certain traits much earlier than human brains, so not all of these effects may be attributable to the Biobag system.The researchers also acknowledge the startling appearance of a fetus wrapped in plastic. "It is important to consider that the comparator is the extreme premature infant on a ventilator and in an incubator," reads the official paper. "We feel that parents will be relatively reassured that their fetus is being maintained in a relatively protective and physiologic environment."One of the researchers, Dr. Alan Flake, also of the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, says the apparatus may be ready for testing on human babies in three to five years. The researchers noted premature birth is the leading cause of infant mortality in the United States, with about nine out of ten infants born at 23 weeks gestation or earlier suffering complications such as mental retardation, deafness, blindness, paralysis, and cerebral palsy.  When a fetus is removed from the amniotic fluid and placed on a respirator, the shift from liquid to gas can cause the lungs to stop developing. The most common direct cause of death among premature infants is failure of the lungs to properly oxygenate the blood.Bioethicist Dena Davis of Lehigh University notes this invention raises several ethical issues. "If it's a difference between a baby dying rather peacefully and a baby dying under conditions of great stress and discomfort then, no, I don't think it's better," she told National Public Radio.  She also notes the problem of babies who would otherwise have died surviving with severe side effects and the implications that this has for the abortion debate: "Up to now, we've been either born or not born. This would be halfway born, or something like that." Scott Gelfand of Oklahoma State University worries that women who would otherwise seek abortion could be pressured into putting their fetuses in Biobags instead or that employers would punish mothers who took maternity leave instead of using an artificial uterus."I want to make this very clear: We have no intention and we've never had any intention with this technology of extending the limits of viability further back," Dr. Flake said in response to these issues. "I think when you do that you open a whole new can of worms." He went on to call gestating fetuses younger than 23 weeks "a pipe dream at this point."2008 Republican presidential hopefuls are spending a lot of time in South Carolina  in the run-up to the 2006 off-year elections. All the interest in the Palmetto State is widely viewed in the light of its place of significance in the GOP's primary calendar. Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) leads in most early polls.  And he also leads in the pack in handing out campaign contributions to down-ticket Republican hopefuls.  Since the beginning of the year, Sen. McCain's Straight Talk America PAC has contributed $172,750 to South Carolina Republican candidates, according to campaign finance reports.  In contrast, Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney has contributed roughly $73,000 during the same period. McCain has also picked up some influential support recently.  Former State Attorney General Charlie Condon, veteran consultant Bob McAlister and current Attorney General Henry McMaster have all assumed leadership roles in McCain's Straight Talk America PAC.  McCain was in South Carolina this week to raise money for Republican Adjutant General Stan Spears, who is running for reelection. Former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani also visited South Carolina this week. Mayor Giuliani headlined a fundraising dinner for the state Republican Party. While Giuliani focused his speech on the War on Terror, some were more interested in the New Yorker's position on social issues. Conservative reporter Byron York, who attended the event, quotes Palmetto Family Council President Oran Smith saying, "Gay rights, abortion, guns [Giuliani is pro-gun control] ... any one of them would be a disqualifier, but the three of them together are absolutely insurmountable." Representatives from McCain, Romney, and Giuliani's camp all say their man is still deciding whether or not he will run for president in 2008.Republican Governor Mike Rounds of South Dakota signed South Dakota House of Representatives Bill 1215 into law today, banning all abortions in the state except to save the life of the mother (with no exceptions for rape and incest) to take effect in July.A stampede in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi has killed at least five people and left at least 79 more wounded, reports say.The incident occurred at a church rally, led by Christian leaders voicing their opposition to a new constitution to be voted on in a referendum later this summer, primarily because it is to include a clause for abortion.A petrol bomb apparently was thrown into the crowd as the rally was drawing to a close at dusk, prompting panic as people tried to flee. Some witness reports suggest there were two individual blasts. According to police, the explosions were not large and didn't leave any damage.Kenyan prime minister Raila Odinga was present at the scene of the disaster. He commented on the incident, saying: "It is a very, very regrettable incident, and this incident is condemned in the strongest terms possible. We don't know as yet the cause of this incident."It was not immediately clear who was responsible for detonating the bomb. Spokesman for Kenyan police Eric Kiraithe said that "[i]t is very, very much too early to say who is responsible. Our investigations have begun, and in due course the culprits will be found."Susan G. Komen for the Cure has announced it will continue to fund breast cancer screening and educational programming on breast health run by fellow US-charity Planned Parenthood and its affiliates. This news comes shortly after Komen announced it would cut funding to Planned Parenthood due to an ongoing investigation.Komen has changed its internal criteria for grant funding. Previously, it would not support any organization under investigation of any kind; now it says it will only cut support if the investigation involved is "criminal and conclusive". The old criteria disqualified Planned Parenthood because it was under investigation by United States House Energy Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations Chairman Representative Cliff Stearns.In a statement on Komen's website, the Board of Directors and founder Nancy G. Brinker wrote, "We want to apologize to the American public for recent decisions that cast doubt upon our commitment to our mission of saving women’s lives. The events of this week have been deeply unsettling for our supporters, partners and friends and all of us at Susan G. Komen.  We have been distressed at the presumption that the changes made to our funding criteria were done for political reasons or to specifically penalize Planned Parenthood.  They were not."Planned Parenthood said in response to the restoration of Komen's funding, it was "enormously grateful".Since the cuts were announced, Planned Parenthood gained $3 million (€2.3m, £1.9m) in donations and 10,000 new Facebook likes. New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg personally pledged $250,000 (€190k, £158k). 26 US Senators signed a public letter to the charity; in it they said, "It would be tragic if any woman — let alone thousands of women — lost access to these potentially lifesaving screenings because of a politically motivated attack."Susan G. Komen for the Cure has stopped funding breast cancer screening and educational programming on breast health run by fellow US-charity Planned Parenthood and its affiliates. The Komen institute cites an ongoing investigation, while Planned Parenthood blame political pressures.Planned Parenthood received nearly $700,000 from the Komen Foundation last year alone. In the last five years, the funding from the foundation has granted 170,000 women breast exams.   Leslie Aun, a spokesperson for the Komen Foundation, said the organization adopted a new rule that does not allow grants or funding to be awarded to organizations that are under legal investigation. Komen's policy disqualified Planned Parenthood due to a pending investigation on how Planned Parenthood spends and reports its money that is being conducted by Representative Cliff Stearns. Stearns is investigating whether taxes are used to fund abortions through Planned Parenthood in his role as chairman of the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, which is under the umbrella of the House Energy and Commerce Committee."While it is regrettable when changes in priorities and policies affect any of our grantees, such as a longstanding partner like Planned Parenthood, we must continue to evolve to best meet the needs of the women we serve and most fully advance our mission," Aun said.Cecile Richards, president of Planned Parenthood, said, "While this is deeply disturbing and disappointing, we want to assure women who rely on Planned Parenthood for breast care that we're still here for them, and we always will be.  The new fund we're launching to support these services will ensure that the Komen Foundation's decision doesn't jeopardize women's health."On Wednesday the U.S. Senate released its version of the U.S. healthcare overhaul that has recently been advocated by President Barack Obama.The U.S. Senate Finance Committee released an 18-page summary of the 223-page bill that will, according to Senate Finance Committee Chairman Senator Baucus, cost US$856 billion over 10 years.  The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the bill will cost US$774 billion over 10 years and will cover 94% of Americans.  The Senate version was orchestrated by Senator Baucus, a Democrat from Montana.  The bill was released without any Republican support from the committee.  However, today, the bill received support from a bi-partisan group of Senators including the Republican Senator from Maine, Olympia Snowe and Independent Joe Liberman.  If the bill's passage is determined along party lines, Democrats will need at least one Republican Senator to avoid a possible filibuster in the Senate.The proposal mandates nation-wide individual insurance by 2013 and omits a government-run insurance clause as is included in the U.S. House version; instead, the plan calls for non-profit healthcare cooperatives.  The healthcare cooperatives would be provided with US$6 billion in initial funding to cover start-up fees and costs. Individuals refusing to obtain coverage can be charged up to US$950 annually with families fined up to US$3,800 per year.  Small businesses will not be mandated to provide healthcare to their employees but those who do will receive tax credits. Also, insurances companies that have more expensive individual plans will be taxed for 35% of the amount that that the plan exceeds the federal individual threshold of US$8,000 or the family threshold of US$21,000. The bill includes clauses for protection against coverage suspensions due to illnesses and protections for individuals with pre-existing conditions. It will not pre-empt state laws on abortion and does not provide for abortion payments except in cases of rape or incest. The plan also mandates registration with the Social Security Administration as a means to avoid illegal alien use of the program.The bill will reportedly be paid for by US$850 billion in spending reduction, taxes and fees to include reduction in Medicare benefits.  The Senate Finance Committee is the last approval authority before the Senate or House bills can be considered for floor debate.UK Members of Parliament voted against a bill that would result in the limit for abortions being brought down by four weeks, to 20 weeks. The MP who originally proposed the bill, Nadine Dorrie from the Conservative Party, commented on the result. "There comes a point when it has to be said this baby has a right to life." The vote to lower the limit to twenty weeks was defeated by 332 votes to 190.There was also a vote on decreasing the limit to 22 weeks, with it being defeated by 304 votes supporting to 233 opposing.The proposer of the twenty week limit, a former nurse explained to MPs her reason for supporting the lowering of the limit:   Recently, a vote for decreasing the limit to 12 weeks also failed to pass through the House of Commons.The United States House of Representatives has passed the controversial health care bill, as amended by the Senate. The bill passed 219 to 212."This bill is complicated, but it's also very simple: Illness and infirmity are universal, and we are stronger against them together than we are alone," Democratic House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer said before the vote.34 Democrats and all of the House Republicans voted against the bill."This trillion-dollar overhaul will take the America we know and love in the wrong direction," said Representative Eric Cantor, the second most prominent House Republican."We have failed to listen to America and we have failed to reflect the will of our constituents," House Minority Leader John Boehner said. "And when we fail to reflect that will, we fail ourselves and we fail our country."President Barack Obama will sign an Executive Order reaffirming the ban on federally funded abortions as part of an eleventh hour deal to get the bill passed.The United States House of Representatives has passed The Affordable Health Care for America Act or HR 3962, a bill which would ensure that 95–96% of US citizens receive affordable health care.HR 3962 was passed with 220 yeas and 215 nays. Democrats in the house needed at least 218 votes to pass the bill.  39 Democrats voted against the bill, which contained the Stupak amendment.  This amendment curtailed women's abortion rights.  One Republican, Representative Joseph Cao of Louisiana, voted for the bill.The US Senate has drafted their own health care bill, S. 1679. It is not yet known when the Senate will vote on their version of the bill, but in the end both versions must be merged into one with both the House and Senate voting again.The health care program associated with HR 3962 is estimated to cost over US$1 trillion over ten years, according to the Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi, who states that it will result in "[...] not one dime added to the deficit."US President Barack Obama says that he is "confident" that the Senate will be able to come to an agreement and pass a completed bill. Obama added that he hopes to sign a "comprehensive health insurance reform into law by the end of the year."A book by US Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA), entitled "It Takes a Family: Conservatism and the Common Good", hit stores in Washington over the weekend.  Its official publication date is July 25th. Intended as a response to Hillary Clinton's book "It Takes a Village", certain passages of the book have already caused concern in certain circles. Also in the book, Santorum compares abortion to slavery, and advocates against public school systems and two income families.Already facing perhaps the toughest re-election bid in the country, opponents and supporters of Santorum are using the book to tout their positions. T.J. Rooney, the state Democratic Party chairman, had this to say:"References to how families are compromised when both parents work outside the home, how it takes a societal toll on Pennsylvania families or American families, it just shows a complete lack of understanding of the real world in which the vast majority of Pennsylvanians reside."Although he's a Democrat himself, journalist Jules Siegel disagrees with Rooney, "From what I read in the July 10 AP story about Sen. Santorum's encounter with Hillary Clinton, I believe that he and I share common views on some aspects of child-rearing. Democrats can't handle  motherhood issues because NOW-style feminists will not allow an honest discussion of what to do about the economic consequences of motherhood. Daycare is not the answer. I'm eager to see what Santorum says about right to life after birth."Hillary Clinton's office refused to comment on the book.The Supreme Court of the United States on Wednesday April 18 has upheld the federal Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003.  The 5-4 vote reflected the change in vote count resulting from the retirement of Justice O'Connor and the confirmation of Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Alito.The Intact dilation and extraction procedure, also known as partial birth abortion, involves removing an intact late-term fetus from the womb via the cervix. While it is a relatively rare operation - 0.17% of all abortions in the US in 2000, it has become a focal point in the abortion debate.The Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act bans the procedure in cases where the fetus is terminated during the operation, unless it is performed to to save the life of the mother.Justice Kennedy wrote in the opinion of the court: "respondents have not demonstrated that the Act would be unconstitutional in a large fraction of relevant cases." Further, he said, "Respondents have not demonstrated that the Act, as a facial matter, is void for vagueness, or that it imposes an undue burden on a woman’s right to abortion based on its overbreadth or lack of a health exception. For these reasons the judgments of the Courts of Appeals for the Eighth and Ninth Circuits are reversed."In a concurring opinion, Justice Thomas stated that he joins "the Court’s opinion because it accurately applies current jurisprudence, including Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pa. v. Casey, 505 U. S. 833 (1992)."In dissent Judge Ginsburg wrote: "Today’s decision is alarming. It refuses to take Casey and Stenberg seriously. It tolerates, indeed applauds, federal intervention to ban nationwide a procedure found necessary and proper in certain cases by the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists."Justice Kennedy's words also recall the complicated issues of standing related to such cases. An issue in Roe v. Wade was the impossibility of any individual having standing in a court proceeding regarding abortion rights, since court proceedings take more than the 9 months of pregnancy, retiring any individual plaintiff's standing before an appeals process can take place. The criterion of "a large fraction of relevant cases" may effectively deny standing to any plaintiffs who wish to litigate particular restrictions in some relevant future cases.So far, the news on the U.S. presidential election has been dominated by Republican Party and Democratic Party nominees John McCain and Barack Obama. However, recently, some "third party" candidates have begun to gain notoriety, namely Libertarian Party nominee Bob Barr and independent Ralph Nader. Unbeknownst to many, there are several other minor party candidates in the race. One of them is New American Independent Party nominee Frank McEnulty. McEnulty has been interviewed several times by Wikinews over the past few months, but in one held earlier this week with reporter Joseph Ford, he went into detail on why he'd be a good president, why its necessary to support a third party candidate this year, and most importantly, why you should give him your vote.The interview can be read below.Journalist, counselor, painter, and US 2012 Presidential candidate Joe Schriner of Cleveland, Ohio took some time to discuss his campaign with Wikinews in an interview.Schriner previously ran for president in 2000, 2004, and 2008, but failed to gain much traction in the races.  He announced his candidacy for the 2012 race immediately following the 2008 election. Schriner refers to himself as the "Average Joe" candidate, and advocates a pro-life and pro-environmentalist platform. He has been the subject of numerous newspaper articles, and has published public policy papers exploring solutions to American issues.Wikinews reporter William Saturn‎ talks with Schriner and discusses his campaign.Television producer and owner of the anti-Scientology website www.xenutv.com (XenuTV), Mark Bunker, also known as Wise Beard Man, chatted online with Wikinews for nearly three hours. More than 120 people followed the interview live (many from Project Chanology), which makes this exclusive Wikinews interview our most attended IRC interview to date.Bunker started XenuTV in 1999 and began to make videos that he provided for the Lisa McPherson Trust. Bunker has been a critic of the Church of Scientology since 1997.In 2006, he won a  Regional Emmy Award after he and KUSI-TV news reporter Lena Lewis produced a documentary news video on the issues with the United States - Mexico border with San Diego, California.Wikinews held an exclusive interview with Max Riekse, one of the candidates for the Constitution Party nomination for the 2008 United States presidential election.Riekse is a retired decorated United States Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army who served in both the Vietnam War and the Iraq War. He is also a former public school teacher and Assistant Professor of Military Science at Western Michigan University. He has a B.A. in Political Science and International Relations from the University of South Florida as well as two M.A.s, one in Political Science and International Relations, the other in Eductaion and History. Both are from Western Michigan University. We asked him if he thinks he has a good shot at winning the Constitution Party nomination and ultimately the presidency. He replied, "I will give it my best shot because I think I can do better then all previous Constitution Party presidential candidates....As to being in the White House in 2009, realistically, its a long shot; but so was Abe Lincoln in the new Republican Party."When asked about America's public school system he said, "Local school boards and the people they are responsible to are the best judge of what is needed; this with state oversight, will help boost public school quality & education."Riekse is running for president because he has been "very tired of our Republican and Democratic choices for president for many years. With a population of some 300 million people to draw from, I would think we could do much, much better then we have been doing in regards to having a choice for president."Wikinews held an exclusive interview with Wayne Allyn Root, one of the candidates for the Libertarian Party nomination for the 2008 U.S. presidential election.Root is the founder and chairman of Winning Edge International Inc., a sports handicapping company based in Las Vegas, Nevada. In addition, he is an author and a television producer, as well as an on-screen personality both as host and guest on several talk shows.Root, a long-time Republican, declared his candidacy for the Libertarian Party on May 4, 2007.He says he is concerned about the qualities of many who run for president, and fears that they do not know the needs of American citizens. He also says that they cater to big businesses instead of small ones.He has goals of limiting the federal government and believes that the US went into Iraq for wrong reasons. A strong supporter of the War on Terror, he feels that it was mishandled. He has conservative values and came from a blue collar family in New York. He graduated from Columbia University with fellow presidential hopeful Barack Obama in 1983.Root believes that America is in trouble and hopes to change that if elected.Scientology is facing renewed criticism, due to an extensive exposé in the Florida newspaper the St. Petersburg Times which contains revealing accounts of women involved in the organization who say they were forced to have abortions. Multiple different female members of the Scientology group called the Sea Org said they were pressured to have abortions, and were threatened with separation from their families, hard labor, interrogations, and shunning, if they did not comply. Women that came forward to the St. Petersburg Times said that those who did not wish to undergo an abortion were shunned by others within the Sea Org group, and were labeled as "out ethics" and "degraded beings". The Sea Org consists of 6,000 members of Scientology, who sign billion-year contracts to work for the organization for multiple lifetimes. Joining the Sea Org is considered a high calling within Scientology.L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, stated his appreciation for families within the Sea Org. Scientology's subsequent leader, David Miscavige, issued an order that children were to be banned in the Sea Org. The mandate by Miscavige asserted that children hampered the productivity of the Scientology order.Scientology representative, Tommy Davis denied all of the assertions made by the women. "There is no church policy to convince anyone to have an abortion, and the church has never engaged in such activity. The decision to have a child or terminate a pregnancy is a personal decision made by a couple. That applies to all Scientologists. If any current or former Sea Org member ever 'pressured' someone to have an abortion, they did so independently, and that action was not approved, endorsed or advocated by the church," stated Davis to the St. Petersburg Times. Another woman is suing the Scientology organization in United States federal court, and stated she was threatened with severe repercussions if she did not have an abortion. Claire Headley, 35, a member of the Sea Org when she was in Scientology, told the St. Petersburg Times, "The policy was if a staff member became pregnant, that they were to have an abortion." In 1991, Headley became a member of the Sea Org at age sixteen, and began work with the division of the organization in Los Angeles, California. She married at age seventeen, while a member of the organization. Headley said that officials within Scientology leadership pressured her to have two abortions: one at age nineteen, and another at age 21. Headley believed she had "no choice", as she had witnessed other women that refused to have abortions instructed to perform manual labor, with one pregnant woman ordered to dig ditches. Headley said that during pressure to have her second abortion she was forbidden to phone her husband to discuss the decision. She spent a total of thirteen years in the Sea Org.Laura Dieckman, 31, said that she was enthusiastic about beginning a family when she became pregnant within Scientology at age seventeen, but was instructed to have an abortion. In a federal lawsuit against Scientology, Dieckman stated she joined with the Sea Org at the age of twelve, and at age sixteen she married another member of the group, Jesse DeCrescenzo. She said she was pressured to have an abortion in 1996. Dieckman said to the St. Petersburg Times: "I was pounded for two days by the top person in my organization ... about how the baby wasn't a baby yet, it was just tissue and it wouldn't matter if I aborted the baby." Dieckman left Scientology in 2004. In a video posted to the website of the St. Petersburg Times, Dieckman emotionally recounted how she had immediately regretted going through with the procedure, "They will do an ultrasound before the procedure so you see the heartbeat. ... I'm lying there ... and I was like, 'No.' But it's too late. I'd already done it."Natalie Hagemo said that 20 years ago at age nineteen, she was pressured by Scientology officials to have an abortion, but she resisted. Hagemo gave birth to Shelby on August 20, 1990. Hagemo's daughter was recruited into the Sea Org at age 14. Shelby contacted her mother a week later wanting to leave the Sea Org; Hagemo had a difficult time getting Shelby out of the group. It was not until this year that Hagemo told her daughter about experiencing pressure from Scientology officials to have an abortion.The St. Petersburg Times received sworn depositions from additional women including Sunny Pereira, who said they were intimidated into having abortions they did not wish to undergo. "They put you in this position where you're weighing the lives of all these people you're supposed to be saving against this one little tiny speck of nuisance that's growing inside of you," said Pereira. Spokesman Tommy Davis stated the women were accusing Scientology of forced abortions because of choices they now "appear to regret".In Nevada, Republican party candidate for the United States Senate, Sharron Angle, was the focus of criticism for her support of a Scientology-associated program. Angle's opponent, incumbent Senator and Senate Majority Leader Democrat Harry Reid, took out a 30-second negative political ad critical of Angle for supporting "a Scientology plan to give massages to prisoners". The prison program Angle had supported was based on techniques developed by Scientology founder, L. Ron Hubbard. Angle had previously been the subject of a similar ad in the Republican primary, generated by the campaign of her opponent Sue Lowden. Sharron Angle is pro-life, and The New York Times columnist Ramesh Ponnuru noted her position against abortion helped her win the Republican primary. "Angle would not have been able to unite populist conservatives and beat the party establishment’s candidate had she been pro-choice," noted Ponnuru.Wikinews held an exclusive interview with former high-ranking Scientology executive Mark Rathbun on his new book The Scientology Reformation: What Every Scientologist Should Know. Rathbun examined the close association between actor Tom Cruise and Scientology leader David Miscavige. Before leaving the organization led by Miscavige, Rathbun served as Inspector General of the Religious Technology Center within Scientology. He currently practices the teachings of Scientology and its founder L. Ron Hubbard independently of the organization managed by David Miscavige.An investigation into Scientology and Tom Cruise which was set to air this past Friday on the American television program 20/20 was removed from broadcast by ABC News. This is not the first time that ABC News has pulled an investigation into Scientology from airing on 20/20. A press release published by ABC on Thursday announced the scheduled airing of the investigation. It described the program as "an in-depth look" by Elizabeth Vargas into the recent report on Tom Cruise and Scientology by journalist Maureen Orth for Vanity Fair in its October 2012 publication.An analysis of the situation by Editor-in-Chief Tony Ortega of The Village Voice pointed out that in 2008, actor and former Scientologist Jason Beghe was interviewed by Elizabeth Vargas after he had flown to New York. Beghe recounted to Vargas his experiences within Scientology and his decision to cease activity in the organization. However, this interview by Vargas was never shown on ABC. Ortega noted, "Then, Friday night, ABC caved again, and this time much more publicly." He highlighted a television screenshot which displays clearly the description given by ABC for the 20/20 program scheduled for Friday: "20/20. New. 'Lovestyles of the Rich and Famous; The Camera Never Lies' Journalist Maureen Orth discusses her recent article in Vanity Fair on Scientology and actor Tom Cruise; celebrity".According to Ortega, this was to be a significant investigation into Scientology. It was going to cover topics including the recent divorce of actress Katie Holmes from Tom Cruise, the role of minors within the Scientology organization, material on Scientology's chief David Miscavige, and controversy regarding the elite Scientology group known as the Sea Org. Ortega was himself interviewed as part of the investigation, which he was told would comprise an hour-long broadcast. In addition to Ortega, former Scientologists Marc Headley and his wife Claire were interviewed by ABC News for the 20/20 piece which they were informed would be complemented by a news segment on Nightline. Claire told the camera of her two mandatory abortions she experienced while a member of the Sea Org in Scientology; Ortega reported that this interview moved the ABC television crew to tears.Marc Headley confirmed that he had learned of the ABC News decision. In a post Friday to a legal fund webpage he set up to support his family with litigation costs from Scientology, he commented: "We just got word that both ABC 20/20 & Nightline have pulled the TV shows that were going to air tonight. It appears that someone at OSA is trying to sandbag the downstats over the next few weeks." OSA is an abbreviation for the Office of Special Affairs — a department within Scientology which has been compared to an intelligence agency that handles legal affairs and public relations. Downstat refers to a negative impact on statistics gathered by Scientology members of the Sea Org due to critical investigations of the organization by the media.France's appeal court, the Court of Cassation, has upheld the findings of the lower courts in a 2009 fraud conviction of the Church of Scientology.According to the ruling, the church has to pay €400,000, the church's bookshop has to pay €200,000, and the head of the Church of Scientology in France, Alain Rosenberg, has to pay €40,000 and has a two-year suspended sentence. Four other members of the Church have been given fines and suspended sentences.The conviction for fraud was based on claims by a former member of the group that she had been put under pressure to buy books, courses and "purification remedies". She paid the group €21,000 after having taken out loans. Another claimant in the initial case had lost her job working for a Scientologist after refusing to participate in Scientology classes.Approximately 50 Scientologists protested outside the courts in France with banners reading "non a la discrimination religieuse" ("no to religious discrimination") and "respectez notre liberte religieuse" ("respect our religious freedom"). France, along with Belgium and Germany, does not grant the Church of Scientology—which was founded in 1954 by L. Ron Hubbard, a science fiction author—legal recognition as a religion unlike the United States.Karin Pouw, a representative of Scientology, said the decision was a "miscarriage of justice" and said that the Church plans to appeal, possibly to the European Court of Human Rights.Valeska Paris, an Australian woman and former Scientologist, has claimed that the Church of Scientology imprisoned her for twelve years aboard the Scientology-owned cruise ship, Freewinds. Paris claims she was first sent to the ship aged eighteen for two weeks as a teenager but ended up spending twelve years there. Paris also claims that her passport was taken away from her and she was forced to work in the engine room.Paris was born in Switzerland but her parents moved her to the United Kingdom when she was six so they could be closer to the church's headquarters. She joined the Sea Org aged 14. In 1995, at age seventeen, she was told to "disconnect" from her mother."I was basically hauled in and told that my mum had attacked the church and that I needed to disconnect from her because she was suppressive". Her mother had spoken out against Scientology on French television after her ex-husband and Paris' father, Albert Jaquier, committed suicide after he lost his fortune to Scientology. Paris claims that she was kept at Flag Land Base in Clearwater, Florida until she was eighteen and then transferred to the Freewinds.On board the Freewinds, Paris claims that she was working from 6:00am to midnight and due to lack of sleep ended up being a "walking zombie". She also claims that in 1997 and 1998, she was tasked with removal of asbestos from the ship.In 2007, Paris left the ship after a confrontation with the ship's management. She was eventually sent to Rehabilitation Project Force in Sydney, which the Church describes as a religious retreat, but critics charge is a forced work camp. Here, she met her future husband and subsequently left the church.In a statement to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, the Church denied these allegations: "She certainly wasn't 'forced' to be there. She was also never forced to perform labour in the engine room." They also claimed Paris was a "volunteer" and claim she has a "vested interest for misrepresenting her experiences with the Church." The Church also claims that Paris not having her passport was "maritime procedure".The new British coalition government has warned local authorities in the United Kingdom not to provide tax breaks to branches of the Church of Scientology. After an investigation by The Guardian newspaper revealed that several local authorities have granted Scientology tax breaks worth over a million pounds, Secretary of State for Communities and Local Government Eric Pickles intervened to urge councils to end the practice. Pickles noted in a statement that Scientology was not officially recognised in the UK as a religion or a registered charity and was not eligible for tax relief. Pickles commented, "I do not believe the majority of the public would want their own council to be giving special tax breaks to such a controversial organisation." The minister's intervention followed the disclosure by The Guardian that at least four local authorities have given Scientology lucrative tax discounts on branches in their areas. These included:The City of London Corporation, which gave an 80% tax exemption worth £1.3 million to the flagship Scientology centre in the City of London. The corporation justified the exemption on the basis that Scientology could be considered to be a charity either for the advancement of religion "or other purposes beneficial to the community". It said that it feared being sued by the organisation if it discontinued the exemption.Westminster City Council granted 80% rates relief to the Scientology Celebrity Centre in the Bayswater district of London. This saved Scientology £165,303 over the past ten years, though as of July 2010 the centre is no longer in use. The council determined that Scientology was a "non-registered charity" that is "beneficial to the community".Birmingham City Council awarded the Church of Scientology Religious Education College an 80% tax discount on the grounds that the property was an educational institution.The City of Sunderland gave the Church of Scientology's branch in the city tax relief worth £30,000 over five years.Camden London Borough Council refused to disclose whether and how much tax relief had been granted to the Scientology branch in the London Borough of Camden. Other local authorities, including Manchester City Council and Mid Sussex District Council, said that they charged Scientology the full commercial rate.In response to The Guardian report, Eric Pickles issued a statement saying that Scientology should not receive privileged tax status and did not deserve to do so, "Tolerance and freedom of expression are important British values, but this does not mean that the likes of Church of Scientology deserve favoured tax treatment over and above other business premises. The Church of Scientology is not a registered charity, since the Charity Commission has ruled that it does not provide a public benefit. Nor are its premises a recognised place of worship. Councils may award charitable relief. They should take into consideration the Charity Commission's rulings when weighing up whether to do so. I do not believe the majority of the public would want their own council to be giving special tax breaks to such a controversial organisation."The controversy was the latest in a series of disputes involving Scientology's tax status in the UK. Scientology is not officially recognised as a religion. The Charity Commission for England and Wales rejected an application in 1999 by Scientology for charitable status, ruling that its activities did not meet the "public benefit" test. However, in 2000 Scientology obtained exemption from Value Added Tax (VAT) on the grounds that its services were educational and non-profitable. It successfully sued HM Revenue and Customs for the return of £8 million in overpaid VAT.A spokesman for the Church of Scientology told The Guardian, "Scientology is very popular with those who have visited our churches, met with Scientologists and observed or utilised our numerous community activities that effectively address drug abuse, illiteracy, declining moral values, human rights violations, criminality and more. Local council authorities, government bodies in this country and many others, and the European court of human rights have all recognised the religious nature of Scientology or the fact that Scientologists are actively helping those in their communities as a direct reflection of their religious beliefs."Birmingham City Council told the local Sunday Mercury newspaper, "We have noted Mr Pickles' comments and will take them on board."== Latest articles ==Refresh this list to see the latest articles.17 October 2019: Hundreds arrested for 'dark web' child porn by international task force 1 September 2019: Hurricane Dorian strengthens to Category 5, makes landfall in the Bahamas 23 July 2019: Tropical Depression Three of 2019 approaches Florida before dissipating 17 July 2019: Retired US Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens dies 11 April 2019: New studies may bring slug-made glues closer to use in medicine 5 March 2019: SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule docks with International Space Station 5 January 2019: Florida highway pileup, fire kills five children, two truck drivers 21 April 2018: NASA launches exoplanet-hunting satellite TESS 28 March 2018: US: FBI's work with Orlando shooter's father is not grounds for mistrial in wife's case 7 February 2018: SpaceX Falcon Heavy rocket blasts Elon Musk's personal Tesla into solar orbit== All articles ==You can also browse through all articles for this country alphabetically.Scientology is facing renewed criticism, due to an extensive exposé in the Florida newspaper the St. Petersburg Times which contains revealing accounts of women involved in the organization who say they were forced to have abortions. Multiple different female members of the Scientology group called the Sea Org said they were pressured to have abortions, and were threatened with separation from their families, hard labor, interrogations, and shunning, if they did not comply. Women that came forward to the St. Petersburg Times said that those who did not wish to undergo an abortion were shunned by others within the Sea Org group, and were labeled as "out ethics" and "degraded beings". The Sea Org consists of 6,000 members of Scientology, who sign billion-year contracts to work for the organization for multiple lifetimes. Joining the Sea Org is considered a high calling within Scientology.L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, stated his appreciation for families within the Sea Org. Scientology's subsequent leader, David Miscavige, issued an order that children were to be banned in the Sea Org. The mandate by Miscavige asserted that children hampered the productivity of the Scientology order.Scientology representative, Tommy Davis denied all of the assertions made by the women. "There is no church policy to convince anyone to have an abortion, and the church has never engaged in such activity. The decision to have a child or terminate a pregnancy is a personal decision made by a couple. That applies to all Scientologists. If any current or former Sea Org member ever 'pressured' someone to have an abortion, they did so independently, and that action was not approved, endorsed or advocated by the church," stated Davis to the St. Petersburg Times. Another woman is suing the Scientology organization in United States federal court, and stated she was threatened with severe repercussions if she did not have an abortion. Claire Headley, 35, a member of the Sea Org when she was in Scientology, told the St. Petersburg Times, "The policy was if a staff member became pregnant, that they were to have an abortion." In 1991, Headley became a member of the Sea Org at age sixteen, and began work with the division of the organization in Los Angeles, California. She married at age seventeen, while a member of the organization. Headley said that officials within Scientology leadership pressured her to have two abortions: one at age nineteen, and another at age 21. Headley believed she had "no choice", as she had witnessed other women that refused to have abortions instructed to perform manual labor, with one pregnant woman ordered to dig ditches. Headley said that during pressure to have her second abortion she was forbidden to phone her husband to discuss the decision. She spent a total of thirteen years in the Sea Org.Laura Dieckman, 31, said that she was enthusiastic about beginning a family when she became pregnant within Scientology at age seventeen, but was instructed to have an abortion. In a federal lawsuit against Scientology, Dieckman stated she joined with the Sea Org at the age of twelve, and at age sixteen she married another member of the group, Jesse DeCrescenzo. She said she was pressured to have an abortion in 1996. Dieckman said to the St. Petersburg Times: "I was pounded for two days by the top person in my organization ... about how the baby wasn't a baby yet, it was just tissue and it wouldn't matter if I aborted the baby." Dieckman left Scientology in 2004. In a video posted to the website of the St. Petersburg Times, Dieckman emotionally recounted how she had immediately regretted going through with the procedure, "They will do an ultrasound before the procedure so you see the heartbeat. ... I'm lying there ... and I was like, 'No.' But it's too late. I'd already done it."Natalie Hagemo said that 20 years ago at age nineteen, she was pressured by Scientology officials to have an abortion, but she resisted. Hagemo gave birth to Shelby on August 20, 1990. Hagemo's daughter was recruited into the Sea Org at age 14. Shelby contacted her mother a week later wanting to leave the Sea Org; Hagemo had a difficult time getting Shelby out of the group. It was not until this year that Hagemo told her daughter about experiencing pressure from Scientology officials to have an abortion.The St. Petersburg Times received sworn depositions from additional women including Sunny Pereira, who said they were intimidated into having abortions they did not wish to undergo. "They put you in this position where you're weighing the lives of all these people you're supposed to be saving against this one little tiny speck of nuisance that's growing inside of you," said Pereira. Spokesman Tommy Davis stated the women were accusing Scientology of forced abortions because of choices they now "appear to regret".In Nevada, Republican party candidate for the United States Senate, Sharron Angle, was the focus of criticism for her support of a Scientology-associated program. Angle's opponent, incumbent Senator and Senate Majority Leader Democrat Harry Reid, took out a 30-second negative political ad critical of Angle for supporting "a Scientology plan to give massages to prisoners". The prison program Angle had supported was based on techniques developed by Scientology founder, L. Ron Hubbard. Angle had previously been the subject of a similar ad in the Republican primary, generated by the campaign of her opponent Sue Lowden. Sharron Angle is pro-life, and The New York Times columnist Ramesh Ponnuru noted her position against abortion helped her win the Republican primary. "Angle would not have been able to unite populist conservatives and beat the party establishment’s candidate had she been pro-choice," noted Ponnuru.Scientology is facing renewed criticism, due to an extensive exposé in the Florida newspaper the St. Petersburg Times which contains revealing accounts of women involved in the organization who say they were forced to have abortions. Multiple different female members of the Scientology group called the Sea Org said they were pressured to have abortions, and were threatened with separation from their families, hard labor, interrogations, and shunning, if they did not comply. Women that came forward to the St. Petersburg Times said that those who did not wish to undergo an abortion were shunned by others within the Sea Org group, and were labeled as "out ethics" and "degraded beings". The Sea Org consists of 6,000 members of Scientology, who sign billion-year contracts to work for the organization for multiple lifetimes. Joining the Sea Org is considered a high calling within Scientology.L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, stated his appreciation for families within the Sea Org. Scientology's subsequent leader, David Miscavige, issued an order that children were to be banned in the Sea Org. The mandate by Miscavige asserted that children hampered the productivity of the Scientology order.Scientology representative, Tommy Davis denied all of the assertions made by the women. "There is no church policy to convince anyone to have an abortion, and the church has never engaged in such activity. The decision to have a child or terminate a pregnancy is a personal decision made by a couple. That applies to all Scientologists. If any current or former Sea Org member ever 'pressured' someone to have an abortion, they did so independently, and that action was not approved, endorsed or advocated by the church," stated Davis to the St. Petersburg Times. Another woman is suing the Scientology organization in United States federal court, and stated she was threatened with severe repercussions if she did not have an abortion. Claire Headley, 35, a member of the Sea Org when she was in Scientology, told the St. Petersburg Times, "The policy was if a staff member became pregnant, that they were to have an abortion." In 1991, Headley became a member of the Sea Org at age sixteen, and began work with the division of the organization in Los Angeles, California. She married at age seventeen, while a member of the organization. Headley said that officials within Scientology leadership pressured her to have two abortions: one at age nineteen, and another at age 21. Headley believed she had "no choice", as she had witnessed other women that refused to have abortions instructed to perform manual labor, with one pregnant woman ordered to dig ditches. Headley said that during pressure to have her second abortion she was forbidden to phone her husband to discuss the decision. She spent a total of thirteen years in the Sea Org.Laura Dieckman, 31, said that she was enthusiastic about beginning a family when she became pregnant within Scientology at age seventeen, but was instructed to have an abortion. In a federal lawsuit against Scientology, Dieckman stated she joined with the Sea Org at the age of twelve, and at age sixteen she married another member of the group, Jesse DeCrescenzo. She said she was pressured to have an abortion in 1996. Dieckman said to the St. Petersburg Times: "I was pounded for two days by the top person in my organization ... about how the baby wasn't a baby yet, it was just tissue and it wouldn't matter if I aborted the baby." Dieckman left Scientology in 2004. In a video posted to the website of the St. Petersburg Times, Dieckman emotionally recounted how she had immediately regretted going through with the procedure, "They will do an ultrasound before the procedure so you see the heartbeat. ... I'm lying there ... and I was like, 'No.' But it's too late. I'd already done it."Natalie Hagemo said that 20 years ago at age nineteen, she was pressured by Scientology officials to have an abortion, but she resisted. Hagemo gave birth to Shelby on August 20, 1990. Hagemo's daughter was recruited into the Sea Org at age 14. Shelby contacted her mother a week later wanting to leave the Sea Org; Hagemo had a difficult time getting Shelby out of the group. It was not until this year that Hagemo told her daughter about experiencing pressure from Scientology officials to have an abortion.The St. Petersburg Times received sworn depositions from additional women including Sunny Pereira, who said they were intimidated into having abortions they did not wish to undergo. "They put you in this position where you're weighing the lives of all these people you're supposed to be saving against this one little tiny speck of nuisance that's growing inside of you," said Pereira. Spokesman Tommy Davis stated the women were accusing Scientology of forced abortions because of choices they now "appear to regret".In Nevada, Republican party candidate for the United States Senate, Sharron Angle, was the focus of criticism for her support of a Scientology-associated program. Angle's opponent, incumbent Senator and Senate Majority Leader Democrat Harry Reid, took out a 30-second negative political ad critical of Angle for supporting "a Scientology plan to give massages to prisoners". The prison program Angle had supported was based on techniques developed by Scientology founder, L. Ron Hubbard. Angle had previously been the subject of a similar ad in the Republican primary, generated by the campaign of her opponent Sue Lowden. Sharron Angle is pro-life, and The New York Times columnist Ramesh Ponnuru noted her position against abortion helped her win the Republican primary. "Angle would not have been able to unite populist conservatives and beat the party establishment’s candidate had she been pro-choice," noted Ponnuru.Scientology is facing renewed criticism, due to an extensive exposé in the Florida newspaper the St. Petersburg Times which contains revealing accounts of women involved in the organization who say they were forced to have abortions. Multiple different female members of the Scientology group called the Sea Org said they were pressured to have abortions, and were threatened with separation from their families, hard labor, interrogations, and shunning, if they did not comply. Women that came forward to the St. Petersburg Times said that those who did not wish to undergo an abortion were shunned by others within the Sea Org group, and were labeled as "out ethics" and "degraded beings". The Sea Org consists of 6,000 members of Scientology, who sign billion-year contracts to work for the organization for multiple lifetimes. Joining the Sea Org is considered a high calling within Scientology.L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, stated his appreciation for families within the Sea Org. Scientology's subsequent leader, David Miscavige, issued an order that children were to be banned in the Sea Org. The mandate by Miscavige asserted that children hampered the productivity of the Scientology order.Scientology representative, Tommy Davis denied all of the assertions made by the women. "There is no church policy to convince anyone to have an abortion, and the church has never engaged in such activity. The decision to have a child or terminate a pregnancy is a personal decision made by a couple. That applies to all Scientologists. If any current or former Sea Org member ever 'pressured' someone to have an abortion, they did so independently, and that action was not approved, endorsed or advocated by the church," stated Davis to the St. Petersburg Times. Another woman is suing the Scientology organization in United States federal court, and stated she was threatened with severe repercussions if she did not have an abortion. Claire Headley, 35, a member of the Sea Org when she was in Scientology, told the St. Petersburg Times, "The policy was if a staff member became pregnant, that they were to have an abortion." In 1991, Headley became a member of the Sea Org at age sixteen, and began work with the division of the organization in Los Angeles, California. She married at age seventeen, while a member of the organization. Headley said that officials within Scientology leadership pressured her to have two abortions: one at age nineteen, and another at age 21. Headley believed she had "no choice", as she had witnessed other women that refused to have abortions instructed to perform manual labor, with one pregnant woman ordered to dig ditches. Headley said that during pressure to have her second abortion she was forbidden to phone her husband to discuss the decision. She spent a total of thirteen years in the Sea Org.Laura Dieckman, 31, said that she was enthusiastic about beginning a family when she became pregnant within Scientology at age seventeen, but was instructed to have an abortion. In a federal lawsuit against Scientology, Dieckman stated she joined with the Sea Org at the age of twelve, and at age sixteen she married another member of the group, Jesse DeCrescenzo. She said she was pressured to have an abortion in 1996. Dieckman said to the St. Petersburg Times: "I was pounded for two days by the top person in my organization ... about how the baby wasn't a baby yet, it was just tissue and it wouldn't matter if I aborted the baby." Dieckman left Scientology in 2004. In a video posted to the website of the St. Petersburg Times, Dieckman emotionally recounted how she had immediately regretted going through with the procedure, "They will do an ultrasound before the procedure so you see the heartbeat. ... I'm lying there ... and I was like, 'No.' But it's too late. I'd already done it."Natalie Hagemo said that 20 years ago at age nineteen, she was pressured by Scientology officials to have an abortion, but she resisted. Hagemo gave birth to Shelby on August 20, 1990. Hagemo's daughter was recruited into the Sea Org at age 14. Shelby contacted her mother a week later wanting to leave the Sea Org; Hagemo had a difficult time getting Shelby out of the group. It was not until this year that Hagemo told her daughter about experiencing pressure from Scientology officials to have an abortion.The St. Petersburg Times received sworn depositions from additional women including Sunny Pereira, who said they were intimidated into having abortions they did not wish to undergo. "They put you in this position where you're weighing the lives of all these people you're supposed to be saving against this one little tiny speck of nuisance that's growing inside of you," said Pereira. Spokesman Tommy Davis stated the women were accusing Scientology of forced abortions because of choices they now "appear to regret".In Nevada, Republican party candidate for the United States Senate, Sharron Angle, was the focus of criticism for her support of a Scientology-associated program. Angle's opponent, incumbent Senator and Senate Majority Leader Democrat Harry Reid, took out a 30-second negative political ad critical of Angle for supporting "a Scientology plan to give massages to prisoners". The prison program Angle had supported was based on techniques developed by Scientology founder, L. Ron Hubbard. Angle had previously been the subject of a similar ad in the Republican primary, generated by the campaign of her opponent Sue Lowden. Sharron Angle is pro-life, and The New York Times columnist Ramesh Ponnuru noted her position against abortion helped her win the Republican primary. "Angle would not have been able to unite populist conservatives and beat the party establishment’s candidate had she been pro-choice," noted Ponnuru.Scientology is facing renewed criticism, due to an extensive exposé in the Florida newspaper the St. Petersburg Times which contains revealing accounts of women involved in the organization who say they were forced to have abortions. Multiple different female members of the Scientology group called the Sea Org said they were pressured to have abortions, and were threatened with separation from their families, hard labor, interrogations, and shunning, if they did not comply. Women that came forward to the St. Petersburg Times said that those who did not wish to undergo an abortion were shunned by others within the Sea Org group, and were labeled as "out ethics" and "degraded beings". The Sea Org consists of 6,000 members of Scientology, who sign billion-year contracts to work for the organization for multiple lifetimes. Joining the Sea Org is considered a high calling within Scientology.L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of Scientology, stated his appreciation for families within the Sea Org. Scientology's subsequent leader, David Miscavige, issued an order that children were to be banned in the Sea Org. The mandate by Miscavige asserted that children hampered the productivity of the Scientology order.Scientology representative, Tommy Davis denied all of the assertions made by the women. "There is no church policy to convince anyone to have an abortion, and the church has never engaged in such activity. The decision to have a child or terminate a pregnancy is a personal decision made by a couple. That applies to all Scientologists. If any current or former Sea Org member ever 'pressured' someone to have an abortion, they did so independently, and that action was not approved, endorsed or advocated by the church," stated Davis to the St. Petersburg Times. Another woman is suing the Scientology organization in United States federal court, and stated she was threatened with severe repercussions if she did not have an abortion. Claire Headley, 35, a member of the Sea Org when she was in Scientology, told the St. Petersburg Times, "The policy was if a staff member became pregnant, that they were to have an abortion." In 1991, Headley became a member of the Sea Org at age sixteen, and began work with the division of the organization in Los Angeles, California. She married at age seventeen, while a member of the organization. Headley said that officials within Scientology leadership pressured her to have two abortions: one at age nineteen, and another at age 21. Headley believed she had "no choice", as she had witnessed other women that refused to have abortions instructed to perform manual labor, with one pregnant woman ordered to dig ditches. Headley said that during pressure to have her second abortion she was forbidden to phone her husband to discuss the decision. She spent a total of thirteen years in the Sea Org.Laura Dieckman, 31, said that she was enthusiastic about beginning a family when she became pregnant within Scientology at age seventeen, but was instructed to have an abortion. In a federal lawsuit against Scientology, Dieckman stated she joined with the Sea Org at the age of twelve, and at age sixteen she married another member of the group, Jesse DeCrescenzo. She said she was pressured to have an abortion in 1996. Dieckman said to the St. Petersburg Times: "I was pounded for two days by the top person in my organization ... about how the baby wasn't a baby yet, it was just tissue and it wouldn't matter if I aborted the baby." Dieckman left Scientology in 2004. In a video posted to the website of the St. Petersburg Times, Dieckman emotionally recounted how she had immediately regretted going through with the procedure, "They will do an ultrasound before the procedure so you see the heartbeat. ... I'm lying there ... and I was like, 'No.' But it's too late. I'd already done it."Natalie Hagemo said that 20 years ago at age nineteen, she was pressured by Scientology officials to have an abortion, but she resisted. Hagemo gave birth to Shelby on August 20, 1990. Hagemo's daughter was recruited into the Sea Org at age 14. Shelby contacted her mother a week later wanting to leave the Sea Org; Hagemo had a difficult time getting Shelby out of the group. It was not until this year that Hagemo told her daughter about experiencing pressure from Scientology officials to have an abortion.The St. Petersburg Times received sworn depositions from additional women including Sunny Pereira, who said they were intimidated into having abortions they did not wish to undergo. "They put you in this position where you're weighing the lives of all these people you're supposed to be saving against this one little tiny speck of nuisance that's growing inside of you," said Pereira. Spokesman Tommy Davis stated the women were accusing Scientology of forced abortions because of choices they now "appear to regret".In Nevada, Republican party candidate for the United States Senate, Sharron Angle, was the focus of criticism for her support of a Scientology-associated program. Angle's opponent, incumbent Senator and Senate Majority Leader Democrat Harry Reid, took out a 30-second negative political ad critical of Angle for supporting "a Scientology plan to give massages to prisoners". The prison program Angle had supported was based on techniques developed by Scientology founder, L. Ron Hubbard. Angle had previously been the subject of a similar ad in the Republican primary, generated by the campaign of her opponent Sue Lowden. Sharron Angle is pro-life, and The New York Times columnist Ramesh Ponnuru noted her position against abortion helped her win the Republican primary. "Angle would not have been able to unite populist conservatives and beat the party establishment’s candidate had she been pro-choice," noted Ponnuru.In a speech Tuesday in the Australian Senate, Senator Nick Xenophon called for a criminal investigation of Scientology. Senator Xenophon, an independent politician from South Australia, also requested that police and the Australian parliament investigate whether or not Scientology should retain its tax-exempt status within the country.Senator Xenophon tabled letters written to him from former members of the Church of Scientology, which asserted the organization had participated in coerced abortion, abuse, embezzlement, false imprisonment, and hiding information about the deaths of its members."Scientology is not a religious organisation. It is a criminal organisation that hides behind its so-called religious beliefs," said Senator Xenophon in his speech to the Australian Senate. He detailed statements made in the letters he received from former Scientologists that included a father who said he was pressured by Scientology executives to cover up the deaths of his two daughters, and a man who said he had participated in mandating that pregnant female members of the organization have abortions. "These victims of Scientology claim it is an abusive manipulative and violent organization," said the Senator. In his speech, he noted that the St. Petersburg Times newspaper of Florida reported on former executives within Scientology who had spoken out critically about the organization. These former Scientology executives said they had been subjected to physical abuse by the organization's leader, David Miscavige. They detailed attempts by the organization to manipulate staff members and perform intelligence operations intended to safeguard the organization's secrets.In a statement, the Church of Scientology called Senator Xenophon's speech an "outrageous abuse" of parliamentary privilege. Scientology representative Virginia Stewart questioned why the former Scientologists had not contacted the organization itself, "If these people had key issues, then how come they haven’t contacted the church officially? ... I think it's a bit disingenuous that someone stands up in parliament, where they can say whatever they want."Kevin Rudd, the prime minister of Australia, commented that Senator Xenophon brought up "grave allegations" against Scientology. The prime minister stated, "I share some of those concerns but let us proceed carefully and look carefully at the material which he has provided before we make a decision on further parliamentary action." Prime minister Rudd acknowledged, "many people in Australia have real concerns about Scientology".Science fiction writer L. Ron Hubbard founded Scientology in 1953, and its activities have been the source of controversy in Australia for years. Until 1973, the organization was banned in Western Australia and Victoria. In 1983, a High Court ruling acknowledged its religious status.On October 27, the Church of Scientology was convicted of organized fraud by a court in France. On October 24, it was revealed that Academy Award-winning film director Paul Haggis had left the organization after a letter he wrote to Scientology spokesman Tommy Davis was made public. Scientology is currently under investigation in Belgium.Television producer and owner of the anti-Scientology website www.xenutv.com (XenuTV), Mark Bunker, also known as Wise Beard Man, chatted online with Wikinews for nearly three hours. More than 120 people followed the interview live (many from Project Chanology), which makes this exclusive Wikinews interview our most attended IRC interview to date.Bunker started XenuTV in 1999 and began to make videos that he provided for the Lisa McPherson Trust. Bunker has been a critic of the Church of Scientology since 1997.In 2006, he won a  Regional Emmy Award after he and KUSI-TV news reporter Lena Lewis produced a documentary news video on the issues with the United States - Mexico border with San Diego, California.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.