This year's Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was awarded on Monday to Andrew Fire and Craig Mellow, for their research on RNA interference.47-year old Fire is a professor of pathology and genetics at Stanford University, and Mello, 45, is a professor in Molecular Medicine at the University of Massachusetts.The statement from the Nobel Assembly of the Karolinska Institute in Sweden said: "This year's Nobel Laureates have discovered a fundamental mechanism for controlling the flow of genetic information." Fire and Mello's (then at Washington's Carnegie Institution) seminal publication in Nature in 1998 opened the door for "exciting possibilities", the jury in Stockholm added.RNA interference (or RNAi) is the process of using double stranded RNA fragments which bind and interfere with a specific messenger RNA, so that it's not longer used to make proteins. It has been recognised as a natural way of gene regulation in plants and animals. Today, the technology is being used by biomedical scientists to fiddle genes involved in diseases such as cancer, and to prevent infection with hepatitis viruses.Drs. Fire and Mello were elected to the U.S. National Academy of Sciences in May 2005, after they received the organisation's Award in Molecular Biology in 2003. The same year, they got the Wiley Prize in the Biomedical Sciences from Rockefeller University. Science magazine has dubbed RNAi the 2002 "Breakthrough of the Year", and a top 10 scientific advance in 2003. They have received many other prizes, such as the Paul Ehrlich and Ludwig Darmstaedter Prize, and Dr. Mello was the inaugural recipient of The Dr. Paul Janssen Award for Biomedical Research by Johnson & Johnson.Last year, the 10 million Swedish crown prize ($1.37 million, €1.08 million) was awarded to Barry Marshall and Robin Warren for their discovery of the importance of Helicobacter pylori in ulcers and inflammation of the GI tract.Scientists have discovered a place on the outside part of AIDS virus that might be vulnerable to antibodies blocking the virus from infecting human cells. This could mean that an anti-HIV vaccine is possible in the future. According to Peter Kwong, researcher at U.S National Institute of Health (NIH), this study is likely to contribute to finding HIV's "site of vulnerability" which could then be targeted with a vaccine that prevents the initial infection. The team of researchers have made atomic-level images of HIV and revealed the structure of a protein on the surface of the virus. This protein, called gp120, binds to an infection-fighting antibody and seems to be susceptible to attacks by this antibody called 'b12'. B12 can broadly neutralize the virus. Researchers detailed the precise interaction as the virus tries to hook on to and infect cells sent to protect the body. They have captured an image of how the virus of human immunodeficiency attacks the human cells. Dr. Gary Nabel, an NIH vaccine expert and a co-author of the research, describes this first contact between the virus and the cells as a 'cautious handshake' which then becomes a 'hearty bear hug'. The virus grabs and infects the cells that are aimed at protecting the body. Then the virus mutates quickly to fight the immune system's attacks as well as to counter the effect of antibodies that block the proteins with help of which HIV binds to a cell to infect it.Scientists agree that a vaccine against AIDS would be an ideal way to stop the pandemic of this disease, but, with all importance of these findings, much work and studies are still needed. This implies that any vaccine against AIDS is probably still many years away. The AIDS virus has killed more than 25 million people since it was first detected in 1981. Sub-Saharan Africa is the most severely affected by the epidemic. Approximately 40 million people live with HIV.About a dozen potential vaccines are currently under development. Two products, one by Merck and one by Sanofi-Aventis, are now in advanced human trials.The Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) has discontinued research into a type of Genetically Modified (GM) field pea that had been shown to be 100% protected against attack by pea weevils, a type of insect. The genetically modified field pea's protein was found to have a slightly altered structure which caused an allergic-style reaction in the lungs of mice and led scientists to believe it could have similar effects on human lungs."That was enough to alert me to say this research should come to an end," CSIRO Plant Industry Deputy Director TJ Higgins said.An earlier example of a problem with a GM food was a protein-enhanced soy product that was abandoned because the Brazil nut gene transferred to the soy produced a protein that could cause allergic reactions in some people. That 1996 study was conducted and funded by the University of Nebraska and Pioneer Hi-Bred International. Environmental activism organizations like Greenpeace were spawned by the negative effects of the Petrochemical era. They are now campaigning against GM research. Greenpeace members have observed that not all reports of possible complications from GM foods found during product development have resulted in a quick end to further  research. Rootworm-resistant GM corn caused "serious organ damage" to rats in Germany, but the corn developed by Monsanto was approved for consumption in Australia by Food Standards Australia New Zealand said Greenpeace GM spokesman Jeremy Tager.   A scientific review panel of the European Food Safety Authority reviewed the results of a 13-week rat feeding study on rootworm-resistant corn that had been submitted by German authorities. Although the study found some differences in the kidneys of rats fed the GM corn, the scientists concluded that these results were "not considered to pose concerns over the safety of MON 863 maize". Many published studies performed with rats and other test animals have found no danger from the Monsanto rootworm-resistant corn. Within science, it is desirable that all research reports be reproduced and confirmed.Australia has a $100 million field pea industry, so substantial amounts of chemicals are used to protect the industry's crops against the pea weevil Bruchus pisorum, though some crops use organic control options. The pea weevil can cause yield losses of up to 30 per cent a year if left uncontrolled. So the CSIRO is in search of an alternative to using genetic modification. The CSIRO are not alone in the GM industry. Bayer and Monsanto are both privately owned corporations who also operate outside Australia's strict regulatory system. A spokeswoman for Bayer Crop Sciences said the CSIRO's decision had no impact on the firm's GM work. Monsanto has not responded to media inquiries.Dr Higgins said the findings proved the safety of Australia's strict research regulatory framework."I think that this shows that the regulatory system works," he said."The regulations are stringent, they are difficult, but on balance I'm very pleased as a consumer of food myself that these regulations are in place."The genetically modified pea plants were produced by transfer of the amylase inhibitor-1 gene from a species of bean. The structure of the alpha-amylase inhibitor-1 protein produced by the pea plants is slightly different from the structure of the same protein when made by bean plants. This structural modification may be due to differences in posttranslational modification of the protein. The altered protein from peas was found to predispose mice to a form of food antigen-stimulated inflammation response that is mediated by  CD4-positive T helper cells.These are short blurbs about current events in the business world.Researchers with the University of Calgary in Canada have found that prolactin, a hormone produced during pregnancy, may reverse the progression of multiple sclerosis (MS), according to a paper published this week in The Journal of Neuroscience.The study, led by Drs. Samuel Weiss and V. Wee Yong of the Hotchkiss Brain Institute, compared virgin and pregnant mice with MS-like lesions introduced by lysolecithin, a chemical which destroys the myelin sheaths around neurons.  They found the pregnant mice developed smaller lesions and fewer damaged neurons, and showed signs of repaired neurons.  They also found the pregnant mice had higher levels of cells called oligodendrocytes, which create myelin and are able to repair some damaged neurons through remyelination. Because prolactin regulates the levels of precursors of oligodendrocytes, the scientists hypothesized that prolactin levels were responsible for the differences in damage.  They also tested virgin mice given additional prolactin, and found results similar to pregnant mice.File:Monthly multiple sclerosis MRI.gifPrevious studies have shown that other hormones could reduce myelin damage, but this is the first study to show a mechanism to reverse myelin damage, and establish an empirical connection between that mechanism and pregnancy.  Dr. Weiss says, “It is thought that during pregnancy, women’s immune systems no longer destroyed the myelin.  However, no previous study has tested whether pregnancy actually results in the production of new myelin, which may lead to improvement of symptoms. "We're excited about this result because it suggests to us that prolactin has the potential to be used to enhance the production of new myelin.”Dr. William McIlroy, national medical advisor for the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Canada, explains the significance of this study:  “The results of this study should be well received by people living with MS today.  It represents a new insight of how we might be able to reverse some of the effects of the disease and improve the quality of life for those who live under its influence.”File:Prolactin.pngDr. Luanne Metz, director of the Calgary MS Clinic in the Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Calgary and Calgary Health Region, adds, “This discovery has the potential to take MS therapy a step further than current treatments that stabilize the disease in its early stages. By promoting repair, which is the goal of prolactin therapy, we have hope of actually improving symptoms in people with MS.”Further animal studies need to be done to examine the possibility of side effects, such as lactation in men and non-pregnant women, as well as increased inflammation which could worsen the MS. Researchers believe human trials may begin within a few years.Funding and support were provided by the Canadian Institutes of Health Research and the Multiple Sclerosis Society of Canada, the Alberta Heritage Foundation for Medical Research and the Stem Cell Network.MS is an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system where the body attacks the fatty myelin which helps nerves carry electrical signals, causing muscle weakness and spasming which may lead to disability. MS affects approximately one of every 1000 people in North America, northern Europe and Australasia.Ângelo A. Chora et. al. are reporting in the Journal of Clinical Investigation this week that carbon monoxide (CO) and the heme oxygenase-1 protein protect against the symptoms of multiple sclerosis (MS) in the related mouse model of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE).Multiple sclerosis is a chronic, inflammatory disease that affects the central nervous system (CNS). Although many patients are largely unaffected by their disease, MS can cause impaired mobility and disability in more severe cases.The research group from the Gulbenkian Institute in Portugal used the EAE mouse model of MS to study the effects of the Heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) protein encoded by the HMOX1 gene.HO-1 knockout mice, lacking both copies of the gene (not producing the protein), showed a more severe progression of the disease compared to wild-type mice, having normal levels of the protein. The symptoms of the disease were reversed when the HO-1 protein expression was induced using cobalt protoporphyrin IX.During MS attacks the body's own immune system destroys the myelin sheath surrounding nerve cells in the brain and spinal cord. Pathogenic T helper cells are triggered by Antigen-presenting cell (APCs) within the brain stem. The disease can cycle between attacks (relapses) followed by remission, suggesting that there is an underlying regulatory system. The HO-1 protein had been identified previously as a possible candidate for a protective gene.HO-1 degrades excess heme within the body acting as the rate controlling step when under inflammatory conditions. The HO-1 heme degradation pathway produces as products equal amounts of free heme, carbon monoxide and biliverdin.Carbon monoxide was also shown to limit the effects of the disease. Mice were exposed to a high concentration of CO for 20 days within a chamber. Mice exposed to CO had limp tails, but were more mobile than the mice in the control experiment which displayed hind limb paralysis.It is still unknown exactly how carbon monoxide slows down the symptoms of EAE, possibly through the mopping up of free radicals, or through promoting the binding of iron to heme (decreasing radical production).The experiments found that HO-1 did not affect the development or function of regulatory T cells. For a beneficial effect HO-1 needed to be expressed in dendritic cells, causing inhibition of MHC-II proteins, involved in presenting antigens, and inflammatory cytokines (IFN-γ).These experiments open up new possibilities for MS therapies, involving the expression of HO-1 in suppressing the development of MS.The article went online on the 25th January 2007 and will be printed in the Journal of Clinical Investigation in February.Authorities in the People's Republic of China today questioned the integrity of tests conducted  by Greenpeace, the environmental awareness organisation, purporting to show that genetically engineered (GE) rice has been illegally farmed and sold, in the largest rice-producing country.Greenpeace alleges through a press release that "it appears GE Rice is being sold, planted, consumed, and possibly exported", with the Chinese government not having approved the crop. Local farmers in Hubei Province where the GE crops were allegedly found, had tipped the organisation off.Greenpeace says it tested rice bought there during February and April, and 19 of the 25 samples taken returned positive results for transgenic DNA, with two containing an alteration that means the rice incorporates genes from a bacteria, Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), used to produce a toxin that kills pests. (see tests results summary)"We've asked the agricultural department in Hubei Province to conduct on-the-spot examination on this issue," an unidentified official with the Office of Genetically Modified Organism Safety under the ministry of Agriculture was reported as saying, by China Daily."We have not seen the concrete testing reports. Moreover, the testing of GM (Genetically Modified) rice seeds should be based on China's technical standards," he said.Programme director for Greenpeace in Beijing, Liu Haiying, told by the newspaper that samples collected in Hubei Province were sent to a gene testing laboratory in Germany.Zhu Xinquan, chairman of the Chinese Society of Agro-Biotechnology, said to China Daily: "I cannot agree with the findings of the report by Greenpeace and I am wondering if the tests conducted by the organization are scientific or not.""Regulations on GM food have been in force for several years in China and the nation is doing more research before approving the commercialization of GM rice. A cautious attitude must be taken on the safety of GM rice since it is a highly important food for Chinese people," said Zhu to China Daily.Scientists at Huazhong Agriculture University in Wuhan, capital of Hubei, have been conducting tests with the engineered strain of rice. [1]The area is geographically close to an area diverse in rice strains, where Greenpeace says that natural evolution of rice is threatened by the potential of escaped GM rice genes. This is centered in the nearby provinces of Guizhou, Guangxi and Yunnan. [2]Greenpeace says, "No country in the world has commercially released GE rice."Global animal and health authorities' emergency mission to the Philippines is investigating  whether the strain of deadly Ebola Reston virus, recently discovered in dead pigs, poses a threat to human health. Unlike more-deadly strains of Ebola virus, Philippine health officials say this particular strain, known as the Reston ebolavirus, has never caused human illness or death, and it's not immediately clear there is a public-health issue.A 22-member team of experts from three United Nations agencies arrived in Manila on Tuesday for a joint risk assessment on the virus contamination of local swine, to help the government contain the outbreak. The mission will coordinate with the Philippine counterparts - the Departments of Agriculture and Health. According to chief veterinary officer, Davinio P. Catbagan, six of 28 swine samples tested positive for Ebola-Reston by the U.S. Department of Agriculture laboratory. The infected pigs came from two commercial and two backyard farms in three provinces north of Manila. Both Ebola and related Marburg hemorrhagic fever, are considered to infect humans via primates.The Straits Times reported that as of December, about 6,000 pigs at Pandi, Bulacan and  Talavera farms had tested positive for the Ebola-Reston virus. "Eating pork remained safe as long as it is handled and cooked properly (at a minimum of 70 degrees Celsius or 158 degrees Fahrenheit) and bought in outlets accredited by the government's National Meat Inspection Service," said a joint statement by the World Health Organisation (WHO), World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) and Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). "Our teams are doing field and laboratory investigation to determine where the Ebola-Reston virus came from and how it was transmitted," Caroline-Anne Coulombe, WHO risk communications officer, explained.According to FAO team leader, Juan Lubroth, it was the first time that the Ebola-Reston virus strain had infected animals other than monkeys and the first recorded worldwide in swine. The U.N. mission is scheduled to perform 10 days scientific tests, on two hog farms in Manaoag, Pangasinan and Pandi, Bulacan, but it would take months to publish evaluation reports on the virus. As early as May, a high incidence of swine sickness and death in three provinces caused Philippine authorities in August to send samples from the dead pigs to the NY Plum Island Animal Disease Center. The results found the presence of several diseases, including Ebola Reston virus and PRRS.In late October laboratory tests confirmed that pigs in Nueva Ecija and Bulacan farms were infected with the Ebola-Reston virus and the highly virulent strain of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus (PRRS). In early 2007 pigs on those farms died at a faster rate than usual amid the conducted lab tests. PRRSV, or Blue-Ear Pig Disease (zhū láněr bìng 豬藍耳病), is a viral and economically important pandemic disease which causes reproductive failure in breeding stock and respiratory tract illness in young pigs. Initially referred to as 'mystery swine disease' or 'mystery reproductive syndrome', it was first reported in 1987 in North America and Central Europe.  The disease costs the United States swine industry around $600 million annually.In December, the Philippine health authorities conducted testing of about 10,000 swine in two northern Luzon quarantined farms. Reuters reported that "the Ebola-Reston virus in some pigs in two commercial farms and two backyard farms in the Philippines were discovered by accident in United States laboratory tests in September, when samples were sent to test another disease."Ebola virus is one of at least 18 known viruses capable of causing the viral hemorrhagic fever syndrome. It is the common term for a group of viruses belonging to genus Ebolavirus, family Filoviridae, and for the disease which they cause, Ebola hemorrhagic fever. The virus is named after the Ebola River where the first recognized outbreak of Ebola hemorrhagic fever occurred in 1976. The viruses are characterized by long filaments and have a similar shape to the Marburg virus, also in the family Filoviridae, and share similar disease symptoms. Since its discovery, Ebolavirus has been responsible for a number of deaths.In the central Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), the highly contagious Ebola virus was first detected in September, according to Medecins Sans Frontieres. "As of Tuesday January 7, a total of 42 patients have been reported with suspected Ebola haemorrhagic fever in the province of Western Kasai... 13 of these 42 patients suspected of having Ebola have died," it said.The Reston ebolavirus is suspected of being either another subtype of the Ebola or a new filovirus of Asian origin. It was first discovered in crab-eating macaques originating in the Philippines, from Hazleton Laboratories (now Covance) in 1989. This discovery attracted significant media attention and led to the publication of The Hot Zone. There was then, an outbreak of viral hemorrhagic fever among monkeys imported from the Philippines to Reston, Virginia. The Ebola-Reston strain was discovered among Philippine monkeys in the U.S. again in 1990 and 1996, and in Italy in 1992.According to the World Health Organization, African strains kill 50 percent to 90 percent of those infected through lethal bleeding and organ failure. “Since the 1970s, scientists, veterinarians, microbiologists and physicians have been looking at thousands of species to see if they can find this elusive reservoir, and we have been pretty much empty-handed,” Juan Lubroth, head of infectious diseases in the animal health unit of the Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome, explained. Despite its status as a Level-4 organism, the Reston ebolavirus is non-pathogenic to humans and is only mildly fatal to monkeys; the perception of its lethality was skewed due to the monkey's coinfection with Simian hemorrhagic fever virus (SHFV). During the incident in which it was discovered, six animal handlers eventually became seroconverted, one of whom had cut himself while performing a necropsy on the liver of an infected monkey. When the handler failed to become ill, it was concluded that the virus had a very low pathogenicity to humans.In January 1997, The Philippines Department of Environment and Natural Resources had ordered the immediate slaughter of some 600 monkeys in Ferlite, a breeding farm in Laguna, to prevent an outbreak of the deadly Ebola Reston strain virus.The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had donated 8,000 test kits to diagnose the ebola reston strain. "I am more concerned in the international community because we have proven in our December sales that this ebola did not affect consumer confidence," Albert R. T. Lim, president of the National Federation of Hog Farmers, Inc., warned. The Philippines Department of Agriculture (DA) has directed the Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) and the National Meat Inspection Commission (NMIC) to conduct swine tests in South Cotabato using the US test kits for the Ebola Reston virus, before approval of the "Meat in a Box" shipment to Singapore. The initial export of the meat for December was deferred pending outcome of the ERV tests.Meanwhile, in eight Barangays of Santa Maria, Davao del Sur, in Mindanao, at least 50 pigs died since December due to viral and bacterial infections. Dr. Nestor Barroga, provincial veterinarian, said that he could not however detect yet the type of the infecting virus. The village of Pong-pong had the largest number of casualties. Mercy Olalo, a hog raiser, said their pigs would suddenly become weak and eventually die. "The pigs developed red skins and they salivate excessively," she said.A University of Tokyo group of researchers, led by bioengineer Shoji Takeuchi, has made an electronic sensor capable of smelling gases. The sensor uses genetically engineered frog cells. Since previous sensors were not very accurate, the scientist decided to try a biological approach. The invention was revealed in a US scientific journal yesterday, and is supposed to be used to design better machines to detect polluting gases in the atmosphere.Previous smell sensors were based on quartz rods, which vibrate when a substance binds to them. The gases are distinguished by their molar masses, which can be similar for molecules with different structure, thus relatively often triggering a false positive. Trying to find a more accurate solution, Takeuchi decided to follow an example from insect world. As he explained, "when you think about the mosquito, it is able to find people because of carbon dioxide from the human. So the mosquito has CO2 receptors. When we can (extract) DNA (from the mosquito) we can put this DNA into the frog eggs to detect CO2."Genes of several insects (the silk moth, diamondback moth and fruit fly), injected into African clawed frog Xenopus laevis eggs, allowed them to produce relatively inexpensive and useful sensors. The choice of the species was caused by their widely studied and well-understood protein expression mechanism.The modified cells responded to three kinds of pheromones and one odourant, which have similar chemical properties. When a molecule of an odorous substance adhered to the receptor on the membrane protein, ion channels opened for a certain period of time, and a current was generated. Its magnitude was clearly different for all four tested substances, allowing to distinguish between them accurately.The colleagues embedded the sensor into a mannequin, so that it could shake its head when a gas was detected. It was easier to observe. Pheromones and molecules with quite similar molecule structure produced clearly distinguishable reaction, with higher accuracy than other biological or human-made sensors. As the research group said, the detection sensitivity of the odor sensor is several tens of parts per billion (ppb), and it is as high as the sensitivity of an existing odor sensor that uses an oxide semiconductor. The distinctive feature of the new sensor is its capability to selectively detect some odorous substances, rather than its sensitivity. Very few false positives were possible due to the biological mechanism involved.At normal temperature, the sensor lifetime is about 12 hours, which can be extended by putting it into a refrigerator before first use.Shoji Takeuchi says has a great hope for research use in future, since the frog eggs are very practical for genetic engineering, and can be conveniently used to develop smell sensors for a wide range of gases. He said, "The X. laevis oocyte has high versatility for the development of chemical sensors for various odorants. We believe that a shared ability to smell might open a new relationship between man and robot. .. The research will have wide implications... If the sensor is embedded in a nursing robot, it will be able to identify certain mouth odors or body odors. Also, it can be used for detecting CO2, air pollution, water pollution and food. It's very important for the environment."A chemical part of the saliva of a poisonous lizard, the Gila monster, has become an integral partner in the control of Type 2 diabetes. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has approved its use for people who have not achieved adequate control of their diabetes with oral medications.Byetta, or exenatide, is produced by Amylin Pharmaceuticals. It is injected before eating morning and evening meals as part of a combination treatment with oral drugs. The FDA said it could be approved as a stand-alone treatment if the drug companies can support such use with data.Eli Lilly & Co. was the development partner in creation of the drug."With Byetta's demonstrated effects on blood sugar and its safety profile, physicians and patients now have a new approach to fight the growing diabetes epidemic," said Sidney Taurel, CEO of Lilly.Governor Jon Corzine announced a bill that would provide $270 million to stem cell research. He announced, "I don't want New Jersey to join the crowd of stem cell research states, I want New Jersey to lead it."BusinessWeek reports that the announcement came two days after Corzine announced that the state will give out $10 million in research grants next year, including $7 million for stem cell research.Below is a summary of the fund allocation.In two studies presented on Monday at the annual meeting of the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology in Orlando, Florida in the United States, scientists have disclosed new steps toward using natural adhesives made by the dusky Arion slug (Arion subfuscus) in medical applications such as in closing skin wounds and reducing scarring.When threatened, the dusky Arion slug secretes an unusual glue, making itself a difficult target for predators.  This glue remains both sticky and flexible and works even when the surface the slug is on is wet.  Previous studies have shown that, unlike many artificial adhesives, Arion slug glue is non-toxic to mammalian tissue.Scientist Rebecca Falconer, an Ithaca College undergraduate who led one of the two studies, said "Typical sutures like staples and stitches often lead to scarring and create holes in the skin that could increase the chance of infection after surgery [...] Understanding the roles of adhesive proteins in the slug glue would aid in the creation of a medical adhesive that can move and stretch yet still retain its strength and adhesiveness."In her set of experiments, Falconer observed eleven proteins found only in slug glue and used DNA recombination to produce usable amounts of each of these proteins.  Specifically, she produced complementary DNA sequences (cDNA) for each protein, which are stretches of DNA with all the pieces not necessary for producing the protein removed.  She then spliced these into circular DNA sequences called plasmids, which she inserted into bacteria, whose natural cellular machinery began to produce the proteins in quantity.  She then analyzed the three-dimensional structures that the protein molecules form with each other and with other substances that make them work.Christopher Gallego-Lazo, also an Ithaca undergrad, evaluated glue from the dusky Arion slug by focusing on the chemical bonds within the glue and the way they affect the glue's deformability.  Gallego-Lazo found that slight changes in these chemical bonds could alter the strength of the slug glue.Gallego-Lazo said, "Few studies on biological adhesives have identified the exact nature of the bonds holding the glue together [...] This knowledge can guide the development of an organic synthetic adhesive that would reduce the risk of infection and scarring compared to stitches and staples and could be applied rapidly and simply."Falconer and Gallego-Lazo both performed their research in the laboratory of Dr. Andrew Smith.American agronomist and Nobel laureate Norman Borlaug has died aged 95. Borlaug, known as the father of the Green Revolution that transformed agriculture in the 20th century, died of complications from cancer at his home in Dallas, Texas in the United States late on Saturday evening.Borlaug was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1970 for his development and introduction of high yield crops, and also received the Presidential Medal of Freedom and Congressional Gold Medal, the two highest civilian awards in the U.S.. His work is often credited as saving over a billion lives.Born in 1914 in Cresco, Iowa Borlaug worked on the family farm before enrolling at the University of Minnesota, gaining a master's and a Ph.D. in plant pathology and genetics.In 1944 he began working for the Cooperative Wheat Research and Production Program, a joint project of the Mexican government and the Rockefeller Foundation. It was there that he led the development of new disease-resistant, high yield wheat varieties.His introduction of these varieties to Southeast Asia in the 1960s averted mass famines, and led to countries such as India and Pakistan becoming self-sufficient in food. This was soon heralded as the start of a "Green Revolution", and later his efforts were extended to Africa.From 1984 until his death Borlaug taught as Distinguished Professor of International Agriculture at Texas A&M University, whilst continuing his research in Mexico and his promotion of agricultural development around the world. In 1986 he established the World Food Prize to recognize contributors to improvements in world food supplies. In 2006 A&M created the Norman Borlaug Institute for International Agriculture to continue his work.As well as his agricultural work, when younger he was a keen wrestler, competing for his high school and the University of Minnesota. He was inducted into the National Wrestling Hall of Fame in 1992.Borlaug is survived by two children, Jeanie and William, five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. In a statement his children said: "It is the hope of the Borlaug family that his life be an example to all. We would like his life be a model for making a difference in the lives of others and to bring about efforts to end human misery for all mankind."A memorial is planned to be held at Texas A&M.BUCHAREST, Romania —The average production of genetically-modified (GM) soy grew by 50 tonnes to 250 tonnes per square kilometre last year, said Constantin Sin from the Romanian Ministry of Agriculture. Soy is the only GM crop allowed in Romania for commercial purposes. Additionally, the area cultivated with the modified soy increased from 396 km² in 2003 to 581 km² in 2004. GM soy is mainly farmed in southeastern Romania, in the counties of Brăila, Călăraşi and Ialomiţa.In 1996, the European Union endorsed the import of transgenic soy, and, in 2004, the green light was given for the sale of new genetically-modified products which were used for animal breeding. Globally, the largest producers of genetically-modified soy are the United States of America, Argentina and Brazil.Today, some of the leading biologists in the world announced that they are starting a new project to write the Encyclopedia of Life, a project that aims to bring resources on all 1.8 million species together.The website will take the form of a wiki-like environment, but in contrast to Wikimedia's project Wikispecies, only scientists will be allowed to edit. The information will be made freely available on the internet. "Sharing what we know, we can protect Earth's biodiversity and better conserve our natural heritage," said said Jonathan F. Fanton, President of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, which has donated US$10 million to the project. Another US$2.5 million grant came from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.According to their press release, the website aims to become "a global beacon for biodiversity and conservation." The trailer video mentions that the work of classifying all species has barely begun, and that species are disappearing even before we glimpse at them.The founding partners of the project include the Field Museum of Natural History, Harvard University, the Marine Biological Laboratory, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Biodiversity Heritage Library. The Missouri Botanical Garden later joined, and negotiations are ongoing with the Atlas of Living Australia. Other partners are the American Museum of Natural History (New York), Natural History Museum (London), New York Botanical Garden, and the Royal Botanic Gardens (Kew).The institutional council is made up of a selection of international advisors, such as a representative of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Another member is Erik Möller of the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees.According to the press release, the species pages will become available in "all major languages". Initially the focus will be on animals, plants and fungi, but later this could be expanded to microbes. The goal is to document all 1.8 million species over the next 10 years, but the founders warn that it might take up to 4 years before the quality of the pages becomes acceptable. Today, Wikispecies has over 98,000 articles.The website will partially draw information from existing databases, for example from FishBase which has 29,900 species listed already. Wikipedia is also listed as a source on some of the demonstration pages. Using an indicator for the educational level of the user, novices and experts will be shown just the information that suits them. A system of filters could be used to allow identification of species: for example, if you've just caught a 6-inch-long fish with big teeth in the Amazon River, you could use the filter system to find out what species it might be.The Biodiversity Heritage Library will scan tens of millions of pages to provide open access to the relevant scientific literature which it holds. The first 1.25 million pages have already been digitized in scanning centers in London, Boston, and Washington, D.C. .Ice samples retrieved from 1.2 miles (2 km) beneath the surface of Greenland have uncovered the oldest known samples of DNA from insects. The samples, estimated to be 450,000-900,000 years old, have also shown that no more than one million years ago, Greenland was once home to forests and animal life."We have shown for the first time that southern Greenland, which is hidden under 2 km of ice, was once very different to the Greenland we see today. Back then, it was inhabited by a diverse array of conifer trees and insects," said Professor and leader of the team who made the discovery, at the University of Copenhagen in Denmark, Eske Willerslev."This genetic material presents a biological environment which is completely different to today. We have found grain, pine, yew and alder. These correspond to the landscapes we find in eastern Canada and in Swedish forests today," added Willerslev.Willerslev also says that because of the presence of the yews, the temperatures in that area of Greenland could not have been "lower than -17 degrees Celsius" and that with the variety of other trees, the summer temperatures were no lower than "10 degrees Celsius."These findings could change the history of Greenland. The current theory is that Greenland was free from its ice no more than 125,000 years ago. The results of the findings now suggest that Greenland may have been covered with ice for at least 450,000 years.A German shepherd who recovered the last survivor of the September 11, 2001 attacks is to be cloned. His owner, James Symington, a former police officer from Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada entered an essay writing contest about why his dog should be cloned.Trakr, the 15 year old German shepherd suffering from degenerative neurological disorder, was the subject of a contest-winning essay about why Trakr should be cloned that was written by Symington. Trakr and Symington received Humanitarian Service Awards from Jane Goodall for their heroics at Ground Zero. Symington is now an actor of film and television, sometimes credited as Peter James.BioArts International sponsored the essay-writing contest. Five more dogs are to be cloned by its Best Friends Again program. While Trakr will receive free replication, the other dogs will have to participate in an auction with a starting bid of US$100,000.BioArts is going to send the DNA of the 6 dogs to Sooam Biotech Research Foundation in Seoul, South Korea. A Sooam researcher said that the dog should be born in November.A report Tuesday from a United Nations-backed project, consulting more than 1,300 scientists from 95 countries, and written over the last four years, warns that 60 percent of the basics of life on Earth — water, food, timber, clean air — are currently being used in ways which degrade them. Furthermore, fisheries and fresh water use-patterns are unsustainable, and getting worse."The harmful consequences of this degradation could grow significantly worse in the next 50 years," according to a press release from the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA), a massive four-year study begun in 2001."We've had many reports on environmental degradation, but for the first time we're now able to draw connections between ecosystem services and human well-being," Cristian Samper, director of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History in Washington and a chief architect of the study, told the Christian Science Monitor.The project's Synthesis Report, first in a series of eleven documents and published yesterday, explains the objective: "to assess the consequences of ecosystem change for human well-being and to establish the scientific basis for actions needed to enhance the conservation and sustainable use of ecosystems and their contributions to human well-being."It then goes on to report on four main findings:Changes over the last 50 years to meet rapidly growing demands for food, fresh water, timber, fiber and fuel, have effected substantial and largely irreversible loss in the diversity of life on Earth.Net gains in human well-being and economic development are offset by growing costs, in the form ecosystem degradation, the possibility of abrupt and unpredictable ecosystem changes, and worsened poverty for some groups. Unless addressed, these problems will substantially diminish the benefits that future generations obtain from ecosystems.Ecosystem degradation could grow significantly worse over the next 50 years, presenting a barrier to meeting UN  Millennium Development Goals.The challenge of reversing the degradation while meeting increasing ecological demands can be partially met under some scenarios, but only with significant changes in policies, institutions and practices  — changes that are not currently under way.Walter Reid, the study's director, speaking at yesterday's London launch of the report said it shows that over the last 50 years "humans have changed ecosystems more rapidly and extensively than in any comparable time in human history.""This has resulted in substantial and largely irreversible loss in the diversity of life on Earth," he said.It is unclear what this will mean to future generations or the possible emergence of new diseases, absence of fresh water and the continuing decline of fisheries and completely unpredictable weather.With half of the urban populations of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean suffering from several diseases associated with these problems, the death toll is reaching 1.7 million people a year. Entire species of mammals, birds and amphibians are disappearing from the planet at nearly 1,000 times the natural rate, according to the study. Oxygen-depleted coastal waters and rivers result from overuse of nitrogen fertilizer - an effect known as "nutrient loading" which leads to continuing biodiversity loss.With the United States' non-participation in the Kyoto Treaty, former U.S. Senator Timothy Wirth, president of this U.N. Foundation, says  "U.S. leadership is critical in providing much-needed expertise, technological capabilities and ingenuity to restore ecosystems."We can take steps at home to reduce our nation's adverse impact on the global environment.""At the heart of this assessment is a stark warning," said the 45-member board.American scientists have successfully used a vaccine to slow down weight gain in an animal model, as reported in the scientific journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS). The vaccinated rodents showed less increase in body weight even though they ate as much as their non-vaccinated counterparts. If supported by further studies, vaccination could become a promising new tool in the battle against the obesity pandemic, although application in humans is probably not for the near future.The research team led by Dr. Kim Janda of the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, California, vaccinated male rats using three different haptens (small molecules which can elicit an immune response when attached to a large carrier such as a protein). Vaccination teaches the immune system to recognise and destroy a target.In this experiment, the target was ghrelin, a hormone produced by the stomach in both humans and rodents. Ghrelin stimulates appetite and promotes the build-up of fat tissue. It was also previously shown that mice with the ghrelin gene knocked out (makes the mice unable to produce ghrelin), expend more energy and break down their fat stores more easily. In this study, vaccinated rats retained the same appetite, but the other effects were altered resulting in a lesser weight gain. The fact that the appetite remained unchanged came as a surprise to the investigators, but the idea of being able to eat the same and put on less weight is intriguing.The rats in this study were on a low-energy, low-fat diet quite unlike the typical diet of people with obesity, where energy-rich snacks predominate. It remains uncertain whether these findings could be extended to that setting. The group is already planning further studies to ascertain the therapeutic potential of the new vaccine. The question also remains whether it will prove effective in already obese subjects, and the group plans further investigations into this matter.Vaccines are generally used to combat infectious diseases, but recently their field of application has been expanded to unconventional areas, drug addiction for example. One of the possible advantages of this approach to the field of obesity medicine, is that vaccination could promote long term effects. This could supersede the need for chronic intake of drugs sometimes associated with severe adverse effects (such as the banned Fen-phen).If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.