After the United States agreed to the changes proposed by India this morning, the so called Bali Roadmap has been agreed on, to applause from all parties. The decision was made at this year's United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali. The Roadmap establishes a time frame and scope for reaching a post-2012 climate change agreement. This includes setting, for industrialized nations, targets for reductions of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Numerous observers and parties had voiced that they see this as being of great importance prior to and during the conference.Following the reopening of the plenary at midday, India reiterated its position that part of a paragraph needed to be reformulated. The EU went on to state that in the spirit of negotiations, they agreed with the proposed changes. After some further statements by other nations, the US said that they can not accept the changes, as they would considerably change the balance of the text. This was met with loudly audible booing in the plenary. Some time later, after a number of other nations voiced their opinions and the American delegation could be seen busily debating and writing, the US said they would agree to the consensus position after all. Standing ovations and cheers welcomed this change in position, which allowed the President of the Conference soon thereafter to declare the document decided.India this morning had raised objections on one of the central documents of what constitutes the Roadmap. This had made a decision impossible for the time being, as the conference can only pass items unanimously. The objection regarded the phrasing of how nations with developing industries are to take action to slow and reduce their GHG emissions. The President of the Conference, the Indonesian Environmental Minister, had declined the request, stating that the proposal he had made was very finely balanced. The President had then suspended the session so that further consultations could be made.No progress was made when the meeting was reopened about an hour later, with China stating that negotiations of the so called Group of 77 and China with the Indonesian Minister of Finance were still ongoing. China then accused the UNFCCC secretariat of deliberately opening the plenary session at a time it knew that their Ministers were in talks. The Chinese delegate went on to demand an apology by the secretariat, and the meeting was again suspended.Professors at the Energy Science Centre, attached to the Federal Institute of Technology (ETHZ) in Zurich, have presented their contribution of a car quite similar to Loremo able to travel 100 kilometres (around 62 miles) on a tank with just 1 litre (around 1 quart), equalling to about 235 miles per gallon. They presented their contribution during Swiss Energy Week. The automobile, which has and will be manufactured by the Swiss company Horlacher, is 75% lighter than an average family car and guzzles a tenth of the fuel thanks to vastly improved aerodynamics.One drawback to this car is that it has none of the modern safety features found in many cars to-day. But the FIT team is designing technology that lets cars communicate with each other to avoid collisions, using similar computer systems to those in aircraft."This car does compromise on style, speed and comfort, but you can't have a free lunch," says Lino Guzzella, one of the centre's members"Business as usual is no longer an option. If we are to survive in the future, we will have to drastically reduce carbon emissions." Guzzella continued. There are approximately 800 million cars on this planet and in Switzerland there are 500 cars per 1,000 people, compared with 800 in the United States and less than 50 per 1,000 in India and China.Swiss drivers also favour more powerful, polluting vehicles than the rest of western Europe. According to the European Automobile Manufacturers Association, the main lobbying group of the automobile industry in the European Union, the average car in Switzerland has a 2 litre engine compared with 1.6 litres in neighbouring countries."The Swiss think they are better at cutting harmful emissions than anyone else, but they are not," says researcher Peter de Haan van der Weg.He believes Switzerland should introduce incentives to make people buy cleaner cars. Some countries already have such schemes: the US awards tax breaks worth up to $3,000 and the Netherlands offers €6,000 to green car owners. The Swiss authorities are currently thinking about two similar options presented by the city of Bern and the centre-left Social Democratic Party."Individuals are not capable of understanding the big picture because it is difficult for people to look 50 years into the future," Mr. De Haan van der Weg said."Therefore it is necessary to have government regulations to force changes that will benefit the environment."Scientists of the United Kingdom-based Royal Society released a paper August 1, 2008 which studied Cretaceous era fossil finds found at the northern area of Devon Island in the 1980s. Nunavutospongia irregulara is the name of the new species of sponge found, released by Proceedings B the Royal Society's biological research journal. Thick bones and armour-like scales have been found that are believed to belong to a new species of fish which grew up to two meters long. Thousands of fossilized feces - termed coprolites - both small and as large as an arm have been found. Coral reef fossils, conifer wood debris, fossil wood chunks and thousands of plankton and microbes have been found both at Devon Island and Beechy Island. Beechy Island is connected to Devon Island during times of low tide.Two areas on Devon Island about 30 kilometres apart are providing Cretaceous fossil finds, and each is kilometres in length. These areas are khaki-coloured valley greensands rich in fossil beds, which provide a peek at life 73 million years ago. During the Cretaceous Devon Island was located in a position with a warmer climate, large trees grew north of Baffin Island, and plesiosaurs, ichthyodectid fish, and sharks roamed the waters of the Arctic. Devon Island was submerged under warm water in the Cretaceous period, when the island was situated hundreds of kilometres south of its current location due to continental drift. At the upper Kanguk Formation, the fossil finds represent offshore and near-shore sedimentary deposits on an ocean floor. The warmer temperate waters supported benthic invertebrates (organisms such as larva that live on the bottom of a water body) and large predatory vertebrates. Whereas life is currently supported by nutrients from the sea ice, Cretaceous sea life was supported by terrigenous resources from forested landscapes.The eight-member team from the Royal Society consists of Canadian, United States and Polish researchers. The fossil specimens are held at the Canadian Museum of Nature in Ottawa on behalf of the Nunavut territorial government.The 2007 Nobel Peace Prize was awarded today to former U.S. Vice President Albert Arnold Gore Jr. and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).The Nobel committee cited "for their efforts to build up and disseminate greater knowledge about man-made climate change, and to lay the foundations for the measures that are needed to counteract such change" as the reasons for awarding the prize.Figures released by the Brazilian government have shown that the rate of deforestation in the Amazon has increased.In the period August 2003 to August 2004, 26,000 square kilometres of the rainforest was felled. This number is up 6% from the 12 month period prior to August 2003. The total proportion of felled Amazon now stands at 17.3%, according to the World Wildlife Fund. This has led many environmentalists to worry that the cattle and soy trade are being put above the environment.The 2003–2004 period saw the second largest tree felling, per area, in the Amazon's history. The worst was 1994–1995. The year prior to August 2003 had been another bad year for deforestation, it now being the third worst in history. That previous 2002–2003 period led Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva's government to adopt an action plan to target deforestation. This included creating some of the largest reserves on earth and making closer satellite surveillance of threatened areas."This number is a tragedy and shows that deforestation is not a priority for the Lula government and that its plan [to fight destruction] is not working," said Paulo Adario, Greenpeace Amazon coordinator. Much of the damage has been done in clearing trees to make space for crop land, especially in the worst hit state of Mato Grosso, where almost half of last year's deforestation occurred. This has led Greenpeace to condemn the governor of the state, a soya business man himself, as "king of deforestation". Much of this crop is exported to Europe and China, which last year led Brazil to declare a trade surplus.The clearing endangers the world's largest home of wildlife, which claims almost 30% of all animal and plant species.There are also implications for the carbon cycle and hence for global warming. The respiration of trees involves the intake of carbon dioxide, and produces oxygen as a byproduct. With fewer trees a balance of CO2 and O2 in the atmosphere is harder to maintain. Increased levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide could result in global warming.Australian Prime Minister John Howard has announced that leaders of APEC nations have agreed on "aspirational goals" on climate change. The agreement, which Prime Minister Howard calls the Sydney declaration focuses on reducing energy intensity (the amount of energy used to produce a dollar of gross domestic product), reforestation and technology sharing.Despite Australia, the United States and China being non-signatories to the United Nations' Kyoto protocol on greenhouse gas reductions which is set to expire in 2012, the APEC accord calls for "We call for a post-2012 international climate change arrangement ... that strengthens, broadens and deepens the current arrangement and leads to reduced global emissions of greenhouse gases," according to the draft declaration.The declaration as agreed upon will be released on Sunday. The draft agreement recognised that action was required to "slow, stop and reverse" greenhouse gas emissions; that nations should vow to reduce energy intensity by 25 percent by 2030; that forest cover in the region should be increased by 50 million acres by 2020; and that APEC nations will work with other nations to find a solution to climate change. The declaration is non-binding and is simply a statement of goals to which the nations will try to achieve.Host nation Australia has been criticised by China, Indonesia, Japan and Malaysia for putting climate change on the agenda at the APEC summit, saying they would prefer dialogue on climate change to occur under a United Nationa framework. Indonesia's Foreign Minister Hassan Wirayuda said "the APEC meeting does not replace the appropriate forum to deal with climate change."Mr Wiraydua said that despite Indonesia not being entirely satisfied with the declaration they would "live with it".Environmental group Greenpeace has rejected the APEC statement because it doesn't set firm targets and includes the use of nuclear energy as a replacement for fossil fuels.According to the European Space Agency (ESA), 200 satellite images from the Danish National Space Center (DNSC) indicate that the Arctic ice levels are at an all time low, since the first images taken in 1978, and as a result the Northwest Passage has completely opened up for the first time since humans began to record history.The images have shown the melting of the ice has "dramatically increased" more than previously thought and that by 2030, all of the summer ice could be gone with the region being completely ice free by 2070. Researchers call it an "extreme" situation and say that the ice is now shrinking at a level of about three million square kilometers a year, up from one million square kilometers per year in 2005."The strong reduction in just one year certainly raises flags that the ice may disappear much sooner than expected," said DNSC spokesman Leif Toudal Pedersen in a statement.The new findings have put Canada and the United States at a standoff, both laying claim to the passage because it could be a valuable resource for the shipping industry. The passage goes through the boundaries of both nations. In 1985 diplomatic relations on the passage were strained after a U.S. icebreaker passed through without the U.S. notifying Canadian officials.As a result, the Canadian military is building two new bases at both ends of the areas they claim to be theirs. There will also be at least six new naval patrol ships built, that will be stationed in the passage.The U.S. claims that regardless which country boundaries the passage passes through, the waterway should be open to anyone who wants to use it."We believe it's an international passage," said U.S. President George W. Bush.Denmark, Norway, and Russia all also lay claim to the vast amounts of minerals, natural gas, and oil.A recent study based on satellite  radar altimetry indicates drastic thinning of  Arctic ice during the winter of 2007. It was found that the ice thickness had been fairly constant for the five previous winters. The researchers were able to highlight widespread ice thinning in areas covered by both old and young ice. This thinning constitutes the most severe since records started being taken in the early 1990s.The study by scientists of  University College London has been published in the journal  Geophysical Research Letters. The work provides the first definitive proof for overall decrease in Arctic ice volume, claim the authors.The researchers have found that last winter's ice thickness represented a decrease of an average of 26 centimeters below the 2002-2008 winter average. The greatest decline of 49 centimeters was in the western Arctic, which could explain the region's becoming relatively ice-free this summer, allowing it to be open to shipping for the first time in 30 years. The record low of ice thickness during summer happened when the weather was not abnormally warm.Katharine Giles, the lead author, points out that the study used satellite data sets, which had a number of advantages over other methods. Previous studies have used measurements from drilling, or submarine and airborne surveys. These studies could be severely limited by time and space. The present study utilized continuous, all-weather, day-and-night radar altimeter data from the  European Space Agency's  Envisat satellite. The study measured ice thickness from October to March, 2007, over more than half of the Arctic.There has been considerable uncertainty over the causes of ice loss in the Arctic. It has been debated that ice could have been piled up against the coast, thus reducing the sea ice extent. Measurements of the ice thickness, as in the present study, give definite proof for ice melting. "So this means melting; it doesn't mean that the ice has just been pushed up against the coastline," remark Seymour Laxon, co-author of the paper.The conclusions of the study can help predict what could happen with the ice cover in future. Deflection of sunlight by the Arctic ice cap could be reduced, leading to larger areas of water, which can absorb heat.  Warmer temperatures will in turn promote more ice melting. "About five years ago, the average projection for the sea ice disappearing was about 2080", said Dr Laxon. "But the ice minimums, and this evidence of melting, suggests that we should favor the models that suggest the sea ice will disappear by 2030-2040, but there is still a lot of uncertainty."Arnold Schwarzenegger, the current governor of California, started his three day visit to Canada yesterday.Upon arrival at the Pearson International Airport in Toronto, Schwarzenegger was met with Ontario premier Dalton McGuinty and U.S. Ambassador David Wilkins.He arrived at the Delta Chelsea hotel in downtown Toronto, where Canadian reporters waited to ask him questions. At a Liquor Control Board of Ontario (LCBO) store, workers and shoppers were stunned to see the former actor, who came to promote California wine with LCBO chairman Phillip Olsson; after, he gave autographs to his many fans. Schwarzenegger then arrived at a local grocery store promoting California fruits and vegetables.He was presented with a Special Olympics jacket at the hotel, where the unveiling of Team Canada's new uniforms took place.He then arrived at the Liberty Grand hotel to give a speech."It's great to be here in Canada --a trade mission means not just trading good and services but also ideas," Schwarzenegger told reporters.Both politicians signed an agreement today for Ontario and California to donate $30 million over 5 years for stem cell research. They also signed an agreement today for low-carbon fuel standards."All great things start on the grassroots level," said Schwarzenegger. "Eventually, the federal government is going to get it."McGuinty told reporters that he doesn't want to "over-power" the Canadian government itself by being the only province in the country to have limited emissions from vehicles, noting the whole country should follow Schwarzenegger's plan.Schwarzenegger, today, made a brief speech at Toronto's Economic Club at The Sheraton Centre Grand Ballroom, 123 Queen Street West, at around 12:50 p.m. ET and is expected to receive the Newsmaker of the Year award there.He is set to meet with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper today in Ottawa as well as British Columbia premier Gordon Campbell in Vancouver on Thursday. He will talk more about Climate change and stem cell research.Schwarzenegger also put his bid for the Ducks to win the 2007 Stanley Cup Finals tonight in Anaheim, California against the Ottawa Senators, whom McGuinty put his support behind.Arnold Schwarzenegger, best known for his role in The Terminator and being the Govenor of California (which earned him the nickname The Governator), has been invited by the Prime Minister's Office to visit Canada.Schwarzenegger is reported to have higher expectations for reducing greenhouse gas emissions than Prime Minister Stephen Harper."I hope it means they are serious about taking the kind of actions that Arnold Schwarzenegger is taking in California on climate change," said Green Party of Canada leader Elizabeth May.Environment minister John Baird said he and the Canadian government are concerned about the  climate."We're concerned about the huge climate change challenges," said Baird. "The erratic weather we've had this winter is a huge wake-up call."The Canadian PM and "The Governator" first met when they went to Mexico for the inauguration of Felipe Calderón, the president of Mexico.No date has been set as to when the meeting will happen.Australia has officially recorded its warmest year on record. According to the Bureau of Meteorology, (BOM) 2005 was the hottest year since reliable, widespread temperature observations became available in 1910. Data collected by the Bureau  show Australia's annual mean temperature for 2005 was 1.09°C above the standard 1961-90 average.The Bureau of Meteorology says the result is more evidence of climate change. The Bureau's Blair Trewin said: "We've seen things like the general retreat of the winter snow line. We've seen a marked decrease in the frequency of frost, especially in inland Queensland," Dr Trewin said. "We've seen an increase in the number of extreme hot days."And the warming trend is likely to continue. "All the projections we have from climate models we would expect to see continued warming through the 21st century," he said. "Numbers like this ... are another piece of evidence that climate change is real and it's a real issue."Despite unseasonably cool weather in the South West of Western Australia, 2005 was a hot year over most of the nation, with the Northern Territory (NT) bearing the brunt. The NT area-average maximum temperature was 1.45°C above the long-term mean, the largest anomaly of any state or territory. The previous record of +0.84°C was set in 1998. The Bureau says that while these temperature departures may seem relatively small, a 1°C increase in mean temperatures is equivalent to many southern Australian towns shifting northward by about 100km.All States and Territories, apart from Victoria and Tasmania, recorded 2005 mean temperatures amongst their top two warmest years on record. The only region recording a cooler than normal year was a coastal strip of Western Australia extending from Cape Leeuwin to Carnarvon.Australia's previous warmest years on record were influenced by significant El Niño events, say the Bureau. However, no such event occurred in 2005, making the record warmth even more unusual. Since 1979, all but four years have been warmer than average in Australia.Australian temperatures have increased by approximately 0.9ºC since 1910 - consistent with global warming trends. Scientific studies have linked global and Australian temperature increases to the enhanced greenhouse effect. The early months of 2005 were also very dry over much of Australia with the January-May period being the 2nd driest on record. Australia's area-averaged rainfall is calculated from a network of around 5000 rainfall stations. Observations from this network reveal that, when compared to historical records, Tasmania was the wettest State in 2005, while Queensland and Western Australia were the driest. Over the New Year bushfires have caused havoc in many parts of Australia, with houses, farm stock devastated. Thousands of hectares of bushland and farmland have been burnt out.Environmentalists say the weather is a precursor of things to come: "2005 gave us a little taste of what life will be like if we fail to tackle climate change," Greenpeace's Catherine Fitzpatrick said. "The extreme heat and bushfires of New Year's Day 2006 showed that it isn't going to be fun. If action isn't taken soon to avoid catastrophic climate change, Australians will have John Howard to blame for failing to act when he had the chance."Ms Fitzpatrick said the Federal Government was as beholden to the coal and aluminium industries as the Japanese government was to whaling companies, and with far more devastating impacts. "Today's figures should spur our Environment Minister ... to real action – ratify Kyoto, quit coal and move towards clean, renewable energy," Ms Fitzpatrick said.The Howard government claims it is taking appropriate action. Federal Environment Minister Ian Campbell said he recognised climate change was the biggest modern-day environmental challenge. "I think that climate change is alarming," he said on ABC radio. "I regard climate change as the number one environmental challenge ... It is a huge and serious challenge. These figures add to the weight of evidence that climate change is real and it's a problem that the world needs to work together to seek to solve."Australia and the United States are the only developed nations to have refused to sign the Kyoto Protocol, which calls on countries to cut greenhouse emissions by 5.2 per cent below 1990 levels by 2012.The Government argues Kyoto will not work because it does not commit developing nations to reducing emissions. "Kyoto excludes most of the emissions in the world. It only covers just over a third of the countries of the world and ... we need something that includes all countries of the world," said Senator Campbell.Many regions across the globe also reported an exceptionally warm year. According to a preliminary estimate released by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), the global mean temperature for 2005 was about 0.48°C above normal, putting 2005 amongst the four warmest years globally since records commenced in 1861.Less than one week out from the inaugural Asia-Pacific Clean Development and Climate Partnership meeting in Sydney, the Australian government has claimed that technology could be used to cut emissions three times more than the Kyoto Protocol.Ian Macfarlane, Minister for Industry said that the six countries at next week's meeting will discuss ways to cut greenhouse gas emissions while continuing to produce large amounts of energy."While Kyoto puddles on, to put it nicely, the real reductions will come from technology" Mr Macfarlane said. "This is not a diplomatic love-in. It's a hard-edged business plan with targets and reporting duties."The members of the partnership - Australia, the United States, China, India, Japan and South Korea produce around half of the world's greenhouse gas emissions. Of the world's developed nations only Australia and the United States have refused to ratify Kyoto.The pact will not set binding targets upon its members, but will monitor its results.It is believed that the meeting will discuss nuclear energy generation, geothermal energy and capturing and storing gases underground.The federal opposition is calling on the Australian government to ratify Kyoto. Environment spokesman, Anthony Albanese, said "The Kyoto Protocol is the main game, with mandatory fixed targets for greenhouse gas emission reductions over an extended timetable, with economic instruments driving the policy outcomes".The Labor Party of Australia has today launched "Our Drowning Neighbours", a Pacific Climate Change strategy. The strategy was announced at 11am today, at Parliament House, Canberra, by Bob Sercombe MP (Shadow Minister for Pacific Island Affairs and Overseas Aid) and Anthony Albanese MP (Shadow Minister for the Environment, Heritage and Water).Senator Bob Brown of the Australian Greens party welcomed aspects of the statement but suggested that the policy as stated was weak and pointed out that Labor had voted against Greens Senator Christine Milne's motion calling for recognition of Pacific climate change refugees just two months previously.Australian opposition leader Bill Shorten, speaking in Cairns yesterday, pledged an A$500 million fund towards research and programs to help protect Australia's environmental icon The Great Barrier Reef.Recent surveys indicated coral bleaching has killed more than a third of coral in the Great Barrier Reef's north and central regions."All of this", said Mr Shorten, "is at risk if serious action is not taken to protect it. The Great Barrier Reef is an environmental treasure Australia holds on trust for the world".The Australian Research Council (ARC) Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies performed the surveys.  Bleaching is associated with higher-than-average water temperatures resulting from El Niño events, affected by climate change.ARC said bleaching had affected all but seven percent of the reef. This bleaching event is the third of its kind with notable occurrences in 1998 and 2002. This event in particular has had the biggest impact on the reef so far.Two weeks ago, James Cook University scientists said the government would have to commit A$10 billion over the next decade or the reef would be incurable in half that time. Mr Shorten's $500 million investment in research and protection of the reef would be spread over four years.A report released by Allan Gyngell of the Lowy Institute on Monday, revealed many Australians view US foreign policy to be as dangerous as Islamic fundamentalism. It also found that 58 percent of the population had a positive view of the United States.  The Lowy Institute, established in 2003 with a $30 million endowment from Australian philanthropist Frank Lowy, claims it is "an independent, non-partisan think tank."The report, entitled "Australians speak 2005: public opinion and foreign policy", showed that global warming and nuclear proliferation were greater foreign policy concerns than terrorism and illegal immigration. 70 per cent of Australians were worried about global warming, the report stated, while only 63 per cent were worried about international terrorism. The report also noted most Australians believed improving the global environment should be Australia's number one foreign policy goal.Mark Wakeham of Greenpeace said, "Clearly Australians understand the warnings from scientists about greenhouse pollution far better than our governments do. Once again, the community is leading and governments will be pulled into line."He continued by saying, "Scientists tell us that, to avoid dangerous warming of more than two degrees, we have to cut our greenhouse pollution by at least 60 per cent by 2050. This means moving rapidly and decisively away from dirty coal to clean, renewable sources of energy like solar, wind and energy efficiency."The Lowy Institute surveyed 1000 randomly selected people to interview for the report.A team of scientists from Australia and US has found a solution for a challenging problem in climate research. Climate models predicted more greenhouse gases would weaken the equatorial Pacific trade winds.However, over the past two decades, observations showed this Walker circulation was getting stronger, accelerating sea level rise in the western Pacific, and consequent changes in global climate.The researcher team reports, "The answer to the puzzle is that recent rapid Atlantic Ocean warming has affected climate in the Pacific".Their study, "Recent Walker circulation strengthening and Pacific cooling amplified by Atlantic warming", was published on Sunday in Nature Climate Change.While previous research supposed natural variability alone accounted for cooling in the eastern Pacific, this study highlights a previously overlooked climate feedback: as the Atlantic warms, it alters the winds over the Pacific, depressing the ocean temperature there.As coauthor Shayne McGregor of the University of New South Wales explains, "the main cause of the Pacific wind, temperature, and sea level trends over the past 20 years lies in the Atlantic Ocean [...] We saw that the rapid Atlantic surface warming observed since the early 1990s, induced partly by greenhouse gases, has generated unusually low sea level pressure over the tropical Atlantic. This, in turn, produces an upward motion of the overlying air parcels. These parcels move westward aloft and then sink again in the eastern equatorial Pacific, where their sinking creates a high pressure system. The resulting Atlantic–Pacific pressure difference strengthens the Pacific trade winds."Coauthor Malte Stuecker of the University of Hawaii Meteorology Department reports that "Our study documents that some of the largest tropical and subtropical climate trends of the past 20 years are all linked: Strengthening of the Pacific trade winds, acceleration of sea level rise [three times faster than the global average] in the western Pacific, eastern Pacific surface cooling, the global warming hiatus, and even the massive droughts in California". His colleague cauthor Fei-Fei Jin adds, "We are just starting to grasp the scope of the impacts of this global atmospheric reorganization and of the out-of phase temperature trends in the Atlantic and Pacific regions".Work earlier this year by coauthor Matthew England, University of New South Wales, showed the stronger winds have churned up the waters of the Western Pacific Ocean, so more heat flows from the winds into the water. This appears to explain why global surface temperatures have recently risen more slowly.Coauthor Axel Timmermann of the University of Hawaii notes a further amplifying effect: "Stronger trade winds in the equatorial Pacific also increase the upwelling of cold waters to the surface. The resulting near-surface cooling in the eastern Pacific amplifies the Atlantic–Pacific pressure seesaw, thus further intensifying the trade winds [...] It turns out that the current generation of climate models underestimates the extent of the Atlantic–Pacific coupling, which means that they cannot properly capture the observed eastern Pacific cooling, which has contributed significantly to the leveling off, or the hiatus, in global warming."As Professor England said, "It will be difficult to predict when the Pacific cooling trend and its contribution to the global hiatus in surface temperatures will come to an end. [...] However, a large El Niño event is one candidate that has the potential to drive the system back to a more synchronized Atlantic/Pacific warming situation."Representatives of more than 180 nations gathered on the Indonesian island of Bali today to kick off a United Nations-sponsored conference on global climate change. The U.N. hopes the meeting will conclude with a road map toward a new agreement on reducing the types of air pollution many scientists believe are driving changes in the earth's climate.The Bali meeting aims to get countries to commit to working out a new agreement on emissions cuts to extend or replace the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012. Conference president Rachmat Witoelar of Indonesia told reporters that a detailed proposal is not necessary at this stage, but participation by all nations is vital."We will be happy if this Bali road map is general so we will not push for a very detailed in this short time," he said. "The introduction, the process is important."As the conference opened, Australia's new prime minister, Kevin Rudd, signed the Kyoto Protocol, limiting his country's greenhouse gas emissions. That act earned a standing ovation in Bali, and focused attention on the failure of the United States to sign the protocol - the only developed nation not to have done so."While the current U.S. delegation will not join in serious negotiations over mandatory limits on global warming pollution, they won't be around when the final deal is made in 2009. A new team will be on the field with a very different game plan," he said. "The other nations must not allow the U.S. to derail, delay or water down the Bali mandate."Senior U.S. negotiator Harlan Watson denied his country was blocking progress, saying the U.S. had merely chosen a different course."It's up to each country to do the analysis and analyze for themselves if the target is do-able. Obviously the U.S. came to a different conclusion," he said. "We respect the decisions other countries have made and of course ask them to respect the decision that we've made."President Bush says that the Kyoto Protocol threatened U.S. economic growth, and believes that any future climate-change agreement will be ineffective unless it includes rapidly developing nations such as China and India, which are among the world's largest producers of greenhouse gases.Other subjects on the agenda in Bali include saving the world's remaining forests, and sharing technologies to help developing nations grow in less-polluting ways. The U.N. also hopes to finalize a fund to help countries affected by global warming to cope with the impacts. The money could go toward flood-proof houses, better water management, and crop diversification.The Bali conference will continue until December 14. Thousands of government representatives, scientists and activists are attending.This article is based on Climate Change Conference Opens in Bali by VOA News  which has a copyright policy compatible with our CC-BY 2.5. Specifically "Copyright status of work by the U.S. government"British Prime Minister Tony Blair sees New Zealand facing the challenge of playing a significant role in the fight against global warming. He mentioned in a video conference between Auckland and a conference hosted by Victoria University of Wellington that the country could be a important factor in performing that change. It could persuade others to adopt reasonable policies for sustainability, he told a conference in Te Papa.Tony Blair, who visited New Zealand for 24 hours, said that the pressure must be kept on governments to address climate change whether or not they are signatories to the Kyoto Protocol. He encouraged ordinary people as well to take part in solving this great task: "One of the things you and other people can do is keep up the pressure... there are going to be some difficult decisions for government".Mr Byers said yesterday: "The reality is that unless we can get the United States engaged - responsible as it is for around a quarter of the world's carbon dioxide emissions - then any hopes of successfully tackling global warming will be doomed to failure. Some sources are saying, Blair is saying these things because he can make the more progressive voters change their mind, so they would vote for him.A 'giant black mystery blob' in the Chukchi Sea off the coast of Alaska has been identified as marine algae. Initially speculated to be an oil spill, the mass was discovered by a group of hunters earlier this month near Wainwright. The blob is reported to be stringy and hairy, and is tangled with jellyfish, among other debris. The "thick, dark gunk" stretches for as much as 15 miles, and is moving at a slow drift. Upon being first sighted, the U.S. Coast Guard flew out to investigate the mass, and local officials collected samples for testing. Coast Guard Petty Officer Terry Hasenauer reported that "We responded as if it were an oil product. It was described to us as an oil-like substance, thick and lingering below the surface of the water. Those characteristics can indicate heavy, degraded oil, maybe crude oil, or possibly an intermediate fuel oil." Test results subsequently revealed that the blob is some sort of unusually extensive algae bloom. "It's definitely, by the smell and the makeup of it [...] some sort of naturally occurring organic or otherwise marine organism", Hasenauer said. The substance has remained entirely offshore.However, there is still great uncertainty among local residents and officials alike: "We've observed large blooms in the past off Barrow although none of them at all like this", said Barry Sherr, an oceanography professor. "The fact that the locals say they've never seen anything like it suggests that it might represent some exotic species which has drifted into the region, perhaps as a result of global change. For the moment that's just a guess."Former President Bill Clinton and New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg have revealed plans to merge their climate leadership groups C40 and the Clinton Climate Initiative on Wednesday.Bloomberg serves as the chair for C40 Cities, an organization of cities devoted to tackling climate change. Together with the Clinton Climate Initiative, a program of the William J. Clinton Foundation, the two high profile environmentalists believe the alliance will assist cities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through a range of energy efficient and clean energy programs."I am pleased and honored to be here with my friend President Clinton. He has been a life-long champion of climate initiatives and I can think of no greater partner in this effort," said Bloomberg.President Clinton said the merger will "make it possible to create jobs and grow economies through reduced emissions. By combining forces with the C40, I believe the CCI Cities Program can continue to expand this work and make an even greater impact."Mayor Bloomberg also announced  that the fourth C40 Summit will commence on May 31st in São Paulo. Both Clinton and Bloomberg will give keynote addresses at the summit, which is attended by the Mayors of many of the world's major cities.Unknown individuals gained access to a server of University of East Anglia's Climatic Research Unit (CRU). As a result, around thirteen years of email correspondence between researchers is now available worldwide. Substantial previously unpublished climate change observations are included.According to initial reports by TGIF Newspaper and the Watt's Up With That blog, hundreds of emails and documents were made available from a FTP site on a Russian server with an accompanying statement:"We feel that climate science is, in the current situation, too important to be kept under wraps. We hereby release a random selection of correspondence, code, and documents"Some journalists suppose that this event is a consequence of increased attention on CRU after it played a substantial role in the IPCC fourth assessment report (2007).The released data is a 62 megabyte zip file, containing around 160 megabytes of emails, pdfs and other documents.  Some of the contents have been confirmed as genuine by the head of the University of East Anglia’s Climate Research Unit, Dr Phillip Jones. In an interview with TGIF Newspaper, he stated that a breach of security had taken place and that a large quantity of files had been "stolen". The interviewer discussed one of Dr. Jones' published e-mails: Once Tim’s got a diagram here we’ll send that either later today or first thing tomorrow. I’ve just completed Mike’s Nature trick of adding in the real temps to each series for the last 20 years (ie from 1981 onwards) amd [sic] from 1961 for Keith’s to hide the decline. Mike’s series got the annual land and marine values... – From: Phil Jones, 16 Nov 1999, To: ray bradley ,mann@[snipped], mhughes@[snipped]The interviewer asked Dr. Jones to explain the phrase "hide and decline", but he answered that he had no idea what he meant by using them (as they were made in the context of a discussion taking place 10 years ago), and he had not attempt to mislead: No, that’s completely wrong. In the sense that they’re talking about two different things here. They’re talking about the instrumental data which is unaltered – but they’re talking about proxy data going further back in time, a thousand years, and it’s just about how you add on the last few years, because when you get proxy data you sample things like tree rings and ice cores, and they don’t always have the last few years. So one way is to add on the instrumental data for the last few years. – Dr. Jones, TGIF newspaper ("Investigate magazine") interviewIn a press release by the University of East Anglia, Dr. Jones stated that:"That the world is warming is based on a range of sources: not only temperature records but other indicators such as sea level rise, glacier retreat and less Arctic sea ice."Our global temperature series tallies with those of other, completely independent, groups of scientists working for NASA and the National Climate Data Center in the United States, among others. Even if you were to ignore our findings, theirs show the same results. The facts speak for themselves; there is no need for anyone to manipulate them."[...]My colleagues and I accept that some of the published emails do not read well. I regret any upset or confusion caused as a result. Some were clearly written in the heat of the moment, others use colloquialisms frequently used between close colleagues."One such colloquialism, "trick," is frequently used by scientists and engineers to refer to an essential or non-obvious element in the solution of a problem, as opposed to the common political usage connoting deception.Commentators argue that the published messages show the researchers' reluctance to publish scientific material, though it contains serious global warming observations. Some of the correspondence portrays the scientists as feeling under siege by skeptics’ and worried that any stray comment or data glitch could be turned against them.The East Anglia University has shut down the original server, from which the information was stolen. A university spokesman stated that data was published without permission, but did not confirm whether all of the published communication is genuine: We are aware that information from a server used for research information in one area of the university has been made available on public websites.Because of the volume of this information we cannot currently confirm that all of this material is genuine.This information has been obtained and published without our permission and we took immediate action to remove the server in question from operation.We are undertaking a thorough internal investigation and we have involved the police in this enquiry. – University of East Anglia spokesmanThe release of the documents comes just weeks before a major climate-change summit in Copenhagen, Denmark, meant to lay the groundwork for a new global treaty to curb greenhouse-gas emissions and fight climate change.The government has a near-term target of cutting emissions below 1997 levels by 20%, and a more ambitious target of a 60% cut by 2050.Critics of nuclear power say that it will not be able to help meet the 2010 target due to the length of time needed to plan, construct and commission such power plants. However backers say nuclear power will help meet the 60% cut by 2050 target.Sir David King, Chief Scientific Advisor to the government, is a supporter of nuclear power believing that it is the best way to tackle global warming.The chairman of British Nuclear Fuels, a company that operates several British nuclear reactors, said that he expects Tony Blair to make an announcement of new power stations within weeks of the May 5 general election if he is re-elected.Another primary supporter of nuclear power is the ex-BBC Director General Lord Birt, who has been advising 10 Downing Street on various issues by providing 'blue-sky' thinking without payment, as part of the Strategy Unit. He is said to be preparing a report that will say nuclear energy provides an opportunity to reduce dependence on Middle Eastern oil supplies (although very little oil is burnt for electricity production in the UK).While it is believed that senior Cabinet members would not oppose a plan for new nuclear power stations if Tony Blair proposed it, the Environment Secretary Margaret Beckett and Trade and Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt both oppose nuclear power.New reactors would probably be sited next to existing reactors to limit public opposition.Nuclear power currently provides 22% of the UK's electricity needs. The UK has 31 operating reactors at 14 power plants, but by 2015 all but three stations will have been shut down. The last nuclear reactor to open was Sizewell B on the North Sea coast in 1995. The 1,188MW station was a large reason why the UK met its carbon dioxide emissions reduction target in the 1990s. British nuclear power stations have created 2,000 cubic metres of nuclear waste. There are currently no plans for the long-term storage of the waste.By comparison, just over 3% of Britain's electricity comes from renewable energy. France met 78% of its electricity needs in 2002 using nuclear power.Scientists in the UK, have claimed that Summer 2005 has beenthe warmest in the Northern Hempisphere since reliable recordingbegan in the 19th Century.The claim comes from researchers at the University of East Anglia(UEA)working in conjunction with those of the (UK) Meteorological Office.Dr David Viner of the UEA's Climatic Reasearch Unit isquoted (BBC News) as saying: "The data also show that the sea surface temperature in the northern hemisphere Atlantic is the highest since 1880,"Officials in the Bush administration privately threatened the organizers of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Montreal, saying that any chance there might have been for the United States to sign the Kyoto Protocol would be lost if Bill Clinton spoke Friday at the meeting.The threat was received within minutes of the Associated Press running a story on Clinton being added to the program.  "It's just astounding." said one organizer. "It came through loud and clear from the Bush people—they wouldn't sign the deal if Clinton were allowed to speak."Clinton said, "There's no way that I'm gonna let petty politics get in the way of the deal. So I'm not gonna come."  The organizers later reported that they had "called the administration's bluff."  Clinton delivered his speech as planned.In his speech Friday, Clinton described the Bush administration's opposition to Kyoto as "flat wrong."Vice-President Dick Cheney directed the U.S. envoy to walk out Thursday, in response to comments by Canadian Prime Minister Paul Martin on Thursday.  The walk out is not believed to relate to Clinton's attendance.The freshly elected president of the World Climate Change Conference Rachmat Witoelar, Indonesian Minister of the environment, as well as his predecessor, Nabiel Makarim, and Yvo de Boer of the UNFCCC, called for a breakthrough in negotiations on the first day of the 13th Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC in Bali today. All three speakers agreed that by the end of the conference, which lasts till the 14th of December, an agenda must be set for negotiations on a post-2012 agreement on climate change mitigation. In founding this demand, they each drew on the IPCC's Fourth Assessment Report, which establishes that the window for mitigating dangerous climate change closes in year 2030.The outgoing President of the last session, David Mwiraria, Kenyan minister for environment and natural recources, held the first speech making some statements on his term of office. He went on to remind that the least developed, many of which are African nations and the small island states, are the ones that will be hit hardest by global warming, now and in the future.The new president of the conference, Mr Witoelar, Indonesian minister of the environment agreed with that statement, saying that the "most severe impacts [...] will be felt by poor nations, and the poorest within them" and drew the conclusion that it is "critical that we act, and act now." Looking at the chances for the so-called Bali roadmap being agreed on, he noted that from consultations he had "heard that there was widespread support from governments" for making this happen. He went on to say that "Many have also expressed support for a target date of 2009". As the two speakers before him, Yvo de Boer of the UNFCCC noted that 2007 had been a exceptional year regarding climate change, with multiple political high level meetings being held. He went on to say that the delegates should reach agreement on a multitude of issues that had only been in discussion up until now. Amongst others, these included the organizational questions regarding the Adaptation Fund, which is aimed at funding measures that will increase the adaptive capacity of nations with developing industries. Reaching agreement on these issues would allow their substance to be implemented, and at the same time "free up the negotiation capacity needed for the post-2012 process".Finally, he addressed the matter of whether the targets that are to be set by 2009 are to be internationally legally binding or not, an issue that the United States is particularly sensitive about. He stated that in his opinion form follows function, making an allegory to the targets needing to be set before agreement being reached on how they are to be mandated .London, Ontario is the latest in a string of Canadian cities to have acted on increasing public demand to ban bottled water. On Monday, the decision to eliminate bottled water sales in city-run facilities was passed by London's city council with a vote of 15-3 in favour. The move was driven by a desire to reduce waste and shipping, have a lower impact on the environment and promote tap water as a cheap and safe alternative.London's new restrictions will be implemented over the next several months in buildings that are already equipped with water fountains. Bottled water will still be permitted at many city-run events, such as upcoming summer festivals. Privately-owned retailers will not be affected by the ban.Other cities, such as Vancouver, Ottawa and Kitchener, that are already engaged in debate on the issue, may now be watching London carefully for how the ban plays out. Other areas have already begun to phone London with questions on the details of its new regulations. Toronto has begun taking a look at bottled water packaging as part of its waste diversion strategy, and its public school board is looking into the possibility of a total restriction on bottled water sales.In recent years, an awareness of the energy that is required to manufacture, transport and recycle the product has spread nation-wide. Proponents of the ban point to the fact that it can produce as much as 150 times the volume of greenhouse gas when producing bottled water as compared to supplying the same volume of tap water. They also point out that the water that goes into bottled water products is not inspected as frequently as tap water in Canadian cities.Some have taken this cause to heart more than others, such as British Environment Minister Phil Woolas, who called the use of bottled water "morally unacceptable." Restaurant critic Giles Coren of The Times of London criticizes those who use the product as "the new smokers."Canada's beverage industry has come down with criticism on the increasing opposition to bottled water. Spokesman Scott Tabachnick for Coca-Cola Co., which produces Dasani brand bottled water, commented on the convenience of the product: "It's hard to bring your kitchen sink with you."Vancouver City Councillor Tim Stevenson thinks that bottled water's time has come and gone: "Bottled water companies have had a fabulous ride on an unnecessary fad." Vancouver officials are still determining how bottled water restrictions, which have been voted for by the City Council, can be phased in.Next month, the city is planning to initiate a marketing campaign encouraging Vancouver residents to choose tap water and to remember to carry reusable drinking containers whenever possible.Renowned environmental activist Dr. David Suzuki has praised London's decision, saying that it represents a turning point for people's perceptions on the issue: "I'm really delighted that London has done this because it really makes us focus on some fundamental issues." He hopes that someday people will "look at anyone who hauls out a bottle of water and say, 'What the hell's wrong with you?'"The Conservative Canadian government have decided to obey the Kyoto bill which was a forced decision by the opposition Liberals. Prior to this decision, the Liberal opposition party said the government could be sued if they would ignore the law."If and when that becomes law, the government would respect it. I'll just point out ... that the bill has no plan of action in it, the bill gives the government no authority to spend any money to have a plan of action," Canadian PM Stephen Harper told the House on Thursday. "Of course, if and when that becomes law, the government would respect it."The bill will be sent to the Senate of Canada for approval before it is actually made law. The legislation will only give the government 60 days to come up with a plan that meets with the Kyoto Protocol.Kyoto wants to drop 6% of greenhouse gas emissions starting from 1990 to 2012. The Conservatives say it is bad for the Canadian economy.Political experts are now saying that a federal election could come as soon as spring 2007. The Conservatives were elected on the 23 of January in 2006.A Canadian government employee of Environment Canada was arrested Wednesday for criminal breach of trust with respect to a leak of the Conservative government's green plan days before it was due to be made public.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) arrested the unidentified male employee following a complaint from Environment Canada's security department. The department alleges that a secret draft copy of the government's regulatory framework, Climate Change Section of the Eco-Action Plan, had been leaked to the media prior to being released officially to the public."An employee who violates the terms of their workplace security clearance, including the release of secret documents, may be subjected to legal consequences, including criminal charges," said Superintendent Stan Burke, officer in charge of the RCMP's financial integrity division. There was also concern that if the details were leaked, securities laws could be compromised if stock trades were made based on privileged information.Environment Minister John Baird was forced to reveal details of the government's climate change plan on April 24, in an opinion piece published in the media. The move came after a copy of a speech describing the plan was faxed by mistake, a day earlier, to an opposition Liberal party member and environment critic, David McGuinty. It is not clear whether the police action Wednesday was related to that incident.The RCMP stated that the matter remains under investigation and, as such, no further details would be released at this time.Members of Stephen Harper's Conservative government said Friday that the government of Canada may ignore an upcoming House of Commons bill to respect the Kyoto accord. The Liberal-sponsored Bill C-288 requires the government to table a plan within 60 days explaining how they would meet climate change commitments. The final vote on the bill is expected on Wednesday. Earlier votes passed with the support of all three opposition parties. Transport Minister Lawrence Cannon says the government does not feel bound by the terms of the bill, adding that the government will "act [...] instead of adopting an empty piece of legislationOfficials within the Canadian and United States Governments have previously criticised the Kyoto Accord for exempting the People's Republic of China and India, two of the largest world carbon emitters.Rona Ambrose (at the time Canada's Environment Minister) voiced Canada's interest in participating in U.S. sponsored Asia Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate. "We've been looking at the Asia-Pacific Partnership for a number of months now because the key principles around [it] are very much in line with where our government wants to go," Ambrose told reporters in 2006.[1]Liberals say ignoring the bill would be a "coup d'etat" and would trigger a constitutional crisis. Pablo Rodriguez, Liberal MP from Montreal and sponsor of the bill, says that if the bill becomes law, the government will have to respect the Kyoto Accord or call an election. However the legislation is not being considered a confidence matter, and therefore would not bring down the government on the vote itself.Experts are saying the government has a democratic obligation to follow laws. Ned Franks, a professor at Queen's University believes the government would need to produce a plan and have money value attached to it. Stewart Elgie, a professor at the University of Ottawa, confirmed that if passed and no action is taken, the government would be breaking the law and could be taken to court.Operation NANOOK 2008 was held from August 11 to August 25 by the Canadian Forces for the purpose of conducting mock emergency rescue operations for potential maritime disasters in the northeastern Canadian Arctic waters.  Two Canadian navy ships and two airforce planes, a CC-138 Twin Otter and a CP-140 Aurora, took part in the exercises in the Canada's Arctic.  The HMCS Toronto and the Canadian Coast Guard ship Pierre Radisson travelled along the Hudson Strait.  The Operation extended to Davis Strait, and Frobisher Bay during the annual NANOOK Operation.  There have been 18 such humanitarian operations since 2002. As more Arctic ice melts, the ships sail through uncharted waters. Emergency response times were tested for such potential disasters as oil spills, or rescue operations such as responding to cruise ship emergencies. General Walter Natynczyk, Canada's chief of Defence staff,  the Honourable Peter MacKay, Defence Minister as well as Minister of the Atlantic Canada Opportunities Agency, and  Steven Fletcher, Member of Parliament for Charleswood–St. James–Assiniboia and Parliamentary Secretary for Health, flew to Iqaluit, Nunavut to officially launch the exercise on August 19, 2008 and observe the process. In addition to the military exercises, Veterans Affairs Canada held a commemorative event onboard the HMCS Toronto to honour the 55th Anniversary of the Cease Fire in Korea, the 65th Anniversary of the Battle of the Atlantic, and the start of the Last 100 days of the First World War.  The inaugural ceremonies were held during Community Day activities in the capital city of Iqaluit, followed by the public panel discussion held on Saturday.  The community day ceremonies were organized by participants in Operation NANOOK 2008.  The public ceremonies received neither Nunavut politicians nor Inuit leaders.Prime Minister Stephen Harper has agreed to send the government's 'Clean Air Act' to an all-party committee for review, before its second reading, after Tuesday's 25 minute meeting with NDP leader Jack Layton at the PMO.Layton had asked for changes to the conservatives' environmental bill during the meeting with the PM, asking for a "thorough and complete rewriting" of the Conservative party's environmental bill. However, Layton was disappointed with Harper's reaction. "I'm not really convinced that the prime minister understands the urgency of the climate change crisis, the threat that climate change proposes and the urgency to move quickly," he said. "Far too much emphasis on consultations that could go on for considerable periods of time as opposed to action.Layton has introduced a private member's bill on climate change. It calls for emissions to be cut by 25 per cent of 1990 levels by 2020, in an attempt to cut total emissions by 80 per cent of those levels by 2050.Other parties including the Liberal Party of Canada, Bloc Québécois and the Green Party of Canada are concerned about this."What we've been concerned about was really a Halloween stunt from Mr. Layton," Interim Liberal leader Bill Graham said at a news conference."It will be completely transformed," said BQ Leader Gilles Duceppe. "The Conservatives won't recognize their legislation."However, Green Party Leader Elizabeth May said bringing the 'Clean Air Act' into committee would give the legislation some legitimacy it doesn't deserve.The committee will be full of critics commenting on the conservatives' bill.The Tory government may have a possible non-confidence motion as early as Thursday unless it allows opposition parties to rewrite its clean air bill, which the PM had agreed to in the meeting with Layton.The UK Environment Secretary, David Miliband proposed a carbon trading scheme for private citizens during the Audit Commission's annual lecture.Under the scheme all individuals will receive equal carbon points and can trade electricity, gas, petrol and air travel for carbon points.Mr. Miliband argues that the government could set limits on the amount of carbon emitted. He says that people with low income who contribute less to carbon emission could benefit by selling off excess carbon points. He also says that the scheme is more empowering than other forms of regulations such as banning particular products, services or activities, or taxing them heavily.Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrats' environment spokesman, “supported any discussion about household carbon allowances”. but also argues that that this would take too long to implement. He said that green taxes have fallen to their lowest since Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minster.Neil Parish, a Member of the European Parliament and the chair of the Agricultural committee of the European Parliament, was recently interviewed by Wikinews on the subject of biofuels and renewable transport. The interview was held after a workshop was held in the European Parliament on the subject of biofuels."I believe that the mixing of biofuels with mineral oils can provide us with significantly cleaner fuel," said Mr. Parish.In a press release by the European Parliament about the workshop, the legislative body stated some possible disadvantages to biofuels:In the interview Parish also said that encouraging public transport was an important method of combating climate change. Below is the relevant quote:Mr. Parish also mentioned road pricing in the interview. Biofuels are often used because they provide a way of limiting the emissions  of carbon dioxide. Many people do, however, note that rainforest are destroyed to make space for the production of biofuels.China's president, Hu Jintao, held a press conference on Wednesday with United States president Barack Obama at the White House. The two leaders spoke about relations between their countries.Topics included human rights, trade between the US and China, and climate change. Obama noted that China's position on human rights was occasionally a "source of tension," although  it did not "prevent [the U.S. and China] from cooperating."Standing next to each other at the White House, the pair took questions from reporters on the scene. One asked how "[the US can work with] a country known for treating its people so poorly, using censorship and force to repress its people."  Obama replied "China has a different political system than we do. China is at a different stage of development than we are. We come from very different cultures and with very different histories. But as I've said before and I repeated to President Hu, we had some core views as Americans about the universality of certain rights, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly that we think are very important and transcend cultures. I have been very candid with President Hu about these issues."Hu did not initially respond to this question, blaming technical problems. However, upon being asked later, he stated "a lot still needs to be done" with human rights in the country. Hu stated that both China and the United States must appreciate their individual interests. According to CBS News, the Chinese president was in an "unfamiliar setting"; BBC News noted that the meeting was "rare".The largest class action in Victorian history was commenced at the Supreme Court of Victoria on Friday the 13th by Slidders Lawyers against electricity distribution company SP AusNet and the Brumby Government in relation to the Kilmore East fire that became part of the Kinglake complex. Because of the lawsuit, SP AusNet SPN.AX's shares on Monday have dropped more than 13.36 per cent or 14.5 cents, to an intra-day low of 94 cents, was at 98.5 cents at 10:38 a.m. local time, before recovering slightly to be 7.5 cents lower at A$1.01 by 1144 AEDT (0003 GMT) or 6.9 percent in Sydney trading. Shares in SP AusNet closed 3.7 percent lower at A$1.045 on Monday.Power supplier SP AusNet said it has asked the Victoria Court regarding the status of the class action proceedings saying the firm had insurance policies in place consistent with industry standards. "SP AusNet will continue to update the market as further information becomes available," the company said.The claim has focused on alleged negligence by SP AusNet in its management of electricity infrastructure. It maintains most of the power lines in eastern Victoria. Its fallen power line is believed to have sparked the blaze that tore through Kinglake, Steels Creek, Strathewen, Humevale, and St Andrews. The plaintiffs include thousands of angry Kinglake farmers, small business owners, tourist operators and residents who lost homes.Leo Keane, the lead plaintiff in the class action has alleged "SP AusNet owed a duty of care to landowners to operate and manage power lines in a way that limited the risk of damage from bushfires."On Thursday Phoenix Taskforce had taken away a section of power line as well as a power pole from near Kilmore East, part of a two-kilometre section of line in Kilmore East that fell during strong winds and record heat about 11am last Saturday. It was believed to have started the fire there, since within minutes a nearby pine forest was ablaze, and within six hours the bushfire had almost obliterated nearly every building in the towns in its path."It is believed that the claim will be made on the basis of negligent management of power lines and infrastructure," Slidders Lawyers partner Daniel Oldham said. The law firm has announced it was helping landowners and leaseholders get compensation for the 2003, 2006, 2007 and 2009 bushfires. "If you have been burnt by the recent bushfires, please register your interest using the form below as soon as possible," the law firm's website stated.The Insurance Council of Australia has placed the cost of the bushfires at about $500 million. "That means keeping electricity lines clear of trees and in a condition that won't cause fires. They must also have systems in place to identify and prevent risks occurring," Melbourne barrister Tim Tobin, QC, said. According to the 2006 census, Kinglake had a population of almost 1,500 people. But SP AusNet's legal liability has been limited at $100 million under an agreement inked by the former Kennett government with private utility operators, when the former State Electricity Commission was privatized in 1995. Accordingly, the Brumby Government could be legally obliged to pay damages of the differences amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars.SP AusNet Ltd said some of its electricity assets have been damaged by the Victoria bushfire. "As a preliminary estimate, it is thought that damage has been sustained to approximately one per cent of SP AusNet’s electricity distribution network, mainly distribution poles, associated conductors and pole top transformers," SP AusNet said in a statement to the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). It explained that up to 6,000 homes and businesses on its network were without power due to bushfires, including the Kinglake complex fire, Beechworth fire, and fires across Gippsland including Churchill and Bunyip.SP AusNet said the firm will cooperate fully and will assist in any fire probe. "We stand ready to assist the relevant authorities with their inquiries if it is necessary for us to do so now and in the coming months," SP Ausnet spokeswoman Louisa Graham said in a statement. "Our priority is to restore power to fire-affected areas as quickly as possible. We believe the claim is premature and inappropriate ... SP AusNet will vigorously defend the claim. If the claim is pursued, SP AusNet advises that it has liability insurance which provides cover for bushfire liability. The company's bushfire mitigation and vegetation management programmes comply with state regulations and were audited annually by state agencies," Grahams explained.Victorian Auditor-General Rob Hulls said "there was an 'unseemly rush' by some lawyers to sue before the cause of the fires had been fully investigated." "The government body had audited the network's bushfire risk to make sure required distances between power lines and vegetation were maintained. Power companies had been given a clean bill of health, and electricity firms were judged to be 'well prepared for the 2008-09 bushfire season.' There were no regulations applying to the distances between poles supporting electricity lines and spans of one kilometre were not unusual," a spokesman for Energy Safe Victoria explained.Christine Nixon, the 19th and current Chief Commissioner of Victoria Police said investigations into the cause of the bushfires were ongoing. "I know people are angry, and so are all of us in this community. But we need to kind of have a sense that the proper processes are in place and we need to go through the investigation and through the court case," Nixon said. "At this stage we are not able to confirm how it started. I understand there is some legal action that people are taking, but at this stage we're still investigating its cause. But the whole circumstances of that fire are part of our Taskforce Phoenix, and as we move through that we'll be able to tell the community more once we're able to confirm or deny what we think is the cause of these fires," Nixon added.On Thursday, two people were arrested in connection with the fires, having been observed by members of the public acting suspiciously in areas between Yea and Seymour; although they were both released without charges laid. Brendan Sokaluk, age 39, from Churchill in the Gippsland region, was arrested by police at 4pm on Thursday, in relation to the Churchill fires, and was questioned at the Morwell police station. He was charged on Friday with one count each of arson, intentionally lighting a bushfire and possession of child pornography. The arson case relates to 11 of the 21 deaths in the dire  Gippsland fire, which devastated 39,000 hectares in the Latrobe Valley, Calignee, Hazelwood Koornalla and Jeeralang. Two teams of Churchill firefighters were almost lost in the inferno that remains out of control.Mr Sokaluk joined the CFA Churchill brigade in the late 1980s as a volunteer fire fighter, left in the 1990s and attempted to rejoin twice, but was rejected. He failed to appear in Melbourne Magistrate's Court Monday for a scheduled hearing, since the court reset the committal hearing on May 25. He is represented by lawyer Julian McMahon.Magistrate John Klestadt has lifted the suppression order which kept the suspect's identity a secret but identifying photographs were barred from being released. Mr Sokaluk was remanded in protective custody from Morwell to a cell in Melbourne for his own safety amid fears angry prisoners will target him and real risk of vigilante attacks. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years imprisonment if convicted on the arson charge. "This is an extraordinary case. The level of emotion and anger and disgust that the alleged offenses have aroused in the community is unprecedented." Mr Sokaluk's defense lawyer Helen Spowart argued. The prosecution has moved the Court for more time to prepare its case, saying there would be up to 200 witnesses to interview. Slater & Gordon has indicated that they were awaiting the report of the to-be-established Royal Commission, expected in late 2010, before initiating any claims.Armed with a $40 million budget, the Royal Commission's Chair Justice Bernard Teague will be assisted by former Commonwealth ombudsman Ron McLeod, who led the inquiry into the 2003 Canberra bushfires, and State Services Authority Commissioner Susan Pascoe. The Commission has said its interim report is due on August 17 while the final report will be submitted by July 31, 2010.Judge Bernard Teague has announced Tuesday he will meet with fire victims and fire authorities within the next two weeks. "We want to do that as soon as possible - probably not next week but starting to have these discussions the week after," he said.Julia Eileen Gillard, the Deputy Prime Minister of Australia and deputy leader of the federal Australian Labor Party (ALP) said the federal and Victorian governments would respond quickly to the royal commission's report. "Everybody who has lived through this experience in Victoria and around the nation has asked the question: 'Why? What can we do better?'. No one wanted to see the report "as a book on a shelf gathering dust," she said.Victoria bushfire experts, led by Forest Fire Victoria - a group of scientists and forestry experts - have condemned the government's "Living with Fire" policy and the state's failure to initiate serious fuel-reduction programs. The Victoria government had failed to seriously act on bushfire safety recommendations submitted last June by the Victorian Parliamentary Environment and Natural Resources Committee.As death toll rises, evidence mounts of lack of planning prior to Australia’s worst bushfire. "Living with Fire" policy means Kinglake fire trucks were dispatched to an earlier fire in Kilmore, leaving Kinglake undefended. "Kinglake was left with no fire brigade and no police. The trucks had been sent to Kilmore. I've been in the fire brigade for 10 years. There was always a law—the trucks had to be on the hill. Because of the government we got gutted at Kinglake. They should have been getting generators ahead of the fire—so people would have had a chance of fighting it. As soon as the power went, I couldn't keep fighting the fire at my place," Rick and Lauren Watts, and their friend Neil Rao, spoke to the WSWS.Rick has also criticized the lack of early warning communications systems, since emergency siren warnings in the town had been stopped some years earlier. Humevale resident Sina Imbriano who has six children was angry about the failure of  state and federal governments to set up a recommended telephone warning system amid its "stay and defend or go" policy. Bald Spur Road residents Greg Jackson and his wife Fotini said the government's "stay and defend or go" policy was "fruitless" since the critical issue was early warnings,  but "they [the government] just won't spend the money." Also on Friday, five law firms from Victoria's Western Districts, including Warrnambool-based Maddens Lawyers and Brown & Proudfoot, held a meeting to discuss a potential class action in relation to the Horsham fire, which was also thought to have been started by fallen power pole that burnt vast swathes of land in Mudgegonga and Dederang, Victoria. The lawsuit will also focus on the fire that blackened about 1750 hectares at Coleraine.Maddens senior attorney Brendan Pendergast said: "We don't know who the defendant is at this stage. We are unsure who the electrical supplier is for that area but we should know in a few days. There were people who had their homes burnt to the ground and they will need to reconstruct, replace their contents," he said. Maddens has initiated a register of affected landowners for the recent bushfires, saying the firm has included victims of the Pomborneit fire that burnt almost 1300 hectares in the proposed class action amid the CFA's statement the blaze could have been deliberately lit. Frances Esther "Fran" Bailey, Liberal member of the Australian House of Representatives (1990-93 and 1996-present), representing the electorate of McEwen in Victoria said the Country Fire Authority (CFA) had told her one of the power lines had broken before the fire. "The local CFA [Country Fire Authority] told me on that Saturday, with those very high winds, one of the lines had broken and was whipping against the ground and sparked," she said. "Whether or not that is the cause of that terrible fire that actually took out Kinglake and maybe Marysville, the investigations will prove that, but we've got to do better," she added.Victorian Premier John Brumby said the power line claim would be examined as part of the Royal Commission into the bushfire. "No stone will be left unturned. So, I think it's important the Royal Commission does its work. And, the Royal Commission will, of course, look at all of the factors with the fires," Mr Brumby said. At least 550 houses were incinerated and 100 people have been killed, leaving more than 1,000 homeless in the Kinglake bushfire and surrounding areas.SP AusNet - Singapore Power International Pte Ltd is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Singapore Power Limited (51% interest in SP AusNet). SP AusNet's electricity transmission and distribution networks, along with the gas distribution assets, enable it to deliver a full range of energy-related products and services to industrial and domestic customers in Victoria, Australia.Singapore Power ( 新加坡能源有限公司) is a company which provides electricity and gas transmission, distribution services, and market support services to more than a million customers in Singapore. As the only electricity company in Singapore, and also one of its largest corporation, SP was incorporated as a commercial entity in October 1995 to take over the electricity and gas businesses of the state provider, the Public Utilities Board. Since 1995, Temasek Holdings controls the entire company with a 100% stake. SP is involved in a major investment in Australia's Alinta in partnership with Babcock & Brown, after putting up a bid of A$13.9 billion (S$17 billion), beating out a rival bid by Macquarie Bank.The devastating 2009 Victorian Black Saturday bushfires, a series of more than 400 bushfires across Victoria on February 7 2009, is Australia's worst-ever bushfire disaster, claiming at least 200 deaths, including many young children, and is expected to pass 300. 100 victims have been admitted to hospitals across Victoria with burns, at least 20 in a critical condition, and 9 on life support or in intensive care. The fires have destroyed at least 1,834 homes and damaged many thousands more. Many towns north-east of Melbourne have been badly damaged or almost completely destroyed, including Kinglake, Marysville, Narbethong, Strathewen and Flowerdale. Over 500 people suffered fire-related injuries and more than 7,000 are homeless. It has scorched more than 1,500 square miles (3,900 square kilometers) of farms, forests and towns.The Supreme Court of Victoria is the superior court for the State of Victoria, Australia. Founded in 1852, it is a superior court of common law and equity, with unlimited jurisdiction within the state. Those courts lying below it include the County Court of Victoria, the Magistrates' Court of Victoria and the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (which is technically not a court, but serves a judicial function). Above it lies the High Court of Australia. This places it around the middle of the Australian court hierarchy.Campaigners opposed to the expansion of London Heathrow Airport have today scaled the roof of the U.K. Houses of Parliament and hung protest banners reading 'BAA HQ' and 'No 3rd Runway' from the building, before and during Prime Minister's Questions inside the building.The three men and two women were from climate action group, Plane Stupid. The non-violent direct action comes on the day a government consultation into the Heathrow expansion of a third runway ends. The protesters made paper aeroplanes out of confidential Whitehall documents that allegedly show collusion between the British Airports Authority (B.A.A.) and the Government department of transport to subvert the public consultation process on the proposed third runway. These documents were obtained from the Department for Transport by Greenpeace under the freedom of information act.B.A.A. claims a third runway is essential for Britain's economy, and would reduce congestion at Heathrow, actually cutting emissions, and is necessary to keep up with the booming aviation industry. This would allow the number of flights to increase from 480,000 a year to around 702,000 .In a statement given by one of the protesters from the roof to the Guardian newspaper: Matthew Knowles from the Society of British Aerospace Companies made a statement to the B.B.C. that: "These stunts are becoming tiresome and do nothing more than peddle inaccurate propaganda."The rooftop occupation comes two days after Greenpeace protesters scaled an Airbus A320 which had just touched down at Heathrow from Manchester, and follows a succession of direct action protests in the U.K. in relation to climate change.Climatologists believe artificially induced climate change is the reason Australia is destined for the warmest year on record. Temperatures so far this year have averaged one degree above the 30-year average, the Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) told the Greenhouse 2005 – Action in Climate Change Conference being held in Melbourne this week.The head of the National Climate Centre, Michael Coughlan, says Australia has had the warmest ever first 10 months of 2005, and seems likely to be a record-breaking year. "It's typically been a degree or more above the average for most of the months," said Mr Coughlan. "When you think you're averaging over hundreds of stations across Australia, to get a one degree warming over such a large area is fairly significant."According to BOM, Australia has experienced its warmest start to a year on record (since 1950), with the January to October temperature averaging 1.03 degrees Celsius above the 30 year average (1961-1990). Annual mean temperatures have increased throughout Australia since 1910, particularly since the 1950s. "If one draws a trend line from the mid-50s or early 50s, through to the present, it's a fairly steady upward trend. And it's interesting that this is not true only of Australia, but it's fairly typical throughout most continents now, most parts of the world," said Mr Coughlan.As the average temperature has risen, there has been an increase in the incidence of hot days and hot nights, and a reduction in the number of cold days and nights. This warming is mirrored in the oceans around Australia.Michael Coughlan says warm sea surfaces are a significant factor in the creation of cyclones and hurricanes. "One might expect, with those sea temperatures being warmer than they have been in the last few years, that the odds would be tipped towards perhaps a greater number of the cyclones than we have seen in the last few years," he says.Warming is not the only sign of change in Australia’s climate. Other changes include a marked decline in rainfall in southwest and parts of southeast Australia, and recent reduction in rainfall through the eastern states. At the same time, rainfall in the arid interior and northwest has increased dramatically, in some places nearly doubling during the last 50-years."Climate change affecting Australia is real," says CSIRO's Dr Bryson Bates. "In 2005 the questions we face are how best to respond and adapt – from projections in agriculture to changing ecosystems, reduced catchment flows and downward rainfall trends," Dr Bates says.The GREENHOUSE 2005 Action on Climate Change Conference is expected to attract 400 Australian and international delegates.Cheek numbing, eye watering winds whip across the plains of the Laramie Basin, Wyoming. The ground is yellow brown with patches of recalcitrant snow. Sheep Mountain is losing its winter coat. All normal affairs for March.  The March edition of the Wyoming Basin Outlook Report also reports, based on February accumulations, that Snow Water Equivalent is at 99% of average.  The SWE is a measure of the snow pack that feeds the streams, rivers and reservoirs that Wyoming, Nebraska and other states depend upon for water.  Current averages are compared to the average SWE for 1971-2000. In recent years, snow pack in this region has been anything but normal.The Outlook Reports are issued  January to June.  Since March 2000, only five of 46 months have been above normal.  While many of the winter months have been near normal, June's snow pack is far below average.  Even in 2006, the wettest year of the last eight years, June snow pack was only 37% of the average.  In an e-mail interview with Wikinews, Lee Hackleman, Water Supply Specialist, said In a phone interview with Wikinews, Myra Wilensky of the National Wildlife Federation in nearby Colorado, also commented on changing snow patterns.This is part of a general increase in temperature in the region.  An Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change cited by the National Wildlife Federation estimates that the temperature will rise almost 7 degrees (F) by 2100.  The NWF's main concern is the fate of the wildlife in the region, particularly how the impact of pine bark beetles.  Warmer winters have led to mass infestations in  Western lodge pole pine forests and The New York Times reports that they are now moving on to white bark pines in Yellowstone particularly impacting grizzly bears there. In turn, the grizzlies are shifting to feeding on Canadian thistle, an invasive species that might be choking out native plants.Changing weather patterns have also affected large migratory animals.Water for people has also become a major issue in the region. Kansas has long fought Wyoming over water rights issues.  And Montana is currently suing Wyoming, claiming that the Yellowstone River Compact signed in 1950 gives rights to both surface and ground water, while Wyoming disagrees.  On February 18, the Supreme Court agreed to hear the lawsuit. Authorities do not see this fight over increasingly limited water resources going away anytime soon.The United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bali is nearing its halfway mark. Senior delegates are hopeful an international agreement will be reached on how to control harmful climate emissions when the Kyoto Protocol expires in 2012, but environmental activists fear the talking is taking too long. Delegates in Bali hope to begin drafting a plan to cut greenhouse gas emissions in an effort to contain rising global temperatures. Many scientists believe the emissions contribute to a rise in global temperatures.Yvo de Boer, the United Nations' climate change chief, told reporters Friday that over the past two days, the mood at negotiations has been positive.Asked to provided a concrete example of progress, he said a special working group of delegates has agreed that any future agreement should include ways to encourage countries such as China and India to develop environmentally friendly practices as their industries and economies grow."So they've gone into an in-depth discussion on mitigation, and have come to the conclusion that really a strong focus needs to be on putting in place incentives for developing countries to mitigate climate change. That came up very strongly. That, to me at least, is a good indication that the mood is good, people are at work," said de Boer.But environmentalists have not been as optimistic about progress in this week's negotiations.Also today the Greenpeace ship the Rainbow Warrior arrived in Bali.Earlier this week, Japan took a position similar to the United States in proposing that any new agreement should favor voluntary emissions targets instead of mandatory ones. The two nations believe that binding emissions caps would threaten the economic growth needed to fund technology used to fight global warming.Hans Verlome, director of the World Wildlife Fund's Climate Change Program, urged the U.S., Japan and others to take more decisive action in light of a report from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that found global warming is occurring and is likely caused by humans."We did not come to Bali to just have another process, and we have two years of talks. It is time to get on with it," said Verlome. "The IPCC report has delivered the results that are necessary to inform decision making, and the decision making is here, now."Verlome and other environmentalists say China has taken a leading role in negotiations this week. China wants wealthy countries to help spread technology for cutting greenhouse gas emissions in poor countries.Harlan Watson of the U.S. delegation reaffirmed his country's opposition to mandatory caps on carbon emissions, but said the U.S. would be open and flexible."The U.S. is committed to advancing negotiations, and developing a Bali roadmap, that will guide negotiations on a new post-2012 global climate change regime that is environmentally effective and economically sustainable," he said.Delegates are on schedule to begin drafting proposals early next week. Environment and trade ministers are scheduled to meet over the next few days.The anti-poverty group Oxfam says global warming is altering the human food supply and threatening some of the world's poorest people with hunger. At the United Nations Conference on Climate Change in Bali, the group argued developed countries should pay to address the problem, and costs could top $50 billion a year. Climate change, which many scientists believe is fuelled by human activities, alters rain cycles and causes increased droughts and flooding. Rising temperatures mean some traditional crops do not grow as well as they used to. The United Nations predicts that in some African countries, crop yields could fall by half.Oxfam researcher Kate Raworth says coping with these issues will be expensive."Oxfam has estimated that for all developing countries to adapt to climate change will cost at least $50 billion a year," she said. "And for that to be done with justice we believe that the rich and the most polluting countries should pay the vast share of the money to make possible for those countries most vulnerable and least responsible for causing the problem to cope with the new realities they have to deal with."The report released by Oxfam at the conference on Tuesday says some countries are already feeling the effects of a warming planet. In South Africa, farmers are planting faster-maturing crops to adapt to unpredictable rainfall.Bangladeshis are creating floating vegetable gardens that can thrive in spite of floods. But Mozaharul Alam, who heads Bangladesh's climate adaptation effort, says overall improvements to the food system still leave many families vulnerable."Most of the agriculture is subsistent in nature," said Alam. "So if [there is] any failure of the crop on the ground, even if there is food available in the market, unless the people has the buying capacity, that availability of the food in the market has no meaning to the vulnerable family."Oxfam argues the United States, the European Union, Japan, Canada and Australia should be among the major sources of funds to help developing countries solve their climate change problems.These countries have agreed in principle, but one task of the Bali Conference is to find out how much individual countries are willing to spend on climate-related issues. It also aims to begin deciding how to divide those resources between prevention of further climate change, and adaptation to the changes that are already taking place.The conference involves thousands of scientists, government officials and development group representatives, and runs for another 10 days.This year's session of the "United Nations Climate Change Conference", which includes meetings of the COP and CMP, begins next week in Bali, Indonesia. The Conference is the place where formal decisions regarding the Kyoto Protocol will be made and discussed. Several participants and observers agree that getting on track for a regulatory agreement on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for 2012 onwards is going be one of the main challenges in the upcoming talks.Setting an agenda and a date for completion of negotiations on a post-2012 climate change agreement at the upcoming conference in Bali is of great importance, stated Yvo de Boer, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in an interview given to Inter Press Service last week. De Boer declared that he does not "expect Bali to agree on targets and finalise a regime", and sees the real work in "designing a global agreement that encompasses every country while recognising the need of different approaches with different people" during the short span of the next two years. However, making the decision to launch negotiations is a prerequisite to this, and in that regards he says that "...for me Bali is very much a make or a break."The European Commission said in a press release from Tuesday: "The [...] conference [...] must agree to launch negotiations on a comprehensive and ambitious global climate change agreement for the period after 2012, when the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period ends."The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Gordon Brown stated in a speech that "the task of Bali sounds quite specific: to launch negotiations leading to a post-2012 global agreement on climate change. But our mission is in truth historic and it is world changing—to build over the next 50 years and beyond a global low carbon economy."The United States seems to agree as the Department of State noted in a press release that "we are committed to developing an environmentally effective and economically sustainable post-2012 framework to address climate change."In its information for the press, the UNFCCC secretariat states that the latest Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report made it unmistakenably clear that the problem and danger of global warming needs to be tackled immediately, and with a world wide response. While the Kyoto Protocol includes reduction targets for the signatory developed nations through 2012, the communique says that a "new international climate change deal must be put in place" so that no time gap occurs between the current measures to reduce GHGs until the end of the current phase and those measures that will be applied thereafter.The climate conference that was held for the last two weeks in Bali came to a conclusion on Saturday. Agreement was reached  on the so called Bali roadmap, but opinions differed on the substance of this and other documents that were decided upon.The Roadmap establishes the target year of 2009 and the scope for a post-2012 climate change agreement. This agreement is expected to include the setting, for industrialized nations, of reduction targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, amongst other things.While the EU  had wished for the inclusion of a guideline range of 25-40% for GHG emission cuts by industrialized nations by 2020, this had been opposed by the US and others, and so was not included in the final "roadmap" which addresses all nations that are part of the United Nations Framework on Climate Change Convention (UNFCCC). The range was however included in the preamble of the document agreed on by the members of the Kyoto Protocol.After almost two weeks of negotiations, this years United Nations Convention on Climate Change (UNCCC) is soon going to end, Friday being scheduled as the last day of the talks, with an extension until Saturday being possible if agreement can not be reached beforehand. While the head of the UNFCCC Secretariat, Yvo de Boer, stressed from the onset that actual targets for emission reductions were not to be expected to be agreed on, the inclusion of a target frame for industrialized nations is being debated after all. However, his stated goal of deciding on a roadmap for negotiations, which he said needed to address the matter of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions reductions after 2012, and would have to be concluded by 2009, is not yet achieved, there being disagreement on a matter of points.China for example restated a position it had made at the beginning of the first week, calling for 2010 as target year for the so called "Bali Roadmap". But a bigger point of contention is that the EU and the vast majority of the 190 nations participating in the conference want to set a target of a 25-40% cut in GHG emissions. The U.S., along with Canada and Japan, are refusing to agree to any targets at this point.The EU and others say it is important to set targets now, to get a head start in the fight against global warming. The U.S. says targets should come later, after negotiations begin.The latest to be heard by Sean Heron, who is reporting on behalf of the Wikinews on site, regarding the ongoing negotiations was a statement by a Pakistani official, saying that the US had made a new proposal, and that he was feeling more optimistic than he had the day before. The official spoke in the press conference room, excusing the Ambassador Munir Akram, who was supposed to give a briefing on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, but couldn't make it, as negotiations, due also to the new American suggestion, were still ongoing at 11 pm local time.The United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) has opened on Monday with calls for urgent action to curb climate change and global warming. The largest climate conference in history at the Bella Center in Copenhagen, Denmark is running for two-weeks from December 7 until December 18. Around 15,000 delegates including representatives from the private sector, environmental organizations, research institutions and government officials, as well as 110 heads of state and government from 192 countries, will attend. The COP15 Cultural Opening Ceremony played a four-minute long film called Please help the world by the Danish director Mikkel Blaabjerg Poulsen to highlight the danger of rising temperatures. The film depicts a young girl’s screaming nightmare about an eco-apocalypse with global warming, desert wastelands and terrifying floods. As the girl wakes from the nightmare she and other children implores us to 'Please help the world'. Poulsen said, “We have made a film which speaks to the heart rather than to the brain”. There was also music from a trumpeter, a harpist and the Danish National Girls Choir. The UN climate change conference, the climax of two years of contentious negotiations, opened in an atmosphere of hope. There was an upbeat mood for a deal to be reached within the next two weeks.  At a press briefing,  Connie Hedegaard, the president of the conference, said that “the deadline is working”, but “within the time we have, we must solve the task”. Lars Lokke Rasmussen stressed, however, that the talks will have to overcome the deep distrust between rich and poor nations on how to share the burden of curbing emissions. There has been a series of promises by rich and emerging economies to curb their greenhouse gases, but there are major issues yet to be resolved.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said that a legally binding treaty on climate change will be reached in 2010.   The European Union has adopted a commitment to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020 compared to 1990 levels but the union will raise its commitments to 30% if other major players undertake “comparable commitments”. News that the United States Environmental Protection Agency ruled that greenhouse gases endanger human health  may allow reductions of U.S greenhouse gas emissions. Quoting an unnamed diplomatic source, the Financial Times Deutschland has said the EU is to provide “1-3 billion euro” in aid to developing countries over the next three years so they can fight the effects of climate change and allow climate change mitigation and adaptation.The conference was accused of environmental hypocrisy for its substantial carbon footprint, including its extensive use of private jets and limousines. To reduce the conference's environmental and climate impact, the Danish government will not give gifts to participants. The money will be spent on climate scholarships called COP15 Climate Scholarships, allowing 10-12 candidates to carry out 2-year climate related master’s programmes at Danish universities. Thousands of people are outside the conference building including groups such as Climate Justice Action, Friends of the Earth, Camp for Climate Action, 350.org and Greenpeace calling for urgent action. The environmental group Friends of the Earth condemned what it called “undemocratic practices adopted by the Danish presidency of convening small and exclusive groups of countries before the Copenhagen meeting”. A draft negotiating text has been publicly released, but it is rumored that there is an “alternate” treaty document being developed by some large countries in the negotiations, including conference organizers. According to the Bali Road Map,  the 15th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP15) and the 5th Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol (COP/MOP5) must agree to a framework for climate change mitigation beyond 2012. Heads of states and governments of 110 countries have announced that they will come to Copenhagen before the 18th of December in an attempt to seal a political global climate deal. If a deal is reached, the UN will aim at transforming it into a legally binding text to replace the Kyoto Protocol, as its regulations of emissions expire in 2012.Environmentalist and science broadcaster David Suzuki, best known as the host of the hit TV show The Nature of Things, is taking a trip to Toronto to speak about climate change. Suzuki will be speaking about how to achieve sustainable development within one generation.The David Suzuki Foundation developed a report, "Sustainability within a Generation: A new vision for Canada", partly in response to research that found Canada ranked 28 out of 29 developed nations in environmental categories such as climate change. The report outlines an agenda for the country to make it a leading sustainable economy, focusing on efficiency improvement, eliminating waste and pollution, and developing sustainable urban centers.The event, presented by Jack Layton and sponsored by the New Democratic Party of Canada, will be held on April 2nd, 2005 at Convocation Hall on the University of Toronto campus, Ontario.The UN has certified that the Delhi Metro has aided in the reduction of greenhouse gases, earning 'carbon credits'.  This makes the Delhi Metro the first of its kind in the world to do so.This comes under the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) of the UN under the Kyoto Protocol. The UN said the rail based system has helped to save 630,000 tonnes of pollution a year. The credits to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) are worth $9.5 million for each of the next seven years.  More credits would be given for more passengers on the system.The credits are designed as a financial incentive for developing countries to reduce greenhouse emissions.The Delhi Metro was started in 2002. According to the DMRC, it has reduced road traffic by more than 91,000 vehicles per day.A sub-body of the World Climate Change Conference today took up the item of "Development and transfer of technologies"  on its Agenda, and subsequently decided to establish a contact group to speed up negotiations. Both the declaration of the new Agenda item, as well as the setting up of the Contact group, came after lengthy discussions that were polarized between the Group of 77 + China (G77+C), which is comprised of about 130 nations with developing industries, and the Umbrella group, which consists of most of the nations with highly industrialized economies, but the EU countries. . The sub-body, called the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI) is, as its name implies, amongst other things responsible for preparing and implementing decisions of the main body of the UNFCCC, the Conference of the Parties (COP). After having spent a large part of the morning discussing formalities regarding whether or not technology transfer was to be taken up as a separate item, the afternoon session had to be extended till around 9 pm local time. Even then some of the planned agenda items had not been concluded when the session closed.The cause for discussion in the morning were two different interpretations of a decision the COP made yesterday: Member states of the G77+C believed that the referral of the item of tech transfer by the COP automatically lead to its inclusion on the agenda as a separate item, while the Chairman of the SBI and the US voiced the opinion that to for it to be included, the item would have to be formally agreed upon in the normal manner. Compromise, of one sort or another, could not be reached, and it was only after a legal adviser stated that in his point of view the item indeed was necessarily included on the agenda as a separate item that the matter could be concluded.Due to the stalling in the mornings session, discussions on the actual item of technology transfer began after what would have been the scheduled closing time. South Africa  made the proposal to set up a contact group for the item, so that it could be discussed in a setting with less participants in an informal way. A number of G77+C nations (including China and Nigeria) spoke out in support of this proposal, emphasizing that rapid progress was needed on the issue. Japan, and the US made critical statements, noting that they believed that the scope of the contact group should first be established, and that it would be more sensible to establish the contact group in 2008. After it was found that the group would nevertheless be established, the Chairman asked for suggestions for Co-chairs of the group, as one from the Annex I and one from the non Annex one would be required. The non-Annex I having already decided that they supported Prof. Philip M. Gwage from Uganda as Co-chair, the Annex I countries decided that Jukka Uosukainen from Finland would be the Co-chair on their behalf after brief deliberations. The decision being reached provoked some applause from delegates and observers, and the session was closed shortly thereafter.The island of New Moore, an uninhabited territory near the Bay of Bengal between India and Bangladesh, has vanished, according to Indian scientists.The island, located south of the Hariabhanga river, has been claimed by both Bangladesh and India for almost thirty years, since it first appeared in the seventies. The School of Oceanographic Studies in Calcutta commented that the disappearance of the island was confirmed by satellite imagery."There’s no trace of the island anymore. After studying satellite images, I reconfirmed this from fishermen," said Sugato Hazra, the director of Jadavpur University’s school of oceanography studies. According to the Times of India, the island only appears above the water surface if there is an unusually low tide. "What these two countries could not achieve from years of talking has been resolved by global warming."Hazra commented that, until 2000, sea levels in the area increased approximately three millimetres annually, but in the past year the figure was augmented to about five millimetres. The director said that ten other islands in the vicinity of New Moore were in danger of being submerged as well.Hazra attributed the island's disappearance to global warming, saying: "Coastal erosion and rising temperature in the Bay of Bengal between 2000 and 2009 led to the Purbasha island getting submerged. Temperature in the region has been rising at an annual rate of 0.4 degree celsius."In 1996, another isle nearby, Lohachara, was submerged beneath the waters, displacing its inhabitants; meanwhile, the Ghoramara island had lost about half its land, Hazra said. "We will have ever larger numbers of people displaced from the Sunderbans as more island areas come under water."According to officials, eighteen percent of the Bangladeshi coastal land will be submerged if sea levels increase by one metre by 2050, and twenty million people will be displaced.Results published in the science journal Nature suggest previous Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) predictions will need to be revised upwards.Climateprediction.net has released it's first results, indicating that global temperatures could rise by up to 11° C, even if global carbon dioxide levels are limited to twice those found before the Industrial Revolution; levels that high are expected to be reached in the middle of this century.The results indicate that carbon dioxide emissions will have an even bigger affect on the global climate than previously thought.The Climateprediction.net is a distributed computing project. More than 95,000 people around the world have downloaded the software which runs calculations when the user's computer is idle, releasing computer power greater than that of even the largest supercomputers.The project is a collaboration between several UK universities and the Met Office, funded by the British Natural Environment Research Council and the Department of Trade and Industry. In the summer of 2004 the project joined forces with the SETI program, with University of California computer scientists developing a version of the SETI software to run climate change models.April 22 was Earth Day. It is a tradition started by United States Senator Gaylord Nelson with the first Earth Day in April 1970. Earth Day Canada was started in 1990.In Central Park, New York, the "Green Apple festival" marked the event. In Buenos Aires an "an entertainment event with an awareness component."An earth fair was also held in Catalunya, Spain. The earth day website says that "the theme for this year's edition is the Fight Against Genetically Modified Organism which Poison the Planet."Golden Gate Park, San Francisco, also held an event to mark the day. This event is similar to an event last year that marked last year's earth day.There were also events to mark the day in Caracas, Venezuela. The Earth Day website said "youth groups from Universities will make a vow as Citizens of the World and will launch Beja Contest 2008," in its description of these events.There were also events in Chicago. According to the Earth Day website, Lincoln Park Zoo hosted some of these events.Events in Tokyo, Japan also marked the day. The Earth Day website says that the "booth and Event Area within Yoyogi Park" hosted the event.Other places across the world also marked the day. The Earth day website says that "Earth Day 2008 is expected to be the biggest yet, From Tokyo to Togo, to our flagship event on the National Mall in Washington, DC and 7 other U.S. cities, we will be galvanizing millions of people around the world behind a Call for Climate, our global warming action theme. "Jim Connaughton, the chairman of Council on Environmental Quality for the US government, described Earth Day and explained how it was founded. Below is his description:Connaughton also described what George W. Bush is doing to mark the event:Today is the 39th observance of Earth Day in the northern hemisphere. Earth day is celebrated in Autumn on November 30 in the southern hemisphere. Senator Gaylord Nelson initiated the first Earth Day in April 1970 in the United States, and it is now celebrated by over 1 billion people in over 170 countries worldwide. Earth Day is the biggest environmental event which addresses issues and educates people on environmental awareness on a global scale.This year, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) will beam high-definition images to the NASA website and television. By doing so, NASA hopes to increase appreciation of global climate issues. There will also be a Washington exhibit relating to environmental issues viewed from space as well.At the NASA Marshall Space Flight Center activities will focus on their slogan for Earth Day 2009, "Just One Drop ... PRICELESS" and will demonstrate how the Environmental Control Life Support System operates as used on the International Space Staton (ISS).Amongst the many festivals, WorldFest is a solar powered music celebration held in Los Angeles, California. Buenos Aires will also feature its second Earth Day event featuring a music festival as well."We are in a new era of energy innovation," said Daniel Yergin at a Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) forum. Lithium-ion batteries are providing electric storage solutions for electric cars such as the Chevrolet Volt and the Dodge Circuit EV. Algae fuel is a new form of biofuel, but is still under development.  "Energy Smackdown" was a competitive household activity which compared energy usage between 60 separate households across three cities in or near Boston. The various competitors came up with a variety of innovative methods to cut their carbon footprint, installing solar electric panels, geothermal heat pumps, wind turbines, and using a caulking gun to seal the home from drafts."In the average home, 75 percent of the electricity used to power home electronics is consumed while the products are turned off." is a United States Department of Energy (DOE) estimate.Miami is installing a smart grid which will use individual household smart meters to allow energy consumers know via a web site, their exact home energy usage. "To me these are prudent and smart investments that will easily pay for themselves. It will show the nation how to address environmental, energy, and economic challenges all at the same time." said Miami mayor Manny Diaz.Cal Dooley, CEO of the American Chemistry Council ACC, says the plastic bag industry is prepared to spend US$50 million to revamp their manufacturing facilities and will collect 470 million pounds of recycled plastic every year to make plastic bags of 40% recycled content. The ACC is providing a donation to the Keep America Beautiful environmental organisation, both of whom endorse this new project. The Earth Day Network (EDN) and Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) would like to see an end to the use of plastic bags, however. "We don't want people to use disposable bags. We want people to use reusable bags," says Darby Hoover of the NRDC.Calgary researchers will begin field surveys to help save the "Northern Leopard Frog  (Rana Pipiens). "Northern Leopard Frogs are threatened in Alberta, but endangered in British Columbia," said Dr. Des Smith, Primary Investigator and Research Scientist with the Calgary Zoo's Centre for Conservation Research. "It is essential to develop new monitoring techniques for Northern Leopard" said Breana McKnight, Field Team Leader and Endangered Species Researcher.The traditional Earth day ceremony of planting trees is garnering further attention in Japan as Koichi Nakatani, the nation's Tree Planting Father travels from Hokkaido to Okinawa.Students can take part in an Earth Day photo contest sponsored by the Institute for Global Environmental Strategies which will feature images and scientific student research for the environmental change depicted in each photo submitted.“Earth Day should be about teaching about the environment every day,” said Sean Mille director of education for EDN, “We emphasize taking action for your classroom, school, district or community."  25,000 schools across America made use of the environmental curriculum developed by the National Civic Education Project, the Green Schools Campaign and the Educator’s Network. Lesson plans are broad and varied and may focus on water pollution, recycling, composting, using chemistry to convert cafeteria left-overs into biodiesel or ethanol fuel or converting go-carts to operate on biodiesel or ethanol fuels in shop class."L’Alliance pour la Planète", a collective of French environmental organizations (such as WWF France), has launched a campaign to promote awareness on climate change. Under the theme Turn everything off!, they're asking people to turn off their electricity for five minutes on February 1st, between 7:55pm and 8:00pm CET. With the initiative, they hope to remind others, the media and politicians (such as the candidates for the upcoming French Presidential elections) of the ongoing waste of energy. Everyone should turn off the light, as well as all electrical appliances -maybe a good moment for a candlelight dinner, they suggest.The "five minutes of silence" are believed to put pressure on world governments to discuss the topic more seriously on an international scale. Since the first call various similar international groups have stated their support and currently promote the idea on their websites and newsletters.The date was originally chosen to match the release of the United Nations fourth climate change report, in which 2,500 scientists from more than 130 countries present their latest findings. The report however has been delayed and will now be released on February 2nd.In Belgium, non-profit organizations such as Oxfam support the action. The consortium is working with the power distribution company to prevent any negative impact a sudden drop of energy demand might have on the electricity network.Washington, D.C. - The Environmental Protection Agency may have a new tool in its arsenal to fight global warming. The agency has submitted a proposal to the Obama administration which aims to list carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gasses as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. The policy had previously been proposed to and rejected by the Bush administration, which said it was the wrong tool to be using. The proposal lists the negative effects of global warming, including longer and hotter heat waves, increased flooding, and the increased spread of diseases due to warmer weather. EPA administrator Lisa Jackson has previously suggested declaring global warming a health threat, and that the agency could use the 1970 Clean Air Act to use to combat it. Environmental groups applauded the finding, with the director of Clean Air Watch, Frank O'Donnell, calling it "a green-letter day for the environment." One of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce vice presidents, William L. Kovacs, said if the the proposal is put into effect that it "will be devastating to the economy." It is unclear whether the Obama administration will go along with the proposal. White House spokesman Ben LaBolt commented that "The president has made clear that to combat climate change, his strong preference is for Congress to pass energy security legislation that includes a cap on greenhouse gas emissions." No specific timeline has been given for when a decision would be made. An upcoming conference in Copenhagen, Denmark will focus on drawing up a new international global warming treaty, which the United States plans to attend, a clear reversal from the Bush administration's non-participation in the 1997 Kyoto Protocol.Erosion in Nigeria has lead to increasing concern on climate policy for the entire country.Areas in Nigeria have been subject to damages caused by increasing erosion for over 50 years. This issue has grown over the past years, and responsibility has been pointed at a lack of national policy.However, locals recognize that they too contribute to the problem. "Some of the problem of erosion is created by our people, by our attitude to waste disposal. When we dump garbage in the drains that are built by the government we simply aggravate the problem of erosion," said state environmental commissioner Michael Egbebike."And this waste combined with the force of the flood and trying to erode the soil and sometimes they actually block the channel that has been created for flood dispersion and the floods come back and actually destroy their homes, and at that point they call on government," he added.Geological studies of the area affected most by erosion, Anambra, have concluded that the cost of implementing a project which could effectively slow erosion are estimated at US$2 billion. Officials are looking for answers and help in funding a project at the Copenhagen environmental conference in December."We have a shortage of resources. The state is struggling because the monies spent on this erosion problem are huge sums of money. So we will of course need a lot of help from the international community and the federal government. Alone it would be a Herculean task for Anambra state," commented Egbebike.File:Angela Merkel SJ8.jpgEuropean Union leaders on the second day of their summit have agreed on measures to decrease emission of greenhouse gases and to start using more biological fuels. The governments of the 27 countries in Brussels  endorsed 3 main binding targets:to reduce greenhouse gas emission levels by the year 2020 by 20% compared to the level of 1990renewable energy should make up 20% of energy consumption by 2020a 10% share for biofuels in the total consumption of fuels in E.U. transport.This way, the E.U. wants to contribute in reaching the strategic goal of limiting the global average temperature increase to less than 2°C above pre-industrial levels. The individual targets for countries will need to be established based on national starting points and potentials, according to the plan. The plans don't mention an enforcement mechanism yet.In the summit's conclusions, the E.U. underlines its ambitions as a leading force in international climate protection. German Chancellor Angela Merkel called the targets "ambitious and credible". Europe is prepared to even increase the objectives if other developed countries follow suit, and it invites other countries to come forward with their plans for the environment beyond 2012, when the Kyoto protocol ends. In June, Merkel plans to discuss the measures with the other members on the Group of Eight summit.The proposal takes into account the sovereignty of individual countries to determine exactly which energy sources they use. More specifically, each member state should decide if they wish to use nuclear power or not. Some countries oppose the use of nuclear energy as an alternative to fossil fuels, and Germany is even in the process of dismantling its nuclear energy production. France on the other hand produces 70% of its electricity in nuclear power plants. [13% of France's total energy consumption is nuclear.] The report also stresses the importance of nuclear safety in the discussion over nuclear energy.The summit also asked the European Commission to come up with proposals to reduce energy consumption in lighting and offices by 2008 and 2009. The idea is to replace conventional light bulbs with more energy-efficient alternatives such as the energy saving light bulb.Another energy-related topic in the conclusions is an agreement on increased security of energy supply. Through member state solidarity and a more interconnected and integrated market, eastern European countries hope to secure their energy supplies in case Russia would cut the supply.During their two-days summit, the E.U. also discussed economic growth, employment, better regulations and international relations issues.Stavros Dimas at a press conference today stated that the European Union would not view it as necessary to attend the major emitters meeting (MEM) if no substantial agreement was reached at the climate change conference in Bali. His statement was made after being asked about rumours of the EU boycotting the US held MEM. He said that he had mentioned the preceding point of view in the presence of an under-secretary of the US government at a business breakfast this morning. He answered to a later question that he felt disappointed at the current stance of the US government, and wished clarity for the moment.According to a press release by Greenpeace, the German environmental minister Sigmar Gabriel also declared to the press that the EU would not be taking part in the scheduled MEM in January if substantial progress was not made. Amongst other points that are currently being discussed, one which is often referred to is that of whether or not a guideline frame for emissions reductions is to be included in the preamble of one of the final documents. The proposed frame is 25-40% cuts in greenhouse gas emissions for industrialized nations (known as Annex I nations in UNFCCC parlance), from 1990 baselines. The US is amongst the relatively small number of nations, including Canada and Japan, that are opposed to this.Asked what he knew of the matter at an earlier press conference, Yvo de Boer of the UNFCCC stated that Stavros Dimas, the European Commissioner for the Environment, had voiced his opinion that if no agreement is reached now, than there would be no need for the Major Emitting nations meeting to be held, because, so he apparently stated, the MEM is meant to feed into the UN process, and you could not feed something into nothing.The talks being held in Bali are expected to lead to a roadmap for negotiations on greenhouse gas emissions caps for after 2012, which is when the current first phase of the Kyoto protocol is going to run out. Multiple parties, observers, and the top UN executive of the Climate Change branch all had expressed their hope that this roadmap would also include a target date of 2009 for the conclusion of negotiations. The major emitters meeting is a convention of those nations that have the greatest greenhouse gas emissions, and was held for the first time at the invitation of the US in Autumn this year.A European Union-United States summit held in Slovenia produced a draft declaration outlining the groups' future cooperation on climate change, energy security and financial stability. Yesterday was the final day of the summit, the last EU-US summit that US President George W. Bush will attend in his current role.Hopes of a major breakthrough on the topic of climate change were low going into the summit. The foreign minister of Slovenia, Dimitrij Rupel, commented last week that, "on climate change, the positions are split." Members of the 27-nation EU have regularly expressed their dissatisfaction with the US for not having ratified the Kyoto Protocol, an agreement with binding greenhouse gas emissions targets. Doubts about the summit's efficacy were not misplaced, as no firm targets were set for actions on climate change.The EU and US agreed to cooperate increasingly in science and technology research for energy and climate change purposes, including carbon capture and storage, and hydrogen fuel cells. The EU reaffirmed its commitments as per the Kyoto Protocol, but the US restated that developing countries such as China and India must be made to sign up to such global agreements before it will sign on.Steps to secure energy sources for the future were also discussed. Promoting the creation of multiple pipelines to supply more natural gas to Europe was determined a priority, despite the fact that this would encourage an increase in emissions from gas use.Bush commented in a follow-up news conference: "I think we can get a global agreement on climate change during my presidency - just so you know."With Democratic Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts's nomination and likely approval as U.S. President Barack Obama's choice to replace the retiring Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Kerry's Senate seat is expected soon to be vacated, making necessary a special election to choose a new Senator. That potential race is now taking shape with two candidates having emerged as the frontrunners for their respective parties' nominations: Republican Senator Scott Brown and Democratic Representative Ed Markey.Massachusetts law adopted in 2004 requires a vacated seat to be filled permanently through special election held 145 to 160 days following vacation. This law was passed purportedly to prevent then-Governor Mitt Romney, a Republican, from naming a replacement for Kerry, who was at the time, the Democratic presidential nominee.  No such election occurred until long-time Senator Ted Kennedy died in office, vacating his seat in 2009. At the time, Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick named Democrat Paul G. Kirk as a temporary replacement. Kirk chose not to run for the seat, and instead the Democrats nominated Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley, who lost to Brown. Now, Patrick reportedly wishes to again name a temporary replacement who will not run in the special election. Candidates for this position include: Victoria Reggie Kennedy, the widow of Ted Kennedy; former governor and 1988 Democratic presidential nominee Michael Dukakis; and the retiring Congressman Barney Frank.Amid the Senate's consideration of the Affordable Health Care for America Act, Brown's 2010 election broke the Democrats' filibuster-proof super-majority in the chamber.  As the first Massachusetts Republican elected since Edward Brooke in 1972, Brown gained a reputation in the Senate as a political moderate, stressing bipartisanship. However, in the most expensive Senate race in the nation's history in 2012, he lost the seat to the liberal Harvard Law professor Elizabeth Warren, who tied him to conservative Senate Republicans. After the defeat, Republican Senators Dan Coats of Indiana, John McCain of Arizona, and Olympia Snowe of Maine each asked Brown to run for Senate again. He alluded to a potential return during his farewell address earlier in December, noting, "As I’ve said many times before, victory and defeat is temporary ... Depending on what happens, and where we go, all of us, we may obviously meet again." Though former Governor William Weld is also considered a potential Republican primary candidate, Brown leads him in opinion polls by a wide margin.  Additionally, a December 17–18 poll conducted by WBUR shows Brown with a 58 percent favorability rate in his state and ahead of potential Democratic nominees Markey, former Congressman Marty Meehan, and Congressmen Mike Capuano and Stephen Lynch.Patrick, Kennedy, Coakley, and Meehan have all denied interest in the seat as have other Democrats speculated to jump in including actor Ben Affleck and attorney Edward M. Kennedy, Jr., Ted Kennedy's son. Though Lynch and Capuano have expressed interest in the seat, Markey is thus far the only announced candidate. In a statement to The Boston Globe, Markey affirmed "this fight is too important" not to run and "there is so much at stake" in the election.  He added that an official announcement would come in January. Markey, who has served in Congress since 1976, previously ran for the Senate seat in 1984 but withdrew before the primary; Kerry went on to win the primary and seat that year. Markey intends to focus his campaign on global warming, gun control, protection of Social Security and Medicare, and government spending for jobs. He has secured endorsements from both Kerry and Victoria Kennedy, and with a war chest of $3.1 million from his congressional campaigns, has significantly more funds than any of his potential primary opponents. According to political scientist Peter Ubertaccio of Stonehill College, that may discourage prominent Democrats thinking about entering the race. Nevertheless, State Senator Benjamin Downing has announced he is exploring a potential bid.Though Markey has more money than Brown's $464,000 left from his 2012 campaign, Ubertaccio, in his analysis of the race, notes Brown has more recent campaign experience than Markey, who has not had a competitive campaign lately. Moreover, he finds Markey "very much a creature of Washington, which can be problematic in a tough statewide race." He sees the rush to support Markey as unusual, and as a way to discourage Democratic challengers to Markey. Jon Keller of Boston's CBS affiliate notes the rush was likely to allow Markey to begin attacks on Brown rather than Democrats, but he concludes the lack of choice for Democrats may give Brown an advantage as an outsider running against the insiders' hand-picked successor.Delegates at the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Indonesia are wrestling with a proposal that would allow developing nations to earn billions of dollars through carbon trading by leaving idle forests such as those in Borneo, the Amazon and Congo basins. The news comes on the same day that it was announced that forest clearance in the Amazon Rainforest was falling compared to previous years.Delegates from about 190 countries are negotiating a plan for private companies and wealthy nations to pay poorer nations to keep their forest intact. It is called the Reduced Emissions from Deforestation in Developing Countries, or REDD proposal.Environmental scientists say tree cutting in tropical areas accounts for about 20 percent of all man-made carbon dioxide emissions blamed for global warming. Tropical forests soak up vast amounts of carbon dioxide; burning timber to clear land releases it.Marcelo Furtado with Greenpeace in Brazil says the REDD plan is needed to fill gaps in the current Kyoto Protocol, an international agreement to limit emissions of greenhouse gases which does not include ways to preserve forests."We would like to see, at the very least, a REDD mechanism moving forward, because we want to see countries taking action now. We don't want to wait to 2013 to start seeing this action taking place. And this is something this convention, this group of countries could deliver," said Furtado.Frances Seymour, Director General for the Indonesia-based Center for International Forest Research, is concerned a premature REDD agreement could do more harm than good."Because in many forested countries, land tenure rights to forest lands and resources are either unclear or contested or both. And you can imagine that if a potential new income stream is available for those who can present themselves as owners of the forest, this could create conflict and create conditions under which some of the world's poorest people, who are people who live in forests, could be pushed aside," said Seymour.Financial analysts are also cautious about the proposal.Charlotte Streck, the director of Climate Focus, a Rotterdam-based consultancy, said investors are worried about how governments would monitor their forests and ensure the carbon stored in them remains intact."This is what makes the private sector nervous, because these are risks that they cannot hedge properly, and that they cannot evaluate in the same manner as the project related risks," she said.Conference delegates are still debating how to monitor the world's remaining tropical forests, how to stop logging in one place without shifting the problem to another area, and how to estimate the amount of carbon in a piece of land.Yvo de Boer, the U.N.'s climate change chief, said a REDD agreement is unlikely during this conference, but a group working on the details is making significant progress.File:FrenchSpiderMan HongKong.jpg48-year old Alain Robert, affectionately known as the 'French Spiderman', has climbed a 57-storey Sydney skyscraper without any equipment in 20 minutes. The purpose of Alain Robert's actions was to raise awareness of global warming. Following the previous like events in other cities, he was arrested and will possibly be fined.When Robert was 12, he climbed eight storeys to get into his flat instead of waiting for his parents to return. Since then, he has climbed over eighty buildings around the world, including the Eiffel Tower, The New York Times building, and Sydney Harbour Bridge. His hobby has, however, led to him being arrested and fined on multiple occasions—he was fined USD 750 after climbing the 41-storey Royal Bank of Scotland building in central Sydney.His most recent climb, which he completed in twenty minutes, began at the bottom of the Lumiere building in Bathurst Street at 10:30am AEST on Monday morning. About 100 passers-by gathered to watch Robert, dressed in red trousers, a grey top, and a baseball cap, climb the building. Eleven-year-old Rachel Pepper was surprised when he saw Robert, who suffers from permanent vertigo after two accidents in 1982. "I think it's amazing to climb that high without falling. He's got superhuman strength." His mother Wendy Pepper agreed, "It was a nice surprise when we turned the corner and got to see him."Upon reaching the top of the building, the Frenchman unfurled a banner advertising the website of The One Hundred Months campaign, which argues that 100 months after August 2008, climate change will reach an irreversible point, as onlookers applauded his feat. Robert was subsequently taken into custody at the top of the skyscraper, and charged with trespassing. Robert was granted conditional bail to appear at the Downing Centre Local Court on Friday. Robert's agent, Max Markson, described the climb as a "wonderful achievement. He's the best at what he does. I'm sad he's been arrested, but hopefully he'll get out soon."The leaders of the Group of Eight (G8) countries are meeting in L'Aquila, Italy, from July 8 to July 11. On Wednesday, the group announced that it had agreed to a cut in carbon emissions.The G8 agreed to a target to cut emissions by 80% by 2050, though interim targets were not defined."I believe we've made some important strides forward as we move towards Copenhagen," said United States President Barack Obama. "I don't think I have to emphasise that climate change is one of the defining challenges of our time. The science is clear and conclusive and the impacts can no longer be ignored."Obama was referring to the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2009, scheduled for December 2009 in Copenhagen, Denmark."I hope tomorrow when we meet other countries we'll follow that through and this is a very significant development, the first time it's ever been done," United Kingdom Prime Minister Gordon Brown said."The commitments expressed today at the G8 and Major Economies Forum (MEF) leaders' meeting, while welcome, are not sufficient,"Ban Ki-moon, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, said."For us the 80 percent figure is unacceptable and likely unattainable," said Arkady Dvorkovich, the top economic aide to Russian President Dmitry Medvedev. "We won't sacrifice economic growth for the sake of emission reduction."Some scientists say current climate change estimates may be significantly underestimating the potential scale of global warming. The team of researchers report that the actual warming due to human fossil fuel emissions could be 15 percent to 78 percent higher than estimates that fail to take into account the feedback mechanism which involves carbon dioxide and Earth temperature.Greenhouse gases are believed to contribute to global warming, yet scientists have said that global warming itself triggers greenhouse gas emissions - meaning that the Earth may get hotter faster than climate models predict.Another team of researchers in California, has reported a similar conclusion: "when the Earth has warmed up in the past, due to the sun's natural cycles, more greenhouse gases have been spewed into the atmosphere. As greenhouse gas levels rose, so did the Earth's temperature," the scientists reported.Dr Margaret Torn of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory said: "It means the warming is happening faster, each decade is actually warming faster than it would have," Dr Torn said. "It's the pace of change that will be one of the big problems. It's how humans adapt and the cost that will depend on the rate of change of climate."Over the past 30 years, the Earth has warmed by 0.6 degrees Celsius, NASA has reported. Over the past 100 years, it has warmed by 0.8 degrees C, indicating a recent acceleration in warmth. Current climate models predict temperature increases of 1.5 to 4.5 degrees Celsius, but the California team realised that additional carbon dioxide caused by the natural solar cycle may elevate these estimates.Taking this information on board could mean temperature increases of 1.6 to 6 degrees Celsius - and the higher temperatures are more likely, they said in a statement. Meanwhile, another group of leading US scientists has linked global warming to the recent increase in hurricane intensity. They warn that humans must develop cleaner energy and transportation immediately - or bear the risk of more extreme storms."One is faced with repeating history, of putting up with $200 billion worth of damage every so often," said Dr. Peter Webster, a professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology and author of a 2005 study that found the strength and duration of hurricanes has doubled in the last 50 years. "I’m not sure how many $200 billion the country can afford," he told journalists.Lawrence Berkeley's Dr Torn said humans are the biggest unknown: "To predict the future, you have to guess how much CO2 levels will go up. That depends on the biggest uncertainty of all - what humans decide to do. Do we get smart and prevent CO2 emissions? Do we continue with business as usual? Or will we end up somewhere in between?"The United Nations secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon says setting greenhouse-gas emission targets may have to wait until after the U.N. Climate Change Conference being held in Bali.U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon told reporters it may be too "ambitious" to set targets for greenhouse-gas emissions in the draft text of an agreement aimed at replacing the Kyoto Protocol to stop global warming.Delegates from about 190 nations, now holding high-level meetings, are split over whether targets should be set now or later. Mr. Ban recognizes the divisions."Frankly speaking, realistically, it may be too ambitious if delegates would expect to be able to agree on target of greenhouse gas emission reduction," he said. "But, as I told you, some time down the road we will have to agree on that."Ministers and heads of states, in a series of speeches, urged nations to lower greenhouse gas emissions. These gases, particularly those caused by the burning of fuels, are believed by many scientists to contribute to global warming.Leaders said rich nations should make the first cuts and help poorer nations to develop clean technology.The United States strongly opposes emission targets, as do Japan and Canada. U.S. officials say including emission targets would prejudge negotiations expected over the next two years to find a replacement for the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012.But the European Union and environmentalists say setting emission targets in the draft will show that industrialized nations are serious about the fight against global warming.The U.S. under-secretary of state for democracy and global affairs, Paula Dobriansky, who is heading the U.S. delegation to Bali, says Washington is committed to seeing an agreement reached at the Bali conference."We are very committed to working toward a successful outcome here in Bali. We want to launch a process that is open and does not predetermine or preclude options," she said. "We have been listening carefully to the perspectives of others and will continue to do so in the days ahead. We hope to identify a way forward that will bridge our differences and bring us together on common pursuit of our shared goal of addressing climate change."The text of the conference draft is expected to undergo several revisions before being finalized Friday. It calls for industrialized nations to commit to cutting greenhouse gas emissions by between 25 to 40 percent by the year 2020.The Bali conference is expected to end on Friday.An article supporting nuclear energy written by Patrick Moore appeared in the Washington Post Outlook section yesterday. Moore was a co-founder of Greenpeace who currently co-chairs an industry-funded initiative, the Clean and Safe Energy Coalition, which supports increased use of nuclear energy. Moore and U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-Nebraska) spoke during the opening session of the 2005 American Nuclear Society's Winter meeting in November.Moore says that his views have changed since founding Greenpeace, and he now believes that using nuclear energy can help counteract catastrophic climate change from burning fossil fuels.  Says Moore, "The 600-plus coal-fired plants emit nearly 2 billion tons of CO2 annually -- the equivalent of the exhaust from about 300 million automobiles." Moore also cites reports from the Clean Air Council that coal plants are responsible for 64 percent of sulfur dioxide emissions, 26 percent of nitrous oxides and 33 percent of mercury emissions. "Meanwhile, the 103 nuclear plants operating in the United States effectively avoid the release of 700 million tons of CO2 emissions annually," says Moore.  "Nuclear energy is the only large-scale, cost-effective energy source that can reduce these emissions while continuing to satisfy a growing demand for power. And these days it can do so safely."  Moore points out that the average cost of producing nuclear energy in the United States was less than two cents per kilowatt-hour, comparable with coal and hydroelectric. He predicts that advances in technology will bring the cost down further in the future.According to Moore, British atmospheric scientist James Lovelock, father of the Gaia theory, also believes that nuclear energy is the only way to avoid catastrophic climate change.  Concerns about past accidents in the nuclear industry were also mentioned, as he claims the Chernobyl nuclear disaster as example, calling it "an accident waiting to happen. This early model of Soviet reactor had no containment vessel, was an inherently bad design and its operators literally blew it up". He also recognized the difficulty of dealing with nuclear waste.Moore was a founding member of Greenpeace in 1971 and was instrumental in its early campaigns, but left the organization in 1986.  Greenpeace is known for its campaigns of nonviolent direct action against atmospheric and underground nuclear testing.Scientists from the UK's University of Leeds and the University of Kuopio in Finland report that the hole in the Earth's ozone layer over Antarctica may have offset some of the effects of climate change, and that as it heals, warming could accelerate. Their paper is published today in the journal Geophysical Research Letters.The group studied twenty years of records of global weather conditions and wind speeds. They say that beneath the ozone hole, wind speeds are increased, which whips up more sea spray. Salt from this is carried upwards and makes the clouds brighter, reflecting more of the Sun's radiation. This helps cool the Earth, counteracting the effects of global warming.The ozone layer in the atmosphere protects life from the harmful effects of ultraviolet radiation, and the discovery of its rapid depletion in the 1980s caused widespread alarm. The Montreal Protocol adopted in 1987 forced countries to phase out chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), the man-made chemicals thought to be largely responsible for the hole.Professor Ken Carslaw, of the University of Leeds School of Earth and Environment, was one of the co-authors of the paper. He warned that as the ozone hole healed, warming in parts of the Southern Hemisphere could accelerate. "If, as seems likely, these winds die down, rising CO2 emissions could then cause the warming of the southern hemisphere to accelerate, which would have an impact on future climate predictions," he saidDescribing the findings as "unexpected and complex climate feedback", Professor Carslaw emphasised that this research was not a reason to try and keep the hole open:"You can't correct two wrongs in that way. The ozone hole was potentially a major catastrophe for the planet that was only stopped by the Montreal Protocol, so we can't go back on that."He said instead that carbon emissions should be cut drastically.The research was funded by the Natural Environment Research Council and the Academy of Finland Centre of Excellence Programme.Judith Perlwitz, a resercher at the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said that the group's data were sound but she disagreed with some of the paper's conclusions. Perlwitz claimed that rising temperatures due to global warming would increase wind speeds anyway, leading to the same effects as the ozone hole.“The question is whether the wind is really going to slow down, and that I doubt,” she said.According to a World Meteorological Organization report in 2006, it is likely to be at least fifty years before the ozone above Antarctica is back to its pre-1980 state.International climate negotiations for a global climate treaty are not producing the required results in the given amount of time left before the Copenhagen conference in December, diminishing the hopes for a resolution at this conference.Major polluters have already decided that the only way for a plan of this scale to take effect is to have steps towards the reduction of greenhouse gases instead of creating a plan which takes immediate effect and shuts down production facilities.  Countries are likely to propose steps at the Copenhagen Meeting.Yvo De Boer, a Dutch Diplomat, has been overseeing the proceedings so far. "There isn't sufficient time to get the whole thing done. But I hope it will go well beyond simply a declaration of principles. The form I would like it to take is the groundwork for a ratifiable agreement next year," commented Boer.The 192 countries which make up the United Nations show the gaps in-between their ideas. Wealthier nations are planning to help poorer countries with enforcing climate laws and investing in newer technology. 16 of the largest polluters have already begun planning on aiding poorer countries.Officials are attempting to narrow down issues which countries agree on, such as certain steps and the common goal to limit emissions. Negotiators plan to discuss how the treaty will be upheld at Copenhagen. Diplomats have raised the question of reliability, since most of the supporting countries have not enforced any binding climate legislation within their own countries. Until it is shown that all countries participating will uphold the treaty, nations are unwilling to enforce a treaty within their own country.Although there are hopes of progress in Copenhagen, observes note that radical change is unlikely. "The most likely form any agreement will take will be a political declaration," said Nigel Purvis, State Department climate negotiator during the Clinton Administration and Bush administration.Scientists using a computer model of the typical European summer with no human influences (without global warming) have compared it to the same model with global warming included. They have concluded that human influence makes extremely warm summers (i.e. summers as warm as the 2003 heatwave) more than twice as likely.Commentators have suggested that in the future this may open the way for lawsuits against heavy polluters by persons whose livelihoods have been affected by adverse climate change. However, the report stesses that though it is in fact impossible to pin any specific extreme climate event on either global warming or natural climate variation, human activities increase the frequency of such events.The study is based upon climate activity during the last 50 years, which can only be replicated with computer models which include human forcing (CO2 and other greenhouse gases (GHGs)). However, even within a warmer world the summer of 2003 was anomalously warm in Europe. Most simulations of 2003 climate produce cooler weather in Europe than what actually happened.  It is not yet known if flaws in the models cause this difference, if the warmth of 2003 was part of a trend, or 2003 was merely unusually hot. If there will be a warming trend, a model predicts that such summers could become an event of 1-in-2 probability only by 2050.In the Americas, a series of sudden weather changes has been more frequent in the last 15 years since the discovery of the phenomenon knows as El Niño, in which vast regions of North and South America suffered weather extremes ranging from high tides to extreme hail, rain and snowstorms during summer and winter seasons following extremely hot summers. There's still no scientific evidence that El Niño is directly influenced by human factors.The Ayles ice shelf, which is more than 11,000 football fields in size and is located just south of the North Pole, has broken free in the Canadian Arctic. Scientists say that global warming has played a "major" role in the break.The entire 41 square miles of the shelf broke away from Ellesmere Island at least 16 months ago, and the break was discovered when a satellite took pictures of the region recently."This is a dramatic and disturbing event. It shows that we are losing remarkable features of the Canadian North that have been in place for many thousands of years. We are crossing climate thresholds, and these may signal the onset of accelerated change ahead," said Warwick Vincent, a Laval University scientist who studies conditions in the Arctic.Higher temperatures are believed to have played a significant role in the break, and all 6 shelves in the Canadian Arctic have become at least 90% smaller since they were discovered in the early 1900's."It [the break] is consistent with climate change. We aren't able to connect all of the dots, but unusually warm temperatures definitely played a major role," added Vincent.Seismographs detected the break and collapse of the shelf in August of 2005. The short amount of time it took for the event to occur has come as a surprise to scientists."What surprised us was how quickly it happened. Even 10 years ago scientists assumed that when global warming changes occur that it would happen gradually, so that perhaps we expected these ice shelves just to melt away quite slowly. It's pretty alarming," said head of the University of Ottawa's global ice lab, Luke Copland.The International Energy Agency (IEA) issued a warning that the World faces an insecure, dirty and expensive future unless the rate of investment in energy supplies is increased substantially. In real terms, investment in oil and gas production has not increased significantly in the last five years, but demand has continued to rise. This has been despite oil and gas prices of between four and five times the 2002 levels. If no action is taken, demand will increase by over 50% between 2006 and 2030.Coal is now cheaper than gas and nuclear is cheaper than both, in some cases even ignoring carbon tax effects. The continued rise in energy prices should make investment on the supply side more attractive. These are among the findings of the "World Energy Outlook – 2006" report by IEA published this week in London.Speaking at a news conference on Tuesday November 7, 2006, IEA Executive Director Claude Mandil said "WEO 2006 identifies under-investment in new energy supply as a real risk." He said "We don't see how we can avoid [nuclear power] if we want a sustainable long-term future."To secure the supply/demand position, IEA calls for investment in energy-supply infrastructure of over $20 trillion in real terms over 2005-2030 to ensure that the World moves into a "Cleaner, Cleverer and More Competitive Energy Future."The Independent reports that an inhabited island has been completely submerged for the first time as a result of rising sea levels caused by global warming. The disappearance of the island of Lohachara, part of West Bengal's Sundarbans and once home to over ten thousand people, is a milestone in some of climate scientists' darker predictions.The first uninhabited islands recorded to have disappeared were part of the Pacific atoll nation of Kiribati, and were submerged over eight years ago. However, the disappearance of Lohachara and the displacement of its ten thousand residents was unprecedented.Refugees from Lohachara and the nearby island of Ghoramara fled to Sagar, an island that has already lost 7500 acres of land to the sea. Ghoramara is presently about two thirds submerged. A total of a dozen islands, home to seventy thousand people, are projected to be submerged by the rising seas during the next fourteen years.During each monsoon season almost all the Bengali delta is submerged, much of it for half a year. A 1990 study noted that "There is no evidence that environmental degradation in the Himalayas or a 'greenhouse'-induced rise in sea level have aggravated floods in Bangladesh."The chief of the UN climate change panel, Dr. Rajendra Pachauri, admitted on Wednesday that a mistake in a 2007 report had raised questions about the body's credibility, in an interview with The Guardian.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's (IPCC)  landmark Fourth Assessment Report in 2007 said the probability of glaciers in the Himalayas "disappearing by the year 2035 and perhaps sooner is very high."There is no evidence the claim was published in a peer-reviewed journal, thus calling into question its credibility.He refused to apologize in the interview with The Guardian for the unverified claim. "I think this (glacier) mistake has certainly cost us dear, there's no question about it," Pachauri told the newspaper. "Everybody thought that what the IPCC brought out was the gold standard and nothing could go wrong."You can't expect me to be personally responsible for every word in a 3,000 page report," he said.The IPCC issued a statement expressing regret for the mistake, but Pachauri said, "I don't do too many populist things, that's why I'm so unpopular with a certain section of society," defending his refusal for an apology.Part of a major 2007 report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which claimed that the glaciers in the Himalayas were likely to melt within thirty years, has been found to have not been based on scientific data.The IPCC, a United Nations panel, admitted that the original claim was "poorly substantiated" and that "well-established standards of evidence were not applied properly" in the preparation of this section of the report. "The chair, vice-chairs, and co-chairs of the IPCC regrets the poor application of IPCC procedures", read a statement released by the panel. News reports have suggested that the claim originated in a 1999 article in the popular science magazine New Scientist, and was picked up by the IPCC when it was quoted in a 2005 report by the World Wildlife Fund.Jairam Ramesh, India's minister of Environment and Forests, had criticized the estimate when the report was initially released. After the announcement, Ramesh reiterated his criticism and told The Times of India: "The health of the glaciers is a cause of grave concern, but the IPCC's alarmist position that they would melt by 2035 was not based on an iota of scientific evidence."According to The Times (UK), most glaciologists believe it would take hundreds of years to melt the Himalayan glaciers, with some doubting that it will ever happen. There is evidence of glaciers growing in the neighboring Karakoram mountain range.Michael Zemp, of the World Glacier Monitoring Service told CNN that, "There are simply no observations available to make these sorts of statements.""The other thing is that the report says the glaciers are receding faster than anywhere else in the world. We simply do not have the glacier change measurements. The Himalayas are among those regions with the fewest available data", Zemp added. Nevertheless, the IPCC maintains that the melting of the glaciers is a concern to the region, which is home to over one billion people. It stands by its overall conclusion that "mass losses from glaciers and reductions in snow cover over recent decades are projected to accelerate throughout the 21st century, reducing water availability, hydropower potential, and changing seasonality of flows in regions supplied by meltwater from major mountain ranges."The IPCC had recently come under fire during the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference, when selectively leaked e-mails, hacked from the University of East Anglia, reportedly showed that some scientists were attempting to suppress findings by other climatologists that did not agree with their own findings.Yukio Hatoyama, Japan's Prime Minister-elect, has pledged that the country will reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2020.The prime minister-elect told a conference on climate change on Monday that "we can't stop climate change just with our country setting an emissions target. We will also aim to create a fair and effective international framework by all major countries in the world."The chief of the United Nations' symposium on climate change commended Hatoyama's plans. "With such a target, Japan will take on the leadership role that industrialised countries have agreed to take in climate change abatement," Yvo de Boer said to the conference.Japan has the second largest economy in the world, and is the number-five emitter of greenhouse gases. It has recently come under international pressure to implement more strict emissions policies, being sixteen percent above the Kyoto Protocol.New York —The Kyoto Protocol, aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions from developed nations, came in force on Wednesday at 6am UTC. The treaty has been signed by 141 nations who together account for 55% of global carbon dioxide emissions.The treaty was proposed in December 1997 and requires signatories to reduce their combined greenhouse gas emissions to 5% below 1990 levels by the year 2012 in an effort to reduce the impact of global warming. Each country has individual targets.Of the major industrialized nations, the USA and Australia are notable absentees from the list of signatories. Both argue that the treaty is flawed and that signing the protocol is not in their national economic interests. The United States produces more CO2 emissions than any other single country in the world, both in total (5,410 million metric tons) and also per capita (20.1 tons per capita).Despite this, the way was paved for ratification of the treaty after Russia signed up in November 2004.Other criticisms of the protocol are that the treaty does not include India and China, or other developing nations.Countries that ratify the treaty will have access to the emerging international market in carbon credits, estimated to be worth billions of dollars each year. This system allows individual countries to trade in their emission allowances - a country can buy credit from another that has cut emissions, and then increase their own carbon dioxide production.Mohamed Nasheed, the leader of the Maldives, has announced that the country will become carbon-neutral within a decade by completely switching to renewable energy sources."We aim to become carbon-neutral in a decade," he said."Climate change threatens us all. Countries need to pull together to de-carbonize the world economy. We know cutting greenhouse gas emissions is possible and the Maldives is willing to play its part," Nasheed said, adding that he hopes his plan will serve as a blueprint for other countries."We understand more than perhaps anyone what would happen to us if we didn't do anything about it or if the rest of the world doesn't find the imagination to confront this problem," Nasheed told Newshour in a telephone interview from the Maldives' capital of Male."So basically, we don't want to sit around and blame others, but we want to do whatever we can, and hopefully, if we can become carbon-neutral, and when we come up with the plan, we hope that these plans also will serve as a blueprint for other nations to follow. We think we can do it, we feel that everyone should be engaged in it, and we don't think that this is an issue that should be taken lightly." Nasheed's plan calls for half of a square kilometre (0.19 square miles) of solar panels and 155 wind turbines, each generating 1.5 megawatts. The electricity will power vehicles as well. Boats and automobiles with gasoline engines would be slowly replaced with electric versions.The plan will cost an estimated US$1.1 billion. The economy of the Maldives, reliant mainly on tourism and fishing, is worth $800 million a year.Environmentalist Mark Lynas said that the plan could pay for itself in a decade, due to savings on oil imports. "It's going to cost a lot of money but it will also save a lot of money from not having to import oil," Lynas said."The point of doing it is that it is something the Maldives can lead the world in. No rich country has the excuse that it is too expensive and we can't do anything," Lynas said to the news agency Reuters."The Maldives could just give up. Its people could declare themselves climate change refugees and ask for sanctuary elsewhere. But the new government is taking a stand and asked us to give them a plan for a near zero-carbon economy," said Chris Goodall, the British climate change expert who led the development of the carbon-neutral plan. "We don't want to pretend that this plan is going to be easy to implement. There will be hiccups, and electricity supply will occasionally be disrupted. But we think that building a near-zero-carbon Maldives is a realistic challenge. Get it right and we will show the apathetic developed world that action is possible, and at reasonable cost."The Maldives are located in the Indian ocean and are among the lowest-lying islands on the planet, with none of them rising more than six feet (1.8 metres) above sea level, making them particularly vulnerable to rising sea levels associated with global warming.Lewis Gordon Pugh, 37, a man from the United Kingdom has become the first person to swim at the North pole. The water, 29 degrees F (-1.8 C), is believed to be the coldest waters any human has ever swam in on the planet."I am obviously ecstatic to have succeeded but this swim is a triumph and a tragedy. A triumph that I could swim in such ferocious conditions, but a tragedy that it's possible to swim at the North Pole," said Pugh who swam 0.6 miles in just under 19 minutes through cracks in icebergs.Pugh says he swam at the North Pole to demonstrate the effects that global warming is playing on the Earth and is hoping that his act will gain the attention of leaders from around the world."The decisions which they make over the next few years will determine the biodiversity of our world. I want my children, and their children, to know that polar bears are still living in the Arctic — these creatures are on the front line up here," added Pugh.The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), which sponsored the swim, states that the only reason Pugh was able to swim in the freezing waters was due to global warming."[The swim was] a bittersweet victory, as this swim has only been possible because of climate change," said WWF U.K. spokesman, Colin Butfield. The waters were completely frozen ten years ago and the swim would have been impossible to complete.Pugh has also swum in the waters of Antarctica where he was credited to being the only person to swim so far south earning him the nickname "The Polar Bear." Pugh also swam the Indian Ocean."It was frightening. The pain was immediate and felt like my body was on fire. I was in excruciating pain from beginning to end and I nearly quit on a few occasions. It was without doubt the hardest swim of my life," added Pugh.The European Space Agency (ESA) reported on Friday that the Wilkins Shelf, an enormous Antarctic ice shelf half the size of Scotland, could break away from the continent very soon.According to reports, only a thin strip of ice connects it to the Charcot Island, and cracks are expanding rapidly. This is the largest shelf of ice so far to have disintegrated in the Antarctic.In February 2008, the shelf lost 425 square kilometres (164 square miles) of ice, followed by a loss of another 62 square miles in May 2008."During the last year the ice shelf has lost about 1800 square kilometers (694 square miles), or about 14 percent of its size," said Angelika Humbert from the Institute of Geophysics at University of Münster in Germany. Scientists say that the shelf, if it detaches from the mainland, won't cause an increase in sea levels, as it is already floating.Most scientists believe that the incident is further evidence of global warming. Average temperatures in the Antarctic peninsula have increased by about 2.5 degrees Celsius (3.8 degrees Fahrenheit) in the past fifty years.Going against the Bush administration's opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, more than 130 U.S. mayors have pledged to meet or beat certain Kyoto targets by 2012.  Examples include anti-sprawl land-use policies or encouraging cruise lines to turn off their engines while docked.Critics of the Kyoto Protocol claim it is unnecessary, due to an alleged or perceived lack of clear evidence that global warming is due to human activities.The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), organizers of the fifth annual Earth Hour, is asking people all over the world to turn off lights tonight from 8:30 to 9:30 p.m. local time in support of energy conservation and  awareness of climate change. In 2010, 128 countries,  4,000 cities and  1,000 landmarks worldwide  participated in Earth Hour, including 13 million people in the UK.In a statement on their website, the WWF said, "Every year Earth Hour asks individuals, businesses and communities worldwide to show their commitment to the environment. This Earth Hour, we hope you will turn off your lights. But when the lights go back on, we want you to go beyond the hour and think about what you can change in your daily life that will benefit the planet. Let’s work together to create a better future. Our actions can add up." Promotion by world leaders such as United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon is encouraging wide participation in  Earth Hour 2011. This year about 130 countries are expected to take part. Such world landmarks as the Eiffel Tower,  Christ the Redeemer statue in Brazil, Big Ben, the Las Vegas Strip, the Burj al Arab Hotel in Dubai, the Acropolis in Athens, the Sydney Opera House and   Beijing's Forbidden City are expected to go black. The 15 100-foot-tall "iconic" towers at the Los Angeles International Airport will turn green and then go black for an hour, the airport announced in a press release. In 2011, Scotland became  the first country in the world to obtain Earth Hour cooperation from all of its cities and local jurisdictions, reported  Dr Richard Dixon, director of WWF Scotland, emphasizing that Scotland was going all out this year for Earth Hour. He said, "With record support from cities, local authorities, iconic landmarks, schools and other organisations people will be left in no doubt that Scotland cares about tackling climate change."Dixon praised the efforts of   the organizers of Earth Hour: "WWF's Earth Hour has a unique ability to unite and empower people around the world."Governor Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota signed a bill into law on Thursday that requires the state to generate a significant amount of its energy needs from renewable sources.The amount of power generated by wind turbines in the state stands now at 895 megawatts. An additional 5,000 megawatts of energy from renewable sources will need to be added to Minnesota's electricity resources, which is roughly eight times more than the amount that currently comes from renewables. The bill signed by the Governor requires energy companies to provide 25 percent of power from renewable sources by 2025. Xcel Energy, which supplies approximately half of the electricity in the state, is required to provide 30 percent from renewable sources by 2020.After a year of turbulent weather in Mexico and destruction of their habitat, the Monarch butterfly (Danaus plexippus) population could be down by as much as 50% to 60% this year, experts say.  A gathering area for the butterflies northwest of Mexico City was affected particularly hard by severe weather this winter, which killed 50 people in the region. According to Lincoln Brower, a monarch expert with Sweet Briar College in Virginia, "things are in pretty bad shape."The southbound migration was already the smallest in recorded history, and with the destructive winter, over half of the species' population might have been killed. "This means the numbers going to Texas are going to be down", said Chip Taylor, a professor of entomology at the University of Kansas-Lawrence. He believes it could take years for the Monarchs to repopulate. Taylor also said that "We’re talking about significant degradation at overwintering sites; the loss of habitat in the United States and Canada and climate change in Mexico. We’ve had three major killing winter storms in the last decade that have never been seen previously. We’re dealing with something new here, and that’s consistent with climate change."Illegal logging in Mexico and a lack of milkweed in the Midwest United States for the butterflies to lay their eggs in has also taken a toll on the Monarchs' population.NASA scientists say that the Arctic Sea's icecap is melting and that the icecap is melting fast.According to images captured by NASA's QuikSCAT satellite, the Arctic icecap has lost at least 14% of its 'perennial' ice between 2004 and 2005. Data shows that at least 280,000 square miles of ice, at least the size of Texas has been lost. The eastern Arctic has lost at least 50% of its ice, but scientists say that ice was shifted by wind and other weather factors from the east to the west Arctic, causing the western areas of ice to actually grow.Between October 2005 and April of 2006; however, the icecap lost an additional 70% of frozen water.Between 04 and 05, the perennial ice, which is supposed to remain frozen year-round, was replaced by 'seasonal' ice, which scientists say melts faster during the Summer months. This event has never before been witnessed. Perennial ice is normally 3 meters (10 feet) thick or more and seasonal ice is only 0.3 meters (1 feet) to 2 meters (7 feet) thick."If the seasonal ice in the east Arctic Ocean were to be removed by summer melt, a vast ice-free area would open up. Such an ice-free area would have profound impacts on the environment, as well as on marine transportation and commerce," said Son Nghiem, the leader of research at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.For several decades, the icecap has melted about 0.7% a year during the Summer months and has increased at least "18 times" faster than past decades, but Nghiem also said that the icecap has melted with "some variability" over the past years and was at times a "much smaller" of a loss of ice."If we average that over the long term we find a reduction of between 6.4% and 7.8% per decade. What we have here is 14% in one year - 18 times the previous rate. In previous years there is some variability, but it is much smaller and regional. [The changes between] 2004 and 2005 is enormous," added Nghiem.Global warming is believed to have played a role in melting the ice."It has never occurred before in the past. It is alarming. ... This winter ice provides the kind of evidence that it is indeed associated with the greenhouse effect," said Josefino Comiso, another NASA researcher and scientist.NASA has stated that recent satellite images have shown that despite an unusually cold winter in the Arctic, the old or perennial ice on both the North and South Poles has continued to melt while the level of 'new ice' has increased as compared to last March.On March 18 the scientists said they believe that the increased area of sea ice this winter is due to recent weather conditions, while the decline in perennial ice reflects the longer-term warming climate trend and is a result of increased melting during summer and greater movement of the older ice out of the Arctic.According to NASA-processed microwave data, whereas perennial ice used to cover 50-60 percent of the Arctic, this year it covers less than 30 percent. Very old ice that remains in the Arctic for at least six years comprised over 20 percent of the Arctic area in the mid to late 1980s, but this winter it decreased to just six percent."Although this March the area is slightly larger than last March, the area of [thick] perennial ice has reached an all time low. So the volume of Arctic ice continues to decrease," said NASA's Cryospheric Sciences Program manager Seelye Martin.Arctic sea ice grows and declines seasonally, ranging from an average minimum extent in September of 2.5 million square miles (6.5 million squeare km) to an average winter maximum extent of 5.9 million square miles (15.3 million square km) in March. This March, instruments on NASA’s Aqua satellite and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and the United States Defense Department satellites showed the maximum sea ice extent slightly increased by 3.9 percent over that of the previous three years, but it is still below the long-term average by 2.2 percent. Increases in ice extent occurred in areas where surface temperatures were colder than the historical averages. At the same time, as a result of the export of ice from the Arctic, the area of perennial ice decreased to an all-time minimum.Joey Comiso of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Md., the lead author of a 2007 related study, used data from NASA's passive microwave data set to establish that the perennial ice cover at the summer Arctic ice minimum in 2007 was about 40 percent less than the 28-year average. According to the latest observations from the National Snow and Ice Data Center (an organization partially funded by NASA), perennial sea ice dropped from about 40 percent of the total ice pack last year to 30 percent of total ice this winter. The perennial ice is also growing younger, meaning that it is thinner and will be more vulnerable during the summer melt period.According to Walt Meier of the National Snow and Ice Data Center at the University of Colorado, Boulder, as ice ages it continues to grow and thicken, so that older ice is generally also thicker ice. This winter the ice cover is much thinner overall and thus in a more vulnerable state heading into the summer melt season."It's becoming thinner and thinner and much more susceptible to melting during the summer - much more likely to melt away. It may look OK on the surface, but it's like looking at a Hollywood movie set - you see the facade of a building and it looks OK, but if you look behind it, there's no building there," said Meier.NASA’s ICESat satellite has contributed to understanding of the changes in ice thickness. To get a better understanding of the behavior of sea ice, NASA is planning a follow-on satellite mission, ICESat II, to launch in 2015.New Zealand's incoming government will delay the implementation of the country's emissions trading scheme (ETS) pending a full inquiry into climate change.The decision was revealed in the National Party's confidence and supply agreement with the ACT Party.  The agreement commits National to a review of climate change policy by a special select committee of Parliament.The review will include the emissions trading scheme and possible alternatives to it, as well as "hear[ing] competing views on the scientific aspects of climate change" and considering whether responding to climate change is economically worthwhile. Implementation of the ETS would be delayed until the review is complete — a process expected to take at least a year.The ETS requires companies emitting greenhouse gases to cover their emissions with permits.  The legislation was passed on September 10, 2008, and provides for a phased implementation, with forestry entering the scheme immediately, industrial and energy sector emissions entering in 2010, and transport fuels in 2011.The National Party won a victory over the Labour Party in last week's elections, and has formed a new government cabinet, led by prime minister-elect John Key.The Green party of Aotearoa New Zealand has ranked other political parties in New Zealand based on their policies and action taken on climate change. The results were announced at a Greens picnic today by co-leader, Doctor Russel Norman at his State of the Planet speech.The top party was themselves, Labour (Government) in second with Dr Norman saying they are "too frightened to do what needs to be done,", the Māori party in third, then National, United Future, New Zealand First and lastly, ACT, leaving out Jim Anderton's Progressive Coalition party from being ranked. According to the Greens, ACT is denying how important climate change really is.However not even Dr Norman is satisfied being at the top of the list, stating that more can be improved on. "We have been leading the debate but we don't have all the answers." Dr Norman does say that if the Greens were not in Parliament then all the other parties would be "floundering" because they would not know what to do.Dr Norman says that New Zealand needs to do our part in helping Earth face its biggest challenge.In Dr Norman's speech he also encouraged the other parties to take more action regarding climate change. "The results show that while the parties are more than happy to jump aboard the climate change band wagon, when it comes down to it, there is still a lack of political will to take firm action."Dr Norman said: "Most parties had yet to tackle the tough issue of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the agricultural sector - this sector accounts for about 50 percent of New Zealand’s total emissions. They fared only slightly better in increasing forested area and reducing emissions from the electricity sector."Dr Norman said that we are heading towards a "global catastrophe."According to a study performed by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory, the level of acid in the world's oceans is rising, decades before scientists expected the levels to rise.The study was performed on the coastal waters of the Pacific Ocean from Baja California, Mexico to Vancouver, British Columbia, where tests showed that acid levels in some areas near the edge of the Continental Shelf were high enough to corrode the shells of some sea creatures as well as some corals. Some areas showed excessive levels of acid less than four miles off the northern California coastline in the United States."What we found ... was truly astonishing. This means ocean acidification may be seriously impacting marine life on the continental shelf right now. The models suggested they wouldn't be corrosive at the surface until sometime during the second half of this century," said Richard A. Feely, an oceanographer from the NOAA.The natural processes of the seas and oceans constantly clean the Earth's air, absorbing 1/3 to 1/2 of the carbon dioxide generated by humans. As the oceans absorb more of the gas, the water becomes more acidic, reducing the amount of carbonate which shellfish such as clams and oysters use to form their shells, and increasing the levels of carbonic acid. Although levels are high, they are not yet high enough to threaten humans directly."Scientists have also seen a reduced ability of marine algae and free-floating plants and animals to produce protective carbonate shells," added Feely.Feely noted that, according to the study, the oceans and seas have absorbed more than 525 billion tons of carbon dioxide since the Industrial Revolution began.Global warming campaigner and former U.S. Vice President Al Gore says it is time for humanity to stop "waging war" on planet Earth.Gore spoke today in Oslo after receiving the Nobel Peace Prize. He urged the two largest carbon-emitting countries - the United States and China - to make what he called the "boldest moves" to fight global warming.The United States has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 international pact that requires reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. China was not required to reduce emissions under the deal.  They also refused today to approve a new treaty designed to cut emissions by 25 percent to 40 percent by 2020.Gore said he would go to the U.N. climate meeting in Bali later this week to urge world leaders to meet as often as every three months to enact a global cap on greenhouse gas emissions by 2010.Gore shared the 2007 Nobel prize with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, represented at today's ceremony by Rajendra Pachauri.Pachauri stressed the link between the fight against climate change and peace. He warned that severe climate change will trigger what he called "dramatic population migration," as well as war over water and other resources.He also warned that up to 250 million people in Africa could face what he called "increased water stress because of climate change.File:ObamaVsRomney.jpgIncumbent U.S. President Barack Obama and Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney have returned to campaigning after taking time out due to Hurricane Sandy.On Wednesday, Obama visited New Jersey, meeting with Governor Chris Christie in Atlantic City, and spoke to victims of the storm at a community center in Brigantine. Obama earned the praise of the Republican governor who said "[Obama had] sprung into action immediately". The President's reaction to the storm also earned him positive polling, with a Washington Post/ABC survey saying 8 out of 10 respondents thought Obama had responded in a "good" or "excellent" manner to the storm.After restarting the campaign, Obama has campaigned in Wisconsin where he has attacked Romney's proposed policies as being the same as those of George W. Bush. "Governor Romney has been using all his talents as a salesman to dress up these very same policies that failed our country so badly - the very same policies we've been cleaning up after for the past four years - and he is offering them up as change." said the President.Yesterday, the independent mayor of New York Michael Bloomberg gave his endorsement to Obama. With several areas of New York affected by flooding from Hurricane Sandy, the former Republican mayor said Obama's stance on climate change factored in his decision. Writing an editorial for Bloomberg View, the mayor asserted: "Our climate is changing. And while the increase in extreme weather we have experienced in New York City and around the world may or may not be the result of it, the risk that it may be — given the devastation it is wreaking — should be enough to compel all elected leaders to take immediate action."Bloomberg said Obama had taken action to deal with climate change; has proposed measures to reduce emissions from cars and power plants. Bloomberg explained he could not support Romney as the Republican challenger had changed his position on several issues. "In the past he has taken sensible positions on immigration, illegal guns, abortion rights and health care – but he has reversed course on all of them, and is even running against the very health care model he signed into law in Massachusetts," said Bloomberg.Bloomberg did however have some criticism of Obama. He said that Obama had "engaged in partisan attacks and has embraced a divisive populist agenda focused more on redistributing income than creating it." Responding in a statement, Obama said he was "honored to have Mayor Bloomberg’s endorsement".Romney spoke at an event in the city of Roanoke, Virginia, criticising Obama's proposal to create a cabinet-level position for business development. In his speech in Virginia, Romney stated: "I don't think adding a new chair in his cabinet will help add millions of jobs on Main Street. We don’t need a secretary of business to understand business. We need a president who understands business and I do." Romney also launched a TV advert which stated that the idea represents a broader failing of the Obama presidency by suggesting that Obama's "solution to everything is to add another bureaucrat."After speaking in Roanoke, Romney spoke in Doswell, Virginia. His speech was interrupted by a protester who shouted "Climate change caused Sandy! Let's get real!"Romney plans to make a last-minute campaign stop in Pennsylvania on Sunday.Jill Stein, the presidential candidate for the Green Party of the United States, was arrested on Wednesday in Winnsboro in east Texas for misdemeanor criminal trespassing while trying to bring food and confectionery to environmental protesters who have been camping in trees for over a month to protest the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline. Stein has been released pending a court date.Barack Obama has set tougher emission targets in a White House speech. He said, the USA intends to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions "in the range of" 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83 percent by 2050. Obama will attend the Copenhagen international climate meeting next month, and is going to offer these figures as an official climate change policy.Obama has also set interim targets for better intermediate control. These are a 30% cut by 2025 and a 42% cut by 2030. But Obama's climate change speeches aren't going very far: Mr Obama is not planning to be present at the summit during the last days, when the world leaders might most possibly finally make a treaty to replace the 1997 Kyoto Protocol.To compare, the European Union speaks about cutting its emissions by 20% cut by 2020 and 80% by 2050. But the starting point of the EU and of most of other nations is 1990, while Obama's numbers are in terms of 2005 emissions. The plans proposed by Obama are with a steeper end compared with EU, thus making a slower start.Emissions cuts targetsObservers say some accumulation effect can be caused by domestic policies, which take long to implement on a proper scale, but then give a faster emissions cut. Such policies can include improvements in vehicle fuel efficiency, industries-specific limitations, etc. The White House announcement also contains the list of US representatives at the Copenhagen conference:President Barack ObamaInterior Secretary Ken SalazarAgriculture Secretary Tom VilsackCommerce Secretary Gary LockeEnergy Secretary Steven ChuEnvironmental Protection Agency Administrator Lisa P. JacksonCouncil on Environmental Quality Chair Nancy SutleyOffice of Science and Technology Policy Director John HoldrenAssistant to the President for Energy and Climate Change Carol BrownerA schedule of US Center presence was made up for certain dates in December, so that the exact ways to achieve the cuts will be discussed.The following is the first edition of a monthly series chronicling the U.S. 2016 presidential election. It features original material compiled throughout the previous month after an overview of the month's biggest stories.In this month's edition on the campaign trail: a former Republican congressman briefly joins the Libertarian Party and runs for vice president; the Democratic Party names its National Convention Platform Drafting Committee amid controversy; and Wikinews interviews a candidate who had a surprisingly strong performance in the West Virginia Democratic presidential primary.The following is the eighth in a monthly series chronicling the U.S. 2012 presidential election. It features original material compiled throughout the previous month after a brief mention of some of the month's biggest stories.In this month's edition on the campaign trail, a Green Party presidential candidate who announced  his 2012 plans to Wikinews four years ago speaks to Wikinews once again, the candidate leading the California American Independent Party presidential primary discusses his campaign, and Wikinews explores whether Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky will be selected as the Republican Party vice presidential nominee.At the U.N. conference on Global Climate change in Bali, the early talk has focused on whether some of the major developed countries will commit to cutting greenhouse gas emissions in the coming years. European states are pushing for steep reductions in emissions, but environmentalists accuse some others of dragging their feet. The European Union's climate chief, Artur Runge Metzger, says his organization wants greenhouse emissions cut by half by the middle of the century."We would like to see global average temperatures rise no more than an average of two degrees compared to pre-industrial levels," Metzger said. "And that would require that global emissions go down by at least 50 percent of the 1990 emissions by the year 2050."Greenhouse emissions are thought to be causing global warming. Metzger downplayed differences between the EU and other countries on reduction targets, saying he believes the response to the 50 percent proposal has been increasingly positive. He noted that Japan, Canada and some members of the U.S. congress have expressed support for the idea.Those same countries, however, have been targeted by environmental groups, who say they have failed in their initial statements here to come out strongly enough for significant cuts. Hans Verolme of the group WWF says Japan is being criticized for not including binding targets in its proposal for emission control discussions."That in our view would be quite disastrous. It would delay action and it would in fact lead to dangerous climate change," Verolme said.Japan says its proposal is merely an attempt to get the conversation started, and U.N. climate change chief Yvo de Boer has also sought to downplay any differences. De Boer repeatedly points out that the Bali conference is not meant to produce a new climate-change treaty to replace the Kyoto Protocol. That 1997 agreement is set to expire in 2012."This meeting in Bali will not finalize a post-2012 climate change deal, that's much too complicated to do in 10 days, but what it can do is put in place a two-year process to work towards such a deal," De Boer said.Even the two-degree temperature rise that the European Union talks about is predicted to have serious effects on humans and the environment. The U.N.'s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has predicted such a rise would increase the frequency of damaging storms, and make 30 percent of the world's species more vulnerable to extinction.Thousands of delegates from more than 180 countries are meeting in Bali, which is due to run through December 14.Large rallies were held in cities around the globe yesterday, to call on governments to take greater action against climate change.  The internationally-coordinated actions, dubbed 'Walk Against Warming', aimed to raise awareness of the urgent need for something to be done about human-caused climate change, said organisers. The protests were timed to precede the international talks about climate change that are to be held in Kenya, starting next week.In London (UK), 22,000 protesters gathered in Trafalgar Square, while in Sydney (Australia) there were 50,000.A new study suggests that plants can adapt to changing climatic conditions more efficiently than previously thought, making the onset of climate change less of a concern for plant species around the world. Jodrell Laboratory in the London Botanical Gardens has discovered that plants can alter specific components of their genetic make-up to suit rising temperatures and varying levels of rainfall that would otherwise take hundred of years to develop through natural selection, via a process known as epigenetics.This newly discovered ability suggests that mass plant extinction brought on by climate change may not happen to the extent that scientists previously predicted. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change claimed in 2007 that "20 to 30 per cent of species assessed so far are likely to be at increased risk of extinction if increases in global average warming exceed 1.5C to 2.5C", a statement that now needs re-evaluating.The study focused on three species of common spotted orchid that grow in varying environments. These plants had nearly identical genetic heritage, but thrived under very different conditions. Mark Chase of Jodrell Laboratory claims that "[their] results are particularly relevant in the present context of widespread environmental challenges and give us more hope in the adaptive potential of organisms [...] it is not instantaneous, but it is much faster than we thought previously".It is still unclear whether plants would adapt in the same way under "extreme" climate change.On Thursday in Canada, the Society Promoting Environmental Conservation (SPEC) and the Western Canada Wilderness Committee delivered petitions with over 10,000 signatorys to the Premier of British Columbia's office. The petitions ask that the government cancel the Gateway Program's highway expansions components and invest more in transit instead.The Gateway Program is a transportation infrastructure project that includes over 260 km of new highway lanes.Over a dozen activists rallied outside the office in downtown Vancouver including two dressed as polar bears. The premier's office initially declined to accept the invitations. After the activists attempted to enter the nearby convention centre where the premier was speaking, staff working with the Premier agreed to accept the petitions."Translink is currently exhausting its capital reserves just to keep existing service going," said Karen Wristen, Executive Director of SPEC. "At this rate, they will be broke in two years. We simply can't afford both freeway expansion and transit development: we have to solve the transit crisis first.""It will be virtually impossible to reach BC's commitments to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs) if Gateway is allowed to proceed. Gateway is not just an irresponsible plan, it's immoral," said Ben West, the Wilderness Committee's Healthy Communities Campaigner.The government calculates that greenhouse gas emissions will increase by over 170,000 tonnes per year from the Gateway program.Premier Gordon Campbell has not yet responded directly to the petition. In recent interviews he has defended the Gateway Program."I understand that some people will disagree with it," Premier Campbell said of Gateway on April 6 to The Georgia Straight. "But it's many, many things that are happening at once to make the region more livable, to reduce our impact and our greenhouse-gas impact, and to invest in public transit. And I think that when you take all those things together—as we move to California tailpipe emissions and those other initiatives—I think you will see actually a reduction in greenhouse gases."The United States is giving some thought to adding polar bears to the list of threatened species. The proposal to list polar bears has resulted from a lawsuit settlement the Bush administration reached in February with Greenpeace and the Natural Resources Defense Council,[1] and a decsion was to be made 12 months after that settlement, based on the Endangered Species Act petition process[2]."Today the Interior Department's U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is proposing to list polar bears as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act. We are making this proposal because a scientific review of the species by the Fish and Wildlife service found that populations may be threatened by receding sea ice, which polar bears use as a platform for many activities essential to their life cycle, including hunting for their main prey, Arctic seals," said Dirk Kempthorne, the Secretary of the Interior in the U.S."[Polar bears are] one of nature's ultimate survivors, but we are concerned the polar bears' habitat may literally be melting," added Kempthorne."[We have never had a species] listed with such a close correlation to climate change as this one," said an attorney with Natural Resources Defense Council, Andrew Wetzler."Global warming is the single biggest threat to polar bears' survival, and this will require the government to address the impacts on the polar bear," added Wetzler.The "threatened" category encompasses "vulnerable," "endangered," and "critically endangered." Currently, polar bears are listed as "vulnerable" under the World Conservation Union.Although the United States Fish & Wildlife Service makes no formal mention of increasing or decreasing polar bear population within US borders or worldwide, it is estimated that there are between 22,000 and 25,000 polar bears living[3], some 4,700 are living in the state of Alaska[4], and about 15,000 live in Canada[5][6].Leaders from the 7 richest industrialised countries and Russia will have to deal with climate issues at the 33rd G8 summit in Heiligendamm, Germany. While France and Germany are calling for quantifiable greenhouse gas emission cuts, the U.S. and Japan believe that growing economies such as India and China would need to join in on such efforts.German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the G8 summit yesterday said the two main topics were climate change and combating poverty in Africa. She said her first talks with president Bush were good, and added: "I trust that we will work out joint positions on that." Bush acknowledged that he has "strong desire to work ... on a post-Kyoto agreement."Merkel had proposed a 50% decrease in greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 compared to  1990 levels, helping to keep global temperature rise to no more than 3.6°C. White House adviser James Connaughton however said that "At this point in time we are not prepared to adopt that proposal."President George W. Bush finds himself in a position between the pressure from France and Germany, but on the other hand he wants to urge countries like India and China to join climate efforts. He told reporters that: "The United States can serve as a bridge between some nations who believe that now is the time to come up with a set goal … and those who are reluctant to participate in the dialogue. ... We all can make major strides, and yet there won't be a reduction until China and India are participants."President Bush will defend his plan today to organise a separate conference on global warming with the 15 biggest polluters to set their own goals, and to rely on technological innovations to achieve part of the emission targets. When asked about the U.S. plans, Merkel said in a television interview that she didn't expect the differences to disappear overnight. At the G8 summit she said stated: "I think we all know that the goals agreed by the European Union cannot be accepted by the entire world."Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told reporters: "On climate change ...We agreed that Japan and the United States would be working together for the creation of an effective framework which is flexible, and that we would be cooperating to achieve that end in the future."The new President of France Nicolas Sarkozy wants the U.S. to increase their efforts on climate issues. He told reporters yesterday: "We need quantifiable targets in the final text. It is an extremely important point and I intend to talk to the president of the United States about it as early as this evening. ... President Bush has made a first effort, but we need to set ourselves targets to clearly show the determination of the G-8 to act and to obtain results...  If we don't act now, it will be too late to avoid a disaster. It will cost less than if we wait."A spokesman for Russian President Vladimir Putin called the U.S. plans to deal with global warming "very pragmatic and interesting." Italian Prime Minister Romano Prodi recognised that "the American president has made comments in the last few days that have been more open than in the past." Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair also welcomed the U.S. engagement for "substantial" reductions, which the U.S. is aiming for, according to a recent U.S. draft G8 document.President of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso at the G8 summit said he thought the E.U. was taking a leading role in the climate debate, also by influencing the position of countries like the U.S. and China. He believes a global agreement to follow Kyoto is needed, possibly by 2009. He stressed that, as this was a problem created by all nations, effecting all, it had to be tackled within the UN-framework, and that agreements made by only a number of states would fall short of what is needed. He also doubted the possibility that hard numbers on emissions cuts would result from this summit.Other topics at the G8 Summit will be development in Africa (including the fight against AIDS and  malaria), the Doha Round of the World Trade Organization, and the U.S. plans to set up a missile defence shield in Europe.The U.S. is the only G8 country that has not ratified the Kyoto protocol, which expires in 2012.Almost a thousand protesters at The Copenhagen Climate Change Summit were  arrested yesterday for unruly conduct. Although most of the protests were peaceful, one group began destroying windows of nearby buildings.  Tens of thousands of protesters held multiple rallies throughout the Danish capital. Marches have also formed in Australia, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Indonesia and the Philippines.  One of the demonstrators, Nnimmo Bassey, of Friends of the Earth, summed the rallies with "Let's dance, sing and be happy, because power is in your hands,".Protesters included actress Helen Baxendale, model Helena Christensen and former Irish president Mary Robinson.  Baxendale was quoted "I think it's also important that people come and make their voices heard as well. I think, in the end, that's what will make real, positive change."The Copenhagen Summit opened last Monday, and has representatives from nearly 190 nations to discuss caps on greenhouse gas emissions.  A draft proposal calls for cuts in greenhouse gas emissions by 50–90% by 2050 and 25–40% by 2020 for developed nations.A comprehensive new European pollutant release and transfer register named E-PRTR was launched by the European Commission and the European Environment Agency (EEA). Data from 91 substances had been collected to show the quantity and location of pollution of air, water and land by about 24.000 industrial facilities throughout Europe. Additional information have been presented like the amount and types of waste which is being transferred from one country to another. All data and information concerning the year 2007 and are available via Internet. For example it covers 76 % of total sulfur oxides emissions to air in the 27 EU members states and Norway. E-PRTR shows that five large combustion plants were collectively responsible for more than 20 % of all sulfur oxide emissions to air.Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas said: "Transparency is a vital tool for improving our environment. I welcome the opening of this register. It demonstrates a genuine commitment by the public authorities and industry to share information with citizens and increase openness. I thank them for their cooperation."Professor Jacqueline McGlade, Executive Director of the European Environment Agency, said: "To achieve the public participation objective set by the Aarhus Convention, people first need to know what is happening to their environment and what is at stake. With this new register, we take an important step in placing more environmental information at their fingertips. Anyone can now see how much pollution is being released to air and water from facilities in their neighbourhood or region."The Energy Director of the Bristol City Council claimed in the promotional video that not reducing the carbon footprint would be a "failure in our [the council’s] duty to tackle climate change." He also said that the council would face fines from the European Union if the targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are not met. In addition to this it was also claimed in the video that the amount of electricity used by  the council needs to be reduced as they currently spend five million pounds per year for electricity. He finished by saying that one way the council can cut their greenhouse emissions is by producing their own "green electricity."Councillor Mark Bradshaw of the Bristol City Council was also featured in the video. He explained the proposals by saying that "we [the council] propose to build two wind farms on a former industrial site."File:Queen Elizabeth II delivering 2013 Queen's Speech.jpgQueen Elizabeth II formally reopened Parliament on Wednesday and announced the legislative agenda of the UK government for the final year of the Coalition's five year term. New measures introduced covered crime, the economy, energy and house building.Reactions to the review of the economic implications of climate change include optimism about the commercial opportunities and apprehension about possible fiscal repercussions. The Stern Review of the Economics of Climate Change, commissioned by the British Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, points to the need for urgent action to reduce carbon emissions if a world-wide economic catastrophe is to be avoided. The institution of global carbon trading, control of deforestation, increased investment in energy R & D and support to poorer countries in adapting to climate change are all key proposals in the Review. A leaked letter from David Miliband, Environment Secretary, to Chancellor Brown contains a package of tax proposals to promote the use of public transport and to encourage people to buy smaller cars and fly less. The proposals also include charges on petrol-guzzling cars, road pricing, levies on air travel and increased charges for landfill waste disposal.The findings of the Review and the promise of a Government Climate Bill, containing measures in response to the Review, received a mixed reception from employers and unions.Miles Templeman, Director-General of the Institute of Directors, said: "Without countries like the US, China or India making decisive commitments, UK competitiveness will undoubtedly suffer if we act alone. This would be bad for business, bad for the economy and ultimately bad for our climate."The Confederation of British Industries, the British Chambers of Commerce and asset managers F&C all pointed out the dangers to business of additional taxation. Brendan Barber, General Secretary of the Trades Union Congress, was optimistic about the opportunities for industry to meet demands created by investment in technology to combat climate change. The Prince of Wales' Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, formed by  14 of UK's leading companies shared this hope. Chairman of Shell UK, James Smith, expressed the hope of the group that business and Government would discuss how Britain could obtain "first mover advantage" in what he described as "massive new global markets."The markets for low-carbon energy products are expected to be worth £300 billion by 2050.Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, questions the assertions that there is scientific consensus on global warming. At best, he said, there is uncertainty. Politicians world-wide are jumping on the ‘green' bandwagon, but, if they want popular support, they'd better be sure that this is not simply the ‘new witchcraft'.Ruth Lea, Director of the Centre for Policy Studies, also questions the notion that there is a ‘scientific consensus' over global warming. She alleges that "authorities on climate science say that the climate system is far too complex for modest reductions in one of the thousands of factors involved in climate change (i.e. carbon emissions) to have a predictable effect in magnitude, or even direction." About economic models, upon which Stern relied for his projections, her experience was that forecasting just two or three years ahead was usually wrong. She described the problem of drawing conclusions from combining scientific and economic models as ‘monumentally complex'. She doubted whether international cooperation was really possible. She concluded that she thought that this Review was designed to cloak the motives of a government that wanted some moral justification for increasing taxation on fuels. An unconfirmed report on BBC 24 early Tuesday morning, October 31, stated that the White House had not yet seen a copy of the Stern Review.In response to the Stern Report Australia's Prime Minister John Howard promised a AU$60 million to fight climate change. The projects are part of the Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate. "The Asia-Pacific Partnership includes countries that represent about half of the world's emissions, energy use, GDP (gross domestic product) and population, and is an important initiative that engages, for the first time, the key greenhouse-gas emitting countries in the Asia-Pacific region," Mr Howard said in a statement.A statement by Australian Greens senators Rachel Siewert and Christine Milne criticised the Australian Bureau of Agriculture and Resource Economics saying "ABARE indicated that the type of research undertaken for the Stern Report is beyond them. They can put a price on what ratifying the Kyoto protocol would cost but have no idea or capacity to put a price on the cost of not acting. They are tinkering around the edges of the problem and don't seem to know whether climate change is real or whether there is any urgency."A 586-page report by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change released Wednesday indicated governments should prepare for continued weather-related catastrophes. The report noted highly populated and very poor areas are at highest risk, and stressed no country or continent is safe from these ongoing threats. The panel consists of Nobel Prize-winners, whose work in climatology indicates more intense tropical cyclones.The report placed blame regarding recent disasters on a combination of climate change caused by humans, population changes and poverty. The panel was founded in 1988 by the United Nations.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates recent severe weather conditions are costing upwards of US$80 billion per year. The report focused heavily on issues pertaining to coastal areas of the United States, specifically noting damage in those areas could increase 20 percent by 2030. The authors of the report stated some portions of India may become uninhabitable for floods and other problems.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change pointed out other cities at lesser risk, such as: Miami, Shanghai, Bangkok, China's Guangzhou, Vietnam's Ho Chi Minh City, Myanmar's Yangon (formerly known as Rangoon), and India's Kolkata (formerly known as Calcutta). Inhabitants of small island nations may have to leave their homes because of elevated sea levels and major storms. A total of 220 authors worked on the report.A new report on climate change's impact on agriculture predicts 25 million more malnourished children around the world by 2050, compared to a scenario with no global warming. Countries in sub-Saharan Africa are particularly vulnerable. The report from the International Food Policy Research Institute projects that the the number of malnourished children will decrease by 10 million in the next 40 years. However, without global warming the report projects a decrease of 35 million. Forty percent of undernourished children will live in Africa.The report compares economic and biological factors affecting child nutrition in two future scenarios — a world with and a world without climate change.Gerard Nelson is lead researcher for the report at the International Food Policy Research Institute. He said that climate change will have a particularly strong impact on agricultural yields in sub-Saharan Africa."The food price crisis of last year really was a wake-up call to a lot of people that we are going to have 50% more people on the surface of the Earth by 2050.  Meeting those demands for food coming out of population growth is going to be a huge challenge — even without climate change," Nelson said."On top of that, sub-Saharan Africa in particular is home to a large number of poor people. And one of the key messages to take home from our analysis is that with higher incomes people are more resilient to a variety of changes and that will be especially true for climate change."The report says that in 2050 average wheat yields in sub-Saharan Africa will decline by up to 22 percent as a result of climate change. Irrigation water supply is also expected to decrease and less food availability will mean on average 500 calories less per person.Without climate change, the report projected a rise in calorie availability in Sub-Saharan Africa in 2050.Nelson says African governments need to prioritise investment in the agriculture sector, particularly in rural roads, research and new technologies.  With the December 2009  climate change talks in Copenhagen, Denmark, Nelson says African governments should focus on helping their farmers adapt to climate change."As the governments of sub-Saharan Africa prepare to go to the Copenhagen negotiations they should ensure that agriculture is included both in the adaptation funding mechanisms that will come out of Copenhagen as well as allow for the possibility that mitigation funds can be used in Africa," Nelson said.The report says an additional investment in global agriculture of US$7 billion per year could increase production and counteract the adverse effects of climate change. The report says 40 percent of this investment should go to sub-Saharan Africa.Researchers say the ozone hole over Antarctica is likely to contract and may disappear by 2050 - as a result of a global reduction of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and other ozone-depleting emissions.The findings are based on a series of numerical simulations carried out by Eiji Akiyoshi of Tokyo's  National Institute for Environmental Studies (NIES), using projected emissions of CFCs and other gases blamed for the ozone hole. According to the Japanese report released last week, the Antarctic ozone hole is currently at its largest, but is likely to begin gradual contraction around 2020 and possibly disappear around 2050.  It is believed lowered CFC emissions can cause the hole to gradually close, the NIES reported. The team's findings are in line with research by other scientists.The scientists say CFC levels in the Earth's atmosphere have been in gradual decline since the mid-1990s, as a result of  global efforts to reduce their emission. But while Earth’s ozone layer is slowly being replenished following the international 1987 agreement banning CFCs, the Montreal Protocol, the recovery is occurring in a changing atmosphere and is unlikely to stabilize at pre-1980 levels, according to a recent University of Colorado study. The co-author of a paper by the Danish Meteorological Institute in the May 2006 issue of Nature said:  "We now have some confidence that the ozone layer is responding to the decreases in chlorine levels in the atmosphere due to the leveling off and decrease of CFCs, and most of the improvements are in agreement with what we had hoped for with the Montreal Protocol in place.""But we are not out of the woods yet, and the ozone recovery process still faces a number of uncertainties."  Other scientists say that harmful emissions have not been lowered enough to influence the ozone hole's size. Some scientists suggest the hole won't heal until much later because old refrigerators and air-conditioners still emit CFCs.The rocket carrying NASA's Orbiting Carbon Observatory has crashed, sending the remains of the atmosphere observation satellite into the ocean off the coast of Antarctica. Shortly before the crash, the 'payload fairing' failed to deploy from the craft."Several minutes into the flight of the Taurus rocket carrying NASA's Orbiting Carbon Observatory spacecraft, launch managers declared a contingency after the payload fairing failed to separate," said NASA in a statement on their website. "The spacecraft did not reach orbit and likely landed in the Pacific Ocean near Antarctica". The cause of the failure to deploy and the crash are still under investigation."A Mishap Investigation Board will be immediately convened to determine the cause of the launch failure," added the statement.Steve Cole, a spokesperson for NASA told Bloomberg L.P., "the mission is lost. At this point no one is exactly sure what the cause is". The rocket that would have carried the observatory into space, a Taurus XL, took off from Vandenberg Air Force Base in California in the United States, at approximately 4:55 a.m. EST. Approximately 10 minutes into the mission, the payload failed to separate and a contingency was activated, but was unsuccessful.The Orbiting Carbon Observatory was the latest mission in NASA's ongoing study of the global carbon cycle. It would have been the first spacecraft dedicated to studying atmospheric carbon dioxide, the most significant human-produced greenhouse gas and the principal human-produced driver of climate change. The cost of the project was US$273 million.The Royal Society of Arts (RSA) gave what it called a "cautious welcome" to the Stern Review on the economics of climate change.The leader of the RSA’s CarbonLimited Project, Matt Prescott, agreed that this needed global co-operation, but urged the British government to expand the notion of carbon trading downwards to the level of the individual when drafting the Climate Change Bill.The RSA has produced the first mock-up of personal carbon trading online. There, members of the public can obtain an estimate of their  own carbon ‘footprint’ by entering their gas and electricity consumptions, car and air mileages, on the RSA’s Carbon DAQ web site.The RSA suggest that a personal target of 5 tonnes of carbon emission per annum should be achievable.The RSA has a three-year project to investigate the feasibility of personal carbon trading. It has initiated research, conducted open public debates and is co-ordinating various trials.Personal carbon trading entails allocating to each individual an equal share of the overall sustainable level of carbon emissions. There would be an open market that would enable those who had not used up their share to sell their surplus to those who need, or can afford, an entitlement to emit more than their ration.Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd was interrupted on Monday at the National Press Club while announcing Australia's mid-term carbon emissions reduction target on live television.Three Newcastle women screamed out "No!" and moved towards Rudd as he announced that Australia would reduce emissions by as little as 5%, and not more than 15%, by 2020.One of the women, Annika Dean from Newcastle, said that the announcement was devastating and cowardly."This announcement means the Australian Government is willing to sacrifice the Great Barrier Reef to appease the big polluting companies that are fuelling global climate change."The women were removed from the gallery and interviewed by Australian Federal Police.The announcement was made in front of the nation's senior journalists, members of the senior cabinet including Climate Change Minister Penny Wong and Treasurer Wayne Swan, as well as Greens senators Bob Brown and Christine Milne.Australia's climate negotiators, who were appointed by the former Howard government, were heavily criticised by South Africa and China at last week's UNFCCC negotiations in Poznan for having blocked a 25-40% by 2020 target, along with Canada, Japan and Saudi Arabia.Today, the official ceremony ushering in Nicolas Sarkozy as the new president of France took place at Élysée Palace. A 21-gun salute marked the moment he assumed power from his predecessor, Jacques Chirac.Jean-Louis Debré, president of the Constitutional Council, received the oath of office from Sarkozy. "From this day on and for the duration of your mandate, you embody France, symbolize the republic and represent all the French people," he said as he made Sarkozy the 23rd President of France.Sarkozy's wife, Cecilia, and their five children were among the attendees."I will defend the independence of France. I will defend the identity of France," said Sarkozy in his inaugural address. "There is a need to unite the French people ... and to meet commitments because never before has [public] confidence been so shaken and so fragile."France needs "to take risks and follow initiatives," he said, as well as "rehabilitate the values of work, effort, merit and respect."He also said he would place defense of human rights and the fight against global warming at the center of his foreign policy.Handing over the launch codes for France's nuclear arsenal, was one of the final tasks of Chirac's presidency. After a private meeting with Sarkozy, Chirac drove off, ending his 12 years as president, with Sarkozy waving goodbye from the courtyard of Élysée Palace. Tuesday, Chirac had made his farewells to the nation in a televised address.Sarkozy rode in convertible up the Avenue des Champs-Élysées to the Arc de Triomphe, where he rekindled the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. He said that he was moved by a letter written by Guy Môquet to his parents. Môquet was executed by the Germans in 1941, along with Jean-Pierre Timbaud. It is essential that children know the horrors of war, he said. Coincidentially, Sarkozy is the first president of France to have been born after World War II.After that, Sarkozy flew to Germany for talks about the future of the European Union."The first emergency is to get the European Union out of its current paralysis," Sarkozy told reporters in Berlin. "For that, it is necessary that Germany, which today holds the EU presidency, and France, which has always been its privileged partner in Europe, see eye to eye on this."Nobel Prize winner Professor Paul J. Crutzen has stated he has data to support his controversial claim that injecting sulfur into the atmosphere would negate the greenhouse effect.The data is intended to quiet critics of the theory he first discussed in the scientific journal Climatic Change in August, 2006.The 1995 Nobel Prize winner in chemistry stated "Our calculations using the best models available have shown that injecting 1 million tonnes of sulfur a year would cool down the climate so the greenhouse effect is wiped out."The theory uses the idea that an added layer of sulfates in the stratosphere, approximately 16 kilometres above the earth, would reflect sunlight back into space and reduce the amount of solar radiation reaching the Earth's surface.Critics have shown that the earth has struggled for decades to reduce sulfur pollution, and how it is a component of acid rain that kills plantlife and animals.A large-scale experiment would be impossible to conduct, however scientists have noticed that massive volcanic eruptions have had similar effects on the earth. The 1991 eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines lowered temperatures around the world for two years, according to data taken at the time.Crutzen resparked discussion on the topic, a theory which has been dismissed up until now as dangerous. "Until August this was a taboo issue. But the paper I published really set off some movement in this area. It never hit the level of seriousness which it has taken in the past months," Crutzen said.Environmental groups are skeptical but agree the idea should be investigated. "This idea should be examined and as a last resort it can buy us a few decades," said Steve Sawyer, a policy adviser for Greenpeace International.A research team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Colorado State University of the US and the University of Sheffield of the UK has analysed effects of global warming and ozone pollution over 2000–2050 on the worldwide production of wheat, rice, maize and soybean. The study was published in journal Nature Climate Change yesterday.The scientists found reduction of crop yields by 2050 exceeded 10% of 2000 levels, substantially decreasing food security, in all cases examined. Several scenarios were considered because of uncertainty of future levels of ozone pollution.They estimated by 2050, increasing population and changing diet would increase world food needs by 50 percent.As coauthor Colette Heald told The Huffington Post, "The climate projections are quite consistent [...] the future of ozone pollution is very different [...] leading to either offsetting or reinforcing effects [of climate change] on crops".By 2050, undernourishment would increase by either 49 percent or by 27 percent, depending on the scenario.The study focuses on ozone–temperature covariation: ground-level ozone increases with temperatures.Heald said although temperature and ozone are separately known to impact crop yields, "nobody has looked at these together".Depending on region and crops, the yields may be primarily sensitive to ozone —in the case of wheat— or heat —in the case of maize— alone, providing a local estimation of relative benefits of climate change adaptation versus ozone regulation.The U.S. Department of Agriculture notes, "Ground-level ozone causes more damage to plants than all other air pollutants combined", highlighting the importance of air quality for agriculture. Results of NCLAN studies, published in a paper by AS Heagle in 1989, show dicot species, such as soybean, cotton, and peanut, lose more yield from ozone than do monocot species such as sorghum, field corn, and winter wheat.The researchers found that ozone pollution caused 46 percent of previously heat-attributed damage to soybean crops.The model does not include the effect of rising carbon dioxide concentration, which has complex and potentially offsetting impacts on global food supply.The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency says some crops may have higher yields with increased levels of carbon dioxide.However, global warming also increases probability of extreme crops-damaging weather events such as floods, droughts, and extreme temperatures. Climate change affects distribution of weeds, pests, and diseases.Heald noted the findings show pollution reduction is also important. "An air-quality cleanup would improve crop yields [...] Ozone is something that we understand the causes of, and the steps that need to be taken to improve air quality."As Heald told The Huffington Post, US surface ozone has dropped partly due to the Clean Air Act. "Despite an increase in vehicle miles driven and energy consumption, surface ozone has declined by 25 percent on average across the U.S. from 1980 to 2012 [...] However, the future of ozone air quality in the U.S. and around the world will depend on local emissions, the use of pollution control technology, regulations, and air quality policy."The study was supported by the Croucher Foundation, US National Science Foundation, and US National Park Service.Both scientists and politicians are divided over the increase in hurricanes in the last 30 years. The years 1970 to 1994 saw far fewer hurricanes than 1995 to the present. The New York Times suggests this decrease was a result of generally cooler North Atlantic water driving winds that disrupted potential hurricanes from forming. Some experts say the recent intensification is part of a natural cycle, while others claim that global warming has increased both the destructive power and the frequency of hurricanes.  The Times also pointed out that during 8 recent years the U.S. has been hit by about one-third fewer severe hurricanes than usual.Britain's chief scientific adviser Sir David King stated, "We have known since 1987 the intensity of hurricanes is related to surface sea temperature and we know that, over the last 15 to 20 years, surface sea temperatures in these regions have increased by half a degree centigrade. So it is easy to conclude that the increased intensity of hurricanes is associated with global warming." Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Professor Kerry Emanuel wrote that rising sea temperatures could account for only part what he claims has been a sharp rise in the destructiveness of tropical cyclones since the 1970s.[1] Eminent hurricane expert, Professor William Gray said that Emanuel's was “a terrible paper, one of the worst I've ever looked at.” [2]Jürgen Trittin, Germany's Minister of the Environment was sharply critical of the U.S. Government. He wrote in an editorial: "Greenhouse gases have to be radically reduced worldwide. The US has, up until this point, had its eyes closed to this emergency." Carsten Voigt of the German Foreign Ministry said that while he believed that hurricanes were more powerful due to global warming, he did not believe that hurricane Katrina was the fault of America, or the Bush administration. “The main point though is that climate change is an issue that needs to be put on the table.”In findings published Wednesday in Science Advances, researchers from the University of Colorado at Boulder (CU Boulder) in Colorado and the College of Wooster in Ohio reported a new mechanism by which warm ocean currents erode the ice shelves along the coast of Antarctica, contributing to the planet's rising oceans."Warm water circulation is attacking the undersides of these ice shelves at their most vulnerable points," said study co-author Karen Alley. The Wooster professor added, "These effects matter [...] But exactly how much, we don't yet know. We need to." The researchers used satellite imagery to identify places where coastal ice sheets had melted, creating areas of open water called polynyas, which, they observed, occurred in the same places every year.  From this, they concluded that warm water was reaching the ice sheets in the same places every year as well.Because warmer water is more buoyant, says the study, it rises above cooler water, creating what the scientists describe as an "upside-down river" flowing underneath the layers of ice.  Ice shelves tend to weaken as they move, forming cracks and crevasses at their edges and stretch points.  Warm water, being on top, tends to become even more likely to find these cracks, so increasing the ice mass' melt rate.Ice shelves are not actually part of the land mass with which they are associated.  Rather, they float along the coast nearby.  Because they can be prevented from drifting further away by high places in the ocean floor, they can in turn prevent land-associated ice masses from becoming detached."Now we're seeing a new process, where warm water cuts into the shelf from below," said study co-author Ted Scambos of CU Boulder's Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences (CIRES). "Like scoring a plate of glass, the trough renders the shelf weak, and in a few decades, it's gone, freeing the ice sheet to ride out faster into the ocean."Scientists say Australia's hot summer has had a devastating effect on Queensland's Great Barrier Reef. Coral reef specialists are comparing the severity of the damage to the worst case ever recorded in 2002.University of Queensland scientists say they were shocked by the reef's condition and are concerned the entire reef may be at risk of destruction from global warming.Professor Ove Hoegh-Guldberg said most of the reefs they saw were completely bleached. "Going down to 10 metres, every piece of coral was a glowing white colour - all that brown colour had disappeared and that was surprising for us," he said.Australian Conservation Foundation's Don Henry is worried. "The important thing from this warning is that we're starting to see this damage to the reef from warmer waters and climate change happen more often and more extensive," he said. "There's going to be a point when the reef just doesn't recover."With February, the hottest month, just ahead, this is a critical time. The last severe cases of bleaching occurred in 1998 and 2002, the last leaving more than 5 percent of the reef destroyed.Professor Hoegh-Guldberg, a renowned coral expert, said he was amazed at the damage to corals on the Keppel islands. "Corals at the Keppels are completely bleached and we are only halfway through January," he said.The Great Barrier Reef is a big attraction for Australia’s tourism industry, which employs 6 per cent of the country’s workforce and contributes 12 per cent of exports. Paul Marshall, manager of the Great Barrier Reef marine park said "We are going to be pretty lucky to escape coral deaths in the southern Great Barrier Reef." The Reef's future looks even darker following a report by climate scientists. The United Kingdom Meteorological Office report, Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change, suggests that a two-degree warming would also see 97 percent of the world's coral reefs lost, lower crop yields, put 2.8 billion people at risk of water shortage and the total loss of summer Arctic Sea ice, sparking the extinction of the polar bear and walrus.A group of over 200 scientists have signed a document demanding that political action be taken following the scientific evidence that had been put forth in the last International report on climate change. The document, that had been drafted by the Climate Change Research Centre at the University of New South Wales in Australia, was presented today at the United Nations Convention on Climate change, the scientists wanting to give a strong signal to the currently ongoing negotiations. Unlike the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which tries to assess the current situation and what the future trends are, the 2007 Bali Climate Declaration by Scientists makes explicit recommendations to policy makers. These are twofold, one regarding the current Conference, and one future goals. On the talks here at Bali, the Declaration says it is necessary that "a new global climate treaty [...] needs to begin in December 2007 and be completed by 2009". It went on to say that "The primary goal of this new regime must be to limit global warming to no more than 2 °C", and that emissions would need to be cut to 40% or less than 2004 levels in order to be able to reach that goal.Asked by which means these reductions could be achieved, Professor Richard Somerville from the United States answered that only a combination of technological advances and lifestyle changes would be sufficient to attain the proposed emission levels. The declaration, which is only about a page long, and its signatory list can be found at the Climate Change Research Centre's website (see below).Russian researchers warn that Western Siberia has begun to thaw as a result of global warming. The frozen peat bogs in this region may hold billions of tons of methane gas, which may be released into the atmosphere. Methane is a greenhouse gas 22 times more powerful than carbon dioxide.Sergei Kirpotin, of Tomsk State University warned New Scientist that the event is an "ecological landslide that is probably irreversible and is undoubtedly connected to climatic warming".David Viner, of the University of East Anglia told The Guardian: "When you start messing around with these natural systems, you can end up in situations where it's unstoppable". He also warns that this event was not considered by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change.In May, scientists from the University of Alaska found methane "hotspots" in eastern Siberia where the gas bubbles out from thawing permafrost bogs at a rate that prevents the surface from freezing.The permafrost has been intact for 11,000 years and started melting 3 to 4 years ago, according to Kirpotin.Scientists at the Ohio University predicted that the ice sheets of Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa's tallest mountain peak, will melt in the next twenty years due to global warming.The ice that was present in 1912 gradually decreased by 85% by 2000, and by 2007 another 26% of the amount in 2000. This was the first time that the volume of the ice in Kilimanjaro was measured. The tests were conducted by Lonnie Thompson, a professor at Ohio University."The fact that so many glaciers throughout the tropics and subtropics are showing similar responses suggests an underlying common cause," Thompson said.Change in cloudiness and weather could have also been factors in the retreat of the ice, especially in recent decades, scientists said. These findings were first published in the journal proceedings of United States National Academy of Sciences (NAS) on Monday.The 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 16) negotiations continued this week in Bonn, Germany.  The 4,500 attendees include government delegates from 182 governments, representatives from business and industry, environmental organizations and research institutions.  COP 16 is scheduled to take place November 29 – December 10, 2010 in Cancún, Mexico.Luis Alfonso de Alba, Mexico's special representative for climate change, told Reuters, "Mexico does not want to raise false expectations but we certainly are ambitious". He criticised the outgoing head of the U.N.'s climate secretariat, Yvo de Boer, and the European Union's climate commissioner Connie Hedegaard for their scepticism.Negotiating under the  United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the next negotiating session is scheduled to take place in August, followed by another, final one-week intersessional meeting, before Cancún.  The talks were designed to discuss issues that were not resolved at the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 15) in Copenhagen.The two working groups are the Ad Hoc Working Group on Long-Term Cooperative Action (AWG-LCA) and the Ad Hoc Working Group on Further Commitments for Annex (AWG-KP). These groups were specifically designed to negotiate a long-term response to climate change. The AWG-LCA is the negotiating group tasked to deliver a new "COP16 negotiative text" ahead of the June negotiating session.  The AWG-KP is to focus on emissions reduction commitments for the 37 industrialised countries that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol for the period beyond 2012.There are also two UNFCCC standing committees meetings, the Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA) and the Subsidiary Body for Implementation (SBI).The conference is officially referred to as the 16th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 16) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the 6th session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the meeting of the Parties (CMP 6) to the Kyoto Protocol.While hybrid vehicles have found considerable popularity in the United States since their introduction, one difficulty associated with the rollout of a fully electric car has been the comparably high price and poor performance, compared to an internal combustion engine-driven car of similar size. Tesla Motors claims that their Model S, a sedan which runs solely on electricity, will be more affordable.Tesla first entered the automobile market in 2006, with a prototype of an electric vehicle designed on the roadster style. While the car, whose exterior design was based on the Lotus Elise, accelerated well and had considerable range, its cost of US$109,000 was prohibitive for many and to date only 300 have been sold, with a thousand more ordered.Tesla says, however, that the Model S could sell for around $56,400, with the actual price some $7,500 lower after a Federal Government tax credit on electric vehicles. Tesla claims the Model S has a range of up to 450 kilometers (280 miles) without recharging and can reach a top speed of 200 km/h (125 mph). It is powered by a 454 kg (1001 lb) battery pack.Initial plans were to build the car in New Mexico, but instead the Model S will be built near the company's headquarters in San Jose, California.The Stern Review of the Economics of Climate Change put the cost of keeping emissions at 550 parts per million at one percent of global GDPA leaked draft report, by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), due to be published next year, estimates this cost could be between one and five percent of global GDP.The Stern Review put the costs of not acting to resist climate change could be between 5 and 20 percent GDP.It is reported that UK Ministers are to travel to India and America to promote the Stern Review. Their task will not be eased by the leaked IPCC report which is now said to be available freely on the internet.Following the Stern Review, Chancellor Gordon Brown urged the member states of the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme to tighten their targets even further.The concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the atmosphere is increasing faster than expected, according to a new study published in Tuesday's edition of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.  The study said that rising levels of CO2, the main greenhouse gas blamed for climate change, threaten to accelerate global warming.  The study attributes the change in CO2 levels to increased use of fossil fuels and a decline in the amount of gas being absorbed by the oceans and land.CO2 emissions have increased by an average of 3.3 percent per year since 2000, compared with 1.1 percent per year in the 1990s.  The rate has increased 35 percent more than scientists had anticipated based on economic growth, according to Corinne Le Quere, one of the paper's authors."The causes of the acceleration are surprising," Le Quere said.  "One is that we are not as efficient at using CO2 as we had anticipated, and the second cause is that it appears that the CO2 sinks are weakening."  The main natural CO2 sinks are the oceans and plants.The study attributed approximately half of the unexpected growth to an increase in the carbon intensity of the global economy, a measure of the amount of carbon emissions per unit of economic activity.  "For 30 years we were becoming more efficient at using CO2 for producing energy and wealth, and this has completely stalled since 2000," Le Quere said, adding that increased use of coal by developing countries such as China and India was partially to blame.The remaining unexpected growth was attributed to a decline in the ability of the oceans and land to absorb CO2.  Most climate models do not account for a weakening of CO2 sinks, Le Quere said.  Alan Robock, associate director of the Center for Environmental Prediction at Rutgers University, called the reduction of the oceanic CO2 sink "really shocking".The study "raises some very important issues that the public should be aware of: Namely that concentrations of CO2 are increasing at much higher rates than previously expected and this is in spite of the Kyoto Protocol that is designed to hold them down in western countries," said Kevin Trenberth, the head of the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research and a lead author of the 2007 assessment report of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).The IPCC predicted in February of this year that temperatures would rise by up to 6.4 degrees Celsius over the next century.  However, Le Quere suggested that this scenario might be overly optimistic.  "There’s quite a significant difference from what was forecast,” she said.  "It’s rather scary and the IPCC scenarios are, therefore, rather too optimistic — as if they weren’t bleak enough already. The whole thing is likely to mean mitigation is rather more difficult than was thought."Researchers belonging to the National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) say that the Arctic ice caps are melting at a rate much faster than that predicted by computer models previously reported by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and that the ice could be gone sometime near year 2020. "This suggests that current model projections may in fact provide a conservative estimate of future Arctic change, and that the summer Arctic sea ice may disappear considerably earlier than IPCC projections," said head researcher of the study group at the United States-based National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR) and the University of Colorado's NSIDC, Julienne Stroeve.Stroeve says that the IPCC's 18 computer models used in the study were out of date and that the melting of the ice has actually progressed 30 years quicker than the computers predicted. The researchers also say that the computers did not take into account the increased threat of global warming. The IPCC ultimately predicted that the ice would be gone by 2050.Despite the predictions, since 1979, the ice has actually melted at a rate of 9% per decade.The prediction by the IPCC was done in the Arctic Sea during September and predicted that between 1953 and 2003, the ice would have melted 2.5% per decade, but it actually melted at a rate of 7.8% per decade. Their worst case scenario between those years, which was predicted using only one computer, had shown that the ice was going to melt at a rate of 5.4% per decade."Right now - the Arctic helps keep the Earth cool. Without that Arctic ice, or with much less of it, the Earth will warm much faster. The IPCC report was very careful, very thorough and cautious, so they erred on the side of what would certainly occur as opposed to what might occur," said Ted Scambos, an expert on Arctic ice in the U.S."Long-term and for the next 50 years, I think even the new report will agree that we're in for quite a bit of warming," added Scambos.Several factors including climate change and pollution may put at risk of drying up some of the largest rivers on the globe, a report by the environmental group WWF says. Following a study of ten rivers currently at risk of drying up, the group warns that without any action the process of drying up might lead to freshwater emergency.The report analyzes ten rivers, including the Yangtze, the Ganges and the Salween in Asia; the Danube in Europe and Rio Grande in North America.The study raises concerns overs dams and dikes, which the report says destroy 80 percent of river basin's wetlands and floodplains.Another problem is the extraction of water for agriculture. The environment group states that active extraction of water, such as in the Indus river, takes its toll on our planet's rivers. Over-extraction might lead to its scarcity and have a serious negative impact on freshwater fish populations, which represents an important food source.The report says governments should ensure better protection of rivers and provide more sustainable water use, in such a way that people's livelihoods are protected.According to Dr David Tickner, head of WWF UK's Freshwater programme, the freshwater crisis is a serious problems that could worsen as climate changes. He said that preserving rivers and providing security of water flows should be seen as part of national security, health and economic success.Many lights in Sydney, Australia's largest city, were turned off for one hour at 19:30 local time (09:30 UTC) on March 31, 2007 to raise awareness of climate change. This Earth hour, which was organised by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), received support from the government of New South Wales, many environmental groups and some businesses.Many famous buildings such as the Opera House, Sydney Harbour Bridge and Luna Park took part.Organisers also hoped the event would encourage Australians to conserve energy, claiming if various electronics were switched off when they were not in use the country's greenhouse gas emissions could reduce by up to 5%.Thousands of people across Australia are taking part in protests calling on the Federal Government to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. The 'Walk Against Warming' is part of an international day of action in 40 countries, coinciding with the United Nations climate change talks in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. According to the Walk Against Warming group, "the need to reduce greenhouse gases is at crisis point, we must act now for the sustainability of our planet for future generations."Melinda Cook, Nature Conservation Council of New South Wales official, says governments need to take much stronger action on the issue of Climate Change. "This international day has been called to put pressure on Australia and the US to ratify and to make sure governments are aware that the community is demanding serious commitments and action on greenhouse gas reduction," said Cook.Siding with the United States, the Australian Federal Government has refused to ratify the Kyoto Protocol on climate change, arguing it is damaging to their economic interests. Federal Environment Minister Ian Campbell says Australia is focused on measures that should be taken after Kyoto expires in 2012."We need to do something that suits the developed world, something that suits the rapidly developing world, partnerships, technologies, economic mechanisms that drive us towards that," said Campbell. "We're nowhere near that at the moment and Australia wants to be a constructive part of driving us towards a very useful post-Kyoto regime."Protesters across Australia are using the International Day of Action on Climate Change to demand the government adopt a clean energy policy. Hundreds of people marched through Sydney on Saturday to mark the day. The protest against global warming coincides with the 12-day conference in Montreal, which will discuss climate change measures and future international action when the Kyoto Protocol expires at the end of 2012. Australia and the United States are the only western industrialised nations which refuse to ratify the global Kyoto Protocol. Australia has delegates at the Montreal meeting, but will only act as observers.Melinda Cook said scientists had predicted huge negative consequences including extreme weather and even social and economic impacts if steps were not taken now. Cook also said governments must make a "serious commitment" not to build any more coal fire powered stations.The United States Bush administration and the Australian Howard Government have refused to ratify the Kyoto agreement, which pledges industrialised nations to cut carbon dioxide levels to 5.2 per cent below 1990 levels between 2008 and 2012.Global ActionUp to a million people will take to the streets of more than 100 cities across dozens of countries today to demand greater action on global warming. Organizers of the protests say the world's leading industrialised nations had failed to make an impact on climate change and some, in particular Britain, were backsliding on their environmental commitments.The United Nations meeting in Montreal, will be attended by representatives of 189 countries. The centerpiece of the International Day of Climate Protest will be a mass protest in Montreal, where at least 15,000 people are expected to lobby delegates.Across the planet, protests are being held in locations from Helsinki to Seoul. In Washington, drivers of fuel-efficient hybrid cars will rally around the White House. In New Orleans - devastated by Hurricane Katrina in August - there will be a "Stop Global Warming" street party in the French Quarter."There is probably very little we can expect [from Montreal] because we are doing nothing to keep fossil fuel in the ground. All these techno-fixes are a waste of time if we continue to burn fossil fuel at the same rate," said George Monbiot, an academic and environment commentator, who will address a rally in London."There is a lot of cynicism about what the British government is doing. [Prime Minister] Tony Blair has promised much and persuaded many that he will deliver but it has turned out to be rubbish. Blair had no intention of doing anything on climate change other than talk about it. But this weekend's protests are taking place in a changed context - the media are listening and finally we have to make the politicians listen."Countries taking part in the global day of action include: Australia, Bangladesh, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Croatia, Democratic Republic of Congo, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Republic of Ireland, Italy, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Russia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Turkey, Uganda, United States, Venezuela...Tropical Storm Alpha formed Saturday in the Caribbean to break the record for most tropical storms in an Atlantic hurricane season ever, making it the 22nd storm of the year. It is also the first storm to be named with a letter of the Greek alphabet. Wilma exhausted the English alphabetic list as the 21st named storm; the letters Q, U, X, Y and Z are skipped when naming Atlantic storms.Currently, the storm has sustained winds of 40mph, which is only 1mph over the threshold for a tropical storm. It is centered about 70 miles south of Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. A tropical storm warning has been issued for Haiti and portions of the Dominican Republic.According to scientists, since 1995 an increase in hurricane activity has been due to a rise in ocean temperatures and decrease of wind shear that rip apart hurricanes.The prior record has stood since the 1933 Atlantic hurricane season. However the season does not end till November 30, leaving room for more storms to form and shatter the record. Scientists have noted that the number of very strong hurricanes is likely to increase further in future years as the effects of global warming increase. Researcher Dr Peter Webster stated that "What I think we can say is that the increase in (hurricane) intensity is probably accounted for by the increase in sea-surface temperature, and I think probably the sea-surface temperature increase is a manifestation of global warming."The US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has released an official annual report to the United Nations (UN) on greenhouse gas emissions in the United States.  The report is drafted, held for 30 days of public comment, then released to the Secretariat of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) each year in April.This year's report is the ninth since the EPA began producing the emissions inventory in 1997, after the US signed and ratified the UNFCCC in 1992.  The UNFCCC, a legally non-binding treaty created to address global warming, is not as well known as the Kyoto Protocol, which is a more recently updated protocol based on that treaty.  The United States did not ratify the Kyoto Protocol; however, it was ratified by 127 other nations and went into effect for them on February 16, 2005.On Friday, thirteen agencies within the United States government jointly issued the Climate Science Special Report, declaring that roughly 90% of climate change is caused by human activity, most notably the production of carbon dioxide by the burning of fossil fuels.  This directly contradicts assertions made by politicians within the administration of the current president, Donald Trump.The report notes, "It is extremely likely that human influence has been the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century[...] For the warming over the last century, there is no convincing alternative explanation supported by the extent of the observational evidence."Officially, the report was submitted through the Trump Administration's Office of Science and Technology Policy, to which President Trump has not appointed a head. The official response from the rest of the White House, given to the press by White House spokesperson Raj Shah, reads as follows: "The climate has changed and is always changing. As the Climate Science Special Report states, the magnitude of future climate change depends significantly on 'remaining uncertainty in the sensitivity of Earth's climate to [greenhouse gas] emissions[...] In the United States, energy related carbon dioxide emissions have been declining, are expected to remain flat through 2040, and will also continue to decline as a share of world emissions."The report clocks in at roughly 500 pages and places the human contribution to the increase in the Earth's temperature at 92–123% since 1950.  As explained by co-author Katherine Hayhoe, the space over 100% indicates counteraction of forces that have a cooling effect, like sun-blocking dust kicked into the upper atmosphere by volcanoes.  Overall, the report calls the past 115 years "the warmest in the history of modern civilization."The study cites several factors, called "tipping points," that might make global climate change more intense, such as changes in El Niño and other major patterns in ocean currents, the loss of arctic and antarctic ice sheets, and the release of methane, a greenhouse gas, from rotting material as previously permafrozen ground begins to thaw and cites both the wildfires in California and Superstorm Sandy for effects due to global climate change.  It predicts one scenario in which ocean levels rise as much as 8 feet (2.4 m) by the year 2100.Unlike with previous studies on climate change released by U.S. government agencies, said one lead author, David Fahey of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Trump Administration does not appear to have made an effort to block publication of the report or alter the wording describing its scientific findings, though there were some alterations to the description of U.S. policy with respect to the Paris Climate Accords. Fahey remarked, "I'm quite confident to say there has been no political interference in the scientific messages from this report...] Whatever fears we had weren't realized."Head of the Environmental Protection Agency Scott Pruitt and Secretary of Energy Rick Perry have both said publicly that carbon dioxide does not cause much global warming.Phil Duffy of the Woods Hole Research Center noted, "This is a federal government report whose contents completely undercut [the Trump Administration's] policies, completely undercut the statements made by senior members of the administration." President Trump has announced plans to withdraw the United States form the Paris Climate Accords, in which participating countries pledge to reduce carbon emissions, and to loosen federal laws regulating fossil fuels.The Climate Science Special Report is part of the fourth National Climate Assessment, the last of which was in 2014. The National Climate Assessments are required by a law passed by the United States Congress in 1990.Buenos Aires — The 10th session of the Conference of Parties (COP 10) is being held in the Argentine capital of Buenos Aires; signatories of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change have gathered to discuss issues involving global warming. Senior U.S. negotiator Dr. Harlan Watson came under fire for the United States' refusal to ratify the almost 10 year old Kyoto Treaty (AKA: Kyoto Protocol) which aims to reduce the emission of 6 greenhouse gases in the 55+ signatory nations and requires participating industrialized countries to give money and technology to developing countries.Watson countered these complaints by arguing that, "Kyoto is a political agreement, it's not based on science." He also stated that the United States remains steadfast to its current position on global climate change.  Supporters of the Kyoto Treaty state the protocol's required actions are not sufficient to effect their claimed warming effects.The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), a United Nations organization, released its Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5ºC (SR15)  on Monday, during its 48th session held in Incheon, South Korea. In this report, the panel called for rapid "unprecedented" changes globally to limit planetary warming to 1.5°C (2.7°F) above pre-industrial levels, saying failure to do so would result in increased sea level rise and higher frequency of extreme weather events such as droughts, floods, and heatwaves. The report examined the possibility of limiting global warming to a maximum of 1.5ºC, as sought in the Paris Agreement — a landmark agreement in which global leaders united to combat climate change — as well as the consequences of failure to do so. The final report was produced by a team of 91 scientists from 40 countries and based on assessments of 6,000 available scientific studies.The New Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment said the impact of 1.5°C warming presented in the report is plainly larger than expected.  The most vulnerable countries were coastal or economically agriculture-dependent, such as India, where poverty reportedly could increase as crop yields decline and unprecedented climate extremes would take place. One of the working groups' co-chairs, Debra Roberts, called the report the "largest clarion bell from the science community". The report indicated that without an increase in current climate change initiatives, by 2030 with 1.5°C, coral reefs would decline by 70–90% and be substantially lost — over 99% — at 2ºC. According to the report, the mitigation projects already taking place globally would need to be taken to an unprecedented scale.The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) has released a comprehensive report on the current state of the global environment. Climate change, food and water shortage and a decline in biodiversity threaten humanity's survival, so urgent action is necessary, the report warns.UNEP's Global Environment Outlook: environment for development (GEO-4) report involved the work of about 390 experts in various fields from around the world.While the GEO-4 report salutes some improvements, for example the increased public awareness of environmental issues and political interest, it also warns that "There are no major issues... for which the foreseeable trends are favourable." Although the report sets out a gloomy scenario, its main aim is to call for action.A report Tuesday from a United Nations-backed project, consulting more than 1,300 scientists from 95 countries, and written over the last four years, warns that 60 percent of the basics of life on Earth — water, food, timber, clean air — are currently being used in ways which degrade them. Furthermore, fisheries and fresh water use-patterns are unsustainable, and getting worse."The harmful consequences of this degradation could grow significantly worse in the next 50 years," according to a press release from the Millennium Ecosystem Assessment (MA), a massive four-year study begun in 2001."We've had many reports on environmental degradation, but for the first time we're now able to draw connections between ecosystem services and human well-being," Cristian Samper, director of the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History in Washington and a chief architect of the study, told the Christian Science Monitor.The project's Synthesis Report, first in a series of eleven documents and published yesterday, explains the objective: "to assess the consequences of ecosystem change for human well-being and to establish the scientific basis for actions needed to enhance the conservation and sustainable use of ecosystems and their contributions to human well-being."It then goes on to report on four main findings:Changes over the last 50 years to meet rapidly growing demands for food, fresh water, timber, fiber and fuel, have effected substantial and largely irreversible loss in the diversity of life on Earth.Net gains in human well-being and economic development are offset by growing costs, in the form ecosystem degradation, the possibility of abrupt and unpredictable ecosystem changes, and worsened poverty for some groups. Unless addressed, these problems will substantially diminish the benefits that future generations obtain from ecosystems.Ecosystem degradation could grow significantly worse over the next 50 years, presenting a barrier to meeting UN  Millennium Development Goals.The challenge of reversing the degradation while meeting increasing ecological demands can be partially met under some scenarios, but only with significant changes in policies, institutions and practices  — changes that are not currently under way.Walter Reid, the study's director, speaking at yesterday's London launch of the report said it shows that over the last 50 years "humans have changed ecosystems more rapidly and extensively than in any comparable time in human history.""This has resulted in substantial and largely irreversible loss in the diversity of life on Earth," he said.It is unclear what this will mean to future generations or the possible emergence of new diseases, absence of fresh water and the continuing decline of fisheries and completely unpredictable weather.With half of the urban populations of Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean suffering from several diseases associated with these problems, the death toll is reaching 1.7 million people a year. Entire species of mammals, birds and amphibians are disappearing from the planet at nearly 1,000 times the natural rate, according to the study. Oxygen-depleted coastal waters and rivers result from overuse of nitrogen fertilizer - an effect known as "nutrient loading" which leads to continuing biodiversity loss.With the United States' non-participation in the Kyoto Treaty, former U.S. Senator Timothy Wirth, president of this U.N. Foundation, says  "U.S. leadership is critical in providing much-needed expertise, technological capabilities and ingenuity to restore ecosystems."We can take steps at home to reduce our nation's adverse impact on the global environment.""At the heart of this assessment is a stark warning," said the 45-member board.Rajendra Pachauri, the chair of the UN-run Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has said that eating less meat is a good way to reduce damage to the climate.Pachuari said that "the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has estimated that direct emissions from meat production account for about 18% of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions," when explaining the reasons behind his comment. "So I want to highlight the fact that among options for mitigating climate change, changing diets is something one should consider." "In terms of immediacy of action and the feasibility of bringing about reductions in a short period of time, it [giving up meat] clearly is the most attractive opportunity," continued the climate scientist. "Give up meat for one day [a week] initially, and decrease it from there."Joyce D'Silva, a spokesperson for Compassion in World Farming agreed with Pachuari. "Surveys show people are anxious about their personal carbon footprints and cutting back on car journeys and so on; but they may not realize that changing what's on their plate could have an even bigger effect," she said in response to the comments made by the UN climate scientist.The National Farmers Union  said that people should find ways of environmental farming instead of giving up meat. "The NFU is committed to ensuring farming is part of the solution to climate change, rather than being part of the problem," said a spokesperson for the organization. "We strongly support research aimed at reducing methane emissions from livestock farming by, for example, changing diets and using anaerobic digestion."A new report, titled "Global Deserts Outlook," has been released on World Environment Day by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). The report suggests that the world's deserts face dramatic changes as a result of global climate change: high water demands, tourism and salt contamination of irrigated soils. Desert margins and mountainous areas within deserts that have been important for people, wildlife and water supplies for millennia, are under particular threat, say UNEP.2006 is the United Nations' International Year of Deserts and Desertification. Yet deserts could become the "carbon-free power houses of the 21st century," some experts believe. They argue an area 800 by 800 km of desert, such as the Sahara, could capture the solar energy to generate all the world's electricity needs - and more. The report, prepared by experts from across the globe, flags options that may help governments and relevant bodies deliver a more sustainable future for the Earth's desert regions."There are many popular and sometimes misplaced views of deserts which this report either confirms or overturns. Far from being barren wastelands, they emerge as biologically, economically and culturally dynamic while being increasingly subject to the impacts and pressures of the modern world," said Shafqat Kakakhel, UNEP's Officer in Charge and Deputy Executive Director. "If the huge, solar-power potential of deserts can be economically harnessed the world has a future free from fossil fuels. And tourism based around desert nature can, if sensitively managed, deliver new prospects and perspectives for people in some of the poorest parts of the world," said Mr Kakakhel.Almost one-quarter of the earth's land surface – some 33.7 million square kilometres – has been defined as "desert" in some sense. These deserts are inhabited by over 500 million people, significantly more than previously thought. In many parts of the world desert cores remain pristine, representing some of the planet's "last remaining areas of total wilderness," stated the UNEP in a news release.Desert species are on the brink of extinction the Global Deserts Outlook reports. At risk animals include various species of Gazelle, Oryx, Addax, Arabian Tahr and the Barbary sheep as well as one of the falconers favourite prey, the Houbara. "At greatest risk are the few patches of dry woodlands associated with desert mountain habitats which may decline by up to 3.5 per cent per year," said the study.As a result of their valuable water supplies being diverted to domestic or agricultural use, desert wetlands, fed by the large rivers crossing deserts, are probably the most threatened ecosystem. Probable impacts include those created by roads, settlement expansion and other infrastructure developments around areas of desert montane. By 2050 the report estimates that  desert wilderness - those areas where there are no nearby roads - will decline from just under 60 per cent of the current total desert area to just over 30 per cent.The pharmaceutical potential of desert plants has yet to be tapped, suggests the report. Scientists across the globe are analysing many desert plants for potential medicinal compounds - including anti-cancer and anti-malarial substances, antioxidants, as well as appetite suppressants.On Friday, the US presidential administration of Donald Trump released the Fourth National Climate Assessment (NCA4), a massive two-part congressionally mandated 1,656-page National Climate Assessment by the United States Global Change Research Program (USGCRP). The report, which focuses on the United States, warned consequences of climate change are increasing across the country. The concentration of carbon dioxide in the Earth's atmosphere has exceeded 400 parts per million. The last time this level was reached was approximately three million years ago.NCA4 Volume 1, entitled "Climate Science Special Report" (CSSR), was released late last year, and Volume 2, entitled "Impacts, Risks, and Adaptation in the United States", on Friday. NCA4 is part of an ongoing series of NCA stand-alone reports updating the state of science on climate change and its potential physical impacts on the regions of the United States. The the third report was released in 2014.Changes in the United States highlighted in the report include worsening and more frequent landfalling atmospheric rivers — bands of rain-laden air in the sky. These rivers of water vapor tend to be around 300 miles (500 km) wide, carrying something like 25 times the water volume of the Mississippi River. They can cause extreme precipitation events and flooding. NCA4 also reported on increasing wildfires, such as the record California wildfires, high temperature extremes, retreating glaciers, and melting snow cover, the decline of sea ice, rising sea levels with increasing ocean acidification and coastal flooding. It describes how climate change would reportedly impact the US economy and quality of life if effective action is not taken to address climate change. The report says by the end of the 21st century, the United States economy may face a roughly ten percent loss of GDP. A federal advisory committee was mandated to use the NCA reports' scientific studies, findings, and data to make public policy recommendations states could implement. In August 2017, the Trump administration dissolved this committee. NCA reports do not include policy recommendations. In a Reuters interview, a White House spokeswoman dismissed the report as inaccurate.The report was issued by thirteen federal agencies, including DOD and NASA, with NOAA as administrative lead. It was the result of two years' work. Three hundred scientists with a total of over a thousand people — half of which were non-governmental staff — worked on the report.The League of Conservation Voters (LCV) issued a statement today, congratulating Senator Christopher Dodd for his support of environmental issues. Dodd has made a large ad buy in Iowa and New Hampshire for a spot talking about his commitment to the issues. It is the first television ad by a candidate during the campaign to discuss global warming.LCV President Gene Karpinski stated:                     On January 11, 2007, Dodd announced his Presidential candidacy on the now canceled Imus in the Morning radio show. The head of the New Hampshire Democratic party said Dodd told her that he wasn't "going to do the exploratory thing, I'm going to plunge right in."LCV's mission is to "advocate for sound environmental policies and to elect pro-environmental candidates who will adopt and implement such policies."Dodd is currently a senator for Connecticut.The United States Department of the Interior today listed the polar bear as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), due to the melting of Arctic sea ice that is the bears' habitat. The announcement of the listing was made by Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne. In making the announcement, Kempthorne said he wishes to prevent further losses of polar bears, but he warned against using the Endangered Species Act to "regulate greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles, power plants, and other sources", which he called "a wholly inappropriate use of the ESA law."Kempthorne says the Interior Department will apply separate rules from the Marine Mammal Protection Act to the polar bear, which will permit flexibility in economic development as long as the survival of the species is not adversely affected. Kempthorne said the policies "will ensure the protection of the bear while allowing us to continue to develop our natural resources in the Arctic region in an environmentally sound way."The Government of Nunavut fears the decision could lead to a ban on the importation of polar bear hides into the United States. As a result the Nunavut economy could suffer. The polar bear hunt generates $1.5 million (US) per year in revenue.Carl Pope, director of the environmentalist Sierra Club, criticized the Interior Department's decision, saying it was "riddled with loopholes, caveats and backhanded language that could actually undermine protections for the polar bear and other species".The government was forced to make a decision regarding the polar bear by May 15, after environmental groups sued the George W. Bush administration for failing to meet a January 9 deadline. The administration was accused of postponing the decision as a way to allow for more Alaskan oil and gas drilling.The purpose of the Endangered Species Act is to protect species that may be in danger of extinction as a result of human action. It aims to achieve this by regulating federal activity in the habitat of threatened species. Commercial activity is not directly regulated, but companies must receive a permit for development in designated habitats.The polar bear is the first animal to be protected under the Endangered Species Act due to the threat that global warming poses to the bears' Arctic habitat. Some environmental groups say they could use the designation to protest the construction of coal power plants located thousands of miles away from the Arctic, which they blame for contributing to greenhouse gases and global warming.However, Barton H. Thompson Jr., a law professor at Stanford University, says that such lawsuits would be difficult to win. "Interior has a reasonable case here that the connection [between greenhouse gas emmissions and polar bears] is just too far removed," he says. If sea ice continues to melt, two-thirds of the polar bear population could be gone by 2050, according to studies released by the United States Geological Survey last September. Also, Louis Fortier of the Canadian research group ArcticNet believes the Arctic Ocean could be ice-free in the summers by 2010.But M. Reed Hopper of the Pacific Legal Foundation, a property-rights group, disputes the notion that the polar bear is severely threatened. He says the government used "speculative computer modeling" to make its decision, and he plans to sue the Interior Department. "Never before has a thriving species been listed under the Environmental Species Act, nor should it be," he said.A United States Senate committee has passed landmark legislation aimed at combating global warming by limiting carbon dioxide emissions. The vote was timed to coincide with the U.N. conference on climate change taking place in Bali, Indonesia. The bill would set caps on U.S. greenhouse gas emissions from electric utility, transportation and manufacturing industries beginning in 2012 with the goal of cutting emissions 60 percent by 2050. It would create an incentive system that would give credits to industries that cut pollution. Industries that failed to reduce emissions would be forced to buy credits from others.The Democratic-led Senate Environment and Public Works Committee voted eleven to eight, largely along party lines, to send the measure to the full Senate for what supporters hope will be action early next year."We are facing a crisis that will hit our children and our grandchildren the hardest if we do not act now. Not to act would be wrong, cowardly, and irresponsible," said Senator Barbara Boxer, a Californian Democrat, chairwoman of the committee.Senator Boxer, who is expected to travel to Bali as part of a U.S. congressional delegation next week, said committee approval of the bill sends a signal to the rest of the world that the United States is serious about reducing global warming.But many Republicans oppose the legislation, saying it would increase energy costs and lead to job losses. They argue the measure does not ensure that other nations, particularly China and India, will cut emissions."China's emission will continue to accelerate as it builds coal plants and imports jobs from the United States. This will be enormously expensive to households within seven years as electricity prices skyrocket by 35 to 65 percent," said Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the committee.But co-sponsor Republican Senator John Warner of Virginia, who broke with many in his party to support the measure, offered a different view: "If we do not act, China and India will hide behind America's skirts of inaction and take no steps of their own. Therefore we simply have to lead," he said.The House of Representatives has yet to draft its own version of the legislation.U.S. Senator John McCain will next observe the effects of global warming on Greenland. The Danish government has invited a number of influential American politicians to visit for them to witness with their own eyes the consequences of climate change on the Arctic ice.Last year 25 Environmental Ministers from all over the world were treated to a similar tour. Last week American scientists from University of Texas at Austin released a study that showed that the ice is melting three times faster now than in the late nineties.Among several senators participating in the trip is former presidential candidate John McCain. From the Danish side, Foreign Minister Per Stig Møller and Minister for the Environment Connie Hedegaard will be on the tour."We have to realize, that the current president hasn't in mind to do anything, but John McCain can be key to that process in the U.S." Connie Hedegaard said to DR's radio news.The United States, China, India, Japan, South Korea, and Australia have formed a partnership aiming to cut the emissions of gasses that lead to global warming. The deal was signed after nearly a year of secret negotiations. The "Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate" deal does not - as yet - contain targets for reducing emissions.Environmental groups have condemned the deal, claiming that, as it is not legally binding, it is no substitute for the Kyoto Protocol, which the US and Australia refuse to sign. China and India - along with some 140 other countries - have already ratified the Kyoto agreement, but did not have to set a target for reducing gas emissions due to their status as developing countries. The Kyoto Protocol has the firm target of reducing emissions by 5.2% on 1990 levels before 2010.Answering critics, the Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said, "We are not trying to detract from Kyoto and the commitments that a number of countries have made under the Kyoto Protocol. This partnership will complement and not replace the Kyoto Protocol."The Australian Prime Minister John Howard also said that his country should not pursue renewable technologies, but should instead concentrate in reducing emissions from the use of coal. Australia is the world's largest exporter of coal, and Howard said that "Australia [should not be] unreasonably penalising herself by saying, in effect, we're going to try to move away from the use of fuels in which Australia has a natural advantage."However part of the deal includes setting up a fund to further research cleaner energy technologies, including more efficient use of fossil fuels as well as renewable technologies, and also methods of trapping and storing greenhouse gasses rather than releasing them to the atmosphere. It is hoped that this will aid China, India and other developing countries to adopt cleaner energy solutions.The details will be worked out at a meeting between the six countries in November, shortly before the next UN summit on climate change.The countries believe the deal is fairer and more effective than the Kyoto Protocol. However, a Greenpeace spokesperson said, "The suggested scheme is, unlike Kyoto, a voluntary scheme, and all evidence shows that voluntary schemes do not work. Skulking around making secretive, selective deals will not accomplish a reduction in emissions ."The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has warned that global temperatures could rise by 1.4C to as much as 5.8C by 2100. The US and China are the two biggest producers of carbon dioxide (a major greenhouse gas) in the world.The European Union, Canada, Indonesia and other nations at the United Nations' climate talks in Montreal have put pressure on the United States. Participants at the meeting want the US to join the global Kyoto pact to limit greenhouse gas emissions, to curb extreme weather predictions from global warming. Environment ministers from over 90 countries are meeting to break a deadlock over how to entice the United States, and other large developing nations such as India and China, to cut production of greenhouse gases. Washington has rejected the pact, saying mandatory emissions cuts would harm its economy. The United States defended its policy of investing billions of dollars in cleaner technology to reduce emissions, brushing aside calls for it to commit to U.N. discussions on slowing climate change. At the heart of the Montreal meeting is how to cut emissions after 2012, when the first phase of the Kyoto Protocol climate change pact ends.In findings published on Wednesday in Science Advances, researchers from the Georgia Institute of Technology (GT) and University of South Carolina Beaufort, both in the United States, reported warming seas appear to decrease the efficacy of the chemical compounds that corals release into the water to defend themselves from bacteria and encroaching seaweed, but these losses may be mitigated if there are large numbers of hungry fish around.The research was led by Mark Hay, a marine ecologist and Regents Professor at GT, who said "There is a lot of argument now about whether local management can help in the face of global stresses — whether what a Fijian village does matters when people in London and Los Angeles burn fossil fuels to drive to work". Hay added, "Our work indicates that local management provides a degree of insurance against global stresses, but there are likely higher temperatures that render the insurance ineffective."The researchers examined three types of coral in reefs off the coast of Fiji, Acropora millepora, Porites cylindrica, and Pocillopora damicornis.  Some of these reefs were in areas where fishing was prohibited and some were not.  The researchers found when fish were plentiful, they would eat algae and seaweed off the corals, which appeared to leave them more resistant to the bacterium Vibrio coralliilyticus, a bacterium associated with bleaching.The researchers suggested the algae, like warming temperatures, might render the corals' chemical defenses less effective, and the fish were protecting the coral by removing the algae.  They reported, "Macroalgae are suggested to disrupt coral microbiomes via transfer of allelochemicals or microbes or release of dissolved organic carbon that affects microbial growth".P. cyclindrica and P. damicornis are known to be function under conditions that damage other corals and A. millepora is not.Each reef-building coral unit is a collection of polyps living in symbiotic partnership with zooxanthellae algae.  The polyp, a cnidarian as are jellyfish, provides stinging protection and secretes a calcium shell, and the algae performs photosynthesis, produces oxygen and gives the coral its color.  Changing ocean environments have led to a phenomenon called coral bleaching when warmer waters cause the cnidarian to expel the algae from its body, which turns the coral reefs white.  This does not kill the cnidarian partner but does leave it badly weakened and vulnerable to disease.The winter of 2005/2006 has been the warmest winter in Canada since the beginning of the nationwide weather record in 1948, with average nationwide temperatures 3.9°C above the long-term average. Statistically, such a strong deviation from the average is expected to be observed only once in 100 years. While most of the country was experiencing temperatures of at least 2°C above normal, in most of Alberta, Saskatchewan and the Northwest Territories the temperatures were 6°C above normal, with some regions averaging up to 8°C above normal.For this statistic the months from December through February were counted as winter.Lack of ice in eastern Canada will probably affect the annual harp seal hunt, which typically starts around March 15.  In February, so little ice had formed that Environment Canada reported that such poor ice conditions had never been seen before in recorded history. The last time conditions approached what we saw in February 2006 was in 1969. The year 1981 was the third lowest ice year in recorded history.In 1981, a number of harp seal mothers, who normally whelp only on ice, went to the shores of Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia and gave birth on land. That year, due to the lack of ice, hundreds of thousands of seal pups drowned. The seals who were born on land faced both natural dangers such as death by exposure, and the danger of death at the hands of thousands of sealers, both licensed and unlicensed. These sealers took this rare "opportunity" to walk right up to a baby seal and kill it. Some of these seals were also attacked by domestic dogs.Although the United States experienced average temperatures for the December, 2006 to February, 2007 period, overall world temperatures were the warmest on record, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).In a March 15, 2007 report, the NOAA indicated that a record warm January helped push the combined global land and ocean surface temperature for the past winter to its highest value since records began in 1880.The ocean-atmosphere system, El Niño, played a part in the season’s record warmth, according to the report's authors, but its effects did not last long, as ocean temperatures in the central equatorial Pacific cooled more than 0.3 degrees C in February and were near average for the month.The global land-surface temperature was the warmest on record, while the ocean-surface temperature tied for second warmest in the past 128 year period, approximately 0.06 degrees C cooler than the record established during the strong El Niño episode of 1997-1998.During the past century, global surface temperatures have increased approximately 0.06 degrees C per decade, but since 1976 the rate of increase has been about 0.18 degrees C per decade. The greatest temperature increase occurred in the high latitudes of the Northern Hemisphere.In an interview with Reuters, Jay Lawrimore of NOAA suggested that the data does not show greenhouse gases had an influence on the recent temperature increases, but acknowledges that by "looking at long-term trends and long-term changes, we are able to better understand natural and anthropogenic (human-caused) climate change."A U.S. Commerce Department agency based in Washington, D.C., the NOAA conducts research and gathers data on oceans and atmosphere. The NOAA is a participant in the Group on Earth Observations, GEO, an intergovernmental effort to coordinate the collection of Earth observations worldwide.Global warming has caused oceans around the world to rise in temperature making it increasingly difficult for fish to breathe, say scientists at Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research located in Germany.In the past 50 years, temperatures in the Baltic Sea have risen causing oxygen levels in the water to decrease. A study was performed on shallow-water eelpouts, a fish with a large head which looks much like an eel, that showed that the creatures required more oxygen. With the decreased levels of oxygen, the eelpouts are literally gasping for air and causing the number of eelpouts to decrease."When you say I get less oxygen in, then I have less oxygen available for aerobic energy and I have less energy for the diverse tasks that a species needs to fulfill in an ecosystem, such as being ready to prey, grow, move and reproduce. It's a general weakening of the individual once it is going beyond its thermal limitation", said Hans Pörtner, an animal physiologist and ecologist.Although the study only focused on the eelpouts, scientists say that the problem affects all fish and overfishing could occur."There is relatively strong evidence that the cod in the North Sea find it too warm to maintain high productivity. When the fishing industry maintains the same high fishing pressure—that has not been a problem before—with the lower productivity, this turns into overfishing," added Pörtner.Scientists also state that the declining numbers in the eelpouts and fish does not mean that they will become extinct."It doesn't mean that the species will go extinct necessarily, but it means they will move. If temperatures are going to change in [the] future, then it will have a major impact on the distribution of animals," said a zoophysiologist at the University of Aarhus in Denmark, Tobias Wang.Recently, the United States Department of Interior announced that they may add the polar bears to the list of threatened species. Also recently, a Canadian Arctic ice shelf broke away from Ellesmere Island. Both issues are said to have been caused by global warming.The United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing today on the accusation that the Bush Administration had interfered with data regarding climate change in order "to mislead the public by injecting doubt into the science of global warming."  On January 23, 2007, Chairman Henry Waxman (D) and Tom Davis (R) had requested documents from the Council on Environmental Quality but were denied access.Waxman said that, "The committee isn't trying to obtain state secrets or documents that could affect our immediate national security.  We are simply seeking answers to whether the White House's political staff is inappropriately censoring impartial government scientists.  We know that the White House possesses documents that contain evidence of an attempt by senior administration officials to mislead the public by injecting doubt into the science of global warming and minimize the potential danger."During the hearing, two private advocacy groups, one of which was the Union of Concerned Scientists, also presented a survey to the panel that revealed that 279 scientists working for the government had been pressured into minimizing the threat of global warming in their reports.  Almost half of the 279 said that they were told to delete any references to "global warming" or "climate change" in their reports.  The scientists in the survey all worked for a wide array of government agencies: NASA, Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Agriculture, Department of Energy, Department of Commerce, Department of Defense, and the Department of Interior.With the Climate Conference in Bali having come to a successful conclusion, Wikinews journalist Sean Heron interviewed Christoph Bals from the German NGO Germanwatch on his opinion of the outcome, and an outlook on the future negotiations. Christoph is the Senior Political Executive of Germanwatch, Co-Author of the Climate protection-Index and did lobby work on Bali.Former Salt Lake City mayor and human rights activist Rocky Anderson took some time to discuss his 2012 U.S. presidential campaign and the newly-created Justice Party with Wikinews reporter William S. Saturn.Anderson served as mayor of Salt Lake City for eight years (2000–2008) as a member of the Democratic Party.  During his tenure, he enacted proposals to reduce the city's carbon emissions, reformed its criminal justice system, and positioned it as a leading sanctuary for refugees. After leaving office, Anderson grew critical of the Democratic Party's failure to push for impeachment against President George W. Bush, and for not reversing policies on torture, taxes, and defense spending. He left the party earlier this year and announced that he would form a Third party.Anderson officially established the Justice Party last week during a press conference in Washington D.C.. He proclaimed "We the people are powerful enough to end the perverse government-to-the-highest-bidder system sustained by the two dominant parties...We are here today for the sake of justice — social justice, environmental justice and economic justice." The party promotes campaign finance reform and is attempting to appeal to the Occupy Wall Street movement. It is currently working on ballot access efforts, and will hold a Founding Convention in February 2012 in Salt Lake City.Among other issues, Anderson discussed climate change, health care, education, and civil liberties. He detailed his successes as mayor of Salt Lake City, stressed the importance of executive experience, and expressed his views on President Barack Obama and some of the Republican Party presidential candidates. He spoke in depth about former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, with whom he worked during the 2002 Winter Olympics, and fellow Utahan, former governor and U.S. ambassador to China Jon Huntsman, Jr..With two by-elections coming up in Australia, many minor parties and independents will be looking to gain a seat in the House of Representatives. Stephen Murphy is one of the independents.Mr Murphy is a computer programmer from the Melbourne suburb of Brunswick. "After growing up in South-East Melbourne I studied Science at Monash with first class Honours, worked in Europe for 10 years and have recently returned to Australia. I work in finance as a computer programmer and speak five languages," Mr Murphy said.Wikinews reporter Patrick Gillett held an exclusive email interview with Mr Murphy, candidate for the Division of Higgins.The 12th UN-Climate Conference was opened in Nairobi on Monday November 6, 2006. The aim of the negotiations is to find ways of assisting the developing countries to adapt to climate change. The formulation of goals for lowering greenhouse gas emissions after the Kyoto-Protocol runs out in 2012 is high on the agenda. The World Meteorological Organisation (WMO) reported half-a-percent rise in CO2 concentration in the atmosphere during 2005. This rise is destined to continue unless more positive action is taken. The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) forecasts crop failures, flooding and threats to freshwater supplies. Actions to mitigate the effects of climate change in developing countries include developing new species of food crops, constructing sea defences, planting vegetation, improving the water-supply infrastructre in vulnerable areas and increasing public awareness of the need to conserve water.Some 6,000 delegates will discuss these issues 6 - 17 November 2006.The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) senior-level round-table discussion on International Technology Cooperation on Environmentally Sound Technologies will take place on Tuesday, 14 November, 13.15 - 14.45Of special interest will be the new report from UNFCCC on how climate change will affect the African continent.Six of the world's major polluters, who participated in this week's Asia Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate (AP6 or APPCDC), have launched a multi-million dollar fund to develop clean-energy, but stressed they will be heavily reliant on polluting fossil-fuels for generations to come. Green groups, labelling the talks a sham, have condemned the climate talks which were held in Sydney, Australia as a "coal and nuclear pact" between the big polluters and fossil-fuel firms. Australian climate change observers have attacked the AP6 outcomes as grossly irresponsible, saying the Federal Government is willing to accept the reality of runaway climate change.A communique released by the AP6 states: "We recognise that fossil fuels underpin our economies, and will be an enduring reality for our lifetimes and beyond" - the document said. Green groups say the pact has missed a vital opportunity to commit to renewable energy sources. They say the two-day meeting failed to make any serious commitments in combatting global warming. Combined, the United States, China, Japan, India, South Korea and Australia, account for around half the globe's greenhouse gases. The six countries set up the summit as an ulterior method of tackling global warming outside the Kyoto Protocol by, they say, focussing on "clean-energy technology."Nuclear Power, clean coal technologies, geosequestration and industry-driven environment funds were some of the proposals raised at the summit. Unlike the Kyoto Protocol the six nations have not set any targets to cut greenhouse gases.Climate change observers have broadly criticised the AP6 as a waste of time. Australian Climate Institute's Clive Hamilton says the meeting did little to cut greenhouse gas emissions. "I think really this conference is about trying to protect the long-term future of the coal industry," he said. "If you look at the sort of business people who have a seat at the table at the conference in Sydney, they overwhelmingly represent the polluting industries rather than those that will at some time in the future replace them - the renewable energy and energy efficiency industries."CSIRO chief scientist Dr David Brockway says the technology required to reduce greenhouse emissions is not viable for industry. "It has to be borne in mind that anything we are going to do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and intensity from the Australian economy will come at a cost," he said. "What we are doing at the moment is doing research to try and reduce the size of that additional cost. I would say in a five to 10 year timeframe a number of these technologies will become viable."An AP6 communique issued at the end of the conference said reductions in greenhouse gases must be achieved without hindering economic growth - "the partnership aims to mobilise domestic and foreign investment into clean and low-emission technology by fostering the best possible enabling environments," it states. Some of the world's big mining and energy firms attended the talks and pledged to improve efficiency.Green groups, who were left out of the conference, say the talks were aimed at subverting Kyoto - which obligates some 40 developed countries to cut greenhouse emissions by 5 percent below 1990 levels during 2008-2012. "Basically, they haven't agreed to do anything in terms of serious commitment," said Monash University climate change expert Professor Amanda Lynch. The United States and Australia refuse to sign Kyoto claiming its mandatory greenhouse gas cuts would threaten economic growth. Australian Prime Minister John Howard said, "experience has taught us that seeking arbitrary targets doesn't result in achieving practical solutions to global climate change." Mr Howard stressed the importance of maintaining economic growth to alleviate poverty, while cutting greenhouse emissions.He said the summit had injected "an overdue dose of realism into the debate about climate change. We believe it is possible to tackle issues of greenhouse gas emissions and the challenge of climate change without reducing living standards," he said. "The world will go on using fossil fuels for many years into the future because it's more economic to do so. So therefore it's elementary commonsense that you should try and make the use of fossil fuels more greenhouse gas sensitive, you should try and clean up the use of fossil fuel," he said.The World Wildlife Fund (WWF) have dismissed Mr Howard's comments as misleading and irresponsible. The WWF's chief executive Greg Bourne said, "in my whole business career, I have never seen a more misleading public statement as that... If the statements made today become a reality, this will lock us in to a four-degree rise in global average temperatures, when two-degrees is considered extremely dangerous," he said. "There couldn't be anything more irresponsible than to knowingly embark on a path towards massive increases in emissions and runaway global warming."The AP6 nations said in the final communique that the eight public/private partnership taskforces created at the conference, will draw up action plans by the middle of 2006 on issues including renewable energy, power generation, cleaner fossil fuels and coal mining.Environmentalists said the Sydney pact was doomed to fail because it did not impose targets on its members which comprise nearly half of humanity. The New South Wales Nature Conservation Council said the group's voluntary approach was a "licence for government and business to do nothing". "Without any incentives or penalties there is no reason for industry to move away from burning polluting coal and oil," said the council's Cate Faehrmann.The AP6 countries encompass: 49 per cent of world GDP; 48 per cent of the world energy consumption; 48 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions; and 45 per cent of the world's population. Many scientists say global warming is melting glaciers, raising sea levels and will cause more intense storms, droughts and floods. Current levels of carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere are higher now than at any time in the past 650,000 years, research from Antarctic ice cores shows.The United States, China, India, Japan, South Korea, and Australia have formed a partnership aiming to cut the emissions of gasses that lead to global warming. The deal was signed after nearly a year of secret negotiations. The "Asia-Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate" deal does not - as yet - contain targets for reducing emissions.Environmental groups have condemned the deal, claiming that, as it is not legally binding, it is no substitute for the Kyoto Protocol, which the US and Australia refuse to sign. China and India - along with some 140 other countries - have already ratified the Kyoto agreement, but did not have to set a target for reducing gas emissions due to their status as developing countries. The Kyoto Protocol has the firm target of reducing emissions by 5.2% on 1990 levels before 2010.Answering critics, the Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said, "We are not trying to detract from Kyoto and the commitments that a number of countries have made under the Kyoto Protocol. This partnership will complement and not replace the Kyoto Protocol."The Australian Prime Minister John Howard also said that his country should not pursue renewable technologies, but should instead concentrate in reducing emissions from the use of coal. Australia is the world's largest exporter of coal, and Howard said that "Australia [should not be] unreasonably penalising herself by saying, in effect, we're going to try to move away from the use of fuels in which Australia has a natural advantage."However part of the deal includes setting up a fund to further research cleaner energy technologies, including more efficient use of fossil fuels as well as renewable technologies, and also methods of trapping and storing greenhouse gasses rather than releasing them to the atmosphere. It is hoped that this will aid China, India and other developing countries to adopt cleaner energy solutions.The details will be worked out at a meeting between the six countries in November, shortly before the next UN summit on climate change.The countries believe the deal is fairer and more effective than the Kyoto Protocol. However, a Greenpeace spokesperson said, "The suggested scheme is, unlike Kyoto, a voluntary scheme, and all evidence shows that voluntary schemes do not work. Skulking around making secretive, selective deals will not accomplish a reduction in emissions ."The UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has warned that global temperatures could rise by 1.4C to as much as 5.8C by 2100. The US and China are the two biggest producers of carbon dioxide (a major greenhouse gas) in the world.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.