In a report on cloud computing issued this week, the environmental group Greenpeace rated ten top Internet companies, including Apple, Google, Twitter and Amazon, on several factors such as each company's willingness to be transparent by providing information on its energy sources and the energy efficiency of its data centers.In the report entitled "How Dirty is your Data", Apple, while receiving good marks for transparency, rated at the bottom for energy efficiency, primarily because its huge, new data center in North Carolina, called iDataCenter, relies largely on coal. Although Apple claimed its California operations used cleaner energy than that produced by most grids, iDataCenter has an estimated energy demand three times Apple's current use, significantly increasing Apple's environmental footprint. As Apple increases the online products it delivers from its iTunes platform, it will enlarge its cloud computing operations further. "Apple's decision to locate its iDataCenter in North Carolina, which has an electrical grid among the dirtiest in the country (61 percent coal, 31 percent nuclear), indicates a lack of a corporate commitment to clean energy supply for its cloud operations," Greenpeace said in its report. About 2 percent of worldwide energy use is consumed by data center computer servers, and this amount is increasing by 12 percent a year, Greenpeace reports, an energy demand that is more than that of Russia. Greenpeace said many IT companies do not reveal the environmental impact of their energy consumption, and concentrate more on energy efficiency that on using clean energy. Most of their energy is supplied by coal and nuclear energy. Companies are locating their data centers in areas that afford cheap, abundant coal-powered electricity.Yahoo was praised by Greenpeace for placing its data centers near sources of clean energy and its minor use of coal-based power. Greenpeace noted that Google says that it is conscious of the need to use renewable sources of electricity to power cloud computing, but it does not acknowledge the size of its carbon footprint. The company claims it has seven data centers worldwide, but it is estimated to have 20 to 30.The carbon footprint of cloud computing is a recent emphasis of Greenpeace in its attempt to disprove the belief that the biggest polluters are manufacturers. In a response to the report, Timothy Prickett Morgan criticized Greenpeace for focusing on data centers which are responsible for using about 3 per cent of the US power generation and globally account for 1.5 to 2 percent. He noted that "the data centers of Amazon, Google, Yahoo!, Facebook, Twitter, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Apple, and Akamai . . . are probably not much different from the business where you work every day when it comes to dependency on coal for electricity generation. And ditto for the home that you return to every night."Morgan quotes data from a 2008 report by the International Energy Agency and cited  by the World Coal Association, now known as the The World Coal Institute, that showed coal plants produce over 40 percent of the global electricity. The Institute determined that United States receives half of its power from coal plants. Some other countries, such as South Africa, Poland and China, use more coal. "The world is still dependent on non-renewable energy sources – coal and nuclear with a smattering of oil and gas – to generate electricity," he says, suggesting the IT companies should not be singled out. Morgan is also critical of Greenpeace's methodology in gathering the data, as it included only a sample of the data centers of these companies, and some that were not yet completely operational. He noted that because the companies were not always cooperative in disclosing information, Greenpeace estimated a portion of the data. He said that the reader has to "drill down into the report" to see the the complete picture. Another criticism of Greenpeace is its definition of coal and nuclear power as "dirty energy". Because it does not discharge greenhouse gases, nuclear power is rated more favorably than coal by some environmental organizations. Greenpeace is adamantly against nuclear power's radiation risks.Marvin Schur, a 93-year-old man from Bay City, Michigan has died after the electric company limited his electric use due to his failure to pay over US$1,000 in past-due payments.Bay City Electric Light & Power installed a power-limiting device on his home on January 13. The device would limit the amount of power the resident uses and would essentially shut it off if that limit is reached, or if the resident fails to pay the outstanding bill within 10 days of installation. In order for the electricity to be turned back on, the limiter must be reset by pushing a button.Bay City power says that a warning, indicating that the power was to be turned off and a limiter installed, had been placed on Schur's front door. Despite that, the company says that they are now "looking at our website and possibly doing an automated phone message. We obviously need to get the word out."The autopsy performed on Schur's body concluded that he had died "a slow, painful death" caused by hypothermia. Dr. Kanu Virani, who performed the autopsy, explained: "Hypothermia shuts the whole system down, slowly. It's not easy to die from hypothermia without first realizing your fingers and toes feel like they're burning."It was less than 32 degrees Fahrenheit (0 Centigrade) in Schur's home when neighbors found Schur dead on January 17. Virani commented that it was his first time performing an autopsy on a body in which "the person froze to death indoors.""His furnace was not running - the insides of his windows were full of ice the morning we found him," said George A. Pauwels Jr., who was with his wife when they found Schur's body.In Michigan it is illegal for a utility company to disconnect power to any home between November 1 and March 31 when a resident is over the age of 65. Limiters are also not supposed to be used during that time frame. However, municipally-owned electric utilities like the one in Bay City, are not regulated by the state. The Michigan state attorney general's office has launched an investigation into the incident.Residents around Schur's home say he was hard of hearing, and the city states that the device's function and operation were never explained to him. When word of the story got around, people from all over the United States began to call the city in anger."I've taken calls from Canada, Massachusetts, Texas, New York, Alabama - and that's just the ones I can think of off the top of my head," said Melody Roth of the city's administrative office, who also added that people from all over are "calling all city departments, not just our office."Schur has no known children, and his wife had died several years prior to the incident.The United Arab Emirates (UAE) has started construction of its so called 'green city' which will be named Masdar City. It is a city which is designed to have no carbon emissions, cars, or waste. It will cost $22 billion (£11 billion) and take eight years to make. It will be able to hold a population of 50,000 people and 1,500 businesses. The city will cover 1,483 acres (6.00 km²).The city was designed by Foster and Partners, a British company.“No one has ever built a zero-carbon city before. Nor one producing zero waste or fully powered by renewable energy. Masdar City will accomplish all three,” said Sultan Al Jaber.The city will have a personal electrical power supply mainly from two renewable energy sources: wind turbines and solar panels. Water will be provided through a solar-powered desalination plant and air conditioning will be provided naturally from wind towers.It is planned to save more than $2 billion in oil over the next 25 years along with creating more than 70 000 jobs.The immense project will be supported by a company created for it called 'Masdar Initiative', which will develop and commercialise clean energy technologies. It will also be supported by the WWF, a global conservation charity, and it is hoped that international joint ventures will bring in more money.Some people fear that Masdar will become a domain for the luxury development of the rich, because the city is located by Abu Dhabi and Abu Dhabi International Airport.Dr Al Jaber said, “We are often asked why we are setting our goal so high. Our answer is because someone must... Someone must push the envelope to create the solution that we, as a global community, so urgently require.”The Sayano–Shushenskaya hydroelectric power station, located on the Yenisei River in Russia, experienced a problem after a pressure surge caused water pipes to burst, flooding the engine room. The water triggered an explosion in a transformer.Ten workers were confirmed dead and as many as 68 more injured. Some are still missing.The power station was shut down, and backup sources were enabled. The dam across the Yenisei was not damaged and there is reportedly no possibility of territory flooding. Two of ten turbines were destroyed, with a third seriously damaged.The hydroelectric plant is the most powerful in Russia, supplying several major aluminum plants, including Rusal. It was opened in 1978 and generates more than 23.5 terawatt hours annually.The Supreme Court of Angola yesterday summoned President José Eduardo dos Santos to explain his decision to appoint his daughter head of the national state-owned oil firm, Sonangol. The pair face claims of nepotism and breach of probity legislation.Isabel dos Santos, Africa's richest woman according to Forbes, is also summoned. She took control of Sonangol in June after her father fired the entire board. Angola is now the continent's largest oil producer, surpassing Nigeria after militancy affected production there. The company nonetheless is struggling to cope with reduced prices for oil.The court's move comes as it accepts a petition by a group of lawyers against the dos Santoses. "It is the first time that the court will examine a decision of the president," said one of them, David Mendes. "The law stipulates that public officials cannot nominate or allow the nomination of family members," he added yesterday.According to Mendes the dos Santoses have eight days to answer the court. One member of ruling MPLA anonymously told reporters "The constitution of Angola is clear: the president does not have to personally explain actions taken during his term in court or in parliament". He said a representative would appear instead.José Eduardo dos Santos has ruled for over 30 years, but has expressed an intention to resign in 2018 following elections next year. Three years ago his son Jose Filomeno dos Santos was made head of the national Sovereign Wealth Fund. Isabel dos Santos owns shares in both Angolan and Portuguese businesses, particularly financial and telecoms firms.A pipeline rupture and fire at Apache Corporation's Varanus Island facility in Western Australia has reduced the supply of natural gas to Western Australia by 30%. 153 employees have been evacuated and 13 employees remain on the island to monitor the situation.Steven Farris, Apache's president and CEO said "No one was injured, all personnel are safe, and the rupture and fire appear to be contained on the island...At this time, we cannot estimate when throughput will be resumed." The facility was producing approximately 330 million cubic feet(MMcf) of natural gas and 8,000 barrels of crude oil per day, this has been reduced to 200 MMcf and 5,000 barrels per day.Western Australian Minister for Energy Fran Logan said that residential supplies were unlikely to be affected but has called on Western Australians to conserve the use of natural gas. Minister Logan said that Apache supplies primarily large volume users like Alinta Gas and Alcoa, and the major industrial users will be hit the hardest. The aluminum refineries owned by Alcoa, which are dependent on natural gas, have switched to diesel to maintain production.   Apache representatives, including its managing director Tim Wall and fire experts from Singapore, are heading to the site to extinguish the fire and assess the damage. Wall said during a news conference in Perth today that a small fire on a vent had already been extinguished. Apache has invoked a clause in its supply contracts to remove liability for unavoidable catastrophes that prevent them from fulfilling obligations under the contract.Solar Systems Pty Ltd, Hawthorn, Victoria, have announced an agreement with Boeing Australia Ltd for supply of Spectrolab solar cells. The agreement will result in the supply of 500,000 cells, capable of generating 11MW of electricity.Spectrolab produces multi-junction solar cells, originally designed for powering satellites. The solar cells are three times more efficient than the cells used in typical domestic solar panels, and are capable of converting light energy to electrical energy with up to 34% efficiency according to NREL's National Centre for Photovoltaics. Solar Systems utilise Spectrolab's multi-junction solar cells to increase the output of their dish systems.Solar Systems have already trialed the cells in one of their CS500 concentrating solar dishes installed at a solar power station in Hermannsburg, Central Australia, established to reduce the consumption of diesel in the remote community. Simply replacing the existing cells with the Spectrolab multi-junction solar cells increased output from 24kW to 34kW.Solar Systems is planning to use the technology in a solar power station it will build in northern Victoria, with a capacity of 154MW.The Prime Minister of Australia, John Howard, has announced new measures to alleviate the impact of rising global oil prices on Australians. They include grants of up to $2,000 to switch to LPG, and $17.2 million over three years to improve E10 blend ethanol fuel infrastructure.Speaking in Parliament House, the Prime Minister outlined the cause of higher petrol and diesel prices as a consequence of increasing global demand for oil occurring at a time when additional supply is tight. He singled out the re-emergence of China as a major factor in the increase in demand, and underinvestment as the main reason that supply cannot be increased rapidly.The Prime Minister once again said he would not lower fuel excises, saying that any benefit that might bring would be quickly devoured by further rises in global oil prices, and would leave a large hole in the Federal budget.He announced that the $1,000 grant to purchases of new vehicles equipped to run on LPG would be brought forward from 2011 to be effective immediately. In addition, he announced that conversions of private vehicles to LPG would be eligible for a $2,000 grant, also effective immediately. LPG is much cheaper than petrol in Australia, partly due to concessional tax treatment. The Prime Minister said that a six cylinder vehicle that travels 15,000 kilometres in a year would save $27 per week at current prices if converted from petrol to LPG. With the $2,000 grant, the conversion would pay for itself in four months.The cost of the eight-year program to convert vehicles from petrol to LPG, including lost excise revenue, is estimated to be $1.3 billion.On the ethanol front, the Prime Minister announced a further $17.2 million dollars over three years to help petrol retailers install or convert pumps for E10 blends. Eligible petrol stations will receive up to $10,000 towards the cost of conversion or installation, once complete, and an additional $10,000 when sales targets are met.The Prime Minister also made mention of remote communities that rely on diesel for their electricity supply. He said that the existing Renewable Remote Power Generation Programme has helped remote communities reduce their reliance on diesel, through the use of renewable energy services like wind turbines. He announced that the Government will extend this programme with an additional $123.5 million over four years, and will now include energy efficiency projects.The Prime Minister also committed an additional $135.4 million over the next five years for exploration services, searching for new oil, natural gas and geothermal reserves.The gas crisis in Western Australia continues to deepen with more businesses standing people down without pay. Businesses have been instructed to turn off non-essential items including limiting the number of lifts and reduced lighting; domestic customers are also urged to reduce energy use. In the Federal parliament today Resources Minister Martin Ferguson raised the prospect of activating the Liquid Fuel Emergency Act. "During such a situation, I can control the production, transfer and stock levels of crude and liquid fuel...While I sincerely hope that this will not be required, the Liquid Fuel Emergency Act provides authority for the Australian Government to prepare for and manage a national liquid fuel supply emergency," he said.Western Australian Premier Alan Carpenter called on all Western Australians to reduce energy usage, saying that the situation could be managed with on going co-operation, while reassuring everyone that the crisis will be short, with the Apache Corporation expected to begin partial operations in two months. Supplies were interrupted after a fire at Apache's Vanarus Island refinery, which supplied 30% of the state's natural gas requirements.An Alinta spokesman has said that with the expected cold weather during the next week demand will put further pressure on supplies, advising that it is critical that all consumers limit energy usage.Alinta requests that residential customers;use only essential heating and limit it to one roomturn down hot water system by 10 degreesreduce shower timeswash in cold water.While suggesting small businesses;shift production schedulesbring forward maintenance and shut down schedulesturn off equipment not essential to the business.The Australian Government is to lobby Asian counties to reduce fuel subsidies and price caps in a bid to lower fuel prices, which the Government argues that fuel subsidies are artificially inflating fuel prices across the Asia-Pacific region.Resources and Energy Minister, Martin Ferguson said that the Rudd Government does not want to be critical of countries which have used the subsidies to help promote development, however he said that "the challenge of dealing with energy subsidies in our region is a serious one".Shadow Minister for Foreign Affairs, Andrew Robb told Sky News Australia that "it was a bit presumptuous of Australia to be lecturing Asian countries". "The best thing for us is to look at our own affairs in the first instance, that way you then have some credibility in lecturing others".Australian economic growth forecast for 2008/09 has been reduced to 2.75% as the impact of the gas crisis ripples through the economy. Federal Resources Minister Martin Ferguson said today that disruption to economic activity is expected as Western Australian companies layoff thousands of workers with mining and industrial companies forced to cut back production. BHP Billiton has brought forward upgrades to its nickel refinery in Kambalda and diverted its gas allocation to keeping the Worsley Alumina refinery operating. The upgrade originally scheduled for mid 2009 is expect to take four months to complete. BHP has said that it will continue to accept ore from independent mining operators in the area inline with current contracts.Economists expect continuing turbulence as mining companies come under pressure to continue to supply China's demand for materials from Western Australia, combined with growing inflation rising gold and commodity prices.Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the president of Brazil, said on Wednesday that not continuing to use biofuels would be a "crime against humanity.""Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel," said Lula, when talking to reporters.Lula also stated that he was ready for a debate on biofuels. "Brazil is prepared for this debate. I and my government are ready to travel around the world," he said.This move comes soon after a press release was made available by the European Parliament saying that "in the last year scientific evidence, though disputed, has indicated that biofuels may not be as good for the environment as was once thought."British-based utility company Centrica, which holds ownership of British Gas, has announced its intentions to increase the prices of domestic electricity and gas later this year. On August 18, 2011, the company plans to raise the costs of gas and electrical supplies by eighteen and sixteen per cent, respectively. According to The Guardian, nine million customers will be affected by these changes.British price comparison website uSwitch has reported that the "[a]verage household bill for a dual fuel British Gas customer will now go up from £1,096 to £1,288". Mike O'Connor, the chief executive officer of consumer organisation Consumer Focus, has claimed that the announcement "will send a shock wave across the country" and will place an increasing amount of difficulties "on stretched household budgets. Consumers [...] rightly question whether prices are fair."Phil Bentley, a managing director for British Gas, has claimed that value increases like this are "an issue facing all energy suppliers". A director for British Gas, named Ian Peters, has claimed that "a fair return" will be made after the changes occur.In 2010, British Gas experienced its largest ever profit, making £742 million (US$1,192 million, €835 million). Meanwhile, Centrica achieved £2.4 billion (US$3.8 billion, €2.7 billion) in profits. Richard Lloyd from product sampling charity Which? criticised the decision to raise prices, calling the declaration "unwelcome but unsurprising" for British Gas consumers.Previously in December 2010, British Gas increased the price of its gas by 6.9%, which equates to £43 (US$69, €48). At the same time, the company's electricity prices were raised by 6.7%, or £28 (US$45, €32). On Friday, Chris Huhne, the secretary of the Energy and Climate Change Select Committee, said that British electricity businesses must modify themselves so as to avoid "the cycle of fossil fuel addiction. Alternatives like renewables and nuclear power must be allowed to become the dominant component of our energy mix," said Huhne.This news comes to light as Scottish Power, a rival energy company to British Gas, announced last month their intentions to up the prices of their electricity and gas supplies by ten and nineteen per cent respectively.British Prime Minister Gordon Brown has condemned the workers who staged mass walkout across the country on Friday.Speaking to the BBC from the World Economic Forum in the Swiss skiing resort of Davos, he said that the walkouts were "not the right thing to do". Workers on industrial sites in Wales, Scotland, Cheshire, Hampshire and Teesside had left their plants and staged protests outside in sympathy with staff at Lindsey Oil Refinery in Lincolnshire, after French owner Total had given a contract to an Italian firm. The firm brought 300 Italian and Portuguese staff into the plant.Brown had made a speech in 2007 where he called for "British jobs for British workers". He explained to the BBC's Politics Show that "when I talked about British jobs, I was taking about giving people in Britain the skills, so that they have the ability to get jobs which were at present going to people from abroad". The government says that European Union (EU) law makes it impossible for them to provide British jobs for British workers in the EU common market. Earlier, the Secretary of State for Health, Alan Johnson, told the BBC that recent European Court of Justice judgments had undermined employment rights but that the government would be pushing the EU to take action if it finds that the foreign workers are 'undercutting' UK citizens. He described the walkouts as "unhelpful", but said he understood the anger over EU workers coming to the UK "on worse terms and conditions to actually get jobs in front of British workers on the basis of dumbing down the terms and conditions." The walkouts were also condemned by the opposition Conservative Party. Foreign affairs spokesman William Hague said that "strikes are never the way forward" and that his party strongly supported the free market in labour in the EU. He said that it was "so unbelievably ridiculous and silly" for Brown to have made the promise on British jobs in the first place.The government has asked the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS) to examine the circumstances behind the strikes and see if British workers are being unlawfully excluded, as the GMB union has claimed.Secondary or sympathetic industrial action has been illegal in the UK since the 1980s. However, the penalties apply only to unions organizing secondary action and not to individual workers walking out.An agreement to begin construction of the Burgas-Alexandroupolis pipeline to transport oil from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean was signed by Bulgaria, Greece and Russia today.The signing ceremony was held in the presence of the President of the Hellenic Republic, Karolos Papoulias, at the Presidential Palace in Athens, with President Vladimir Putin of Russia and Prime Ministers of Greece and Bulgaria, Kostas Karamanlis and Sergei Stanishev respectively. The oil pipeline agreement is the end of months of negotiations between the three countries and was saluted by the Greek government as a "momentous" agreement. According to President Putin, the agreement will not only benefit the three contributing members but will also be significant for the world economy and, furthermore, he added that "the pipeline allows diversification in the oil routes, in the best interest of our countries, our peoples and the economy". As for the Greek-Russian bilateral relations, Mr.Karamanlis stated that "this visit bears witness to the excellent ties between the two nations, signalling and symbolising the construction of a major project, the Burgas-Alexandroupolis oil pipeline". This the second time that Putin visits Athens to meet with the Greek Premier, however they had also previous meetings in Moscow and northern Greece, during the last two years.    Before the signing of the pipeline agreement, President Putin and Prime Minister Stanishev had the opportunity to meet with their Greek counterparts and discuss issues of bilateral and regional significance. Yesterday night, Prime Minister Karamanlis hosted a dinner in honour of the Russian and Bulgarian heads of state in central Athens.United States President George W. Bush delivered a speech Wednesday in which he urged the United States Congress to end a ban on oil exploration off of US shores. Currently there is both an executive order and a Congressional moratorium against such exploration.The Congress issued its moratorium in 1981. In 1989, President George H.W. Bush issued an executive order in the wake of the Exxon Valdez oil spill.President Bush said that "we should expand American oil production by increasing access to the Outer Continental Shelf, or OCS. Experts believe that the OCS could produce about 18 billion barrels of oil. That would be enough to match America's current oil production for almost ten years.""I know the Democratic leaders have opposed some of these policies in the past," President Bush said. "Now that their opposition has helped drive gas prices to record levels, I ask them to reconsider their positions. If Congressional leaders leave for the Fourth of July recess without taking action, they will need to explain why $4-a-gallon gasoline is not enough incentive for them to act."Senator John McCain, who is the presumptive nominee for the Republican Party, said on Tuesday that he favors offshore drilling.Senator Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader from the Democratic Party, said: "This week’s flip-flop on offshore oil drilling by President Bush and Senator John McCain is nothing more than a cynical campaign ploy that will do nothing to lower energy prices, and represents another big giveaway to oil companies already making billions in profits.""It's cynical to say that we can drill our way out of this mess," said Athan Manuel, of the environmental group Sierra Club. "The solution to $4 gas is not off our coast."A recent poll conducted by Reuters/Zogby showed that about 60% of Americans support more oil drilling and refinery construction, yet nearly the same percentage also say they are in favor of conservation."We will take pressure off gas prices over time by expanding the amount of American-made oil and gasoline. We will strengthen our national security by reducing our reliance on foreign oil. We will benefit American workers by keeping our nation competitive in the global economy — and by creating good jobs in construction, and engineering, and refining, maintenance, and many other areas," said Bush in his speech.California, the most populous state in the United States, is offering rebates of up to US$5000 to residents who purchase alternative fuel vehicles. $1.62 million in rebates are scheduled to be granted statewide by California Center for Sustainable Energy, an independent nonprofit organization based in San Diego.Owners of Vectrix electric motorcycles may qualify for up to $1,500 and Global Electric Motorcars owners may receive $950 and $1,300. The largest rebates will go to owners of full-sized zero-emission cars, which have not yet been approved by the state.  Compressed-gas vehicles also qualify, but the agency has already awarded its budgeted allotment for this type of vehicle.  The eligible period for purchases and leases is May 24, 2007 to March 31, 2009.  Applications will be accepted on a first come, first served basis.  A complete list of qualifying vehicles can be seen at the California Center for Sustainable Energy's website.The program is part of $25 million authorized in 2007 by California Assembly Bill 1811 to promote alternative fuel infrastructure and vehicles.  According to the California Air Resources Board, about 25,000 dedicated alternative fuel vehicles are in use in California.Changes to California's SB 1 Bill have forced many of the bill's strongest supporters, including Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, to oppose it. Governor Schwarzenegger is now expected to veto the bill.The bill sought to provide incentives for businesses and individuals to install rooftop solar panels, in a manner similar to existing programs in Washington and Oregon. Under pressure from the electrician's union, the bill was amended to require that installation be done by licensed electricians and that "prevailing wages" be paid for all commercial solar work done in the state.Existing solar contractors were originally among the bill's strongest supporters but now oppose it due to the changes. This comes despite the fact that they would be, under a grandfather clause, granted an exception to the new requirements for an electrician's license.  Future solar specialists would be required to also be licensed electricians.On Wednesday, Canadian energy company EnCana announced that it would pay a C$500,000 cash reward for information leading to an arrest and prosecution in four bombings of its natural gas pipelines. The explosions have occurred over the past three months in northeastern British Columbia. While the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) has been investigating the situation since the first explosion in October, there are still no suspects. Some residents in the area are vocally opposed to EnCana's gas exploration, and have not been cooperative, according to the RCMP."There is a small group of individuals within the community who we have spoken to many times," RCMP Sergeant Tim Shields noted. "They know full well who they are, and they have not been co-operative. And we are appealing to those people to do the right thing and come forward to our investigators and tell us what they know."The four bombings, which targeted pipelines, wellheads and a metering shed in the Tomslake community, have not injured anyone. Encana fears that residents or its employees may not be so lucky if there are further bombings. EnCana executive vice-president Mike Graham commented that, "Whoever is responsible for these bombings has to be stopped before someone gets hurt. We hope this reward will encourage anyone who has knowledge of those responsible for the bombings to come forward and help put an end to these dangerous attacks."The reward has elicited over a dozen tips since its announcement. While some of the tips have been "very low quality," the RCMP remains hopeful and will continue to process all leads.Rewards of smaller amounts may be paid out for information that aids the investigation but does not directly lead to an arrest. "After consulting with the RCMP and the Crown assigned to the prosecution, EnCana will determine the monetary value, if any, of the information provided to the investigation," noted Graham.Neil Parish, a Member of the European Parliament and the chair of the Agricultural committee of the European Parliament, was recently interviewed by Wikinews on the subject of biofuels and renewable transport. The interview was held after a workshop was held in the European Parliament on the subject of biofuels."I believe that the mixing of biofuels with mineral oils can provide us with significantly cleaner fuel," said Mr. Parish.In a press release by the European Parliament about the workshop, the legislative body stated some possible disadvantages to biofuels:In the interview Parish also said that encouraging public transport was an important method of combating climate change. Below is the relevant quote:Mr. Parish also mentioned road pricing in the interview. Biofuels are often used because they provide a way of limiting the emissions  of carbon dioxide. Many people do, however, note that rainforest are destroyed to make space for the production of biofuels.The People's Republic of China has announced the completion of an enormous dam across the Yangtze River, an important milestone for the world's largest hydroelectric project. The official Xinhua News Agency reports the event as a "landmark in the construction of the project." Launched in 1993, the Three Gorges Project, including the 2,300 metre long, 185 metre high dam with 26 power generators, is being built in three phases on the middle reaches of the Yangtze River - China's longest river. Built with over 16 million m3 of concrete, the Three Gorges Dam is considered the biggest reinforced concrete dam in the world. The Three Gorges Reservoir is capable of holding nearly 40 billion m3 of water, including a space of 22.15 billion m3 for extra flooded water. With a length of more than 6,300 km and a natural fall of 5,400 metres from the west to the east, the flood-prone Yangtze River is the third largest in the world.The gigantic project is expected to generate around 15 million megawatts of electricity, 84.7 billion kWh annually when the entire project is completed in 2008. But whilst proponents of the world's largest hydropower project laud the increased electricity generation and improved flood control as benefits to China, opponents claim destruction of the environment, ruin to China's cultural heritage - disaffecting millions of local residents."In my view, building the Three Gorges dam is a ridiculous and evil farce," says dam opponent Dai Qing. "Many people have known something is wrong with the project, but few have dared to speak up," she said. After it becomes operational, the 660km reservoir created by the dam will drown 13 towns, 4500 villages and 162 archaeological sites. Friends of the Earth (FoE) are also strident vocal critics. "The dam is having a titanic social and environment impact," the group said this week. "Sometimes people are being moved out by truncheon and bulldozer because they refuse to leave their home for fear of not being rehoused. Human rights violations are massive and brutal," it said. FoE pointed to evidence that the dam was already having a serious environment impact.FoE points to a scientific study by the East China Normal University in Shanghai, published in March in Geophysical Research, which said that in 2004, the Three Gorges dam has reduced the supply of sediment to the Yangtze delta to just 35 per cent of the norm.Millions of tonnes of silt are drawn along the Yangtze river every year, and critics argue the dam will intercept much of it - with potentially disastrous consequences. They say the lack of sediment further downstream would lead to soil erosion, and the accumulation of sediment in the reservoir could raise the dam level, submerging even more land. Opponents say the reservoir could fill with the accumulated garbage from tens of millions of households. The China Yangtze River Three Gorges Project Development Corp. has spent $2.5 million on a vessel to collect as much as 7 million cubic feet of garbage that accumulates at the dam each year, according to Xinhua. Some argue that the impact of the dam project will contribute to the extinction of the rare Yangtze river dolphin. The dam project will force the relocation of a total of 1.13 million people, and communities that have lived in the area for millennia will disappear. Researchers warn sedimentation and rising water levels in the reservoir will lead to the evacuation of tens of thousands more people.But as the waters rise, that which can not be saved will disappear along with some world famous natural scenery. Critics say the dam is under threat from earthquakes, with two geological fault lines nearby. Officials working on the project counter this by saying the worst that can happen is a tremor measuring 6.0 on the Richter scale, while the dam is built to withstand force 7.0."Although the dam is now complete, we still have a long way to go and cannot become self-satisfied or relax our efforts in the least," Li Yongan, general manager of the Three Gorges Project Development Corp, said. The official China Daily in an editorial called for people to remember the more than 100 workers whom died during the dam's construction. "The best possible way to repay such a debt of gratitude is to make sure the highest safety and quality standards are observed up till the very end of the entire building process," the editorial said.The president of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez, warned that the price of crude oil could reach $200 per barrel "if the United States committed the madness of invading Iran", or attacked his country.Chávez made this statement in the act of opening the third Summit of Chiefs of State of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).Mr. Chávez pleaded that OPEC should adopt a more political agenda and requested "that thethreats against the countries" of the organization should stop. He said that $100 dollars per barrel was a "fair" price and remembered that when he assumed presidency of Venezuela in 1999, the price went up to about ten dollars.The prices of raw oil approached $100 last week before settling down again. Some observers think it is possible that the $100 barrier may be broken. During the trading session following this two-day summit, that is expected to result in the "Declaration of Riyadh", the price of petroleum rose $0.80 in the New York market and $0.66 in London.The largest class action in Victorian history was commenced at the Supreme Court of Victoria on Friday the 13th by Slidders Lawyers against electricity distribution company SP AusNet and the Brumby Government in relation to the Kilmore East fire that became part of the Kinglake complex. Because of the lawsuit, SP AusNet SPN.AX's shares on Monday have dropped more than 13.36 per cent or 14.5 cents, to an intra-day low of 94 cents, was at 98.5 cents at 10:38 a.m. local time, before recovering slightly to be 7.5 cents lower at A$1.01 by 1144 AEDT (0003 GMT) or 6.9 percent in Sydney trading. Shares in SP AusNet closed 3.7 percent lower at A$1.045 on Monday.Power supplier SP AusNet said it has asked the Victoria Court regarding the status of the class action proceedings saying the firm had insurance policies in place consistent with industry standards. "SP AusNet will continue to update the market as further information becomes available," the company said.The claim has focused on alleged negligence by SP AusNet in its management of electricity infrastructure. It maintains most of the power lines in eastern Victoria. Its fallen power line is believed to have sparked the blaze that tore through Kinglake, Steels Creek, Strathewen, Humevale, and St Andrews. The plaintiffs include thousands of angry Kinglake farmers, small business owners, tourist operators and residents who lost homes.Leo Keane, the lead plaintiff in the class action has alleged "SP AusNet owed a duty of care to landowners to operate and manage power lines in a way that limited the risk of damage from bushfires."On Thursday Phoenix Taskforce had taken away a section of power line as well as a power pole from near Kilmore East, part of a two-kilometre section of line in Kilmore East that fell during strong winds and record heat about 11am last Saturday. It was believed to have started the fire there, since within minutes a nearby pine forest was ablaze, and within six hours the bushfire had almost obliterated nearly every building in the towns in its path."It is believed that the claim will be made on the basis of negligent management of power lines and infrastructure," Slidders Lawyers partner Daniel Oldham said. The law firm has announced it was helping landowners and leaseholders get compensation for the 2003, 2006, 2007 and 2009 bushfires. "If you have been burnt by the recent bushfires, please register your interest using the form below as soon as possible," the law firm's website stated.The Insurance Council of Australia has placed the cost of the bushfires at about $500 million. "That means keeping electricity lines clear of trees and in a condition that won't cause fires. They must also have systems in place to identify and prevent risks occurring," Melbourne barrister Tim Tobin, QC, said. According to the 2006 census, Kinglake had a population of almost 1,500 people. But SP AusNet's legal liability has been limited at $100 million under an agreement inked by the former Kennett government with private utility operators, when the former State Electricity Commission was privatized in 1995. Accordingly, the Brumby Government could be legally obliged to pay damages of the differences amounting to hundreds of millions of dollars.SP AusNet Ltd said some of its electricity assets have been damaged by the Victoria bushfire. "As a preliminary estimate, it is thought that damage has been sustained to approximately one per cent of SP AusNet’s electricity distribution network, mainly distribution poles, associated conductors and pole top transformers," SP AusNet said in a statement to the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX). It explained that up to 6,000 homes and businesses on its network were without power due to bushfires, including the Kinglake complex fire, Beechworth fire, and fires across Gippsland including Churchill and Bunyip.SP AusNet said the firm will cooperate fully and will assist in any fire probe. "We stand ready to assist the relevant authorities with their inquiries if it is necessary for us to do so now and in the coming months," SP Ausnet spokeswoman Louisa Graham said in a statement. "Our priority is to restore power to fire-affected areas as quickly as possible. We believe the claim is premature and inappropriate ... SP AusNet will vigorously defend the claim. If the claim is pursued, SP AusNet advises that it has liability insurance which provides cover for bushfire liability. The company's bushfire mitigation and vegetation management programmes comply with state regulations and were audited annually by state agencies," Grahams explained.Victorian Auditor-General Rob Hulls said "there was an 'unseemly rush' by some lawyers to sue before the cause of the fires had been fully investigated." "The government body had audited the network's bushfire risk to make sure required distances between power lines and vegetation were maintained. Power companies had been given a clean bill of health, and electricity firms were judged to be 'well prepared for the 2008-09 bushfire season.' There were no regulations applying to the distances between poles supporting electricity lines and spans of one kilometre were not unusual," a spokesman for Energy Safe Victoria explained.Christine Nixon, the 19th and current Chief Commissioner of Victoria Police said investigations into the cause of the bushfires were ongoing. "I know people are angry, and so are all of us in this community. But we need to kind of have a sense that the proper processes are in place and we need to go through the investigation and through the court case," Nixon said. "At this stage we are not able to confirm how it started. I understand there is some legal action that people are taking, but at this stage we're still investigating its cause. But the whole circumstances of that fire are part of our Taskforce Phoenix, and as we move through that we'll be able to tell the community more once we're able to confirm or deny what we think is the cause of these fires," Nixon added.On Thursday, two people were arrested in connection with the fires, having been observed by members of the public acting suspiciously in areas between Yea and Seymour; although they were both released without charges laid. Brendan Sokaluk, age 39, from Churchill in the Gippsland region, was arrested by police at 4pm on Thursday, in relation to the Churchill fires, and was questioned at the Morwell police station. He was charged on Friday with one count each of arson, intentionally lighting a bushfire and possession of child pornography. The arson case relates to 11 of the 21 deaths in the dire  Gippsland fire, which devastated 39,000 hectares in the Latrobe Valley, Calignee, Hazelwood Koornalla and Jeeralang. Two teams of Churchill firefighters were almost lost in the inferno that remains out of control.Mr Sokaluk joined the CFA Churchill brigade in the late 1980s as a volunteer fire fighter, left in the 1990s and attempted to rejoin twice, but was rejected. He failed to appear in Melbourne Magistrate's Court Monday for a scheduled hearing, since the court reset the committal hearing on May 25. He is represented by lawyer Julian McMahon.Magistrate John Klestadt has lifted the suppression order which kept the suspect's identity a secret but identifying photographs were barred from being released. Mr Sokaluk was remanded in protective custody from Morwell to a cell in Melbourne for his own safety amid fears angry prisoners will target him and real risk of vigilante attacks. He faces a maximum sentence of 25 years imprisonment if convicted on the arson charge. "This is an extraordinary case. The level of emotion and anger and disgust that the alleged offenses have aroused in the community is unprecedented." Mr Sokaluk's defense lawyer Helen Spowart argued. The prosecution has moved the Court for more time to prepare its case, saying there would be up to 200 witnesses to interview. Slater & Gordon has indicated that they were awaiting the report of the to-be-established Royal Commission, expected in late 2010, before initiating any claims.Armed with a $40 million budget, the Royal Commission's Chair Justice Bernard Teague will be assisted by former Commonwealth ombudsman Ron McLeod, who led the inquiry into the 2003 Canberra bushfires, and State Services Authority Commissioner Susan Pascoe. The Commission has said its interim report is due on August 17 while the final report will be submitted by July 31, 2010.Judge Bernard Teague has announced Tuesday he will meet with fire victims and fire authorities within the next two weeks. "We want to do that as soon as possible - probably not next week but starting to have these discussions the week after," he said.Julia Eileen Gillard, the Deputy Prime Minister of Australia and deputy leader of the federal Australian Labor Party (ALP) said the federal and Victorian governments would respond quickly to the royal commission's report. "Everybody who has lived through this experience in Victoria and around the nation has asked the question: 'Why? What can we do better?'. No one wanted to see the report "as a book on a shelf gathering dust," she said.Victoria bushfire experts, led by Forest Fire Victoria - a group of scientists and forestry experts - have condemned the government's "Living with Fire" policy and the state's failure to initiate serious fuel-reduction programs. The Victoria government had failed to seriously act on bushfire safety recommendations submitted last June by the Victorian Parliamentary Environment and Natural Resources Committee.As death toll rises, evidence mounts of lack of planning prior to Australia’s worst bushfire. "Living with Fire" policy means Kinglake fire trucks were dispatched to an earlier fire in Kilmore, leaving Kinglake undefended. "Kinglake was left with no fire brigade and no police. The trucks had been sent to Kilmore. I've been in the fire brigade for 10 years. There was always a law—the trucks had to be on the hill. Because of the government we got gutted at Kinglake. They should have been getting generators ahead of the fire—so people would have had a chance of fighting it. As soon as the power went, I couldn't keep fighting the fire at my place," Rick and Lauren Watts, and their friend Neil Rao, spoke to the WSWS.Rick has also criticized the lack of early warning communications systems, since emergency siren warnings in the town had been stopped some years earlier. Humevale resident Sina Imbriano who has six children was angry about the failure of  state and federal governments to set up a recommended telephone warning system amid its "stay and defend or go" policy. Bald Spur Road residents Greg Jackson and his wife Fotini said the government's "stay and defend or go" policy was "fruitless" since the critical issue was early warnings,  but "they [the government] just won't spend the money." Also on Friday, five law firms from Victoria's Western Districts, including Warrnambool-based Maddens Lawyers and Brown & Proudfoot, held a meeting to discuss a potential class action in relation to the Horsham fire, which was also thought to have been started by fallen power pole that burnt vast swathes of land in Mudgegonga and Dederang, Victoria. The lawsuit will also focus on the fire that blackened about 1750 hectares at Coleraine.Maddens senior attorney Brendan Pendergast said: "We don't know who the defendant is at this stage. We are unsure who the electrical supplier is for that area but we should know in a few days. There were people who had their homes burnt to the ground and they will need to reconstruct, replace their contents," he said. Maddens has initiated a register of affected landowners for the recent bushfires, saying the firm has included victims of the Pomborneit fire that burnt almost 1300 hectares in the proposed class action amid the CFA's statement the blaze could have been deliberately lit. Frances Esther "Fran" Bailey, Liberal member of the Australian House of Representatives (1990-93 and 1996-present), representing the electorate of McEwen in Victoria said the Country Fire Authority (CFA) had told her one of the power lines had broken before the fire. "The local CFA [Country Fire Authority] told me on that Saturday, with those very high winds, one of the lines had broken and was whipping against the ground and sparked," she said. "Whether or not that is the cause of that terrible fire that actually took out Kinglake and maybe Marysville, the investigations will prove that, but we've got to do better," she added.Victorian Premier John Brumby said the power line claim would be examined as part of the Royal Commission into the bushfire. "No stone will be left unturned. So, I think it's important the Royal Commission does its work. And, the Royal Commission will, of course, look at all of the factors with the fires," Mr Brumby said. At least 550 houses were incinerated and 100 people have been killed, leaving more than 1,000 homeless in the Kinglake bushfire and surrounding areas.SP AusNet - Singapore Power International Pte Ltd is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Singapore Power Limited (51% interest in SP AusNet). SP AusNet's electricity transmission and distribution networks, along with the gas distribution assets, enable it to deliver a full range of energy-related products and services to industrial and domestic customers in Victoria, Australia.Singapore Power ( 新加坡能源有限公司) is a company which provides electricity and gas transmission, distribution services, and market support services to more than a million customers in Singapore. As the only electricity company in Singapore, and also one of its largest corporation, SP was incorporated as a commercial entity in October 1995 to take over the electricity and gas businesses of the state provider, the Public Utilities Board. Since 1995, Temasek Holdings controls the entire company with a 100% stake. SP is involved in a major investment in Australia's Alinta in partnership with Babcock & Brown, after putting up a bid of A$13.9 billion (S$17 billion), beating out a rival bid by Macquarie Bank.The devastating 2009 Victorian Black Saturday bushfires, a series of more than 400 bushfires across Victoria on February 7 2009, is Australia's worst-ever bushfire disaster, claiming at least 200 deaths, including many young children, and is expected to pass 300. 100 victims have been admitted to hospitals across Victoria with burns, at least 20 in a critical condition, and 9 on life support or in intensive care. The fires have destroyed at least 1,834 homes and damaged many thousands more. Many towns north-east of Melbourne have been badly damaged or almost completely destroyed, including Kinglake, Marysville, Narbethong, Strathewen and Flowerdale. Over 500 people suffered fire-related injuries and more than 7,000 are homeless. It has scorched more than 1,500 square miles (3,900 square kilometers) of farms, forests and towns.The Supreme Court of Victoria is the superior court for the State of Victoria, Australia. Founded in 1852, it is a superior court of common law and equity, with unlimited jurisdiction within the state. Those courts lying below it include the County Court of Victoria, the Magistrates' Court of Victoria and the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (which is technically not a court, but serves a judicial function). Above it lies the High Court of Australia. This places it around the middle of the Australian court hierarchy.The China National Offshore Oil Company,(CNOOC), has submitted to U.S. Government regulators the details of its proposed US$18.5 billion purchase of California-based Unocal.  The bid comes against a US$16.5 billion offer of cash and stock from Chevron Corporation.  CNOOC, which is 70% owned by the Chinese Government, has placed a request for review with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS.  Both Chevron and CNOOC have been readying their lobbyists to try and get favorable consideration for their side in Washington.  If there is determined to be no threat to national security as a result of the merger, the review of CNOOC's offer could be completed in as little as 30 days.  While typically such reviews are not undertaken until after a takeover bid is formally accepted by the target companty, there is precedent for such review to be done before that happens.Citing anger over state policies, commissioners from the northeastern Colorado counties of Weld, Morgan, Logan, Sedgwick, Phillips, Washington, Yuma, and Kit Carson expressed interest, at a meeting last week, in withdrawing from Colorado to form a new U.S. state, named "North Colorado".Commissioners from each county met at the Colorado Counties, Inc. Conference Wednesday, and discussed the proposal. It stems from rural Colorado's perceived isolation from the rest of the state as a result of such Denver policies as stricter gun control laws, agricultural regulation, and oil and gas regulation. According to the commissioners, the "[s]traws that broke the camel's back" in support of secession, included Colorado Statute S.B. 252, which Governor John Hickenlooper signed last week to increase renewable energy standards in rural Colorado. Local energy companies consider the statute too costly to their industry. In addition, Weld County commissioner Sean Conway, who proposed the idea, argues that though revenue from his county's agricultural and oil and gas sectors account for 70 percent of Colorado's state budget, state funds for the county's schools and road improvements remain low.The counties could place the idea on the ballot as soon as the November 2013 elections. According to Tom Norton, Mayor of Greeley, the largest city in what would be North Colorado, many people in his city are upset over the state government. A poll on the city's The Tribune newspaper website shows 49.66 percent support the idea of seceding from Colorado, while 44.15 percent oppose it, and 6.19 percent believe the counties should instead secede from the U.S. Nevertheless, seceding from a U.S. state requires permission from both the U.S. Congress and the original state legislature. Steve Mazurana, a former professor of Political Science at the University of Northern Colorado, sees this as the death of idea: "All the rest of the states are not going to want to share their federal aid with this new state...And the state is not going to give up oil and gas money on a whim."Since the 1863 secession of West Virginia from Virginia, no state has successfully seceded. The three most recent efforts all failed in 2011. Chicago was unable to secede from Illinois, Florida could not be split in half, and the southern part of Arizona could not break away to create Baja Arizona.The US government today approved plans for a controversial wind power project off the coast of Cape Cod in Massachusetts, which, if built, would be the nation's first offshore wind farm.The company responsible for the project, Cape Wind, received a permit from the federal government to commence construction of the wind farm, which was announced by Interior Secretary Ken Salazar in Boston.  Salazar said in statements at the event that he was "approving the Cape Wind project," which would "be the first of many projects up and down the Atlantic coast." Massachusetts governor Deval Patrick said that "America needs offshore wind power, and with this project, Massachusetts will lead the nation." He also commented that "Cape Wind is good for our environment and good for our energy needs," despite opposition from some groups. Construction of the wind farm in the near future is not certain, as there are additional regulatory procedures the company must complete, and opponents have threatened to take the project to court. According to the leader of the Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound, a group opposed to the wind farm's construction, numerous permits related to the project were being appealed, and close to a dozen parties intend to sue the project, claiming it violates environmental regulations.Supporters of the project say that it will provide up to 75% of the power for the region, and will benefit the environment by providing a clean and renewable source of power, as well as providing hundreds of new jobs in the area during construction of the wind farm. Opponents, which included deceased US Senator Ted Kennedy, claim it will destroy the natural beauty of the region, and will raise the costs of electricity in the area.A crane collapsed Friday in Houston, Texas killing 4 people and injuring 7 more. The crane, which stood 30-stories-tall, fell down at the LyondellBasell oil refinery in Houston, Texas. The crane could lift up to 1 million pounds."This is a traumatic experience for all of us. We have to focus on the safety and health of our employees," said Jim Roecker of LyondellBasell.The company has about 3,000 employees at the oil refinery and another 1,500 contract workers.Margaret Landry, a spokesperson for Deep South Crane & Riggen, which built, owned and operated the crane, said: "It is a family-owned business, and we are grieving right now with our employees and families going through this tragedy. We're just getting through it."Occupational Safety and Health Administration began its onsite investigation on Saturday.Another record has been set in crude oil prices. The price of oil soared past US$94.00 a barrel. New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) crude oil for December delivery closed at US$94.23 per barrel, after peaking at $94.74, the highest price on record. In after hours trading futures have crossed over the $95.00 per barrel mark.On the IntercontinentalExchange (ICE), December Brent Crude also rose to a record $90.63 after touching an all-time high of $90.94 with current futures are trading at over $91.00 a barrel.Today's rise is said to be mainly caused by the United States Department of Energy's inventory report that showed an unexpected drop in crude oil stockpiles. Last week, U.S. stockpiles were down nearly four million barrels of oil.Tropical Storm Noel is also believed to be a cause of rising prices. Because of the storm, one-fifth of Mexico's oil production was suspended while the storm passed, but production is expected to resume by the end of today.Crude oil prices in New York rose to a new record of US$102.59 per barrel on Thursday, although the figure increased even more during after hours trading. In less than a month, prices have risen $10, leading the inflation adjusted prices above the record highs set during the 1980s. Information provided by the International Energy Agency has said that the previous record was $102.53, with the figures being adjusted according to inflation levels.While the weak dollar is seen as a major cause of this rise, Congressman Ron Paul of Texas, pointed out to Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke in a committee meeting this week that despite the rapid ascent the of price of oil, it had remained flat when compared to the price of gold.Increasing demand for oil has also been cited as the cause for this increase. Violence in Nigeria earlier this year has led to a drop the country's production by almost a quarter. The most recent information produced by the Energy Information Administration has shown an increase in gasoline prices for all but one of the areas surveyed.There have also been suggestions that reports of a fire at a National Gas Terminal may have contributed to the rising oil price. Tim Evans from Citigroup Futures said he believes "that this fire at the UK natural gas terminal is creating a strong push in the European market, and that is translating here [the US]."A recent study by the United States Geological Survey (USGS) shows that the oil and gas industry are creating earthquakes. New information from the Midwest region of the United States points out that these man-made earthquakes are happening more frequently than expected. While more frequent earthquakes are less of a problem for regions like the Midwest, a geology professor from the University of Southern Indiana, Dr. Paul K. Doss, believes the disposal of wastewater from the hydraulic fracturing (or "fracking") process used in extracting oil and gas has the possibility to pose potential problems for groundwater."We are taking this fluid that has a whole host of chemicals in it that are useful for fracking and putting it back into the Earth," Doss said. "From a purely seismic perspective these are not big earthquakes that are going to cause damage or initiate, as far as we know, any larger kinds of earthquakes activity for Midwest. [The issue] is a water quality issue in terms of the ground water resources that we use." Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is a technique used by the oil and gas industries which inject highly pressurized water down into the Earth's crust to break rock and extract natural gas. Most of the fluids used for fracking are proprietary, so information about what chemicals are used in the various fluids are unknown to the public and to create a competitive edge. Last Monday four researchers from the University of New Brunswick released an editorial that sheds light on the potential risks that the current wastewater disposal system could have on the province's water resources. The researchers share the concern that Dr. Doss has and have come out to say that they believe fracking should be stopped in the province until there is an environ­mentally safe way to dispose the waste wastewater."If groundwater becomes contamin­ated, it takes years to decades to try to clean up an aquifer system," University of New Brunswick professor Tom Al said.While the USGS group which conducted the study says it is unclear how the earthquake rates may be related to oil and gas production, they've made the correlation between the disposal of wastewater used in fracking and the recent upsurge in earthquakes. Because of the recent information surfacing that shows this connection between the disposal process and earthquakes, individual states in the United States are now passing laws regarding disposal wells. "The problem is that we have never, as a human society, engineered a hole to go four miles down in the Earth’s crust that we have complete confidence that it won’t leak," Doss said. "A perfect case-in-point is the Gulf of Mexico oil spill in 2010, that oil was being drilled at 18,000 feet but leaked at the surface. And that’s the concern because there’s no assurance that some of these unknown chemical cocktails won’t escape before it gets down to where they are trying to get rid of them."It was said in the study released by the New Brunswick University professors that if fracking wastewater would contaminate groundwater, that current conventional water treatment would not be sufficient enough to remove the high concentration of chemicals used in fracking. The researchers did find that the wastewater could be recycled, can also be disposed of at proper sites or even pumped further underground into saline aquifers. The New Brunswick professors have come to the conclusion that current fracking methods used by companies, which use the water, should be replaced with carbon diox­ide or liquefied propane gas."You eliminate all the water-related issues that we’re raising, and that peo­ple have raised in general across North America," Al said.In New Brunswick liquefied propane gas has been used successfully in fracking some wells, but according to water specialist with the province’s Natural Resources De­partment Annie Daigle, it may not be the go-to solution for New Brunswick due its geological makeup. "It has been used successfully by Corridor Resources here in New Bruns­wick for lower volume hydraulic frac­turing operations, but it is still a fairly new technology," Daigle said.The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is working with U.S. states to come up with guidelines to manage seismic risks due to wastewater. Under the Safe Drinking Water Act, the EPA is the organization that also deals with the policies for wells. Oil wells, which are under regulation, pump out salt water known as brine, and after brine is pumped out of the ground it’s disposed of by being pumped back into the ground. The difference between pumping brine and the high pressurized fracking fluid back in the ground is the volume that it is disposed of."Brine has never caused this kind of earthquake activity," Doss said. "[The whole oil and gas industry] has developed around the removal of natural gas by fracking techniques and has outpaced regulatory development. The regulation is tied to the ‘the run-of-the-mill’ disposal of waste, in other words the rush to produce this gas has occurred before regulatory agencies have had the opportunity to respond."  According to the USGS study, the increase in injecting wastewater into the ground may explain the sixfold increase of earthquakes in the central part of the United States from 2000 - 2011. USGS researchers also found that in decades prior to 2000 seismic events that happened in the midsection of the U.S. averaged 21 annually, in 2009 it spiked to 50 and in 2011 seismic events hit 134."The incredible volumes and intense disposal of fracking fluids in concentrated areas is what’s new," Doss said. "There is not a body of regulation in place to manage the how these fluids are disposed of."The study by the USGS was presented at the annual meeting of the Seismological Society of America on April 18, 2012.The Dow Jones industrials lost more than 400 points on the day today after news of record high oil prices and an increase in unemployment.Friday's nearly US$11 per barrel increase in the July contract for crude oil on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) is the largest singe-day increase in oil price history. The July contract hit $139.12, breaking the previous record. The July contract settled at $138.54, also a new record. The previous record for the July contract was $135.09 and was set on May 22. Trading in the July contract terminates on June 20.Stephen Schork, an oil industry analyst and editor of the "Schork Report," said, "The bulls are running rampant and the bears have panicked...It's pure hysteria, absolute panic."Morgan Stanley oil analyst, Ole Slorer, released a report this morning saying that he expected a "short-term spike in oil prices," as high as $150 a barrel by mid-July.Adding to the concerns of oil traders was a statement by Deputy Prime Minister Shaul Mofaz told Yediot Ahronot, the most widely circulated paper in Israel that "If Iran continues its program to develop nuclear weapons, we will attack it." Mofaz is considered a candidate as the next Prime Minister.The average price for regular unleaded gasoline has already passed the $4 a gallon mark in 12 states, as well as in Washington, D.C., according to AAA.Meanwhile, the Labor Department reported Friday that the unemployment rate rose to 5.5% last month. This was an increase from the 5% rate in April, and was the biggest monthly jump in more than two decades. Wall Street had only predicted an uptick to 5.1% for the month. According to the Labor Department, 49,000 jobs were lost in May, adding to four straight month of job losses.The Dow was not the only stock that fell today, the Standard & Poor's 500 index lost 43.37, or 3.09 percent, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 75.38, or 2.96 percent.Also today, the American dollar declined against other major currencies, including the Euro.In its August 10 edition, The Economist magazine asserts that Saudi Arabia can continue producing oil at its current production levels for 70 years, without having to look for another drop. Further, the magazine claims that the nation could find "plenty more if they look", calling for privatisation of national oil companies to help increase oil production.The language is provocative - the world has plenty of oil, and only requires sufficient investment and exploration to find it. This is a line that The Economist has held for some time, certainly since before its now infamous March 1999 issue proclaiming that we were "drowning in oil" and featuring a prediction of US$5 per barrel. That issue was followed by an embarrassing retraction in December of that year, as oil started its steady climb. It now sits above US$70 per barrel.However, petroleum geologists and energy investment specialists maintain a different view of oil reserves. They say that there is a limit to what is in the ground, and further to that, a limit to how much of it we can retrieve even with advancing technology. Just how much is down there can't be said with any certainty, for a variety of reasons. A big one is the suspicious reserves figures given by producers in the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia. Since OPEC starting using a quota system based on reserves, the estimated reserves for member nations has magically risen, and even continued rising in the face of increased extraction from those reserves.Amongst those who deal with the physical realities of oil fields, forecasts of a peak in production vary between 30 years, as the USA's Energy Information Administration suggest, and now, as suggested by the Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas and other more pessimistic forecasters. A peak in production would then be followed by decline. Certainly, in the petroleum world, there is no serious suggestion of sustaining the current level of oil production for 70 years.According to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the termination of a natural gas contract between Egypt and Israel is a business matter and not a political issue between the two counties. Netanyahu's statement on Monday backs away from other officials' earlier responses to the action.Egyptian Natural Gas Company announced Sunday, April 22 that it will stop supplying Israel with natural gas over a disagreement about payments. The company's leader claims the other side is in "breach of contract" as Gasco has not been paid for what has already been delivered.In 2005, Israel and Egypt, under former president Hosni Mubarak, signed a 15-year trade deal whereby Egypt would supply natual gas at a discounted rate to the Israelis. Tensions between the two countries have made Israel cautious about relying on Egypt for its energy. Since the 2011 Egyptian revolution, the pipelines for transporting natural gas from Egypt to Israel have been damaged up to 14 times.When this decision was broadcast on Sunday night in Egypt, commentators for Egyptian news services discussed whether this decision was a blatant contractual infringement, a necessary commercial move, or an attack on the original peace treaty between Egypt and Israel made at Camp David in 1978.In Israel, Yuval Steinitz, the finance minister, said, "This is a dangerous precedent that diminishes the peace treaty [between the two countries]." Avigdor Lieberman, foreign affairs minister, had called on Egypt to reverse the decision and prevent the contractual dispute from escalating into a political issue. Since Netanyahu's more recent comment, Lieberman has also backed away from characterizing the issue as a political dispute.Egypt’s natural gas exports once made up 40 percent of Israel's natural gas reserves, but Israel has looked for other options as the political atmosphere in Egypt changed. Israel is developing its own offshore fields, and it has begun to import other types of “dirty fuels,” like gas and diesel. As a result, Israeli consumers have seen a nine percent increase in electricity costs and Israel is preparing for the possibility of blackouts.The Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) is facing several lawsuits, including one filed by residents of San Bruno, California, after a gas line exploded in their neighborhood on September 10, completely destroying over 50 structures, 37 of them homes. In their lawsuit, residents claim that PG&E knew the pipeline was "defective" and was a "ticking time bomb". They further allege that the company was aware that the pipeline could fail, but did not act.The lawsuit was filed by at least five families who resided in the Glenview neighborhood of San Bruno. The Danko firm who is representing the residents say they expect to file at least a dozen more lawsuits against the company alleging they were liable and responsible for the explosion and the damages that occurred as a result of it. "This wasn't an accident. This was a foreseeable consequence of ignoring safety measures," one attorney representing the families said. It has also been reported that several other wrongful death lawsuits have been filed against PG&E. Three people were killed in the explosion.The explosion and subsequent fire was originally thought to have been a downed commercial aircraft. Live scanner communications at the time of the explosion had stated that fire departments from six different companies reported to the scene. Residents say that firefighters were not able to bring the blaze under control because the pipeline was active for at least 5 hours after the explosion.Residents filing the lawsuits are seeking damages and removal of the pipeline from the neighborhood. Jim Ruane, the mayor of San Bruno, backs residents in their request to PG&E to remove the pipeline from Glenview. "We want our neighborhood rebuilt, and we want our people back," he said. A PG&E spokesperson denied having officially received the lawsuits, but said: "We remain committed to our customers in San Bruno and will continue to be there to help rebuild the neighborhood.""L’Alliance pour la Planète", a collective of French environmental organizations (such as WWF France), has launched a campaign to promote awareness on climate change. Under the theme Turn everything off!, they're asking people to turn off their electricity for five minutes on February 1st, between 7:55pm and 8:00pm CET. With the initiative, they hope to remind others, the media and politicians (such as the candidates for the upcoming French Presidential elections) of the ongoing waste of energy. Everyone should turn off the light, as well as all electrical appliances -maybe a good moment for a candlelight dinner, they suggest.The "five minutes of silence" are believed to put pressure on world governments to discuss the topic more seriously on an international scale. Since the first call various similar international groups have stated their support and currently promote the idea on their websites and newsletters.The date was originally chosen to match the release of the United Nations fourth climate change report, in which 2,500 scientists from more than 130 countries present their latest findings. The report however has been delayed and will now be released on February 2nd.In Belgium, non-profit organizations such as Oxfam support the action. The consortium is working with the power distribution company to prevent any negative impact a sudden drop of energy demand might have on the electricity network.Japan's nuclear watchdog, the Nuclear Regulation Authority, yesterday said the revealed leaking of an estimated 300 metric tons of radioactive water at the damaged Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant was a "serious incident", level three on the seven-part international scale.Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO), who run the plant, announced the leak last week and the new accident's level-three rating was made after consultation with the International Atomic Energy Agency. However, the Nuclear Regulation Authority notes this estimate may be overstated as it relies on the leaking tank being full before the leak began.There is no gauge to measure water quantities inside the tank, used to store contaminated water after the initial accident. Water is being collected at a rate of 400 tons per day, and an unknown quantity of radioactive groundwater is flowing into the sea. Industry minister Toshimitsu Motegi has already announced increased governmental supervision of TEPCO's leak mitigation after two other leaks this year. Motegi said TEPCO's antileak methods were like "whack-a-mole". Nuclear Regulation Authority disaster taskforce leader Shinji Kinjo has said TEPCO fails to document inspections and is poor at monitoring the tanks on the site. TEPCO staff had said water levels in the tank had remained constant.Shunichi Tanaka, head of the Nuclear Regulation Authority, said "We have no idea whether it's actually 300 tons that leaked. We need to look into this issue more." TEPCO initially said the leak was small when it was found in July and the watchdog gave it a level one "anomaly" rating at the time. Inspectors now say radiation below this tank stands at 100 millisieverts per hour, and another at the facility has a level of 70 millisieverts per hour."One hundred millisieverts per hour is equivalent to the limit for accumulated exposure over five years for nuclear workers; so it can be said that we found a radiation level strong enough to give someone a five-year dose of radiation within one hour," said TEPCO boss Masayuki Ono last week. TEPCO shares dropped yesterday by 2.6% to 497 yen.Starting today, it is illegal to manufacture or import 75W incandescent light bulbs in the European Union. The phaseout started last year when 100W light bulbs were outlawed. Bulbs of 60W will be phased out next year, and incandescent lighting of all types will be phased out in 2012.The phase-out of incandescent light bulbs is part of the EU's strategy to cut greenhouse gases by 20% by 2020. Replacing the old lamps with more efficient models is expected to reduce energy consumption for lighting by 60% in the EU, equivalent to saving 30 million tons of CO2 pollution every year. Although energy-saving bulbs were available since 1998, their relatively high purchase price has inhibited take-up. When the decision for the ban was taken in 2008, it was estimated that around 2,000 to 3,000 jobs would become redundant in the light bulb industry, in particular affecting Hungary and Poland. However, the European Commission also assumed that halogen production and savings of 5-10 billion euro from energy bills could be injected back into the economy to create new jobs. In its editorial yesterday, the conservative The Washington Times harshly criticized the ban, labelling it a result of "bureaucratic irritation" and a "war on Edison's greatest invention". General criticism of such bans includes panic buying prior to phase-out, environmental impacts of the mercury which is contained in small amounts in all fluorescent lamps, and increased upfront costs for the consumer.Brazil and Venezuela started to phase out incandescent light bulbs in 2005, Switzerland in 2009, while Russia and Canada are planning it for 2012. The United States is scheduled to begin a phaseout similar to the European one from 2012.A sudden cold snap across Europe caused a surge in demand for electricity. Two high voltage power lines in Germany failed.  This triggered a cascade of cuts as automatic safety devices cut millions of customers in order to prevent a total blackout of the continent. Parts of Germany, Belgium, France (including parts of Paris), Spain, and Italy were affected. High speed railways were also impacted.  Power was restored within two hours. Later reports said that  Austria and Croatia were also affected. An alternative cause has been suggested; that the opening of the Ems powerline crossing to let a ship pass may have triggered the blackout.A senior director with French power company RTE is reported as saying "We weren't very far from a European blackout".After 13 years of isolation, Southeast Europe (including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Greece, Macedonia and Romania) were reconnected to the main European transmission system in November 2004.  Now, with 400 million users, the European electrical transmission system has become, in terms of consumption, the world's largest electrical energy system.Italy's Prime minister, Romano Prodi, said there was a "contradiction" in having a unified power network but no European Union central authority.In statements to the press on Monday and Tuesday, Dr. Salem Salama, a member of the Hamas Palestinian Legislative Council's economic committee, said signs of a natural gas deposit were found off the coast of the Gaza Strip.Dr. Salama said the gas field had been found by Palestinian fishermen in the Gaza Strip, who noticed bubbling in the water which they first assumed was from fish or plants moving underwater. He added, samples from the site had been taken by navy personnel to the Islamic University, where they were verified. In a statement to AFP he said "preliminary tests carried out by experts from the Islamic University suggest that there is a natural gas field near the coast".In an interview to the Gazan radio station Sout Al-Aqsa, Salama said the gas deposit lies only 200 to 300 meters from the central coast of the Gaza Strip, which would "facilitate the work of any company that might invest in this field. The return will be great for the Gaza Strip, in economic terms".Deputy Hamas Prime Minister Mr. Ziad Al-Zaza calmed down the excitement regarding the issue in a comment to AFP. "[W]e need to conduct further studies to confirm that there is any gas", he said. "This requires probing by specialist companies because we don't have the adequate laboratories and experts here".The Gaza Strip, which has been governed by Hamas since 2007, is now experiencing the most severe energy crisis in its history. Following the lack of fuels, the residents of the Gaza Strip sometimes need to manage with only 12 hours of electricity a day. This evidence of natural gas fields may offer a resolution to the crisis.One year after the Deepwater Horizon disaster which caused the largest oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry and caused huge environmental damage in the Gulf of Mexico, experts have warned there are serious questions over the safety of deep water drilling as the United States government approves more exploration without improving safety measures.Scientists have raised major concerns over repeated assurances from the industry and the government, who insist lessons have been learned from the environmental disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. Charles Perrow, a professor at Yale University, said the oil industry "is ill prepared at the least" to deal with another oil spill. "I have seen no evidence that they have marshaled containment efforts that are sufficient to deal with another major spill," he said. While the government has implemented new regulations, technical systems for stopping oil flowing from a leaking well, and increased oversight from oil officials, Perrow said deep water drilling had become no less dangerous. "I don't think they have found ways to change the corporate culture sufficiently to prevent future accidents," he said. "There are so many opportunities for things to go wrong that major spills are unavoidable." Last year, Doug Inkley, a scientist at the National Wildlife Federation, said the culture of an "addiction to oil" was ultimately responsible for the catastrophe. "How long must we wait for lawmakers to act to prevent future disasters? How many more lives, livelihoods and animals must be claimed by our addiction to oil?" Greenpeace also slammed BP, who ran Deepwater Horizon, for how they allowed the disaster to happen. "The age of oil is coming to an end and companies like BP will be left behind unless they begin to adapt now," the organization said.However, under pressure from industry executives the administration of president Barack Obama has resumed issuing drilling permits. It is understood regulators are still allowing oil companies to obtain drilling permits before reviewing new spill response plans. "I'm not an oddsmaker, but I would say in the next five years we should have at least one major blowout," Perrow said. "Even if everybody tries very hard, there is going to be an accident caused by cost-cutting and pressure on workers. These are moneymaking machines and they make money by pushing things to the limit."BP has insisted it has changed safety procedures. The oil giant came under heavy criticism for how it handled the crisis, and other major oil companies insisted Deepwater Horizon was a result of a culture exclusive to BP. Michael Bromwich, the director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEMRE), the U.S. government agency responsible for regulating offshore drilling, said the view was "as disappointing as it is shortsighted," and the issue of deep water safety was "a broad problem."The warnings came as it emerged BP had attempted to take control of an independent study into the environmental consequences of the Deepwater Horizon spill. Internal emails expose how BP executives attempted to influence the study, which was funded by a US$500m grant from the oil company. The study may be part of the final verdict as to what penalties, fines and criminal charges are brought against the company. Greenpeace, who uncovered the emails through a Freedom of Information Act request, attacked the reportedly unsuccessful attempts to influence the supposedly independent study as "outrageous".Protesters rallied outside BP's annual conference in London this week, where shareholders met for the first time since the disaster off the Gulf coast. Executives faced questions over their competence and large salaries from angry shareholders, many of whom disapproved of the appointment of Carl-Henric Svanberg as chairman and Sir Bill Castell as the head of BP's safety board. Some demonstrators purchased shares in BP in an attempt to get inside the meeting; one woman, a fisherwoman who lives on the Gulf Coast was arrested after pouring a black substance down herself at the entrance to the conference centre and refusing to move. "I have travelled all the way over from the Gulf Coast and I just wanted to talk those responsible for destroying my community," she said as she was led away by police. "My community is dead. We've worked five generations there and now we've got a dead community. I'm angry, I've been angry a long time."Five men have been kidnapped in a raid on a Royal Dutch Shell oil rig in Nigeria. In the early morning raid, several armed men in boats opened fire on the rigs security guards.A security expert says that it would be unusual for the kidnappers to kill the victims. Their main objective, he says, is to send a message to the government.A Shell spokesperson says the company does not pay ransom for the release of kidnapped workers, but is obviously concerned for them.The captured are Bruce Klenner and Gottard Brene from New Zealand, Jason Lane from Australia, George Saliba from Lebanon and Andreas Gambra from Venezuela.The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem), the regulator of the electricity and gas markets in Great Britain, has launched an investigation into four of the largest British energy suppliers over suspicions that they not be complying with face-to-face and telephone sales regulations. The four organisations facing scrutiny could be fined up to 10% of their annual turnover if it is found that they are breaking sales regulations. Scottish Power, npower, Scottish and Southern Energy and EDF Energy are all to face questioning by the organisation.Ofgem has urged customers of the four companies to alert the energy regulator, "if they are concerned about the sales approach any domestic suppliers have taken when selling energy contracts, either face-to-face or by telephone," according to a statement. "As part of the investigation process Ofgem will examine any evidence of non-compliance and consider whether there are grounds for exercising enforcement powers." New regulations on sales tactics by energy suppliers were recently introduced, and, Ofgem has said, energy suppliers must be "proactive in preventing misselling to customers both face to face and over the phone. Also, if suppliers are selling contracts face to face they must provide customers with an estimate before any sales are concluded. In most circumstances customers should also receive a comparison of the supplier’s offer with their current deal." Only one in five consumers consider energy suppliers to be trustworthy, and 61% of people feel intimidated by doorstep sales people from energy companies. According to the organisation Consumer Focus, "complaints have declined since new rules came into effect this year, but suppliers still seem to be flouting the rules. Some customers are still being given misleading quotes and information, which leave them worse off when they switch provider."The newspaper The Guardian has reported that "householders are reporting that sales agents working for the energy suppliers are giving them misleading information and quotes which leave them worse off when they switch supplier." Consumer Focus has said that if energy companies continue to break the rules, they could be banned from doorstep-selling completely. The report goes on to say that "new figures from helpline Consumer Direct show that while the number of complaints has fallen since last year, about 200 cases of mis-selling are being reported each month." However, Scottish Power said it insists on “the highest standards possible for all of our sales agents”, and npower told the Financial Times that it was “confident that the processes we have in place mean that we comply with our regulatory obligations”. EDF added that it was “fully compliant with all obligations regarding sales of energy contracts”.According to the regulator, the obligations are serious and must be followed by energy supplies, or they will face "tougher sanctions than those available under more general consumer protection law." Ofgem has published a guide advising consumers what they should do should an energy salesperson contact them in person of by telephone. Improper sales tactics are still common in the industry—in 2008 an Ofgem investigation found that 48% of gas customers and 42% of electricity customers were worse off after switching supplier on the doorstep. Npower was fined £1.8 million in 2008 by the organisation, and Ofgem insists that they are "committed to taking action" over improper sales activities by energy companies. “Suppliers have existing obligations to detect and prevent misselling and new licence conditions were brought in following our probe to further increase protection for customers," said Andrew Wright, a Senior Partner of the regulator. "We expect all suppliers to comply with these tougher obligations but if our investigations find otherwise we will take strong action.”Head of energy at Consumer Focus, Audrey Gallacher, called the investigation "a welcome step ... to address years of customers getting a bad deal on energy prices on their doorstep. While many doorstep sales people will do a good job, the pay and rewards system continues to encourage mis-selling, despite years of regulation and voluntary initiatives. If better advice for customers and enforcement of the tougher rules doesn't end the flagrant abuse of this form of selling the big question will be whether it should be completely banned." Christine McGourty, director of Energy UK, which represents the leading gas and electricity companies, said that "the companies involved will collaborate with the Ofgem investigation and are awaiting further details from the regulator. Any sales agent in breach of the code will be struck off the approved energy sales register." Which? chief executive, Peter Vicary-Smith, has said he considers the situation “shocking", saying that the investigation "will do nothing to improve consumer trust in energy suppliers. We're pleased that Ofgem has promised tough measures against any firms guilty of mis-selling. We hope it uses this opportunity to tighten rules around telesales so they are in line with those for face to face sales."SNP Westminster Energy spokesperson Mike Weir MP, however, said that the investigation "does nothing to tackle the real problem of fuel prices which leave many Scots facing great difficulty in heating their homes ... Rather than tinkering around the edges Ofgem should be looking at how to reduce prices for vulnerable households." Gareth Kloet, Head of Utilities at Confused.com, one of the UK’s biggest and most popular price comparison services, also welcomed the inquiry. "It is unacceptable for energy companies to mislead customers like this," he said, adding that Confused.com has previously "urged energy providers to either stop the practice of doorstep selling or make it very clear to households that better deals are available online. There is no reason why door-to-door salesmen can’t show people online deals and even help households switch to them.”“Our research reveals customers could end up paying £167 more than they need to as door-to-door salesmen are unable to offer the discounts that are applied online. The changes that have been made to date are a welcome addition to safeguard customers; however this review has been much needed for a long time. Hopefully it will mark the end of customers being overcharged and missold," Kloet continued. "Our message to energy consumers remains the same: they should shop around online to make sure they’re getting the best deal possible and turn these salesmen away.”On Tuesday, Google announced a new strategic initiative aimed at producing electricity from renewable energy sources such as solar, wind, and geothermal power that is cheaper than electricity produced from coal.  Google plans to spend tens of millions of dollars on research and development in 2008, and to invest hundreds of millions of dollars to bring energy projects to market.The new initiative is dubbed "RE<C", for "Renewable Energy Cheaper than Coal."  It will "focus initially on advanced solar thermal power, wind power technologies, enhanced geothermal systems and other potential breakthrough technologies," according to the company's press release."We see technologies we think can mature into very capable industries that can generate electricity cheaper than coal, and we don’t see people talking about that as much as we would like," said Google Co-founder Larry Page.  "Solar thermal technology, for example, provides a very plausible path to providing renewable energy cheaper than coal... We are aware of several promising technologies, and believe there are many more out there."Page said that Google's goal is "to produce one gigawatt of renewable energy capacity that is cheaper than coal," and that the company is "optimistic this can be done in years, not decades."According to the company press release, one gigawatt is enough to power a city the size of San Franscisco.Some Wall Street analysts questioned the wisdom of Google's new initiative."I’ve written off Google’s competition as a threat to Google’s long-term market share gains," said Jordan Rohan of RBC Capital Markets. "But I haven’t written off Google’s own ability to stretch too far and try to do too much. Ultimately, that is the biggest risk in the Google story."Rohan added that "The only positive byproduct of this project that would be anything other than environmental is that it might make Google managers and executives even prouder of the fact that they work there, and it may help retain key employees who think their goal is to do good in the world."Travis Bradford, an analyst for Prometheus Institute for Sustainable Development, said he was having "a bit of trouble trying to figure out the business logic" of Google's move. "They don't have any advantage in doing this other than a big, huge pile of cash."  On the other hand, Brett Conrad, manager of the Blue Earth Fund, said that  Google's $211 billion market capitalization and $13 billion cash "gives them a fighting chance" at succeeding in the energy market. "I think they're looking at a $7 trillion market. I think it would be as tough for Google to do it as a big oil company."An article supporting nuclear energy written by Patrick Moore appeared in the Washington Post Outlook section yesterday. Moore was a co-founder of Greenpeace who currently co-chairs an industry-funded initiative, the Clean and Safe Energy Coalition, which supports increased use of nuclear energy. Moore and U.S. Senator Chuck Hagel (R-Nebraska) spoke during the opening session of the 2005 American Nuclear Society's Winter meeting in November.Moore says that his views have changed since founding Greenpeace, and he now believes that using nuclear energy can help counteract catastrophic climate change from burning fossil fuels.  Says Moore, "The 600-plus coal-fired plants emit nearly 2 billion tons of CO2 annually -- the equivalent of the exhaust from about 300 million automobiles." Moore also cites reports from the Clean Air Council that coal plants are responsible for 64 percent of sulfur dioxide emissions, 26 percent of nitrous oxides and 33 percent of mercury emissions. "Meanwhile, the 103 nuclear plants operating in the United States effectively avoid the release of 700 million tons of CO2 emissions annually," says Moore.  "Nuclear energy is the only large-scale, cost-effective energy source that can reduce these emissions while continuing to satisfy a growing demand for power. And these days it can do so safely."  Moore points out that the average cost of producing nuclear energy in the United States was less than two cents per kilowatt-hour, comparable with coal and hydroelectric. He predicts that advances in technology will bring the cost down further in the future.According to Moore, British atmospheric scientist James Lovelock, father of the Gaia theory, also believes that nuclear energy is the only way to avoid catastrophic climate change.  Concerns about past accidents in the nuclear industry were also mentioned, as he claims the Chernobyl nuclear disaster as example, calling it "an accident waiting to happen. This early model of Soviet reactor had no containment vessel, was an inherently bad design and its operators literally blew it up". He also recognized the difficulty of dealing with nuclear waste.Moore was a founding member of Greenpeace in 1971 and was instrumental in its early campaigns, but left the organization in 1986.  Greenpeace is known for its campaigns of nonviolent direct action against atmospheric and underground nuclear testing.Wikinews reached out earlier this week to former U.S. Congressman and 2014 Colorado gubernatorial candidate Tom Tancredo for his response to the secessionist proposal of eight Northern Colorado counties. Tancredo maintains he is better suited to repair the geopolitical gulf at the root of the proposal than Governor John Hickenlooper.The secession idea came about last week as the commissioners from the northeastern Colorado counties of Weld, Morgan, Logan, Sedgwick, Phillips, Washington, Yuma, and Kit Carson expressed interest in withdrawing from Colorado due to differences with the state government over gun control and the perceived overregulation of agriculture and the oil and gas industries. The commissioners proposed the formation of a new state named, "North Colorado".  In response to the proposal, Governor Hickenlooper's spokesman Eric Brown conceded that "[n]ot everyone agrees" with the administration's policies, but declared "background checks on gun sales, increasing renewable energy and supporting responsible development of oil and gas are popular with rural and urban voters".Hickenlooper, a Democrat, was elected governor in 2010 over Tancredo, the then-Constitution Party gubernatorial candidate. Tancredo has since switched back to the Republican Party, under which he served as Congressman for Colorado's 6th congressional district from 1999 to 2009. Tancredo officially announced his 2014 candidacy last month.According to Tancredo, Hickenlooper's policies impose barriers on rural Coloradans that he plans to remove if elected governor. In addition, Tancredo feels he can better address the rural-urban rift because, "I do not believe that rural Coloradans are, as Governor Hickenlooper has called them, 'backward thinkers'." Tancredo refers to Hickenlooper's 2010 comments, which accused rural Coloradans and other westerners of "backwards thinking" for their views on LGBT issues.Wikinews requested, but did not immediately receive, response to Tancredo's comments from Governor Hickenlooper's spokesman.Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez met Grand Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.  They pledged further cooperation of "independent nations."The visit of Chavez to Tehran, Iran, followed earlier ones to Russia and Belarus. Iran's state-run television reported that Hugo Chavez stated to Khamenei that Iran was an apt model for other nations to emulate.Chavez said that the two nations' ties in the petroleum, gasoline, and petrochemical sectors will be expanded.  In a reference to the recent political development in various parts of Latin America where anti-American leaders have attained political control, Chavez said, "U.S. imperialism is declining, and independent countries are viewing the future with hope and optimism."Both Venezuela and Iran are members of OPEC.  Last month, Daniel Ortega, the president of Nicaragua, came to Iran. In the following months, Evo Morales, the president of Bolivia, is expected in Tehran.Hurricane Katrina is now over the U.S. mainland and has caused more than US$12 billion of damage. Some estimates are as high as $30 billion.New Orleans was spared the most intense winds as the hurricane weakened as it made landfall, and its track turned slightly east, away from the city. However, the area was still subjected to sustained winds of more than 100mph, and rainfall as heavy as six inches per hour.Future prices of crude oil rose above $70/barrel in the U.S. on Monday in the wake of Katrina’s surge through oil and refinery processing facilities in the Gulf of Mexico. The storm forced operators to shut down an estimated 1 million barrels of daily refining capacity in the region that accounts for nearly a quarter of total domestic production.A U.S. spokesman for the Bush administration said the government will consider releasing crude oil from the  Strategic Petroleum Reserve if requested by refiners. OPEC has pledged to blunt the impact by increasing production to compensate.White House spokesman Scott McClellan told reporters that Michael Brown, the director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), briefed Mr. Bush before he left his Texas ranch for Arizona where he will deliver a speech on Medicare. Brown said it would take time before an assessment is possible for when refineries could resume activity.President Bush authorized loans from the strategic reserve to help make up for missing supplies when Hurricane Ivan struck in 2004.Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao visits India this week, appearing on the forefront of a dialogue soon opening between the two most populous nations in the world. It is likely the two nations will engage in a growing race to gain access to energy resources they need for their soaring economic expansion.The premier was received by Tata Consulatncy Services CEO Mr. Ramadorai during his visit to  Bangalore. He then visited the TCS Global Development Center for General Motors(GM). The CEO of TCS was quoted saying "Premier Wen's visit is a significant milestone that has added a further impetus to our presence in China".Both countries seek to secure oil from multiple locales around the globe where most Western nations cannot compete, including Sudan and Myanmar. China also is courting support from Venezuela, currently one of the largest suppliers of oil to the US. If successful, Chinese and Indian demand has the potential to create increasing difficulties for the US to fulfill its energy needs from traditional sources.China and India, whose relations are sometimes troubled by border disputes, are warming up to each other. Analysts suggest that an agreement reached during the dialogues could preempt competition and conflict over oil in the future. India and China are partners in Sudan's Greater Nile Project, but cooperation between the two may not come easily. Indian industry may seek to shy away from extending assistance to a nation some view as an economic rival during the ascendancy of the subcontinent's GNP.These events come at a time when the United States recently announced its intention to help India, a past rival of China, become a "superpower." India has also been planning military expansion and modernization.Iran agreed on Monday to allow the United Nations (UN) increased access to nuclear facilities according to a government announcement on state television. UN monitors will gain access to a heavy water reactor still being built, as well as the largest uranium reactor in Iran.The government announcement also stated that Iran would clarify its plans to build new uranium-enrichment facilities and technologies.According to the UN nuclear chief, Yukiya Amano, the agreement will be put in place within the next three months.  He said that Iran had agreed to "implement practical measures" to aid the UN inspectors. This is the first deal that Iran has made with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) since 2007. The announcement came after talks between Iran and world leaders from the United States, France, China, Russia and Germany in Geneva, over the amount of access that the IAEA should have to Iranian nuclear sites. The negotiations stalled, but are set to resume next week.The IAEA has been pushing to inspect Iran's nuclear facilities for a decade, currently having access to only 17. The Iranian government continues to assert that their nuclear program is peaceful, and wants the UN to lift sanctions.British Foreign Secretary William Hague said in Parliament on Monday that "It's very important for the Iranian authorities to understand that the pressure will be there for greater sanctions... unless an agreement is reached on these matters."French Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius acknowledged that the agreement reached on Monday is a good sign for diplomacy, but also said that more work needed to be done. "We are not far from an agreement with the Iranians, but we are not there yet," he said on Europe 1 radio.Yesterday, President Hassan Rouhani of Iran said if the goal is peace and security, then foreign powers should "get out of the region" as their presence could cause an arms race. He also announced a new security initiative for the Persian Gulf, the Gulf of Oman and the Strait of Hormuz to be unveiled at the United Nations General Assembly later this week.Rouhani was speaking at the opening of Sacred Defence Week, an annual commemoration of the eight-year Iran–Iraq War, which features military parades. "The presence of foreign forces can be dangerous for the region, international waters, as well as the security of shipping lines and energy, but our path is to create unity and coordination with regional countries," he said. "Those who want to link the region’s incidents to the Islamic Republic of Iran are lying like their past lies that have been revealed [...] If they are truthful and really seek security in the region, they must not send weapons, fighter jets, bombs and dangerous arms to the region.""Your presence has always been a calamity for this region and the farther you go from our region and our nations, the more security would come for our region", he continued in the speech which was delivered in Tehran, the capital. Rouhani's new security plan would be led by Iran and feature support from regional countries in securing the waterways in the region. According to the Associated Press, Iran has increased cooperation in the last few years with the navies of China, India, Oman, Pakistan, and Russia.The speech came approximately one week after an attack on oil infrastructure in Saudi Arabia which halved Saudi oil output. The attack was claimed by the Houthi movement in Yemen, but both Saudi Arabia and the United States have alleged Iranian involvement. The initial reports were of drone attacks, but the Saudi government said the attack included cruise missles which could not have originated in Yemen.The United States was more forceful in blaming Iran for the attack, committing to send more troops to Saudi Arabia. Recently, the United States announced a naval coalition to patrol the Persian Gulf which was joined by Australia, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates.The annual meeting of the United Nations General Assembly is set to open tomorrow.The Islamic Republic of Iran says it is conducting naval drills in the Strait of Hormuz. According to the Iranian navy's Habibollah Sayyari, the "Velayat 91" drills — to be held for a six day period ending on Wednesday — are intended to showcase "the armed forces' military capabilities."Iran's state-run media reports that the Iranian government warns all ships to stay away until the end of the exercises. According to this report the drills — which began on Friday — are to be conducted over roughly half a million square miles (a million square kilometers) of waters stretching from the Strait of Hormuz to the northern part of the Indian Ocean which includes the Gulf of Oman. The Strait of Hormuz is a major shipping route of great strategic importance. According to the U.S. Energy Information Administration, 17 million barrels of oil passes through this part of the Persian Gulf per day. That is nearly 20% of the worldwide oil trade and about 35% of oil transported by sea.This is only one in a series of major naval drills held by Iran in the Strait of Hormuz. Ten days of drills, "Velayat 90", was conducted last December and "Velayat 89" a year and a half before that in May 2010. Four months ago, the United States with some of its allies also conducted a series of exercises and naval drills, concerned with keeping the strait open.  Iran has said it might close the strait if its nuclear program were attacked.Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki made his first official visit to Russia on Friday, aiming to strengthen economic ties between the two countries, particularly in the energy sector.Al-Maliki met in Moscow with his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, as well as Russian President Dmitry Medvedev. The primary focus of the meeting was regarding the restoration of oil and gas development contracts signed before 2003, when the United States led the invasion of Iraq. Al-Maliki was supportive of Russia's role in developing his country's energy resources, as well as helping to rebuild Iraq's energy grid by constructing power plants and pipelines. "We are seeking to attract Russian companies to the Iraqi market and involve them in various projects," he said at a news conference following negotiations.A more controversial issue has been the reestablishment of energy agreements canceled during Saddam Hussein's regime, before Iraq was invaded. Of particular interest was the Russian oil company Lukoil, whose US$3.4 billion contract was nullified by Iraq in 2002. Saddam's government claimed the company had not fulfilled its contractual obligations in developing the West Qurna-2 oilfield.Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko said the leaders agreed "in principle" to restore these pre-war contracts, but did not mention specifics. Iraqi officials had previously maintained that the Lukoil contract was invalid, but they had invited Lukoil and other foreign companies to bid for a new contract. On Friday, al-Maliki agreed not to discriminate against Russian companies, promising not to give special preferences to other nations when considering future contracts.The West Qurna-2 oilfield is believed to be extremely productive, with reserves of up to 7.3 billion barrels and an expected production peak of 700,000 barrels per day, according to Russian estimates. Russia agreed to forgive nearly $13 billion of Iraqi debt in February 2008, which was widely seen as an attempt to support Russian bids for Iraq's oilfields.Putin, an opponent of the 2003 invasion, spoke positively of recent political developments in Iraq. "We take the view that the situation is becoming more and more sustainable," Putin said. "This concerns security and the domestic political situation." He and al-Maliki signed a joint communique calling for greater cooperation in issues such as terrorism, drug trafficking and arm dealing. The document also praised the agreement on the pullout of foreign forces from Iraq.Irish firm Steorn has placed an advertisement in The Economist magazine asking for 12 scientists to test their "free energy" invention. The Dublin based firm, founded in 2000, says it has developed technology that takes a small amount of mechanical energy and returns a bigger amount, using magnetic fields. The company's Chief Executive, Sean McCarthy, said that they discovered the technology whilst working on generators for wind turbines used to power CCTV cameras.The company has asked for 12 physicists to help them rigorously test their invention to prove, one way or the other, whether it works as they say it does. McCarthy claims that the vast majority of the scientists they've directly invited to test their device have refused, which is why they've resorted to the advertisement."Free energy" is a perennial claim of con artists and inventors, one that science has constantly battled with. The idea that a small amount of energy can return a bigger amount without drawing it from somewhere breaks the basic laws of physics, specifically the laws of thermodynamics. One common claim of the free energy 'inventor' is that the scientific community, the government, etc. needs to publicly verify the machine works before the inventor will sell it. The logic of this is flawed, as the device would be an instant cash cow. The inventor would be able to power his home, car, and be able to sell the energy produced to others at the market price. Devices that are claimed to exhibit this behaviour are known as perpetual motion machines. The average person's knowledge of science (or lack thereof) is a popular weak point to exploit for con men.Researchers at the Institute for Science and International Security (ISIS) have stated that a building that was located inside Syria at the site where Israel launched an airstrike on, has not only been completely removed, but that it was also a nuclear reactor under construction.The researchers obtained the images from DigitalGlobe and released the satellite images of the site before the airstrike and according to them, the building is a nuclear reactor. They also state that the images show a facility much like the one in North Korea at Yongbyon. Another image taken on October 24, shows a site where a large building used to be, the ground being wiped clean of its existence. A water-pumping station located on the Euphrates River was believed to be used for cooling the reactor, claim the ISIS."The length of the outer walls of the structures are approximately the same. From the image, the Syrian building is similar in shape to the North Korean reactor building, but the Syrian building is not far enough along in its construction to make a definitive comparison," said the institute of the study.Syria denies that they are building any kind of nuclear facility stating "the main point is that is that the Israeli fighter jet violated the airspace of a member state of the United Nations. This is the only fact that we should focus on. The Israelis have undertaken a provocative action and they should assume the consequences."Despite Syria's claims, the ISIS states that "dismantling and removing the building at such a rapid pace dramatically complicates any inspection of the facilities and suggests that Syria may be trying to hide what was there."Currently, the United States denies that the satellite photos show any site inside Syria and have not commented on the images. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) also refused to release a statement.Radiation at Japan's damaged Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant yesterday spiked to lethal levels around a leaking tank. Today the national Nuclear Regulation Authority (NRA) said contaminated water may be pumped into the sea.Tanks holding contaminated water at the site continue to leak; operator Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) says up to 300 metric tons may have leaked from one tank alone. Radiation at that tank soared to 1,800 millisieverts per hour yesterday, a rate lethal to an exposed human in about four hours. Japanese law says nuclear workers cannot be exposed to more than 50 millisieverts in a year.TEPCO says other locations at the plant have readings of 70–230 millisieverts per hour. Waste water totalling more than 300,000 tons has already been collected at the site; more is being stored at a rate of 400 tons per day. An unknown quantity of radioactive groundwater is flowing into the sea.NRA boss Shinichi Tanaka told a press conference today that stored water may be pumped into the Pacific after treatment to reduce contamination to within legal limits. "I'm afraid that it is unavoidable to dump or release the water into the sea," he said, adding "careless management" was being applied to the water by TEPCO. TEPCO first noticed a leak at the now-deadly tank in July but said it was minor and the NRA gave it a level one "anomaly" rating on the seven-part international scale. Last week that was raised to "serious incident", level three, after TEPCO said up to 300 tons of water had leaked. The exact amount is unknown as there is no gauge to measure levels inside the tank and TEPCO staff had said water levels in the tank had remained constant.Last week levels under the tank, where lost water is thought to have seeped into the ground, stood at 100 millisieverts per hour, and another at the facility had a level of 70 millisieverts per hour. TEPCO found another leak yesterday in a pipe between coolant tanks. Highly radioactive material was dripping out, but TEPCO says the leak is now fixed. Monitoring at the site has been increased since the original leak's discovery two weeks ago.Around 1,000 tanks are used to store water from the power plant's coolant system, which was contaminated when three reactors melted down after a tsunami in March 2011. Around 160,000 people were evacuated in the worst nuclear disaster since 1986. Tanaka said "The situation at Fukushima is changing everyday... The accident has yet to be settled down."The new radiation involves beta rays, TEPCO said, which can be stopped with a sheet of metal. Water treatment has extracted caesium from the tanks but other radioactive elements remain. TEPCO's equipment to remove other contamination is out of action due to filter corrosion after a few months of operating, but the government has demanded it be returned to service this month.None of the tanks have monitoring equipment and TEPCO's initial procedure involved two employees manually checking each tank over a two-hour period. Since the tank was found to be leaking the total monitoring staff has increased from ten to 60, and patrols are carried out four times a day instead of twice a day.Prosecutors brought criminal charges against TEPCO and government officials including then-Prime Minister Naoto Kan for their handling of the crisis formed after the tsunami. Daily newspaper Sankei Shimbun today claimed all charges, brought after local residents complained, were to be dropped. Sankei Shimbun suggests a formal announcement may come within days.Kansai Electric Power today began shutting down one of only two reactors still generating power in Japan, reactor #3 at Oi Nuclear Power Plant, for mandatory inspection. The other, Oi's reactor #4, is to be permanently switched off this month. When the accident began nuclear energy supplied a third of Japan's power requirements, but in the aftermath of Fukushima the nation has switched to fossil fuels.A new law which seeks to utilise reusable energy and minimise cost impact on consumers is under development in Japan. The new law, which would be effective from July 1 next year, would seek to reduce Japan's dependency on nuclear power.The new legislation would urge power utilities to cut costs by purchasing renewable energy from outside companies and private businesses. Japan's decision has been referred to as opening the door on renewable energy, which currently only contributes to six percent of Japan's energy sources.Politicians have amended the bill, allowing the revised bill to pass through parliament later this month. Prime Minister Naoto Kan who is pushing for the bill to be passed in return for his resignation, has stated that the 'feed-in-tariff on renewable energy will be set at a fixed price so that utilities are limited to purchasing electricity from renewable power generators. Kan hopes that this will encourage more business and private corporate partners to enter into the renewable energy market."As a medium-term revolutionary energy and environmental strategy, we have decided to start a thorough review of nuclear power policy and draw a roadmap for a reduction of the dependence on nuclear power" Mr Kan said.Large companies are concerned about the new legislation as it will continue to affect profit margins which are low due to power shortages and high priced exports. The bill was changed to reduce the surcharge for large power companies after complaints from the Japanese steel industry. If the scheme is launched then consumers will face an increase on electricity bills as utilities can pass their costs onto end-users. Despite the governments promise to cap the surcharge for the next ten years, there is no reference to it in the revised bill. Lawmakers hope that by adding a provision requiring utilities to streamline their operations, the impact on consumers will be minimized.A third party group will be set up within the under the Agency for National Resources and Energy to ensure that the setting of fixed prices are fair and just.The retail price of gasoline has risen higher than ever in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. The losses from the deadly hurricane include the destruction of oil refineries all around the Mexican Gulf area, and resulted in a cut of nearly 11 percent of U.S. refining capacity. It is estimated that 897,605 barrels of oil production has been curtailed, an amount which accounts for nearly 59.8% percent of the Gulf of Mexico's total daily output. Since Katrina, 17.1 million barrels have not been produced. There were 122 oil platforms shut down, out of 819 platforms in the Gulf.The national average retail price for gas was $3.04 on Sunday. This exceeds the previous inflation-adjusted record of $3.03, set in March of 1981.The survey was published by Trilby Lundberg, who publishes such surveys semi-monthly. These prices are all "thanks to Katrina," said Lundberg. Lundberg also says that prices could drop in the next few weeks, as the hurricane damaged areas are repaired, and less gas is being purchased nationwide because of lowered demand due to higher prices.Last Tuesday, AusAID Australia and the World Bank's Global Environment Fund (GEF) reached an agreement to give the government of Kiribati US$5 million (AU$4,779,000, NZ$5,985,000, €3,885,000) to install solar panels around the country capital, located on the Tarawa atoll.  According to Business Desk of the Brunei Times, AusAID promised AU$3.2 million in funding, while GEF promised US$1 million.  The country was the first in the Pacific to make a deal with the World Bank.The funding was part of a US$530 million (NZ$635 million) package announced at yesterday's Pacific Energy Summit in Auckland involving New Zealand and the European Union, Australia, the Asian Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, the World Bank Group, and the United Arab Emirates.  Also at the summit yesterday, New Zealand's Foreign Affairs Minister Murray McCully had announced a national commitment of USD$54,262,000 (AU$51,861,000 NZ$65 million, €42,178,000) to Pacific region energy solutions, of which US$8,348,000 (AU$8 million, NZ$10 million, €6,483,000) would be specifically earmarked for renewable energy and improved energy efficiency in the Cook Islands, Kiribati, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Tonga, and Tuvalu.Kiribati is heavily dependent on diesel fuel for most of the energy available on the national power grid, which supplies power to half Kiribati's population of 110,000. In addition, a third of the country's population lacks access to electricity. Once installation of the solar panels is complete, they are estimated to reduce diesel consumption by 230,000 liters (60,760 gallons) a year and give access to the electricity to some parts of the population that currently have no electricity.  The European Union already has committed €100 million to sustainable energy in the region, with €10 million of that coming as a result of an announcement made last week. In a press release about the news, Kiribati President Anote Tong was quoted as saying, "Kiribati faces big challenges it is remote, it is at risk from the effects of climate change, and it is vulnerable to economic shocks. [...] Shifting Kiribati's focus to reliable solar energy will provide a more secure, more sustainable power source for the country's people." Radio New Zealand International quoted Tong as saying, "It's the first time we are doing this. We're excited at the prospect of even substituting fossil fuel to a small extent at this stage. What the system being envisaged will only produce around 500 kilowatts, but this is the beginning of what I hope will be a pattern, the trend in the future."The European Union's Fiji-based head of operations for the Pacific region, Renato Mele, supported alternative energy solutions like solar power for the region, but said that solar power had limitations because climate and environmental conditions sometimes meant batteries required to power the panels had a life of only 12 months, compared to other climates where batteries normally last five years.  This created the potential to drive up standard operating costs. Mele has also noted these additional costs though are still lower than the cost of diesel power.One News Pacific Correspondent Barbara Dreaver noted, "Governments will be able to put the money they (currently) spend on diesel into things like education and health."On July 15, 2008, the scientists behind the KSTAR (Korea Superconducting Tokamak Advanced Reactor) project tested the device by creating "first plasma". This is analogous to the first light of a telescope. KSTAR's task is to test and study various techniques and technologies that will eventually be involved in the commercialization of fusion energy. It is also part of the ITER fusion research project, which has the goal of attempting to usher in an era of environmentally friendly and almost unlimited energy.Although it isn't at the core of the ITER mission, KSTAR has still achieved several milestones in physics and fusion energy production. It is currently the largest tokamak type reactor in the world, and it is one of the first reactors to use fully superconducting magnets of the same type as those that will be installed in ITER. KSTAR will be studying the use of both hydrogen and deuterium for potential fusion fuel sources, but is not intended to look into the use of tritium, which will be studied by the main ITER reactor once it has been completed.KSTAR requires 30 supercooled (-268°C) superconducting magnets - weighing in at a combined 300 tons - in order to contain the plasma, which can reach temperatures up to one hundred million degrees. No known substance could contain matter at those temperatures, so magnetic fields must be employed to keep the plasma from coming into contact with the components of the reactor.Kwon Eun-Hee, who works for the National Fusion Research Institute, said, "Today's demonstration was highly successful." Ryu Koo-hee, speaking on behalf of the Korean ministries of Education and Science and Technology, added that "[t]he generation of plasma proves that KSTAR is ready to operate and contribute significantly to the research for nuclear fusion."Workers at British industrial plants are staging mass walkouts this morning.The workers are taking unofficial action in support of a three day strike at Lindsey Oil Refinery in Lincolnshire, England. Staff have walked out at sites in Scotland, Wales and Teesside in north eastern England. The original strike was called over the awarding of a contract by refinery owners Total to an Italian company. This brought 300 Italian and Portuguese workers on to the site.The latest reports say workers at the UK's main oil refinery at Grangemouth in Scotland have come out in sympathy, as have workers at the former ICI plant on Teesside in England and at the nearby Corus steel plant. Workers have walked out at a power station in Aberthaw in south Wales and at plants at Fidler's Ferry in Cheshire, at Lackenby in Teesside and at the gas terminals near Peterhead in Scotland and Milford Haven in Wales. A protest outside the Lindsey refinery has now dispersed but local union leaders say it will resume on Monday. The Lindsey strike continues.Secondary industrial action has been illegal in the United Kingdom since the 1980s. However, the penalties apply only to unions organising secondary strikes, not to workers acting individually.Thousands of people, including women and children, have gathered since Sunday on the southern coast of India, to protest against the operation of the nuclear power plant of Kudankulam and the nuclear program of the government.An official announcement stated that the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board's inspection of the reactor pressure vessel of Unit-1 was completed and enriched uranium fuel will be loaded into the first 1000-mw-reactor this month. This was the reason for the people to raise another protest since March this year. The government ordered 4,000 policemen to monitor the surrounding area around the plant site. 300 policemen were in the village of Idinthakarai in the Tirunelveli district. Groups of people tried to block a road and a railway. On Tuesday the BBC World News reported that a 44-year-old fishermen was killed by police while shooting to disperse the demonstrating groups.Authorities of an English TV channel made a complaint because a cameraperson was allegedly injured during the police action. The protests spread to different towns and villages. A group of scientists, doctors, environmentalists, environmental activists, students, and concerned citizens met yesterday in front of the Vidyasagar Statue in College Square, Kolkata to show solidarity with the demonstration around Kudankulam.On the night of November 3rd a blackout in France left 5 million in the dark. The blackout, which started at about 10 P.M. local time (2100UTC), is said to have affected the French capital, Paris, and 15 other areas, including Rhône, Isère, Loire, Ain and Saône-et-Loire (Burgundy).As of early Sunday morning, about 5 million people are still without power, and the French power authority, Électricité de France, said that the failure had originated in Germany, which has also effected other European countries.The blackout was triggered due to a sudden drop in temperature, which over heated the power system. The French emergency services were so overloaded with calls that they were forced to ask that people not call.Air traffic around Paris was unaffected by the blackout.Massive blackouts occurred throughout the US state of Florida shortly after 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time (18:00 UTC) on Tuesday afternoon. Out of the 4.4 million customers served by Florida Power & Light, Co. (FPL), about 680,000 residents were affected, with an additional two million-plus customers affected in other parts of the state. It is estimated that as many as four million customers throughout Florida were affected, with many different power companies losing control of their specific grids. Power outages were reported as far south as the Florida Keys, on the original FPL grid, and as far north as Orlando and Daytona Beach, nearly 300 miles (483 km) away on the Progress Energy grid. Most of Miami-Dade and parts of Broward and Palm Beach counties suffered the worst outages. FPL President Armando Olivera said that a disconnect switch failed at 1:08 p.m. at the automated substation west of Miami, and a piece of equipment that controls voltage caught fire about the same time. Neither failure by itself would have caused a widespread outage. The event at the utility's Flagami substation consequently led to the rolling blackouts. Originally the first failure was thought to have occurred at the utility's nuclear plant at Turkey Point. It is still unclear how failure at this site spread, but with power turning off at the main Turkey Point location, which serves all of south Florida, FPL's grid shut down as well. It contributed to a domino effect which ended up sapping energy from bordering grids all over Florida. Police reported several people were stuck in the elevators of high-rise buildings in downtown Miami and several hospitals were running on backup power, although no injuries or fatalities have been reported. The blackouts caused major traffic jams and a few accidents, but the original outage was contained shortly after it occurred. All customers affected had power restored to them by 6:30 p.m. (23:30 UTC).The electric plant supplies the regions of Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Rio de Janeiro, Goiás, Rio Grande do Sul, Paraná, and Espírito Santo, as well as 90% of neighbouring Paraguay, which was almost completely without power for fifteen minutes.  Brazilian Energy Minister Edson Lobao stated that the cause of the "complete paralysis" of the plant was not yet known, but put forward a theory that lightning may have caused the high-tension supply lines to short out.Although this is not the first time that Brazil has had power outages, with severe loss of electricity in 2001, 2005 and 2007, radio station Bandnews estimated that 50 million people—a quarter of Brazil's population—were affected, one of the largest outages in recent history.A few hours after the power cut, the hydroelectric plant came back on line and the affected regions gradually regained power, allowing the areas in chaos caused by lack of traffic lights and power to underground railways to return to normal, and residents to put out their candles.Governor Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota signed a bill into law on Thursday that requires the state to generate a significant amount of its energy needs from renewable sources.The amount of power generated by wind turbines in the state stands now at 895 megawatts. An additional 5,000 megawatts of energy from renewable sources will need to be added to Minnesota's electricity resources, which is roughly eight times more than the amount that currently comes from renewables. The bill signed by the Governor requires energy companies to provide 25 percent of power from renewable sources by 2025. Xcel Energy, which supplies approximately half of the electricity in the state, is required to provide 30 percent from renewable sources by 2020.A three year old British girl, Margaret Hill, has been kidnapped by a group of gunmen in the Nigerian city of Port Harcourt. The kidnappers have contacted the girl's mother and issued a threat to kill the girl if her father doesn't agree to take her place.In a telephone conversation with Margaret's mother, the kidnappers demanded a meeting in an obscure town in Bayelsa State in the Niger Delta. The police have had trouble locating the suggested town. "They say I can bring my husband to swap with the baby," Oluchi Hill, Margaret's mother, told the BBC. "He wanted to go down for his baby but the police commander told him not to." Mrs. Hill was able to speak with her daughter during the phone call.The kidnappers had issued a three-hour deadline for the swap. There has been no further communication from the kidnappers.This event is the latest in a long line of kidnappings of expatriates with links to the Nigerian oil industry, following the abduction of five workers from a Nigerian oil rig.  Reports state that Hill was taken from a car in which she was passenger. The British Foreign Office has confirmed the kidnapping and has called for the child's immediate release, whilst providing support for the family. The identity of the group that carried out the kidnapping is not known, with the main militant group, The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, denying involvement. In past cases of child kidnappings, which remain rare, the victims had been returned unharmed on payment of a ransom. Workers in the oil industry have been more commonly targeted for kidnapping. The Niger Delta contains more than 90 percent of Nigeria's natural resources, yet many of the indigenous population remain in poverty. Militant groups claim to be aiming to improve conditions for the poor. The BBC reports that over 100 foreign nationals have been kidnapped so far this year. Since the start of 2006, over 200 such kidnappings have taken place, and 15 adults remain in the custody of armed groups in Nigeria.The British Foreign Office advises against all travel to the Niger Delta.An oil platform owned by Mariner Energy has exploded in the Gulf of Mexico throwing thirteen people into the water, reports indicate. All thirteen men who fell into the water have been accounted for, according to the U.S. Coast Guard. No injuries were reported. Smoke was billowing from the oil rig named Vermilion 380, which is reported to still be on fire.The blast occurred at around 9:19 a.m., approximately 80 miles south of Vermilion Bay off the coast of Louisiana. The Coast Guard confirms the platform was producing oil and gas at the time it exploded. They earlier reported a one mile long and 100 foot wide oil sheen which was spotted at the site of the explosion shortly after authorities responded to the scene, but later backtracked saying they could not confirm the presence of a sheen. Coast Guard chief petty officer John Edwards of the US Coast Guard earlier said that the platform, "was not actively producing any product." Mariner Energy also released a statement earlier saying no oil sheen was spotted."In an initial flyover, no hydrocarbon spill was reported," said Mariner Energy in a press release following the explosion. "The cause is not known, and an investigation will be undertaken. During the last week of August 2010, production from this facility averaged approximately 9.2 million cubic feet of natural gas per day and 1,400 barrels of oil and condensate." According to Bureau of Energy Management Regulation and Enforcement spokesperson Melissa Schwartz, the platform was authorized to produce natural gas and oil at those depths, but "there were ongoing maintenance activities underway" which caused it to stop producing. The platform sits in about 2,500 feet of water, though some reports put the platform in 340 feet of water.As a result of the explosion and fire, Bobby Jindal, the governor for the state of Louisiana said that the Vermillion 380 platform had been "shut" and that oil flowing from the bottom of the Gulf has been stopped. At least 6 other platforms are said to be connected to the well that Vermilion 380 was part of. Jindal also said the fire was burning due to flammable materials on the platform. Apache Corporation, which has agreed to, but has not yet completed a merger with Mariner Energy, did not comment on whether the explosion would have any effect on the deal. The vice-president Bob Dye told Wikinews that "Apache and Mariner agreed to merge in April, 2010, however, the transaction has not yet closed so Mariner remains the operator of this platform".All 13 people have been rescued by an oil support vessel and have been transported to a nearby platform. Edwards earlier told MSNBC that all those who were in the water were "wearing some sort of an immersion suit that protects them from the water. Right now we're focused on search and rescue and then, ultimately, as this thing progresses we're going to be looking into the cause." The explosion comes only four months after the Deepwater Horizon oil rig run by BP exploded in April, resulting in a massive oil spill. The platform is located about 200 miles west of the Deepwater incident.On Wednesday at 12:40 p.m. CET (UTC+1), Norwegian authorities were alerted to an oil spill in the Statfjord oil field. The spill originated from the oil platform "Statfjord A", one of three platforms in the field, operated by StatoilHydro.Kristin Hoffmann of Petroleum Safety Authority Norway (Petroleumtilsynet) told Dagens Nyheter: "This is the second largest in Norwegian history." The amount of oil released into the sea is believed to be at least 3840 cubic metres, 25,000 barrels, or approximately 4,000 metric tons. This amount would rank the spill low on the list of oil spills."It is a significant amount and we are taking it seriously," said Vegar Stokset, a spokesman for StatoilHydro, though he said the spill was "very far from land." The accident occurred in rough seas while tanker Navion Britannia was loading oil from a storage buoy, StatoilHydro said. Christian Sletner of the Norwegian Coastal Administration said, "StatoilHydro has a good preparedness plan, and a satisfactory system for handling this." He added, "StatoilHydro is responsible for cleaning up. This is the 'polluter pays' principle.""The amount of damage could range from completely marginal to relatively large if substantial amounts reach land," Sletner said. "The chances of it reaching land, at the moment, seem to be relatively small."No one was injured at the time of the accident and the platform will continue work as usual Thursday, said StatiolHydro Information Director Kai Nielsen. In a press release, StatiolHydro announced that four vessels are on their way to begin the clean-up, though they will have to wait for calmer seas to begin work.Petroleum Safety Authority Norway said in a press release that it is demobilizing disaster teams and beginning to prepare for its investigation of the incident. It will also closely follow StatoilHydro's clean-up.Statfjord is 200 km (124 miles) off the coast of Norway, located to the east of Bergen. It is an oil and gas field in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea, though approximately 15% of it is in the United Kingdom's waters. At peak production, it produces over 700,000 barrels of oil per day. The field is one of the largest known under-sea oil fields in the world.Following three weeks of talks, the leader of Høyre, Norway's Conservative Party, Erna Solberg announced today that the Conservatives will form a minority government in a right-wing coalition with the Progress Party. The coalition will be the first time the Progress Party have been in power in the executive branch.The coalition government plans to change policy on immigration and asylum, reduce inheritance tax, and reform provision of healthcare and pensions. The parties also agreed to not allow drilling for oil on Jan Mayen Island or in the Lofoten archipelago. The Norwegian Oil and Gas Association said the decision was "disappointing and undemocratic".Solberg said that she intends to continue working with other parties. The new government is due to take office on October 18. Solberg will replace the current Labor Party Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.In the wake of yesterday's earthquakes, Japan is today reporting that leaks at the Kashiwazaki-Kariwa Nuclear Power Plant are worse than first reported.In addition to a leak of 315 gallons (1200 liters) of radioactive water into the Sea of Japan, reports say that drums with nuclear waste lost their lids and radioactive gases cobalt-60, chromium-51 and iodine were released into the atmosphere. Several pipes are also reported to have broken.Officials are also reporting 50 different problems at the plant of "malfunctioning and trouble," but officials would not comment further on the damage other than calling the issues "minor."At least two men in Sweden were arrested after security officials at the Oskarshamn Nuclear Power Plant discovered traces of an explosive material on a plastic bag. Oskarshamnsverkets Kraftgrupp OKG operates the plant, which is one of three nuclear power plants in Sweden.Reports say that on the outside of a bag was Acetone peroxide, or TATP, primarily used as a high yield explosive, but is also an organic peroxide used in making chemicals for cleaning.The unidentified men in their 40's to 50's, who were contractors and welders hired for doing work at the plant, were stopped as they entered the plant. Authorities were called to the scene along with the bomb squad, who sealed off parts of the plant when they detected the explosive material on a bag's handle. Security detected the material in what is described by CNN as a "routine" security check. Police believe it was on one of the man's hands when it rubbed off onto the bag, but no bomb was found after an extensive search. Both men have been charged with attempted sabotage and are still undergoing interrogation. Both face sentences of up to two years in prison.Plant officials state that the plant has never received a threat "not in the past, not now, and we have no threat for the future," said President of OKG, Lars Thuring. "The only thing that we have found is this trace of explosives in the bag."TATP is "very unstable, very sensitive to both friction and shocks," said Swedish Defense Research Agency expert, Svante Karlsson. A small amount could cause serious damage to someone handling the material which is described as 'Mother of Satan'. Would-be 'shoe bomber' Richard Reid used the substance in an attempt to blow up American Airlines flight 63 from Paris, France to Miami, Florida in 2001. The same substance was also used in the July 2005 bombings in London, England.The plant's reactors, where the men were scheduled to work, were turned off on May 11 for routine maintenance. The rest of the plant's operations were not interrupted.The Philippines and other members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) are becoming alarmed over the rapid increase of global oil prices and are seriously looking into prospects of building nuclear powered plants to energize the electric needs of the 10 member nations of ASEAN.The heads of Asean Power Utilities/Authorities (Hapua) Council got together in Manila this week and are forming an ASEAN Power Grid.Energy ministers and delegates from ASEAN member countries, Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines are pursuing alternative sources of energy and connecting the power grids of the member countries.A task force was created by the Philippines Department of Energy that will look into the possibility of using nuclear power as a counter-measure to dependence on oil to power up the Philippines and the rest of ASEAN's power generators.Energy secretary Angelo Reyes also received the recommendations from a six-man team from the International Atomic Energy Agency on the prospects of operating the moth-balled Bataan Nuclear Power Plant.The Bataan nuclear plant was first built in the late seventies under the administration of President Ferdinand Marcos but was scrapped by President Corazon Aquino in 1986 owing to kick-backs in the plant's construction and safety concerns.Reyes stated that the council and the department was also looking into alternative sources of renewal energy such as solar and wind power, biomass, geothermal and hydro-electric to reduce dependency on fossil fuel.For the time, the Philippines has implemented several measures on conserving energy particularly the conversion to compact fluorescent lights (CFLs).Workers at two nuclear facilities in the United Kingdom walked out today in the continuing row about foreign workers.Contract staff at the Sellafield nuclear recycling facility in Cumbria walked out this morning. They were joined by staff at Heysham nuclear power station in neighbouring Lancashire. Workers at sites affected by industrial action last week walked out again today, with 200 leaving the Fiddlers Ferry Power Station in Cheshire and a further 1,000 at Grangemouth oil refinery and Longannet power station.The UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown had condemned the wildcat action on Sunday, calling it "counterproductive". This drew criticism from unions and opposition parties as he had previously promised "British jobs for British workers" at the Labour Party's conference in 2008. Brown has insisted that clarification of European Union law and European Court of Justice decisions will allow people to see that discrimination doesn't take place in future.The Secretary of State for Business Lord Mandelson has backed the site's owners Total S.A., telling the BBC that the company had "very strongly refuted" the allegations and that he believed them to be right. He added that the media was "feeding this xenophobia". He added that he hoped the rebuttal would calm the situation, saying "I hope in the light of that people will be reassured and call off these unofficial disputes".This drew an angry reaction from the GMB union. General Secretary Paul Kenny said "Peter Mandelson is in denial about the nature of the problem that has given rise to the dispute. Overseas companies are refusing to employ UK nationals on projects in the UK. That is not right".Lord Mandelson's shadow, Kenneth Clarke, also condemned the strikes on behalf of the opposition Conservative Party, saying "I understand people being worried about their jobs. I don't think this is the right way to demonstrate it". Some Labour MPs, however, have expressed more sympathy with the strikers. Health Secretary Alan Johnson called for EU law to be changed to stop global companies undercutting local wage rates, while former minister Frank Field said "This form of contract clearly cannot go on, where contracts are awarded and there's free movement of companies but those companies then restrict who can apply for those jobs". Another former minister, Peter Hain, also sided with the strikers, blaming the government for "gold plating" EU law (making EU-derived laws stronger or stricter than the original directive) and telling them to "stick up for British workers". The leader of the Liberal Democrats Nick Clegg sounded a warning note about changing British or EU law, saying that "any attempt to ban EU citizens from jobs in Britain would be a massive own goal. If every EU country followed suit, we would have to cope with a massive influx of British people who work overseas".The unofficial protests began on Friday, when workers in industrial plants across the country walked out in sympathy with the staff at Lindsey Oil Refinery in North Lincolnshire. The refinery are striking over the awarding of a contract by the French-owned site to an Italian company. This led to 200-300 Italian and Portuguese workers arriving at the plant. Unions allege that British workers were actively prevented from applying for the jobs.Protests have continued today outside the refinery.According to reports, Barack Obama, the President-elect of the United States, will nominate Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, to be his Secretary of Energy.Chu has been  the director of the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California for the past four years. He shared the Nobel Prize in physics in 1997 with Claude Cohen-Tannoudji and William Daniel Phillips for developing ways to cool and trap atoms with a laser light.In the past, Chu was the head of an electronics lab at the Bell Labs in New Jersey. He has also worked on solar technologies and global warming, and is a professor at the University of California. Chu has worked on ways to develop carbon-neutral energy.Chu is currently scheduled to travel Asia and Europe and is expected to be back at work on Monday, according to a spokesperson at Lawrence Berkeley.Yesterday, oil facilities belonging to Saudi Arabia's state-owned Saudi Aramco were hit by multiple drone strikes in a pre-dawn raid. The attacks triggered major fires at a processing plant and an oil field, which state media said were under control. The Yemen-based Houthi movement claimed responsibility for the attacks.According to the Saudi Press Agency, the attacks occurred at 4:00 A.M. local time (0100 UTC) and struck the largest processing plant at Abqaiq and the Khurais oil field. The oil field is about 160 km (100 miles) east of the capital, Riyadh. The agency did not mention if there were casualties, but said exports were continuing.Reuters, citing anonymous sources, reported both production and export of oil had been disrupted. Saudi officials subsequently said 5.7  million barrels of per-day production had been disrupted. This would be nearly half of Saudi Arabia's entire production and around five percent on a global basis.Speaking on al-Masirah TV in Yemen, Houthi military spokesperson Yahya Sarea said it had carried out the attack using ten drones. According to him, it was among the largest Houthi operations inside of Saudi Arabia and was accomplished with the help of "honourable people inside the kingdom"."These attacks are our right, and we warn the Saudis that our targets will keep expanding", Saree said. "We have the right to strike back in retaliation to the air strikes and the targeting of our civilians for the last five years."US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo posted a message on Twitter blaming Iran for the attacks, saying there was "no evidence the attacks came from Yemen." BBC's Jonathan Marcus said questions remain how much direct Iranian assistance is received by the Houthis who are ideologically aligned with Iran.In 2015, Saudi Arabia started supporting the government of Abdrabbuh Mansur Hadi against the Houthi rebellion, providing airstrikes with the Royal Saudi Air Force. The United Nations called the resulting humanitarian crisis the worst in the world.In 2006, Abqaiq was the target of an Al-Qaeda suicide attack.At US$135 a barrel, the price of oil today reached a new high. BBC News has reported that this recent increase is due to figures showing a large decrease in the US petroleum supply.However, as of 20:00 UTC prices have fallen nearly two percent since yesterday and are back below $131. Over half of oil executives believe that the price will fall to US$100 a barrel toward the end of the year according to an  Associated Press report.The U.S. average retail price for regular gasoline also recently increased to a new all-time high, with the price going up 6.9 cents to 379.1 cents per gallon. This was the eighth consecutive week for the US average price to increase.Air France-KLM recently said that they would be challenged by the rising oil price. American Airlines has announced thousands of job cuts.In addition, the U.S. has seen the cost of food rise significantly, an issue which food manufacturers and retail stores blame on the high price of fuel required for transportation. For example, CNN.com reports a 16.7% increase in the cost of hamburger buns, a staple item for many U.S. families.International oil prices sank on Thursday as investors worried that a looming global recession will lower demand.Crude oil for future delivery fell to below US$71 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, its lowest price in more than a year. In London, Brent crude oil for November dropped below $66 a barrel.Oil prices have dropped more than 50 percent since hitting a record high of $147 a barrel in July. A report released today showed an unexpected increase in inventories. Analysts expected only a 1.9 million barrel increase last week, but the actual amount was 5.6 million barrelsThe Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) cut its estimate for crude oil demand next year in a report released Wednesday. OPEC, which was planning on having an emergency meeting next month on the issue of lower oil prices, pushed forward the meeting to next week. The cartel is expected to cut production by 500,000 barrels a day, in a bid to boost oil prices. Saudi Arabia, which initially did not support the cut a few weeks ago, now supports such a move.Some Asian governments are under pressure to reduce domestic fuel prices in light of the decline of the price of oil. In China, some drivers are paying more for gas than drivers in the United States, which last occurred several years ago. India, China, and Indonesia appear to be to content to keep the price at the same level; however, some other Asian governments have lowered the price already. Malaysia and Vietnam have cut prices and are expected to do the same if oil drops some more.Oil has risen to a new all-time record high during trading in Asia, passing US$91.10 at 10:23 p.m. on October 25 (eastern time).In electronic trading at the NYMEX Crude Futures in the United States touched a record price of, at US$92.22, according to Bloomberg, setting another record all-time high. On the IntercontinentalExchange Brent Crude futures reached US$89.30 (basis December) as of 8:34 a.m..NYMEX Crude closed at $91.86, while ICE Brent closed at $88.69, at the conclusion of Friday's trading.The raise come when the United States announced that it had an "unexpected loss" in the nation's stockpile of oil. The fear that Turkey may launch a large scale attack on Kurdish Militants inside Iraq is also being blamed for the raise in prices and the U.S. imposed more sanctions on Iran for continuing to enrich uranium.Australia's Commonwealth Banks states that the raise is "being supported by an increase in geopolitical tensions and also market developments. The US has announced that it is imposing new sanctions on Iran, Oil markets also continued to have an eye on developments related to the current tensions between Turkey and Kurd rebels in Iraq."OPEC has agreed that by November 1, 2007, they will increase the amount of barrels of oil they produce by 500,000 barrels a day. The U.S. says that they would like that number increased.Crude oil prices surged to a new record of over $75.00 a barrel on Tuesday closing at a price of $75.17. In Europe, Brent crude oil] rose to $74.59. In less than a month, prices have risen $10, back to the record highs set after Hurricane Katrina caused refineries to shut down in August 2005. Prices are also 42% higher than a year ago.Political instability in oil-producing countries is seen as a major cause of this rise. The standoff over Iran's nuclear program has led to strong words being exchanged and a possibility of sanctions being imposed on Iran, the world's fourth largest producer of oil. Violence in Nigeria earlier this year has led to a drop the country's production by almost a quarter.  Nigeria is Africa's largest oil exporter and is also a major supplier of gasoline-rich crude oil to the United States, where demand is set to increase as the "driving season" begins next month. Edmund Daukoru, the president of OPEC and Nigerian oil minister said on Tuesday, "The current shoot up we are experiencing is as a result of the Iran problems and it's not helped by the flare up between Israel and the Palestinians. But mainly it's the threatening statements being made against Iran as a result of its nuclear program."The following is the fifth edition of a monthly series chronicling the U.S. 2016 presidential election. It features original material compiled throughout the previous month after an overview of the month's biggest stories.In this month's edition on the campaign trail: an arrest warrant is issued for the Green Party presidential and vice presidential nominees; the "Birther King" opens up about Donald Trump's changing view on President Obama's place of birth; and Wikinews interviews a write-in presidential candidate hoping to run the "most libertarian" campaign in history.The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) has agreed to drastically cut the daily production of oil by 2.2 million barrels per day (bpd). In a decision reached in Oran, Algeria, energy ministers from all 12 OPEC members agreed to make the largest cut in OPEC's history. Oil prices have fallen from a high of $140 in July to just around $40; a decrease of $100. OPEC has cut 4.2 million bpd since September, when the price of oil decreased suddenly over fears of a global recession and lower usage of oil. With this new decrease, production by OPEC members will be 24.845 million bpd. Saudi Arabia is taking the majority of the cut by decreasing their production by 1.2 million bpd.In the statement released by the organization, they wrote "...that crude volumes entering the market remain well in excess of actual demand: this is clearly demonstrated by the fact that crude stocks in OECD countries are well above their five-year average and are expected to continue to rise. Moreover, the impact of the grave global economic downturn has led to a destruction of demand, resulting in unprecedented downward pressure being exerted on prices..."OPEC faces a tough task in trying to level the price of oil to a reasonable amount. Most experts and oil officials believe that $75 is the 'fair price' for a barrel of oil. Chakib Khelil, the OPEC president, said during the meeting that "OPEC has a long-established record in meeting the challenges it faces, however tough they may be. The challenge facing the oil market today is clearly a formidable one."Russia, which is not a member of OPEC, also agreed that a cut was needed and would cut its production by 600,000 barrels. OPEC will also urge other non-OPEC members who are oil exports, to cut their production. Mexico and Norway are two of the largest oil producers that not members of OPEC. Russia's action is not official, and the country has had a history of failing their pledge to cut their output.The president of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Chakib Khelil predicts that prices of world crude oil could reach the US$150 to $170 range per barrel before this year's summer ends.In an interview on the French news channel France24, Khelil who is also Algeria's energy minister, also stated that prices won't reach $200 per barrel when asked as to how far would prices would go up.During the interview, Khelil said that prices would depend on how far the United States puts pressure on oil producer Iran, over its nuclear program and on the stability of the euro, Europe's currency.In a transcript of the France24 interview, the OPEC President said, "I think that the devaluation of the dollar against the euro, if everything goes as I think it will, will be of the order of perhaps 1-2 percent and this will probably generate an $8 rise in the price of oil," he said.The OPEC president blamed the weakness of the U.S. dollar as the main reason for the current prices of oil.Khelil was also quoted saying, "You can see it, every time there is a strengthening of the dollar, there's a drop in prices."Come September, Khelil said that the thirteen member countries of OPEC will review its hands off policy on the sky rocketing prices of world crude oil.Western nations has been pressuring OPEC to increase oil production to halt the soaring oil prices.The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) announced today at the 142nd meeting of its Conference in Vienna, Austria that it will continue it's policy of trying to support market stability by maintaing a balance between supply and demand despite the fact that demand is slowing and inventories are growing. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, oil contracts for October fell as low US $64.85 before settling at the end of trading at US $65.61, a decline of 64 cents for the day. This follows a drop from their peaks at the start of the Israel-Hezbollah conflict in July of US $77.03 a barrel.The Pakistan government has formally launched the country’s first policy on renewable sources of energy. The policy offers attractive incentives to investors willing to exploit this environment-friendly but largely unexplored sector especially for power generation. The ‘Policy for Development of Renewable Energy for Power Generation – 2006’ has already been approved by the Economic Coordination Committee of the Cabinet.Parts of the northeastern coast of Newfoundland, Canada, in particular the Bonavista Peninsula, were hit hard following a Sunday evening storm. Power went out in St. John's Sunday night, but was promptly restored. By Tuesday, around 7500 customers were without electricity on the Bonavista Peninsula alone. However a spokeswoman with Newfoundland Power Corporation said Tuesday that power had been restored faster than expected in parts of the peninsula.A huge power outage occurred in Moscow today. The failure in the accumulative power supply system in Mosenergo which occurred at 11:15 a.m. local time on Wednesday, led to a power outage in all areas of the city.Power for lights failed in apartment buildings. Some lines of the Moscow underground stopped for four hours. Trams and trolley buses, electric trains of the Moscow railway also stopped. Hundreds of people were trapped in apartment building lifts. In addition to lighting problems, the homeowners have also lost their water supply, as pumping stations in Mosvodokanal also lost power because of the failure.  15 big cities and five areas of Moscow suburbs, some areas of the Tula and Kaluga areas were left without electricity. At 12:00 noon, food shops in the affected areas started closing. In shops where sellers continued trading, huge queues accumulated.To avoid panic at train stations, workers with megaphones informed passengers of train movements. At train stations, reserve power supplies are being used. According to eyewitnesses, there was no electric lighting at many stations and in transitions between them. Escalators also did not work.Thursday, May 26, 2005 Thursday morning trolley buses and trams still do not work in southern areas of Moscow. Despite repair work conducted during the night, it was impossible to power all trolleybus and tram lines.In total 8 tram and 25 trolleybus routes do not work. Buses will take over those routes. Besides this, in the south of Moscow there are still many disconnected apartment houses.All stations of the Moscow underground are working normally. All trains are running on schedule.The entrance to Moscow for supersize automobiles will be limited up to 14 o'clock in the afternoon. The limitation was put in place yesterday because of difficult road conditions in the city after the power failure.The price of oil per barrel has risen to a new all time high. During trading in Asia and in London, England the price of NYMEX Crude oil futures, per barrel, was at US$124.34 (22:07 eastern time) setting a new record high. Brent Crude oil also hit a new record high of US$122.84, but soon retreated to $121.79. Several factors, including a weaker U.S. dollar and worries on the world supply, have caused the price of oil to skyrocket in the past week.Despite worries, OPEC states that supply is currently meeting the current demands and there is currently no shortage of oil."There is clearly no shortage of oil in the market. OECD commercial oil stocks remain above the five-year average, with days of forward cover at a comfortable level of more than 53 days. US crude inventories, meanwhile, rose by almost six million barrels last week, which is a further indication that oil supplies are plentiful," stated OPEC in a statement on its website.The Energy Director of the Bristol City Council claimed in the promotional video that not reducing the carbon footprint would be a "failure in our [the council’s] duty to tackle climate change." He also said that the council would face fines from the European Union if the targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are not met. In addition to this it was also claimed in the video that the amount of electricity used by  the council needs to be reduced as they currently spend five million pounds per year for electricity. He finished by saying that one way the council can cut their greenhouse emissions is by producing their own "green electricity."Councillor Mark Bradshaw of the Bristol City Council was also featured in the video. He explained the proposals by saying that "we [the council] propose to build two wind farms on a former industrial site."A more efficient way to produce useable hydrogen has been demonstrated by researchers. It uses very high-temperature electrolysis to separate hydrogen from water, so that hydrogen may be used for energy production.Electrolysis is one method by which laboratories and factories produce hydrogen. An electrical current is passed through water, breaking it down into hydrogen and oxygen gas, which are then collected above the water reservoir.Researchers in Salt Lake City, Utah, at Ceramtech Incorporated, in collaboration with workers at The Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory report that when water is superheated to 800 degrees Celsius, far less electricity is required to produce the same volume of hydrogen. The researchers envision that future nuclear fission plants could be used both to heat the water as part of their cooling system, and generate the needed electricity.Concerns have been raised regarding the safety of such arrangements, however.  Jeremy Desterhoft, an independent consultant on nuclear energy safety, warns the "elevated levels of radiation required to sufficiently lower the atomic separation point is beyond the current capabilities of any recent cooler."  He does not believe that economically viable cooling technology will be available for at least four to six more years.Russia has made delivery of its first shipment of nuclear fuel to Iran's Bushehr facility, which is also being built by Russia. Both the Kremlin and the White House say that this should allow Iran to shut down its controversial uranium enrichment program.The Russian company, Atomstroiexport, said that the shipments began on Sunday. It was also confirmed by Gholam Reza Aghazadeh, the head of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran."If the Russians are willing to do that, which I support, then the Iranians do not need to learn how to enrich," United States President George W. Bush said on Monday during a visit to Virginia. "If the Iranians accept that uranium for a civilian nuclear power plant, then there's no need for them to learn how to enrich."The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russia said in a statement: "We believe that qualitatively new conditions have been created which will allow Iran to take the steps which are demanded of it ... for the restoration of trust in the peaceful nature of the Iranian nuclear program."Russia says that Bushehr is being built under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency, thus preventing it from being used for military purposes.A senior Iranian official told Reuters that Iran will not stop enrichment under any circumstances, because it needs the nuclear fuel for other plants.Russia has chosen the remote town of Severodvinsk along Russia's northern White Sea coastlines for the world's first floating nuclear power station.The station will float on a river flowing through the town and into the White Sea. The plant will look like a 10-storey building and weigh 21,000 tonnes. In five years it'll generate enough electricity for 200,000 people.  The cost will be $336m[1].Sam Brownback is perplexed.  The U.S. Senator from Kansas and Presidential candidate is a Republican whose politics—he is against marriage for gay people, he is against abortion, and he has a clean image in a party tainted by scandal—should speak favorably to the party's base.  But it has not.  "I'm baffled by that myself," Senator Brownback told Wikinews reporter David Shankbone.  "We haven't been able to raise money."  A recent poll in Iowa has put him in eighth place, with 2% supporting his campaign.  "If we don't finish fourth or better in Iowa...we'll pull out."  Senator Brownback's relationship with God infuses almost every answer you find below.  Although he doesn't feel "competent" to explain why God would dislike gays, he does feel strongly that allowing two men or two women to enter into the union of marriage will destroy it for heterosexuals.  Pointing to the research of Stanley Kurtz at the Hoover Institution, Brownback asserts that Northern Europeans have "taken the sacredness out of the institution." In the interview, Senator Brownback discusses the tug-and-pull that befalls him when his constituents show up at his office and say, "Look, I'm a conservative, but we need this bridge, we need this subsidy, we need this hospital.”  Brownback feels this spending system needs to be changed; however, when it comes to energy policy, Brownback is there for his constituents.  David Shankbone asked the Kansas Senator, a supporter of cellulosic ethanol, why he doesn't support the lowering of tariffs on sugar since sugar ethanol delivers 8 times the energy output of cellulosic ethanol.  Brazil, in particular, has become energy independent because of its sugar ethanol program.  It's cheaper to produce, and there is vastly more bang for the buck in sugar fuel than in corn fuel; an entire country no longer needs to import oil because of it.  Federal tariffs currently make sugar ethanol too expensive in the United States.  "You're going to kill the ethanol industry here just as it gets going," was Senator Brownback's response.  However, there is a debate over whether the process to make corn ethanol uses more energy than the ethanol itself produces.  Below is David Shankbone's interview with Senator Sam Brownback.At midnight local time (0700 UTC), United States public utility Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E) began turning off electricity for customers in the San Francisco area of California. PG&E stated it scheduled the blackouts in response to forecasts for high winds amid dry conditions. The aim is to reduce the risk of wildfires. Nearly 800 thousand customers were scheduled to be affected by the shutoffs which were expected to last through at least midday tomorrow.Within the first four hours 185 thousand customers were without power. According to PG&E's schedule, by noon today over half a million could be affected, at which point phase two was planned to begin. Phase two was planned to affect over two hundred thousand customers. A phase three was tentatively planned, but final decisions were not yet made.PG&E announced the schedule in a press release late yesterday and followed it up with a press conference last night. Sumeet Singh, a vice president at PG&E, said "We very much understand the inconvenience and difficulties such a power outage would cause". Company meteorologist Evan Duffey said, "This is forecast to be the strongest offshore wind event since October 2017".Senior vice president Michael Lewis added, "The safety of our customers and the communities we serve is our most important responsibility, which is why PG&E has decided to turn power off to customers during this widespread, severe wind event. We understand the effects this event will have on our customers and appreciate the public's patience as we do what is necessary to keep our communities safe and reduce the risk of wildfire".According to local news, school districts across the area announced school closings. PG&E announced via Twitter around 11:30 am (1830 UTC), phase one had been completed. The company apologized for its website being inaccessible due to high volume of traffic.California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger announced his support for Arizona Senator John McCain's presidential bid Thursday morning. Schwarzenegger called McCain "a great American hero and an extraordinary leader" and praised him for his ability to cross party lines. "I think Senator McCain has proven over and over again that he is reaching across the aisle to get things done," Schwarzenegger said.Also present was former New York City mayor Rudy Giuliani, who recently dropped out of the race and pledged to support McCain."This is a man who is moving us into our future," Giuliani said. "He understands how to do it and also understands how to keep us safe in a time of peril."Schwarzenegger said he also admires Giuliani and only decided to endorse McCain after Giuliani had dropped out."It's all Rudy's fault. Both of them are friends of mine and this is why I really didn't want to endorse anybody," Schwarzenegger said.The announcement came at a solar panel factory. McCain used this as an opportunity to discuss his views on greenhouse gas emissions and environmental technology, which have come under criticism from others in the Republican Party."We don't have to have increased costs to Americans," McCain said. "In fact, with the development of green technologies, we can have reduced costs to the American consumer with the development of new technologies."California is one of the 24 states whose primary will be held on February 5, also known as Super Tuesday. Nearly 15% of the delegates needed to receive the Republican nomination will come from California. Democrats Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama were also campaigning in the state on Thursday.A scientist for the National Wildlife Federation, Doug Inkley, has criticised what he described as America's "addiction to oil". Inkley stated it is ultimately responsible for the Deepwater Horizon disaster earlier this year. Inkley commented on the incident, six months after the explosion which killed eleven rig workers and resulted in over 170 million gallons of crude oil leaking into the Gulf of Mexico causing damage to marine wildlife habitats as well as the Gulf's fishing and tourism industries.Inkley is a senior scientist working for the National Wildlife Federation. He stated, "Looking back at what we knew six months after the Exxon Valdez disaster in Alaska illustrates the danger of too quickly drawing conclusions about the full impacts of the Gulf oil disaster." "Six months after the Exxon Valdez disaster," he continued, "the herring stocks in Prince William Sound seemed like they’d pull through. It wasn’t until the fourth year after the disaster that herring stocks collapsed due to a delayed population effect of the oil, devastating the people and wildlife that depended on them. Today, more than two decades later, this once-vital fish still hasn’t recovered."His remarks echo those issued by another environmental organisation in July. Greenpeace demanded that BP, who the United States Congress has blamed for the disaster, take a "new direction" and end an "obsession with high risk, environmentally reckless sources of oil." A spokesperson for Greenpeace said, "[t]he moment has come for BP to move beyond oil. Under Tony Hayward the company went backwards, squeezing the last drops of oil from places like the Gulf of Mexico, the tar sands of Canada and even the fragile Arctic wilderness [...] The age of oil is coming to an end and companies like BP will be left behind unless they begin to adapt now." Statistics show that the United States is by far the largest consumer of oil, using 20,680,000 barrels every day. Its closest rival, China, consumes only 7,578,000 barrels per day.Inkley said incidents in the past showed there can be far-reaching effects. "The Exxon Valdez disaster was not simply one ecosystem earthquake – the aftershocks have continued to this day," he said, citing the 1989 disaster which occurred when an oil tanker ran aground in the Gulf of Alaska."What tremors are still to come in the Gulf? The aftershocks of the Gulf oil disaster will continue to cast a long shadow of uncertainty on the Gulf ecosystem and the livelihoods of those who depend upon it for years to come," pointed out Inkley. Adding, "[a]s I look back on my days in Louisiana's wetlands wading through thick black oil in prime pelican habitat, I continue to wonder: How long must we wait for lawmakers to act to prevent future disasters? How many more lives, livelihoods and animals must be claimed by our addiction to oil?"Today in Dawson Creek, Canada, at 9:15 a.m. local time, police reported that two gas pipeline bombs have now hit the area. As a result of these incidents, local residents are now concerned for their safety. The two explosions were targeting gas pipelines operated by EnCana near the British Columbia – Alberta border. The most recent blast was discovered yesterday, and the reports show that terrorists weren’t involved in this incident. Despite this, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) have stated that they have brought in their terrorism unit to help investigate the incident, as the bombs targeted the province’s infrastructure. The latest explosion site was discovered on Thursday by the pipeline workers, and the fact that the explosion resembles another pipeline blast in the area earlier this month which has caused the residents to be worried. The explosion damaged the pipeline, but it was quickly sealed by the workers as reported by the officials.Investigators are looking to find a link between these two explosions, and have asked the residents not to panic.A team of student engineers from the University of Wollongong (UOW) was announced as the winners of the Solar Decathlon held in China on Sunday. The only Australian team to enter this year’s competition, Team UOW claimed the first prize with their entry the Illawarra Flame. Hosted by the National Energy Commission and the United States Department of Energy,  the Solar Decathlon competition sees teams of university students compete to design, build and operate solar-powered houses. Each submission is judged on architecture, solar application, engineering, communications and market appeal. Team UOW’s project was awarded first place in architecture, solar application and engineering. The team from Wollongong was also awarded second place in communications and market appeal. The Illawarra Flame was the first entry in the history of the competition to be a retrofitted home rather than a new construction. Speaking to ABC News after Team UOW's victory, team member Lloyd Niccol said the aim was "Designing a house that produces more energy than it consumes”. Team SCUT from the South China University of Technology was awarded second place in the competition, their design E-Concave placing second in engineering, third in communications and first in market appeal. Team Sweden form the Chalmers University of Technology placed third in the overall competition, their entry Halo was awarded third in engineering, first in communications and tied second in market appeal.Oil producer Royal Dutch Shell has confirmed that the Gannet Alpha oil platform, located 112 miles east of Aberdeen, Scotland, has suffered a leak from an underwater pipeline between the wellhead and platform.Shell issued a statement regarding the incident, saying that "We can confirm we are managing an oil leak in a flow line that serves the Gannet Alpha platform. [...] We have stemmed the leak significantly and we are taking further measures to isolate it. The subsea well has been shut in, and the flow line is being depressurised." The company has thus far refused to comment on the exact size of the leak, saying that was "not a significant spill."According to a Shell spokesperson, a remote submarine was deployed after a sheen was noticed in the water surrounding the platform; since then, a craft has been brought in to monitor water conditions in the area.The UK's Department of Energy and Climate Change has begun an investigation of the leak, with the Scottish government and Marine Scotland also involved in monitoring the situation.Two Swedish men that were arrested for being suspected of sabotaging the Oskarshamn Nuclear Power Plant in Sweden, have been released from police custody. Both men were arrested on Wednesday after traces of Acetone Peroxide, or TATP, were found on a plastic bag. TATP is also an organic peroxide which is sometimes used in making household cleaning chemicals."Both men have been cooperative but they deny any wrongdoing and waived the right to legal counsel. There was no legal ground to hold them any longer," said Swedish police in a statement to the press. The police also noted that an investigation is ongoing.The unnamed men, in their 40's and 50's, were arrested after security officials at the plant discovered traces of the explosive substance on a plastic bag inside a bag one of the men was carrying. Both men were contractors hired to do welding work in the plant which is owned and operated by Oskarshamnsverkets Kraftgrupp OKG.Security detected the material on Wednesday during what was described by CNN as a "routine" security check. Authorities were called to the plant along with the bomb squad, who sealed off parts of the plant. Police believe it was on one of the man's hands when it rubbed off onto the bag, but no bomb was found on the premises after an extensive search.TATP is "very unstable, very sensitive to both friction and shocks," said Swedish Defense Research Agency expert, Svante Karlsson. A small amount could cause serious damage to someone handling the material which is described as 'Mother of Satan'. Would-be 'shoe bomber' Richard Reid used the substance in an attempt to blow up American Airlines flight 63 from Paris, France to Miami, Florida in 2001. The same substance was also used in the July 2005 bombings in London, England.In New South Wales today, thousands of people joined a protest including 15 Labor Members of Parliament about the State Government's plans to privatise the electricity industry.The MPs included Paul Gibson, Upper House president Peter Primrose, and former MPs Kerry Hickey and Grant McBride.Mr Gibson was reported as saying, "I'm a member of the Australian Labor Party and I'm sticking to the Labor platform and policy."The Government seems to have ignored the positions of the protesters, with Premier Morris Iemma expressing to the first sitting of Parliament for 2008 that his Government's plans would proceed.Related instances in Tamworth occurred, when workers in the Electricity Trade Union walked off the job.On Friday, a new generation solar powered cargo vessel, the Auriga Leader has docked in North America for the first time.  Toyota Motor Corp will employ this car carrier for automobile shipments to Europe and North America from Japan.  The vessel will be operated by the Japanese-based NYK Line.Auriga Leader has 328 solar panels to provide 40 kilowatts, about 10% of the ship's power while sitting idling in dock. This amount of energy is the equivalent to the power used by ten average homes. "This is the first ship to direct the solar power into the ship's main electrical grid. It's helping all of the time, and its helping with everything, like the ship's thrusters and the hydraulics for the steering gear," said Brian Mason, national manager of marine logistics and export for Toyota.The panels are installed on the ship’s car-carrier, and then connected to the onboard 440 volt electrical network.  Nippon Yusen K.K. and Nippon Oil Corp created the Auriga Leader's US$ 1.6 million innovative  green technology solar power grid.  The cargo ship has a length of 200 meters (656 ft) and gross tonnage of 60,000 GT, which is capable of carrying 6,400 automobiles. Richard Steinke, executive director of the Port of Long Beach said of the joint demonstration project, "From our standpoint, it's another positive step," to reduce diesel emissions and the release of greenhouse gas.On July 7 and again on July 23, there were accidental leaks at the Tricastin Nuclear Power Center in France, which  is a collection of sites in four different communes: Saint-Paul-Trois-Châteaux and Pierrelatte in Drôme, and Bollène and Lapalud in Vaucluse.Along with two other minor incidents on July 18, it has prompted the Commission for Independent Research and Information on Radioactivity (Criirad) to order a review of security and safety. Already last week, Environment Minister Jean-Louis Borloo said the ground water near all reactors should be tested and the state of waste storage sites assessed.In the latest incident, a hundred workers were exposed to radiation. They all work for Électricité de France (EDF), which runs the Tricastin facilities with Areva. This marks the largest number of workers to be collectively contaminated in French nuclear history.The leak was at reactor number four, which was shut for refuelling. Workers were exposed to Cobalt 58 dust which escaped while maintenance work was being carried out. Sensors noticed a rise in the level of radiation and the workers were then evacuated."Seventy of them show low traces of radioelements, below one fortieth of the authorized limit," EDF said. A spokesperson later raised the number to 97 people. Criirad warned, however, that the limit was "not the level from which risk begins but the maximum acceptable level.""We have an alarm system which is meant to protect the staff from contamination via the atmosphere,” said Tricastin director Alain Peckre. "If a problem is detected, the alarms go off, our security procedures swing into place and everyone is evacuated from the building."A union representative from Confédération générale du travail (CGT) alleged that EDF was reducing maintenance and increasingly using sub-contractors, putting workers at risk in exchange for profitability."We spend 1.5 billion euros a year on ensuring our plants are in optimum condition," countered an EDF spokesperson. "Safety is our top priority over and above providing electricity to the network. Since our power stations were set up, 80 per cent of maintenance operations on reactors that have been temporarily turned off are carried out by external contractors. They are the most competent to maintain and repair specific parts of the reactor, some of which they have taken part in building."The previous incident, on July 8, involved a 74kg spill of liquid containing unenriched uranium. Thirty cubic metres of water overflowed while a tank was being emptied. Subsequent test showed that contamination may have occurred for years.Local wine growers Coteaux du Tricastin AOC have already become concerned about the negative association with "Tricastin" and have begun considering changing the name of their Appellation d'origine contrôlée (AOC)."It's only a question of image as nuclear and food don't mix very well in consumers' minds," said the AOC's president, Henri Bour, to The Daily Telegraph. Nuclear authorities "didn't understand our move, doubtless not wanting to admit that the nuclear industry's image is perhaps not perfect," he added."Nuclear was progress and we wanted that. We thought people were competent. Now we ask, were there previous incidents we weren't told about?" said local resident Roger Eymard to The Guardian.Autorité de sûreté nucléaire (ASN), a nuclear safety authority, has already criticised Areva for its handling of the first incident. ASN complained of poor communication with authorities and unsatisfactory security measures and operational procedures.The leaks have occurred just as President Nicolas Sarkozy has been promoting the European Pressurized Reactor (EPR) as a solution to rising energy costs and global warming.France has the second largest nuclear power network in the world and generates over 80% of its electricity through nuclear power.An investigation by the United States Coast Guard has concluded the largest oil spill in the history of the petroleum industry was partly the result of a "poor safety culture" aboard the Deepwater Horizon oil rig. The April 2010 explosion aboard the rig, which is located in the Gulf of Mexico, triggered a disaster that led to widespread environmental damage.The report squarely blames Transocean, which managed the Deepwater Horizon, for being largely responsible for the explosion that claimed eleven lives. The rig had "serious safety management system failures and a poor safety culture," the report says. Transocean fiercely rejected allegations that crews aboard the rig were badly trained and equipment was poorly maintained.A slapdash safety environment on Deepwater Horizon would mean equipment was not mended or replaced if it meant losing valuable hours of drilling, the Coast Guard found. Electrical equipment believed to have caused a spark that ignited flammable gas was described as being in "bad condition" and "seriously corroded." The report found that other deficiencies—improperly assembled gas detectors and emergency equipment; audible alarms switched off because of nuisance false warnings; complacency with fire drills; and poor preparation for dealing with a well blowout—all contributed to the disaster.Transocean attacked the report's conclusions and suggested the Coast Guard may have played a role in the disaster. A spokesperson for the company said Deepwater Horizon had been inspected by Coast Guard officials only months before the explosion, officials who said it complied with safety standards. "We strongly disagree with—and documentary evidence in the Coast Guard's possession refutes—key findings in this report," the company said.This week, Deepwater Horizon owner BP launched legal action against Transocean. It also filed a lawsuit against Halliburton, the company that cemented the well, and Cameron, which manufactured the rig's failed blowout preventer. BP is reportedly seeking to claim US$40 billion in damages, and alleges it has taken a massive financial hit and loss of reputation. In a statement, BP said it filed the lawsuits "to ensure that all parties ... are appropriately held accountable for their roles in contributing to the Deepwater Horizon accident".In the lawsuit against Transocean, BP claims the company missed signs that a disaster was imminent and that it "materially breached its contractual duties in its actions and inactions leading to the loss of well control, the explosion and the loss of life and injuries onboard the Deepwater Horizon, as well as the resulting oil spill." Halliburton, BP alleges, was riddled with "improper conduct, errors and omissions, including fraud and concealment" which led to the disaster, and continues to refuse to cooperate with investigators. Transocean dismissed the lawsuit as "desperate" and "unconscionable," and announced a countersuit against BP, which it claims was responsible for the disaster "through a series of cost-saving decisions that increased risk, in some cases severely." Halliburton and Cameron, which is also countersuing, announced they would defend themselves against BP's allegations.U.S. President Barack Obama marked the anniversary of the explosion by conceding that although "progress" has been made to ensure the safety of deep water drilling rigs, "the job isn't done." Obama's comments came less than a week after leading experts raised serious questions over the security of deep water drilling as the U.S. government approves more exploration without improving safety measures. Charles Perrow, a professor at Yale University, said the oil industry "is ill prepared at the least" to deal with another oil spill, despite repeated assurances from the industry and the government, which insists lessons have been learned from the Deepwater Horizon disaster. "I have seen no evidence that they have marshaled containment efforts that are sufficient to deal with another major spill," he said. "Even if everybody tries very hard, there is going to be an accident caused by cost-cutting and pressure on workers. These are moneymaking machines and they make money by pushing things to the limit."However, politicians have insisted they are doing all they can to help clean the coast of oil. "Cleanup efforts in some places are still ongoing, and the full scale of the damage done to our state has yet to be calculated, but the good news is that most all of our fishing waters are back open again," said Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal at a press conference. "All of us here today want the entire nation to get the message that Louisiana is making another historic comeback."Gulf Coast residents, activists and relatives of the crewmen who were killed in the explosion paused this week for the anniversary of the oil spill's beginning. A helicopter took the victims' families from New Orleans to over the site where the rig stood, where it circled. "It was just a little emotional, seeing where they were," said one victim's mother. Remembrance services and candlelight vigils were held in the Gulf Coast region, which continues to suffer from the fallout of the catastrophe. The families have expressed anger at BP, who they say is being unfair and slow in paying out compensation from a $20 billion fund. The area is still heavily affected by the disaster and reconstruction of the seafood industry that once thrived is slow. While tourists are beginning to return to the region, many are angry at BP and the Obama administration over how they handled the disaster. All the fishing waters in the area have now opened again, but people who live in the area remain dissatisfied. "I don't see any daylight at the end of this tunnel," one fisherwoman said. "I don't see any hope at all. We thought we'd see hope after a year, but there's nothing."British drivers have been urged not to panic buy fuel because of the 4-day walkout by delivery drivers working for companies delivering to Shell petrol stations.  The 600 workers have walked out over pay disagreements, wanting an increase to their current pay of £36,500, however their union Unite turned down a last-minute offer of £41,500.Hoyer UK, which employs tanker drivers for Shell, said, "We extended our offer to the very limits that our business could sustain." However Unite said in a press release that, "this dispute could have been resolved if Shell had advanced a fraction of the billions of pounds in profit they make every month", continuing to say, "one of the world's richest companies is prepared to play Pontius Pilate and see the British public inconvenienced rather than settle this dispute for a sum smaller than the chairman's pay increase last year"Shell admitted that the walkout could leave some of its 1,000 forecourts without fuel, but the UK Petrol Industry Association, which represent oil refiners, said that forecourts would have around 4 days of supply, maintaining usual stocking levels.  Shell also commented that the strike impact would be "significant", as the company runs around 1 in 10 of all petrol stations in the UK.  British Business Secretary, John Hutton, said that "the strike, which will have a disproportionate effect on people in Britain, cannot be justified," and urged both sides to resume negotiations in order to settle the dispute.  "We have been working closely with industry to put in place detailed contingency plans to reduce as far as possible the disruption for the driving public," he added.  Unite's press release also confirms that "provision has been made for fire, police and the emergency services."Tanker drivers on strike have set up picket lines at many of Shell's UK refineries, including those in Stanlow, Avonmouth, Plymouth, Pembroke, Cardiff, Kingsbury, Basildon, Grangemouth, Aberdeen, Inverness, Jarrow and Luton Airport.Six energy companies in the United Kingdom have announced that it is likely that the prices for energy bills could increase over the course of 2010. The companies, which are nicknamed the "big six" in the United Kingdom, did not pass on information that there would be price cuts in energy bills despite increasing profits. However, the companies have in fact sent a message in response saying that the prices of bills may even increase over the course of the next year. Energy company watchdog the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem) have estimated that energy companies will make gross margins of £170 ($276) per dual fual customer over the course of the next twelve months, due to the recent fall in wholesale energy costs.Ofgem have said: "Our analysis shows that based on an 18-month hedging strategy and assuming that retail prices remain unchanged, projected gross margin is set to increase by around £80 for dual fuel customers over the next six months."The "big six" energy companies in the United Kingdom are British Gas, E-on, Npower, Scottish and Southern Energy, Scottish Power, and EDF Energy.  British Gas stated: "Prices [are] likely to remain at historically high levels, and in fact likely to increase as non-commodity costs rise ever upwards."EDF Energy said: "[We] would of course be prepared to reduce tariffs if market conditions allowed." Scottish Power stated: "There are no immediate signals that would indicate a fall in retail prices for this winter, and risks of an increase next year." Scottish & Southern Energy commented:  "With forward annual wholesale prices significantly higher, and with upward pressures in terms of distribution, environmental and social costs, seeking to avoid an increase between now and the end of 2010 is an important goal."Meanwhile, a study by Consumer Focus in early September 2009 suggested that "energy companies were overcharging customers by £100 ($162) every year. A spokesperson for Ofgem said that there was no evidence of any cartel in operation, or evidence of profiteering. The spokesperson commented: "It is up to the companies themselves to decide whether to cut their bills. Consumer Focus data suggests that Scottish Power has increased dual fuel prices by the most since 2003 - up 148% - while decreasing prices by 0.6% so far this year. RWE's Npower has increased tariffs by 132% since 2003, but has reduced bills by 2.7% in 2009."A University of Calgary research team developed a new method for extracting carbon dioxide (CO2) directly from the air — a fundamental shift in carbon capture technology enabling capture of the most common greenhouse gas from so-called diffuse sources like aircraft, trucks and automobiles that represent half of the greenhouse gases emitted globally.Professor David Keith, Director of University of Calgary's (UofC) Institute for Sustainable Energy, Environment and Economy (ISEEE) and a team of researchers from UofC's Energy and Environmental Systems Group built and operated a prototype system this summer producing results that compared favourably with commercial carbon capture systems. Two 'provisional' patents have been filed on the technology but Keith warns there are still "many pitfalls along the path to commercialization."Using a process adapted from the pulp-and-paper industry that halves the cost of CO2 air capture in their custom-built tower, Professor Keith and his team captured the equivalent of about 20 tonnes per year of CO2 (approximately equal to the yearly output of one person in North America) directly from the air with less than 100 kilowatt-hours of electricity per tonne of carbon dioxide on a single square metre of scrubbing material."This means that if you used electricity from a coal-fired power plant, for every unit of electricity you used to operate the capture machine, you'd be capturing 10 times as much CO2 as the power plant emitted making that much electricity," explains Professor Keith.A report co-authored by Keith in the American Chemical Society's journal Environmental Science & Technology  explains "nearly all current research on carbon capture and storage (CCS) focuses on capturing CO2 from large, stationary sources such as power plants. Such plans usually entail separating CO2 from flue gas, compressing it, and transporting it via pipeline to be [stored] underground."Using CO2 air capture technology, "a company could, in principle, contract with an oil sands plant near Fort McMurray to remove CO2 from the air and could build its air capture plant wherever it's cheapest — China, for example — and the same amount of CO2 would be removed," says Professor Keith in a UofC press release. "While it's important to get started doing things we know how to do, like wind power, nuclear power, and 'regular' carbon capture and storage," Professor Keith continues, "it's also vital to start thinking about radical new ideas and approaches to solving this problem."ISEEE's Executive Director David Layzell points out that "energy-efficient and cost-effective air capture could play a valuable role in complementing other approaches for reducing emissions from the transportation sector, such as biofuels or electric vehicles."On Friday, the United States House of Representatives passed House Resolution 2998, better known as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, following days of debate. The final vote was 219–212, with only 8 Republicans voting for the legislation, and 44 Democrats voting against it. The resolution addresses the "greenhouse effect," and calls for a 17% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, and an 83% reduction by 2050. In addition, the legislation will establish new requirements for utilities, and various incentives for "going green."The resolution was sponsored by Representative Henry Waxman of California, and Representative Edward Markey of Massachusetts. At 3:09 a.m. (EDT) on Friday morning, a 341 page amendment was added to the resolution. In an attempted filibuster, House Minority Leader John Boehner read the majority of the added amendment, and stated that "...when you file a 300-page amendment at 3:09 a.m., the American people have a right to know what's in this bill." Reactions to the legislation have been mixed, with opponents and advocates speaking out. The President of the Union of Concerned Scientists, Kevin Knobloch, said that the Union was "thrilled that Congress has finally caught up with science and the American people in recognizing the need to switch on clean energy." A report by the The Heritage Foundation, a conservative think tank, stated that the legislation would "damage the economy and hobble growth."Most House Republicans opposed the bill for going too far in its regulation, with GOP chairman Mike Pence saying that "raising the cost of energy is a bad idea in prosperous times." Democrat Dennis Kucinich, on the other hand, opposed the bill for not going far enough, calling it an "illusion" that "locks us into a framework that will fail." Kucinich pointed out that the bill gives subsidies to coal, which is not a clean source of fuel, and includes greenhouse gas emitters such as trash incinerators under its definition of "renewable energy."The head of the United States National Nuclear Security Administration, Linton Brooks, has been forced to resign due to security issues. United States Secretary of Energy, Samuel Bodman asked for Brooks' resignation because of issues including "serious security breaches" in several laboratories, including the Los Alamos National Laboratory.In a statement issued by Bodman, issues such as lab management were brought up. "The deputy secretary and I repeatedly have stressed to NNSA and laboratory management the importance of these issues being addressed, rectified and prevented in the future. While I believe that the current NNSA management has done its best to address these concerns, I do not believe that progress in correcting these issues has been adequate."Brooks issued a statement to President Bush, and NNSA (National Nuclear Security Administration) employees, saying that he would resign "shortly".The United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) approved Thursday, in a four to one vote, two new nuclear reactors at Southern Company's Plant Vogtle in Burke County, Georgia. This is the first time a new reactor has been approved since 1978, the year before the Three Mile Island accident. The only vote against the plant came from NRC chairman Gregory Jaczko. In a statement, he said "Right now we know there are things that need to be fixed, things that need to be changed, or at least things that need to be analyzed. For us to issue this license, and say 'we’ll deal with them later,' to me is kind of putting the cart before the horse."The CEO of Southern Company, Thomas Fanning, said the approval was a "monumental accomplishment." In a conference call after the approval, he told reporters, "Anything that we learn from Fukushima, I assure you we will bring to bear", referring to the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster. In an interview, he also said regulatory oversight "has been thorough, it has been thoughtful and it is complete." Environmental groups may bring a case to federal court in order to stop the completion of the new reactors. Wikinews contacted two environmental organizations, Greenpeace and the Union of Concerned Scientists. Greenpeace recommended a post about the approval on their staff blog, which said "Rather than expand the use of this dangerous and stupidly expensive technology, our government should stop subsidizing nuclear corporations’ bad investments and instead develop plans to phase out nuclear power and better secure the deadly radioactive wastes." The Union of Concerned Scientists has yet to comment.The new units are to be Westinghouse Electric AP1000 reactors. They would each have a net generating capacity of 1117MW. The construction cost is expected to be roughly USD14 billion (EUR10.6b, JPY1.1 trillion), and the reactors may be operational by 2017.The United States Department of the Interior today listed the polar bear as a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act (ESA), due to the melting of Arctic sea ice that is the bears' habitat. The announcement of the listing was made by Interior Secretary Dirk Kempthorne. In making the announcement, Kempthorne said he wishes to prevent further losses of polar bears, but he warned against using the Endangered Species Act to "regulate greenhouse gas emissions from automobiles, power plants, and other sources", which he called "a wholly inappropriate use of the ESA law."Kempthorne says the Interior Department will apply separate rules from the Marine Mammal Protection Act to the polar bear, which will permit flexibility in economic development as long as the survival of the species is not adversely affected. Kempthorne said the policies "will ensure the protection of the bear while allowing us to continue to develop our natural resources in the Arctic region in an environmentally sound way."The Government of Nunavut fears the decision could lead to a ban on the importation of polar bear hides into the United States. As a result the Nunavut economy could suffer. The polar bear hunt generates $1.5 million (US) per year in revenue.Carl Pope, director of the environmentalist Sierra Club, criticized the Interior Department's decision, saying it was "riddled with loopholes, caveats and backhanded language that could actually undermine protections for the polar bear and other species".The government was forced to make a decision regarding the polar bear by May 15, after environmental groups sued the George W. Bush administration for failing to meet a January 9 deadline. The administration was accused of postponing the decision as a way to allow for more Alaskan oil and gas drilling.The purpose of the Endangered Species Act is to protect species that may be in danger of extinction as a result of human action. It aims to achieve this by regulating federal activity in the habitat of threatened species. Commercial activity is not directly regulated, but companies must receive a permit for development in designated habitats.The polar bear is the first animal to be protected under the Endangered Species Act due to the threat that global warming poses to the bears' Arctic habitat. Some environmental groups say they could use the designation to protest the construction of coal power plants located thousands of miles away from the Arctic, which they blame for contributing to greenhouse gases and global warming.However, Barton H. Thompson Jr., a law professor at Stanford University, says that such lawsuits would be difficult to win. "Interior has a reasonable case here that the connection [between greenhouse gas emmissions and polar bears] is just too far removed," he says. If sea ice continues to melt, two-thirds of the polar bear population could be gone by 2050, according to studies released by the United States Geological Survey last September. Also, Louis Fortier of the Canadian research group ArcticNet believes the Arctic Ocean could be ice-free in the summers by 2010.But M. Reed Hopper of the Pacific Legal Foundation, a property-rights group, disputes the notion that the polar bear is severely threatened. He says the government used "speculative computer modeling" to make its decision, and he plans to sue the Interior Department. "Never before has a thriving species been listed under the Environmental Species Act, nor should it be," he said.This Wednesday, the United States Department of Commerce issued a ruling to set tariffs on Chinese-made solar panels ranging from 18% to 250% for different solar panels manufacturers. China protested against the new tariffs on Thursday claiming that they make export of solar panels to the USA unprofitable.A US-German company SolarWorld and a group of other companies complained and initiated the tariffs change. Some manufacturers claimed China's subsidies are an unfair advantage for the Chinese solar panel manufacturers, and challenged whether China's economy is a free market.Wang Shuai, a spokesman for the Yingli solar energy company, commented that 30% tariffs are unprofitable. He claimed that in the solar industry, gross profit margins are about 10 percent. "A tax rate of 30 percent is the same as 200 percent. Both of them mean the door is closed for exporting to the United States. No one does business to lose money."The tariffs would not go into effect until the International Trade Commission confirms the Chinese pricing hurts the U.S. solar industry.The tariffs occur as the Chinese solar panel manufacturers have reported losses this year of hundreds of millions of dollars, according to AP.Large parts of Victoria were hit with power outages after bushfires near Benalla knocked out power transmission lines connecting the state to the national electricity grid at approximately 4:00 p.m. local time. Melbourne, Geelong, Ballarat and Bendigo were all affected. Paul Price from the national electricity grid supervisor NEMMCO said that today set an all-time record for electricity demand.Emma Daniell, from the power supplier SP AusNet said the result of the fires "prompted an automatic load reduction system to kick in, reducing power supply to customers". These rolling blackouts are occurring across the surrounding suburbs lasting one hour a time. The blackout affected about 200,000 homes, 1,200 traffic lights and "mobile base stations".  Trains and trams were reduced to a crawl, with buses replacing trains between Essendon and Kensington railway stations, and on the Werribee loop. Geelong was the region worst affected, with the entire city losing power from 4 p.m.  Power was restored to the central business district area shortly after 5 p.m., however many parts of the city were not restored until 8 p.m.The Australian Open tennis tournament was not affected.Victoria, Australia —  Crime statistics released on Monday by Victoria Police show that Victoria is seeing an increase in fuel theft, much like Sydney has recently experienced.In the past year, petrol drive-off offences have increased by 41.6%, from 5,038 in 2004-05 to 7,135 in 2005-06. There has also been a large increase in number plate thefts, 31.9% in the past year. These thefts allow concealment of vehicle registration numbers during the commission of drive-off offenses.Police Chief Commissioner, Christine Nixon, has said that new initiatives are being introduced to control the growing problem. "In particular we have recently introduced the 'safe plates' initiative which encourages the use of one-way screws on number plates", she said. The slotted head of the screw allows an installer to turn the screw tighter for fastening the license plate in place, but the screw cannot be backed out with a screwdriver because the slot is shorn off in the direction needed to loosen the screw.Note: All dollar figures are in AU$ unless otherwise stated.Victorian Premier Steve Bracks and federal Treasurer Peter Costello unveiled the project to build world's largest solar plant on October 25.The $420 million plant will sit on 900 ha of land and produce 154 megawatts. It will use mirrored panels to concentrate light.It is expected to reach full capacity in 2013.The Victorian Government will contribute $50 million to the plant. The Federal government will contribute $75 million out of its $500 million low emissions technology demonstration fund (LETDF).LETDF is also contibuting $50 million towards a $360 million pilot for a brown coal drying and a post-combustion carbon dioxide capture and storage project at the International Powers' Hazelwood facility in Gippsland.On Wednesday, automobile company Volvo announced all of its cars to be released in 2019 onwards are to use some form of battery-powered engine, leaving conventional petrol-only vehicles altogether. The decision comes after Volvo announced in May their intent to cease production of diesel vehicles.The chief executive of Volvo Cars, Håkan Samuelsson, said, "People increasingly demand electrified cars". Volvo aims to release five new electric vehicle models between 2019 and 2021. While little has yet been revealed about them, the company has stated two of them are to be high-performance electric vehicles, branded as Polestars.Other car models from 2019 may be plug-in hybrid or 48-volt "mild hybrid" systems. Audi and Mercedes-Benz are also releasing mild hybrid cars for the European market."This announcement marks the end of the solely combustion engine-powered car. Volvo Cars has stated that it plans to have sold a total of 1m electrified cars by 2025. When we said it we meant it. This is how we are going to do it," Samuelsson said. Volvo is owned by Chinese automotive giant Geely, and China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has said by 2025 they want new vehicle sales to be 20 percent "new energy vehicles".Western Australian Premier Alan Carpenter made a two-minute broadcast on all televisions and radio stations over the gas crisis. The crisis began after a major fire at the Vanarus Island refinery operated by Apache Corporation reduced the available natural gas by 30%.During the broadcast which was recorded earlier in the day Premier Carpenter said, "this is a serious situation which affects us all.""While the state government has the power to guarantee gas supplies to essential services and households, some industries and businesses have been hit hard.""A number of them are being forced to scale back operations and others have temporarily closed."The Western Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry predicts that up to 15% of companies will be forced into temporary shut down. A representative from the Property Council of WA, which represents commercial property owners, has said that "we are going to have to get used to cold offices and dimly lit shopping centres"Western Power today released figures showing that the power consumption has reduced since the crisis started. They said that the daily usage reduction of 40-50 megawatts was a moderate saving, that consumers could do much more.A blast at the Apache Energy plant on Varanus Island on June 3, 2008 cut off one-third of Western Australia's (WA) gas supply, Apache Energy says that it could take up to two months before the supply from Varanus Island gas plant will be partially resumed.The gas crisis in Western Australia is set to worsen this week, "I think the most difficult times are ahead of us. I think this week will be very difficult and I think the following week will be very difficult, and I mean very difficult", The WA Premier Alan Carpenter said.Western Australian Master Builders Association (MBA) yesterday demanded the Carpenter Government call an emergency cabinet meeting to avoid a "state of emergency" over the energy crisis gripping WA. A MBA spokesperson said that hundreds of workers have already been stood down, many without pay, and that the cost of building material is soaring.The Minister for Energy, Fran Logan has admitted that the gas shortage caused by Tuesday's fire is damaging the economy as mining, manufacturing and construction industries wind back operations. Western Australia's two major brick producing companies have shut operations and Wesbeam's $A100 million Neerabup pine production facility has been closed, their 130 employees have been stood down.Wesbeam chief executive James Malone said, "It's an industrial tsunami in my view. It's a little ripple that has very quickly had a huge multiplying effect on the whole community".Michael McLean, Master Building Association director said "It's a worst-nightmare scenario, and not one we could have imagined in our wildest dreams,"  building supplies are expected to start running out by the middle of next week. Premier Carpenter has announced a meeting of ministers and industry representatives to take place on Sunday to discuss solutions to the growing crisis. Tim Wall, managing director of Apache Corporation has said Apache is conducting a worldwide search for the parts need to repair the pipeline.Major mining companies and Apache partners BHP Billiton and Rio Tinto have already reported they are suffering with the loss of gas supply; the Chamber of Minerals and Energy has talked down the effect saying that they don't expect the crisis to take the heat off the booming mining industry.Opposition leader Troy Buswell has describe the performance of Fran Logan as "absolutely dismal" noting that Mr Logan had experienced a similar incident in January this year, when a fire at Woodsides Karratha operations had a similar effect.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.