According to psychologists in Leipzig, Germany, apes and some birds are able to plan their actions ahead of time.Psychologists Nicholas Mulcahy and Josep Call at Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology say that apes are able to save tools to use at a later time, that will assist them in retrieving food. The results of the testing are "groundbreaking" and is "a starting point from which we can begin to reconstruct the evolution of the human mind. Apes and jays can also anticipate future needs by remembering past events, contradicting the notion that such cognitive behavior only emerged in hominids," said Thomas Suddendorf, a psychologist at the University of Queensland Brisbane, Australia.One aspect of the study is that "our extraordinary abilities of planning for the future did not evolve entirely de novo. Planning for future needs is not uniquely human," added Suddendorf.An experiment was performed using bonobos and orangutans. The psychologists placed the apes alone in a room for five minutes. Each of them had a choice of two tools that would allow them to retrieve food and six that would not. The apes were allowed to look at and observe the tools; however, they were not allowed to handle them. The apes were then taken to a room next door, allowed to take whatever tools they chose, and left alone in the room for at least one hour, while a researcher removed all other tools from the first room. The apes then returned to the first room (where the food was), but the food was not accessible unless they had the right tool to retrieve it. After repeating the same test several times with each ape, researchers began to see that most apes would begin to use the right tool for the job. Researchers also received similar results even when the apes were left alone in a room overnight where they would sleep.To make sure that the apes were not associating the tools with the food, they removed the food from the room, but would still give it to the apes if they used the right tool to retrieve it. After this change, most of them did not bring the proper tools, which researchers say confirm that the retrieval is a way of planning for the job.In experiments using scrub jays (found mostly in the western United States), at the University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom, psychologists have shown that the birds, who usually hide their food to eat later, will hide it again if an enemy bird saw them do it the first time, unless the bird is dominant. The subordinate jay could however, fight the other for the food."These results suggest scrub jays remember who observed them make specific caches," said Joanna Dally who was involved in the study with the scrub jays."Together with recent evidence from scrub jays, our results suggest that future planning is not a uniquely human ability, thus contradicting the notion that it emerged in hominids only with the past 2.5 to 1.6 million years," said Mulcahy and Call in the study.Researchers from Australia's University of New South Wales (UNSW) and the United Kingdom's University of York and University of Aberdeen have measured face matching aptitude of 49 Australian passport-issuing officers and compared it against a control group of  38 students from UNSW. In the test given to both groups, both had a roughly 20% error rate. The study "Passport Officers' Errors in Face Matching" was published in PLOS ONE this Monday.Previous psychological research has shown difficulty of deciding if two photographs are of the same stranger or of two different unfamiliar people. As coauthoring psychologist Dr David White says, "Despite this, photo-ID is still widely used in security settings. Whenever we cross a border, apply for a passport or access secure premises, our appearance is checked against a photograph".In the person-to-photo test, 30 officers —with mean age 48.0, 21 of them female— in Sydney Passport Office, during a normal working day, had to compare photograph (presented for up to ten seconds) to the person present. 34 students, 17 of each gender, were recruited as 'applicants' for the identification task. The person-to-photo test could not be given to a control group because it was not possible to bring back the 'applicants' to repeat the test.ID cards were generated, genuine and 'fraudulent', for each 'applicant'. Photographs of the 'applicants' were just a few days old. Each applicant's 'fraudulent' photo was subjectively chosen for greatest similarity to their genuine photo.The 'applicant' did not know whether the ID they presented was genuine or 'fraudulent', to avoid giving any cues to the passport officers. The passport offers rejected 6% of the genuine photos and accepted 14% of the 'fraudulent' ones, for 10% wrong decisions overall.As coauthor Rob Jenkins, a psychologist at the University of York, said: "This level of human error in Australian passport office staff really is quite striking, and it would be reasonable to expect a similar level of performance at UK passport control. [...] At Heathrow Airport alone, millions of people attempt to enter the UK every year. At this scale, an error rate of 15 per cent would correspond to the admittance of several thousand travellers bearing fake passports".One week later, 30 officers in Sydney Passport Office took the short version of Glasgow Face Matching Test (GFMT); 28 were participants from the person-to-photo test, and two were replacements for officers from the earlier test who were absent from work the day of the second test. GFMT performance predicted performance on the person-to-photo test for mismatches, but not for matches.  The researchers suggested this could be explained by an upper limit on how accurate person-to-photo match trials can be.The face matching accuracy was found to be independent of experience and training. As Dr David White says, "passport officers did not perform better, despite their experience and training. They made a large number of errors, just like the untrained university students we tested".Two years later, the photo-to-photo test was conducted, with images supplied by 21 'applicants' from the person-to-photo test. 27 passport officers —mean age 45.5, 10 of them participants from the person-to-photo test, 22 of them female— as well as 38 volunteers —mean age 18.9, 26 of them female— compared photos taken recently to photos either from two years earlier or from official identification documents. All variations on the trials taken together produced 84 trials, ordered randomly. The testing was again done at the Sydney Passport Office, without time restriction, to encourage accurate response.A possible solution of the problem is recruitment of staff with high face-matching accuracy, as Dr David White notes: "But we observed very large individual differences. Some passport officers were 100 per cent accurate. This suggests security could be significantly improved by using aptitude tests to select staff for jobs involving photo-ID checks. Because of this study, the Australian Passport Office now sets face-matching tests when recruiting staff and when selecting facial comparison experts".Match accuracy tested lower with official identification photos than with two-year-old photos taken by researchers; average error was 29.1%, with volunteers especially inaccurate on the official identification matches. Mismatch average error was 10.6%. Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade has stated passport photo specifications comply fully with International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) standards.Another solution Dr David White mentioned is using multiple photographs: "One of the more recent papers we've released shows that if you have multiple images — not just a single snapshot — there are quite large gains in performance".As coauthor Professor Mike Burton of the University of Aberdeen says: "There is a great emphasis on a passport image to fit all purposes but people often comment on the fact that their passport photo looks nothing like them [...] It seems strange that we expect a single passport shot to encompass a person and allow us to consistently recognise them. Could there in fact be an argument for our passports to contain a multitude of images, taken at different angles, in different lighting and formats?"The research is supported by the Australian Passport Office within Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade and also funded by the Australian Research Council.You may not know Joseph Merlino, but he knows about you and what makes you function.  He knows what turns you on and he knows whether it is a problem for you.  Merlino, who is the psychiatry adviser to the New York Daily News, is one of the more accomplished psychiatrists in his field and he is the Senior Editor of the forthcoming book, Freud at 150: 21st Century Essays on a Man of Genius.  The battle over interpreting Freud's legacy still rages, a testament to the father of psychoanalysis and his continuing impact today.  On the eve of the book's publication, Wikinews reporter David Shankbone went to the Upper East Side of Manhattan to discuss the past and future of Freud and psychoanalysis with Dr. Merlino, one of the preeminent modern psychoanalysts.  Shankbone took the opportunity to ask about what insanity is, discuss aberrant urges, reflect upon sadomasochism ("I'm not considered an expert in that field," laughed Dr. Merlino),  and the hegemony of heterosexuality.  Dr. Merlino posits that absent structural, biochemical or physiological defects, insanity and pathology are relative and in flux with the changing culture of which you are a part.  So it is possible to be sane and insane all in one day if, for instance, you are gay and fly from the United Kingdom to Saudi Arabia.Human brains cannot manage more than 150 friendships – even with the advent of social networking websites like Facebook, Bebo and Myspace.  This is the conclusion of Robin Dunbar, Professor of Evolutionary Anthropology at the University of Oxford. Dunbar originally carried out research in this area in the 1990s, looking at social groups from modern offices back to ancient villages. He found that the neocortex in the brain, used for thinking and language, cannot cope with more than 150 friends – a conclusion known as "Dunbar's number". Groups of people tend to be limited to about 150 as, beyond that, social cohesion suffers. Revisiting the topic, Dunbar's view is that this number has not increased even with online methods of keeping in touch with friends, like Facebook.Dunbar compared the online activity of those with thousands of internet friends and those with hundreds, before concluding that there was no appreciable difference in their levels of activity.  He defined a friend as someone that the individual cared about and made contact with at least yearly. "The interesting thing is that you can have 1,500 friends but when you actually look at traffic on sites, you see people maintain the same inner circle of around 150 people that we observe in the real world. [...] People obviously like the kudos of having hundreds of friends but the reality is that they’re unlikely to be bigger than anyone else’s", he observed. Another conclusion of his study was that women were better at keeping friendships going on Facebook than men – "girls are much better at maintaining relationships just by talking to each other. Boys need to do physical stuff together". The full results of his study are due to be published later in 2010.Dunbar, 52, has been an Oxford professor since 2007, having previously been Professor of Evolutionary Psychology at the University of Liverpool.  He is a Fellow of the British Academy and a fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford.The Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science was recently approved as a charitable foundation in the United States. Started by biologist Richard Dawkins in April 2006, the IRS has approved the foundation's effective date of the tax-exemption as 20 April 2006. As a result, the donors who gave money before the 2007 IRS decision can deduct their donations when they file taxes in 2008. Dawkins started the foundation to combat pseudoscience and attacks on the Enlightenment through educating the British and American publics via research, humanitarian efforts, and lectures. It intends to finance research into the psychology of belief and religion, finance scientific education programs and materials, and publicize and support secular charitable organizations. In addition, the foundation has helped sponsor the "Out Campaign," which encourages atheists to come "out of the closet."An international study, Awareness during Resuscitation experiment (Aware), will examine  near-death experiences involving 1,500  cardiac arrest survivors in about 25 centers in the US and Britain. The study is coordinated by the Human Consciousness Project at the  University of Southampton, which specializes in studying the  human brain,  consciousness and  death.The research, expected to take three years, will analyze whether people with no heartbeat or brain activity can have "out of body" experiences. Some people report seeing a tunnel or bright light, recall looking down from the ceiling at medical staff, hearing voices telling them to return to the living world and others feel a tremendous sense of peace and well-being. During the study, doctors will use technology to study the brain and consciousness during cardiac arrest. To test whether such experiences involve the mind leaving the body, pictures will be placed around the areas of the hospital where heart attacks occur most frequently, such as accident and emergency and intensive care units. The pictures will only be visible from above. If patients are able to describe these pictures, project leaders argue that scientists will have to rethink how they understand the mind."There could be great benefits from this research for the future," said Penny Satori, an Intensive care nurse, who leads the project at Morriston Hospital. "As well as helping surviving patients psychologically after a trauma, it can give peace of mind to grieving families.Professor Michael Siegel of Boston University, co-author of a new study published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine on January 17, declared household gun ownership rates within the United States to be "the strongest single predictor of a state's youth suicide rate". Wikinews interviewed Siegel to learn more.Siegel and colleagues including predoctoral fellow Anita Knopov, the lead author, compared data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from 2004, when the body last surveyed US gun owners, to corresponding information on suicides by 10–19 year olds from 2005 through 2015. The Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System was used to find data on such variables as education, depression, and suicidal planning and ideation.The study reports "For each 10 percentage-point increase in household gun ownership, the youth suicide rate increased by 26.9 percent". The ten states with highest youth suicide rates had household gun ownership rates above 50%; the ten with the lowest youth suicide rates had household gun ownership around 20%. The data were, the study says, more closely correlated than youth suicide attempts were to actual suicides.The study notes the National Violent Injury Statistic System indicates 82% of youth suicides involving a gun used one from the victim's own household in 2016. Most variables appeared uncorrelated, with only suicide attempts and proportion of Native American youth showing correlation. The team wrote that guns "are 2.6 times more lethal than any other means of suicide; thus, access to firearms might be expected to contribute to a higher incidence of suicide." The highest rate noted by the team was in Alaska, with fifteen youth suicides per 100,000 individuals. New Jersey had the lowest rate, which was three per 100,000 people. There were states that did not match the overall trend: Alabama and Mississippi had low youth suicide rates of around 4.5 per 100,000 people but high household gun ownership rates of over 50%. Each state has a large proportion of African-American residents; they were found statistically less likely to commit suicide and to own guns.Siegel agreed to answer some questions for Wikinews‍'s correspondent.((Wikinews))  Thank you for taking the time to speak with us. Would you mind telling us a little about yourself, your background, and what led you to look into this subject?Michael Siegel I am a professor in the Department of Community Health Sciences at the Boston University School of Public Health. My research has focused on the areas of tobacco, alcohol, and firearms. We decided to look at this subject because although there have been some studies that reported an association between household gun ownership and youth suicide rates, one could argue that the reason for this association is that gun households differ systematically from non-gun households in that they are more likely to have youth with depression and therefore youth who are more likely to attempt suicide. Our study was designed to control for these factors in order to determine whether differences in suicide attempt rates explain the observed association between household gun ownership and youth suicide rates.((WN))  Given that some key data is from 2004, how well do you think your results can be applied to the situation today?MS Although we used gun ownership data from 2004 for the primary analysis, we repeated the analysis using a household gun ownership proxy averaged over the years 2005–2015, and the results were similar. Thus, we do not believe that there is any reason to think that the results do not apply to the situation today.((WN))  To what extent do the results of this study match up to your expectations?MS We did not actually have a pre-conceived idea of whether or not we would find an association after controlling for the proportion of youth who were depressed, had made a suicide plan, or had attempted suicide. We were surprised, however, to find that the percentage of households with a gun was a stronger predictor of the youth suicide rate than the percentage of youth who made a suicide attempt.((WN))  What influence would you like to see these results having on policymakers?MS The results suggest that decreasing the access of youth to firearms may lower youth suicide rates. Thus, our findings support efforts to encourage gun owners to store their guns in a manner that prevents youth from accessing them. Policy makers should consider enacting policies that reduce youth access to improperly stored firearms.((WN))  If you had access to more recent data than that from 2004, what would you hypothesize the difference might be, if any?MS We don't hypothesize that there would be any substantial difference because when we used the proxy data on gun ownership from 2005–2015, we did not find any major difference in the results. ((WN))  Did you notice any significant trends in the data year-by-year, and, if so, what were they and what do you think might account for them?MS In this article, we did not examine trends by year. The study was cross-sectional and combined (averaged) data from 2005 through 2015. Thus, we are not able in this study to examine trends in suicide rates over time.((WN))  You noted suicide attempts by youth were not as accurate a prediction method for youth suicide rates as the household gun ownership rates were. Why do you think that might be?MS Our hypothesis is that the most important predictor of the youth suicide rate in a state is the extent to which youth in that state have access to the most lethal means (i.e., firearms). Having a high level of access to firearms, which is the most lethal means for suicide, apparently has a far greater impact on suicide rates and can negate the fact that a state has a low rate of youth suicide attempts (and vice versa).((WN))  Moving forward from this study, what are the next steps you have planned to research this further?MS The next step of this research is to examine whether there are particular state firearm laws that impact rates of youth suicide at the state level.In findings published Tuesday in The Lancet Infectious Diseases, researchers in the United Kingdom established that poor hygiene by humans, specifically insufficient hand washing after defecation, is especially responsible for the spread of antibiotic-resistant — superbug — strains of Escerichia coli (E. coli) bacteria."We wanted to find out how these superbugs are spread — and whether there is a cross-over from the food chain to humans" said lead author Professor David Livermore of the University of East Anglia's medical school. There are many strains of E. coli, and a large number are either harmless to humans or cause only mild health problems.  Infection with a pathogenic strain, however, can cause blood poisoning or other serious conditions.In this work, scientists assessed the strains of E. coli from infected humans and looked for the same strains in sewage, dairy farm slurry, human faeces, and contaminated foods including beef, pork, chicken, salad and fruit from different parts of Great Britain."[T]he strains of resistant E. coli [found in food], were almost entirely different from the types found in human faeces, sewage and bloodstream infections", said Dr. Livermore. "[...] Rather — and unpalatably — the likeliest route of transmission for ESBL-E. coli is directly from human to human, with faecal particles from one person reaching the mouth of another.  We need to carry on cooking chicken well and never to alternately handle raw meat and salad. There are plenty of important food-poisoning bacteria, including other strains of E. coli, that do go down the food chain. But here — in the case of ESBL-E. coli — it's much more important to wash your hands after going to the toilet."According to a survey published in 2017 by the Royal Pharmaceutical Society, 84% of surveyed Britons did not wash their hands well enough from a hygiene perspective — at least twenty seconds with soap and water.  Society President Ash Soni told the public, "If we can reduce the number of illnesses where antibiotics are needed [...] we can reduce antibiotic resistance by saving these important medicines for when they are really required."Yesterday, the Parliament of New South Wales (NSW), Australia voted to pass the "Reproductive Health Care Reform Bill 2019" which decriminalized abortion.  Until the new legislation, NSW had the most restrictive anti-abortion law in Australia.  The NSW legislature in Sydney abolished any existing common law rules about abortion and legalized terminations up to week 22 of a pregnancy.Since 1900, under the state's criminal code, abortions were only allowed if a doctor determined the mother was in danger, either mentally or physically. The bill was drafted by Alex Greenwich who said on the parliament floor, "It follows decades of work from women's rights campaigners, activists and people in the Parliament". The upper house debate involved 102 amendments, and was amongst the longest they have ever debated a bill.Member of parliament (MP) Kevin Conolly said a law allowing the termination of a life marked a "sad day for NSW". Former prime minister Tony Abbott said, "It is a license for sex-selection abortions. It is a license for late-term abortion [...] It is effectively infanticide on demand." MP Penny Sharpe, who co-sponsored the bill, said, "The current law has meant women and doctors have a threat of 10 years in jail for making this decision and that's not okay". Early opponent MP Tanya Davies said, "We have moved the bill to a better place".Premier Gladys Berejiklian was not present at the bill's final vote.New South Wales is the most populated Australian state. The state of South Australia still limits abortions to cases with two doctors' approval.On Monday morning, Director Anthony Fauci of the United States National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), announced a trial of four possible Ebola drugs was stopped early because two of them had already shown considerable progress in treating the disease and saving the lives of those infected. Ebola virus disease (EVD) is a hemorrhagic fever with a high mortality rate and spreads via human-to-human contact.The PALM trial, for the Swahili phrase pamoja tulinde maisha or "together save lives," began last November and collected data from 499 patients from the towns of Beni, Butembo, Mangina, and Katwa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, which has suffered an Ebola outbreak for roughly the past year.Professor Jean-Jacques Muyembe, Director General of the DRC's Institut National de Recherche Biomédicale that monitored the trial, said, "From now on, we will no longer say that Ebola is incurable[.]" He went on to say thousands of deaths could be prevented.While one experimental vaccine appears able to reduce Ebola mortality, up until now, no drugs have been clearly demonstrated suitable for treating existing infection.  One antibody cocktail, ZMapp, initially showed promise in the field, but formal studies indicated it had less benefit than sought in preventing death.  In the PALM trial, ZMapp served as a control, meaning scientists used it as a baseline and compared the three other treatments to it.The other three treatments were remdesivir, an antiviral drug; mAb114, a monoclonal antibody first isolated from human survivors of an outbreak in Kikwit in 1995, now produced by the Florida company Ridgeback Biotherapeutics; and REGN-EB3, a cocktail of three monoclonal antibodies from Ebola-infected laboratory mice whose immune systems had been altered to be similar to humans'.The overall mortality rates were 49% for patients treated with ZMapp, 53% for remdesivir, 29% for REGN-EB3, and 34% for mAb114, but patients treatment early with low viral loads had a death rate of only 6% to 11% when treated with REGN-EB3 or mAb114.Mike Ryan of the World Health Organization (WHO) told the press the new drugs were only part of the solution: "What will stop Ebola, under professor Muyembe's leadership and that of the government of the DRC, is good surveillance, good infection prevention and control, good community engagement, excellent vaccinations, and the use of these therapeutics in the most effective way possible."Past EVD outbreak mortality rates have been at least 25%, as high as 90%, and averaged around 50% according to WHO's statistics. According to Muyembe, many people do not seek treatment because they see their friends and relatives die after entering a care facility. "Now that 90% of their patients can go into the treatment center and come out completely cured," he told the press, "they will start believing it and building trust in the population and community[.]"Per the WHO's Monitored Emergency Use of Unregistered and Investigational Interventions framework, all treatment centers in the DRC are to be permitted to administer mAb114 and REGN-EB3 to patients, even though research into the two treatments is not yet complete, and ZMapp and remdesivir are to be retired.  A follow-on study, to be performed in the same four treatment centers as PALM, is to involve randomly assigning patients either a mAb114 or REGN-EB3 regimen.In the DRC's current Ebola outbreak, two thirds of those known to be infected with Ebola, over 1800 people, have died.On Wednesday in the US state of Alabama, Governor Kay Ivey signed the Alabama Human Life Protection Act, officially outlawing nearly all circumstances of abortion in the state. This bill passed the Senate of the state on Tuesday.Republican state representative Terri Collins who sponsored the bill remarked the bill was not enforceable under the current interpretation of the US Constitution established by the US Supreme Court ruling in the Roe v. Wade case. Terri said the bill would become enforceable after the Supreme Court revisits the case.Apart from when the mother's life is threatened by the pregnancy, the bill provides for any terminations to potentially result in life sentence penalties.The bill has sparked controversy and protests. Planned Parenthood, along with the American Civil Liberties Union have announced their plans to oppose the bill by lawsuit.The governor tweeted her reasoning saying, "Today, I signed into law the Alabama Human Life Protection Act. To the bill’s many supporters, this legislation stands as a powerful testament to Alabamians’ deeply held belief that every life is precious & that every life is a sacred gift from God."The second International Student Olympiad in Neurosurgery for the prize of the Governor of Tyumen Oblast, Russia took place in the first week of April at the Federal Center for Neurosurgery in Tyumen. The competition was attended by 46 people from cities within Russia as well as from Aktobe, Kazakhstan. Wikinews attended the event, and talked to some of those involved.This was the second consecutive student Olympiad in neurosurgery. Six of the country's eight federal district capitals were reportedly scheduled to send contestants. The winners are awarded free tuition at the academic department of Neurosurgery at First Moscow State Medical University (First MSMU), also called Sechenov University. Madina Bizheva, in her fourth year at Kabardino-Balkarian State University, won this second Olympiad. The other two places at Sechenov University were awarded to Oleg Titov, fifth year at the First MSMU, and Irina Borovikova, fifth year at Ural State Medical University. Bizheva said: "I give my victory to my mother, who inspired me to study at a neurosurgeon. After she had a stroke, the dream of becoming a doctor began to turn into reality. I was seriously preparing for the Olympiad. One hand rocked the child, the other held a book on neurosurgery. If a person strives for and desires something, then everything will work out." ((ru))Russian: ‍Свою победу я дарю маме, которая вдохновила меня пойти учится на нейрохирурга. После того, как у нее случился инсульт, мечта стать врачом стала превращаться в реальность. Я серьезно готовилась к олимпиаде. Одной рукой покачивала ребенка, другой держала книгу по нейрохирургии. Если человек к чему стремиться и чего-то очень желает, — все получится.				The chairman of the organizing committee of the Olympiad and the head physician of the center, Albert Sufianov, is also the head of the academic department of neurosurgery in the First MSMU. The three best performers in this contest are awarded the opportunity to study for free in his department in the residency of the Sechenov University.The event was supported financially by Tyumen Oblast. The new governor of the region, Alexander Moor, during his message to the regional parliamentarians read out on November 22, just offered to diversify the economy, reducing the focus on oil and gas from the third Baku and cultivating medical tourism: "Now the annual volume of our exports — non-row materials and non-energy — has come close to a billion dollars. In the next year, this must be given priority. And here, too, non-standard approaches will be required, in which trends of various origins will organically merge across the traditional industry nomenclature. For example, it is time to perceive Tyumen medicine as a full-fledged export-oriented industry, while closely associated with the tourism business. Medical tourism is growing rapidly all over the world, and in terms of price and quality, Tyumen is more than competitive — if not on a global scale, then on a scale of the whole continent Eurasia exactly. Here the themes of several national projects intersect at once!" ((ru))Russian: ‍Сейчас годовой объем нашего экспорта – несырьевого и неэнергетического – вплотную приблизился к миллиарду долларов. В следующем году этот вес надо взять. И тут тоже потребуются нестандартные подходы, в которых поверх традиционной отраслевой номенклатуры органично соединятся тренды различного происхождения. Скажем, тюменскую медицину уже пора воспринимать как полноценную экспортно-ориентированную отрасль, при этом тесно связанную с туристическим бизнесом. Медицинский туризм бурно растет во всем мире, а по параметрам цены и качества Тюмень более чем конкурентоспособна – если не в глобальном масштабе, то в масштабе всего евразийского континента точно. Здесь пересекаются тематики сразу нескольких национальных проектов!According to Professor Sergey Dydykin, who is both co-chairman of the organizing committee and head of the academic department of operative surgery and topographic anatomy of the First MSMU, in the United States and Europe it is not customary to teach manual skills, such as manual surgical techniques, to undergraduates; conducting surgical competitions for students is a Russian practice.During the Olympiad, students had to perform simulated practical tasks. For example, in the final part of the competition, the contestants had to mill away the shell of a raw egg without damaging the membranes beneath. This exercise simulates endoscopic drilling.According to Sufianov, the Olympiad shows young people the "social elevators" available to them. He suggesnted student Ibrahim Salamov as an illustration of his words. A year ago, this native of the Dagestan village took first prize, and he is now one of the organizers of the Olympiad. Regarding which part of the competition was most difficult for aspiring neurosurgeons, Sufianov said it was English language. From his view, this is a nationwide problem in Russia — there are many skilled surgeons in the country, but their knowledge of foreign languages is not very strong.  In his opinion, a specialist has almost no chance to become a very high level professional without knowledge of English.Alexander Gagay of Yekaterinburg, who took third place last year, is currently a fourth year student at Ural State Medical University. This year, he said, he came to support his fellow Yekaterinburgers. In his opinion, the most difficult part was the theoretical tasks, and not English. In his view, the federal neurosurgery centers like Tyumen created within the framework of the national health project are on the same level with their foreign counterparts. In his view, there are strong opportunities to become a very good specialist without leaving Russia.Several people returned to the Olympiad after attending last year. One is Denis Kovalchuk, a sixth year student at Buryat State University. He said he was interested in neurosurgery from the first year, but in his home region there are no suitably equipped facilities as there are in Tyumen. Kovalchuk also said that, after the first Olympiad, a community of young neurosurgeons emerged on social networks, numbering about 400 people. Students exchange professional literature in it and give each other tips for use in practical situations.				This year, the jury decided two participants in addition to the official winners performed at such a high level and Albert Sufianov provided them with his personal grant for residency training at First MSMU. These were Ivan Shelyagin and Valentina Sidorenko from Tyumen State Medical University.== Latest articles ==Refresh this list to see the latest articles.25 January 2016: Quake strikes near Anchorage, Alaska; no injuries reported 1 October 2013: Sallie Mae leads Consumer Financial Protection Bureau complaints about student loans 16 February 2013: 2013 IPC Alpine Skiing World Championships preparations underway 6 April 2012: U.S. Coast Guard unleashes cannon fire on abandoned Japanese ship 21 March 2012: US Air Force upgrades F-22 oxygen system after deadly crash 8 March 2012: Super Tuesday 2012: Mitt Romney wins six of ten GOP contests 23 December 2010: Alaska Supreme Court rules in Senate election challenge 10 August 2010: Former US Senator Ted Stevens among five killed in Alaska plane crash 2 August 2010: Cargo plane crashes in Alaska's Denali Park, sparks wildfire 30 July 2010: Medical helicopter crashes in Tucson, Arizona, kills all on board== All articles ==You can also browse through all articles for this country alphabetically.Professor Michael Siegel of Boston University, co-author of a new study published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine on January 17, declared household gun ownership rates within the United States to be "the strongest single predictor of a state's youth suicide rate". Wikinews interviewed Siegel to learn more.Siegel and colleagues including predoctoral fellow Anita Knopov, the lead author, compared data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from 2004, when the body last surveyed US gun owners, to corresponding information on suicides by 10–19 year olds from 2005 through 2015. The Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System was used to find data on such variables as education, depression, and suicidal planning and ideation.The study reports "For each 10 percentage-point increase in household gun ownership, the youth suicide rate increased by 26.9 percent". The ten states with highest youth suicide rates had household gun ownership rates above 50%; the ten with the lowest youth suicide rates had household gun ownership around 20%. The data were, the study says, more closely correlated than youth suicide attempts were to actual suicides.The study notes the National Violent Injury Statistic System indicates 82% of youth suicides involving a gun used one from the victim's own household in 2016. Most variables appeared uncorrelated, with only suicide attempts and proportion of Native American youth showing correlation. The team wrote that guns "are 2.6 times more lethal than any other means of suicide; thus, access to firearms might be expected to contribute to a higher incidence of suicide." The highest rate noted by the team was in Alaska, with fifteen youth suicides per 100,000 individuals. New Jersey had the lowest rate, which was three per 100,000 people. There were states that did not match the overall trend: Alabama and Mississippi had low youth suicide rates of around 4.5 per 100,000 people but high household gun ownership rates of over 50%. Each state has a large proportion of African-American residents; they were found statistically less likely to commit suicide and to own guns.Siegel agreed to answer some questions for Wikinews‍'s correspondent.((Wikinews))  Thank you for taking the time to speak with us. Would you mind telling us a little about yourself, your background, and what led you to look into this subject?Michael Siegel I am a professor in the Department of Community Health Sciences at the Boston University School of Public Health. My research has focused on the areas of tobacco, alcohol, and firearms. We decided to look at this subject because although there have been some studies that reported an association between household gun ownership and youth suicide rates, one could argue that the reason for this association is that gun households differ systematically from non-gun households in that they are more likely to have youth with depression and therefore youth who are more likely to attempt suicide. Our study was designed to control for these factors in order to determine whether differences in suicide attempt rates explain the observed association between household gun ownership and youth suicide rates.((WN))  Given that some key data is from 2004, how well do you think your results can be applied to the situation today?MS Although we used gun ownership data from 2004 for the primary analysis, we repeated the analysis using a household gun ownership proxy averaged over the years 2005–2015, and the results were similar. Thus, we do not believe that there is any reason to think that the results do not apply to the situation today.((WN))  To what extent do the results of this study match up to your expectations?MS We did not actually have a pre-conceived idea of whether or not we would find an association after controlling for the proportion of youth who were depressed, had made a suicide plan, or had attempted suicide. We were surprised, however, to find that the percentage of households with a gun was a stronger predictor of the youth suicide rate than the percentage of youth who made a suicide attempt.((WN))  What influence would you like to see these results having on policymakers?MS The results suggest that decreasing the access of youth to firearms may lower youth suicide rates. Thus, our findings support efforts to encourage gun owners to store their guns in a manner that prevents youth from accessing them. Policy makers should consider enacting policies that reduce youth access to improperly stored firearms.((WN))  If you had access to more recent data than that from 2004, what would you hypothesize the difference might be, if any?MS We don't hypothesize that there would be any substantial difference because when we used the proxy data on gun ownership from 2005–2015, we did not find any major difference in the results. ((WN))  Did you notice any significant trends in the data year-by-year, and, if so, what were they and what do you think might account for them?MS In this article, we did not examine trends by year. The study was cross-sectional and combined (averaged) data from 2005 through 2015. Thus, we are not able in this study to examine trends in suicide rates over time.((WN))  You noted suicide attempts by youth were not as accurate a prediction method for youth suicide rates as the household gun ownership rates were. Why do you think that might be?MS Our hypothesis is that the most important predictor of the youth suicide rate in a state is the extent to which youth in that state have access to the most lethal means (i.e., firearms). Having a high level of access to firearms, which is the most lethal means for suicide, apparently has a far greater impact on suicide rates and can negate the fact that a state has a low rate of youth suicide attempts (and vice versa).((WN))  Moving forward from this study, what are the next steps you have planned to research this further?MS The next step of this research is to examine whether there are particular state firearm laws that impact rates of youth suicide at the state level.Professor Michael Siegel of Boston University, co-author of a new study published in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine on January 17, declared household gun ownership rates within the United States to be "the strongest single predictor of a state's youth suicide rate". Wikinews interviewed Siegel to learn more.Siegel and colleagues including predoctoral fellow Anita Knopov, the lead author, compared data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from 2004, when the body last surveyed US gun owners, to corresponding information on suicides by 10–19 year olds from 2005 through 2015. The Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System was used to find data on such variables as education, depression, and suicidal planning and ideation.The study reports "For each 10 percentage-point increase in household gun ownership, the youth suicide rate increased by 26.9 percent". The ten states with highest youth suicide rates had household gun ownership rates above 50%; the ten with the lowest youth suicide rates had household gun ownership around 20%. The data were, the study says, more closely correlated than youth suicide attempts were to actual suicides.The study notes the National Violent Injury Statistic System indicates 82% of youth suicides involving a gun used one from the victim's own household in 2016. Most variables appeared uncorrelated, with only suicide attempts and proportion of Native American youth showing correlation. The team wrote that guns "are 2.6 times more lethal than any other means of suicide; thus, access to firearms might be expected to contribute to a higher incidence of suicide." The highest rate noted by the team was in Alaska, with fifteen youth suicides per 100,000 individuals. New Jersey had the lowest rate, which was three per 100,000 people. There were states that did not match the overall trend: Alabama and Mississippi had low youth suicide rates of around 4.5 per 100,000 people but high household gun ownership rates of over 50%. Each state has a large proportion of African-American residents; they were found statistically less likely to commit suicide and to own guns.Siegel agreed to answer some questions for Wikinews‍'s correspondent.((Wikinews))  Thank you for taking the time to speak with us. Would you mind telling us a little about yourself, your background, and what led you to look into this subject?Michael Siegel I am a professor in the Department of Community Health Sciences at the Boston University School of Public Health. My research has focused on the areas of tobacco, alcohol, and firearms. We decided to look at this subject because although there have been some studies that reported an association between household gun ownership and youth suicide rates, one could argue that the reason for this association is that gun households differ systematically from non-gun households in that they are more likely to have youth with depression and therefore youth who are more likely to attempt suicide. Our study was designed to control for these factors in order to determine whether differences in suicide attempt rates explain the observed association between household gun ownership and youth suicide rates.((WN))  Given that some key data is from 2004, how well do you think your results can be applied to the situation today?MS Although we used gun ownership data from 2004 for the primary analysis, we repeated the analysis using a household gun ownership proxy averaged over the years 2005–2015, and the results were similar. Thus, we do not believe that there is any reason to think that the results do not apply to the situation today.((WN))  To what extent do the results of this study match up to your expectations?MS We did not actually have a pre-conceived idea of whether or not we would find an association after controlling for the proportion of youth who were depressed, had made a suicide plan, or had attempted suicide. We were surprised, however, to find that the percentage of households with a gun was a stronger predictor of the youth suicide rate than the percentage of youth who made a suicide attempt.((WN))  What influence would you like to see these results having on policymakers?MS The results suggest that decreasing the access of youth to firearms may lower youth suicide rates. Thus, our findings support efforts to encourage gun owners to store their guns in a manner that prevents youth from accessing them. Policy makers should consider enacting policies that reduce youth access to improperly stored firearms.((WN))  If you had access to more recent data than that from 2004, what would you hypothesize the difference might be, if any?MS We don't hypothesize that there would be any substantial difference because when we used the proxy data on gun ownership from 2005–2015, we did not find any major difference in the results. ((WN))  Did you notice any significant trends in the data year-by-year, and, if so, what were they and what do you think might account for them?MS In this article, we did not examine trends by year. The study was cross-sectional and combined (averaged) data from 2005 through 2015. Thus, we are not able in this study to examine trends in suicide rates over time.((WN))  You noted suicide attempts by youth were not as accurate a prediction method for youth suicide rates as the household gun ownership rates were. Why do you think that might be?MS Our hypothesis is that the most important predictor of the youth suicide rate in a state is the extent to which youth in that state have access to the most lethal means (i.e., firearms). Having a high level of access to firearms, which is the most lethal means for suicide, apparently has a far greater impact on suicide rates and can negate the fact that a state has a low rate of youth suicide attempts (and vice versa).((WN))  Moving forward from this study, what are the next steps you have planned to research this further?MS The next step of this research is to examine whether there are particular state firearm laws that impact rates of youth suicide at the state level.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.