The black box cockpit voice recorder from an Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed into the Mediterranean several weeks ago, killing all on board, has been found by search crews. The flight data recorder had been recovered earlier in the day. The bodies of eight victims were recovered from what is believed to be fuselage."We found it and retrieved it about an hour ago today," Lebanese army Brigadier Saleh Haj Suleiman said, as quoted by BusinessWeek. According to reports, the plane made a sharp turn and disappeared from the radar upon departure; Lebanese officials, however, say it's too early to conclude the crash was due to pilot error.The black box records communication data, technical information such as speed, altitude, etc., as well as conversation in the airplane cockpit, which could help investigators determine why the jet crashed.The boxes will be transported to France to be analysed, according to officials.Flight ET409, which had departed from Beirut, Lebanon, was bound for Addis Ababa in Ethiopia on January 25 when it crashed into the waters of the Mediterranean Sea several minutes after takeoff, in inclement weather. All ninety people aboard were killed.Minister of Public Works and Transport Ghazi Aridi told Reuters, "The priority now is searching for the rest of the bodies of victims." So far, the bodies of 23 victims have been recovered.Professors at the Energy Science Centre, attached to the Federal Institute of Technology (ETHZ) in Zurich, have presented their contribution of a car quite similar to Loremo able to travel 100 kilometres (around 62 miles) on a tank with just 1 litre (around 1 quart), equalling to about 235 miles per gallon. They presented their contribution during Swiss Energy Week. The automobile, which has and will be manufactured by the Swiss company Horlacher, is 75% lighter than an average family car and guzzles a tenth of the fuel thanks to vastly improved aerodynamics.One drawback to this car is that it has none of the modern safety features found in many cars to-day. But the FIT team is designing technology that lets cars communicate with each other to avoid collisions, using similar computer systems to those in aircraft."This car does compromise on style, speed and comfort, but you can't have a free lunch," says Lino Guzzella, one of the centre's members"Business as usual is no longer an option. If we are to survive in the future, we will have to drastically reduce carbon emissions." Guzzella continued. There are approximately 800 million cars on this planet and in Switzerland there are 500 cars per 1,000 people, compared with 800 in the United States and less than 50 per 1,000 in India and China.Swiss drivers also favour more powerful, polluting vehicles than the rest of western Europe. According to the European Automobile Manufacturers Association, the main lobbying group of the automobile industry in the European Union, the average car in Switzerland has a 2 litre engine compared with 1.6 litres in neighbouring countries."The Swiss think they are better at cutting harmful emissions than anyone else, but they are not," says researcher Peter de Haan van der Weg.He believes Switzerland should introduce incentives to make people buy cleaner cars. Some countries already have such schemes: the US awards tax breaks worth up to $3,000 and the Netherlands offers €6,000 to green car owners. The Swiss authorities are currently thinking about two similar options presented by the city of Bern and the centre-left Social Democratic Party."Individuals are not capable of understanding the big picture because it is difficult for people to look 50 years into the future," Mr. De Haan van der Weg said."Therefore it is necessary to have government regulations to force changes that will benefit the environment."Investigators have found the black box of an Airblue flight that crashed into the Margalla Hills of Pakistan's capital city on Wednesday. The flight data recorder was also recovered Saturday morning. Airblue Flight 202 departed from Karachi, Pakistan, and was bound for the capital Islamabad when it crashed into the Margalla Hills due to bad weather conditions. All 152 people aboard, including the 6 crewmembers, were killed.Junaid Amin, the head of Pakistan's Civil Aviation Authority, told CNN the recorders will be sent to either Germany or France, which have the necessary resources to analyze the data. Such an investigation could take months to complete, however. The black box records communication data and technical information such as speed and altitude, as well as conversations in the airplane cockpit. It could thus help investigators determine why the plane crashed.The black boxes from an Air India flight that crashed into a valley of near the southern Indian city of Mangalore Saturday, killing 158 of the 166 onboard, have been found by investigators.  The flight data recorder was recovered late yesterday and the cockpit voice recorder was located today.At the end of Sunday, 146 of the 158 bodies have been identified, and all have been recovered.According to reports, the plane touched down at Mangalore's Bajpe airport, overshooting the touchdown point by several thousand feet; one tire did not hit the runway at all. Sudden braking occured, the airliner's wings hit a neighboring cliff, and the plane careened into a heavily forested ravine where it burst into flames.  "The plane veered off toward some trees on the side and then the cabin filled with smoke," said survivor Umer Farooq, "I got caught in some cables but managed to scramble out."  "I didn't think of anything at the time. All I knew was that I had to get out and get far away from the plane. The fire was spreading fast. Behind me I could feel other people jumping out but I didn't turn back to look," said survivor Koolikkunnu Krishnan. The black boxes record communication data, technical information such as speed, altitude, etc., as well as conversation in the airplane cockpit, which could help investigators determine why the jet crashed.  "The black box has been recovered from the crash site. It is vital in finding information about key details like the last moments of the flight and whether there was any error from the pilot's side. The box will be brought to the accident lab of the Director General of Civil Aviation in the national capital where it will be opened and to find out what exactly went wrong," reported investigators. They did not clarify which box they were refering to, but both have been recovered.The Air India Express Boeing 737-800, which had departed from Dubai of the United Arab Emirates, was bound for Mangalore in the southern Indian state of Karnataka.  The Bajpe airport has a "tabletop" runway which means it is set atop a hill surrounded by a deep gorge.  The airport, which was constructed in 2006, has seen over 32,000 successful landings since opening.  After visiting the eight survivors, Arvind Jadhav, chairman of Air India said, "My heart goes out to those who died and who lost friends and relatives."At least fourteen former paramilitary group members are dead as the result of a bus crash in Guatemala. BBC News Online reports at least 25 other paramilitaries were injured. According to the Herald Sun, at least 50 were injured in the crash.The incident happened when the bus was near the city of San Marcos. In the early hours of the morning, the bus departed from the mountain road and went into a ravine that is 50 metres (164 feet) in depth. There were approximately 60 passengers on the vehicle when the accident occurred.Injured survivors of the crash were transported to local hospitals. One of the survivors of the accident explained to the local media that "[t]he driver was going very fast and when we got to the curve his brakes failed and we went into the ravine". Rescue crews have also suggested that braking system problems were the cause of the crash. According to BBC News Online, road traffic collisions often occur on the mountainous Guatemalan roads.All of the passengers of the vehicle are participators in a reforestation project, and were travelling towards the municipality of Concepción Tutuapa to receive payment for their work on the project. The project was which was created by the government to give them employment. Previously, the military had created the group to assist in fighting against left-wing rebels during the Guatemalan Civil War.Australian transport investigators have announced they have identified a "critical safety issue" with engines fitted to the world's largest passenger airliner. Some Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines, which power some Airbus A380 "superjumbos", may be prone to "fatigue cracking", which could lead to oil leakage and a fire.The Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) said they think this was "central to the engine failure" which occurred on a Qantas A380 on November 4, shortly after take-off from Singapore. The airline grounded all six of its fleet of A380s so they could undergo safety checks before they were put back into service. Late last month, Qantas announced the aircraft were safe and began returning them to service.The ATSB said the manufacturing fault with the Trent 900 engines "could lead to an elevated risk of fatigue crack initiation and growth, oil leakage and potential catastrophic engine failure from a resulting oil fire." The agency urged Rolls-Royce to "address the safety issue and take actions necessary to ensure the safety of flight operations in transport aircraft equipped with Rolls-Royce Trent 900 series engines."Qantas emphasised on Thursday that there was "no immediate risk to flight safety," but said they would conduct further investigations. A statement from the airline said: "Qantas currently has two A380 aircraft in operational service, following the grounding of the fleet on 4 November. Both A380 aircraft will be inspected at the Qantas Jet Base in Sydney. Inspections will commence this afternoon." Two other airlines use A380 aircraft with Trent engines, Lufthansa and Singapore Airlines; Singapore Airlines said they were checking the engines of their A380s "on a daily basis". They said: "The new checks advised by the ATSB will be carried out as quickly as possible."The incident in Singapore was embarrassing for Airbus. Aviation journalist Tom Ballantyne said the incident in Singapore was "certainly the most serious incident that the A380 has experienced since it entered operations." The A380 made its first commercial flight in 2007, and is now in service with several other airlines, including Air France and Emirates. It is the largest commercial passenger airliner in the world, with an 840-passenger maximum capacity, though Qantas' can carry 450.United States officials have unveiled new plans which require air traffic controllers to have longer rest periods between shifts after a spate of controllers fell asleep while on duty at airports across the country. Announcing the plans, transport secretary Ray LaHood said he was "outraged" by the incidents.The new plans, which the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the U.S. government agency responsible for aviation, said would be implemented immediately, come after another controller was suspended this week when they fell asleep while directing aircraft near Miami. The incident was the sixth this year; controllers have fallen asleep in Nevada, Washington D.C., and Tennessee. In one incident, two commercial passenger jets landed without any direction from the control tower because the controller on duty had fallen asleep.LaHood said controllers would be required to have a minimum of nine hours rest between shifts, an increase of an hour, and more supervisors would be required during night shifts, and they will be restricted in what shifts they can swap with colleagues. "I don't know when I've ever been madder," LaHood said in a television interview on Fox News Sunday. "We're not going to stand by and let that happen." "We've taken steps, as of this morning, to begin changing schedules for controllers, to change schedules for managers, and to make sure that controllers cannot switch in and out of their schedules in order for the convenience of them if they are not well-rested," LaHood said. He vowed that he would ensure any controllers falling asleep on duty would face consequences. "On my watch, controllers will not be paid to take naps," he said. "We're not going to allow that."Earlier this week, Hank Krakowski, the head of air traffic organization at the FAA, resigned from his position after LaHood said the crisis in U.S. control towers was "unacceptable", and vowed to resolve the issue. "I am totally outraged by these incidents," LaHood said. "This is absolutely unacceptable. The American public trusts us to run a safe system." The results of a study on how fatigue affects controllers will soon be published and the FAA may make changes. But LaHood insisted controllers had to "take personal responsibility" for the safety of aircraft over the U.S., and they should not make irresponsible shift changes which will make them tired and put passengers at risk. He said all the controllers involved in the incidents had been suspended, and could ultimately be sacked. The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, a labor union representing controllers in the U.S., said the FAA had their "full support" in implementing the new steps to tackle fatigue.At approximately 1600 EST (2100 UTC) a suspicious package was found near the baggage claim at Washington Dulles International Airport in Virginia, United States, leading to the closure of around half of the terminal. Police later determined that the package was harmless and reopened the affected areas of the airport. Parts of the airport had been closed for two hours before being reopened.Officials from the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority said a canine unit was attracted to an unattended piece of baggage near the baggage claim. They did not disclose what the package contained, but an official said the package did not look similar to other suspicious packages sent to Maryland state government buildings earlier today.Due to the package, four baggage claims and a United Airlines ticket counter were temporarily vacated. Flights continued to operate at the airport during the investigation.Poland has rejected a Russian investigative report into the air crash that killed Polish President Lech Kaczyński earlier this year. Poland's first couple and other senior officials were among the 96 killed when their aircraft went down near Smolensk, Russia. On Friday, Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk called an unreleased draft he has seen "unacceptable" and its conclusions "without foundation".Tusk's televised remarks to the press did not reveal what the report contains, but claimed it to be in breach of the Chicago Convention, an international regulatory document on air travel. "From the Polish point of view, the draft report from the Russian side as it has been sent is without question unacceptable. This negligence and mistakes or lack of positive reaction to what Poland has been asking for, all these things allow us to say that some of the report's conclusions are without foundation," he said.Edmund Klich, who heads the Polish air accident investigatory body, has seen the report and blamed elements in both Russia and Poland. Klich said the Polish military pilots had been insufficiently trained and ignored safety, and that Russian air traffic controllers should have diverted the aircraft elsewhere. Visibility had deteriorated at Smolensk's airport prior to the crash, but the Tupolev Tu-154's pilots were determined to get the President through the fog so he could attend a ceremony commemorating the Katyn massacre. Stalin had ordered Polish prisoners there to be killed during the Second World War."I believe the Polish side bears more responsibility," Klich commented, "but of course the Russians had their shortcomings." He has previously criticised Russia's failure to provide air traffic control transcripts from the disaster, which left no survivors. Also on Friday, a Russian foreign ministry spokesman told Ekho Moskvy Russia is ready to answer Polish questions. He reiterated a need to co-operate and added it is "important not to politicize the situation." Russian President Dmitry Medvedev also repeated calls for co-operation on a visit to Poland last week.The comments follow the delivery of the draft to Poland by the Interstate Aviation Committee last month following complaints Russia should speed up the investigation. The crash has caused political controversy in Poland, with the newly-elected President and first lady belonging to Civic Platform, who were Kaczyński's opposition.The Wall Street Journal suggests Tusk's remarks may damage improving relations between the countries. Conservative elements within Poland already doubted the veracity of improved relations and have formed conspiracy theories around the crash, citing a perception the Polish government will blindly accept whatever Russian investigators say.An aging ferry deemed unsafe sank in the Red Sea on Friday with about 1400 people on board, mostly Egyptians who travel back and forth to Saudi Arabia to work as guest workers.Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak's spokesman, Suleiman Awad, said there were not enough lifeboats, and questions were raised about the safety of the old ship that had 220 cars on it as well as the passengers.  "The speed with which the ship sank and the lack of sufficient lifeboats indicate there was some deficiency," Awad said."It's a roll-on, roll-off ferry, and there is big question mark over the stability of this kind of ship," said David Osler of Lloyds List. "It would only take a bit of water to get on board this ship and it would be all over. ... The percentage of this type of ferry involved in this type of disaster is huge."Tens of thousands of poor Egyptians work in Persian Gulf countries for years to earn money. They travel by ship as it is a cheaper option than flying.About 100 icebergs are heading for New Zealand and a warning has been issued for ships in the Southern Ocean. The icebergs were spotted off the South Island of New Zealand by plane, Orion. However they are likely to melt before reaching New Zealand, but they may be visible from Stewart Island.An Orion, a Royal New Zealand Air force plane, spotted the icebergs heading towards New Zealand when it was doing a routine fisheries patrol, south of the Auckland Islands, about 260 km away from Southland.One of the longest of the hundred icebergs is said to be about 2 km long, 1.3 km wide and 120 m high. But seeing as most of the iceberg is underwater it is more likely around 1.2 km high.Andy Nielsen, Royal New Zealand Air Force squadron leader, said that they "were surprised by the number of them and by how far north they were. We came across approximately 80 to 100 icebergs...what's unusual about this is we located them about 130 nautical miles south of Stewart Island...we would expect to find the number we found around 600 nautical miles south of Stewart Island. They pose a significant maritime threat (as they are near a major shipping lane). The weather down there is deteriorating, visibility is low tonight in the majority of the southern area."The last time that an iceberg had been seen from the Mainland was in 1931 at Dunedin, even though icebergs do occasionally break away from Antarctica and head into the Southern Ocean. Mike Williams, physical oceanographer for the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research, said: "The latest sighting may be seen from the Mainland if it gets a bit further north and comes closer in shore. The currents and the wind are likely to drive it north along the Southland and Otago coast."The icebergs are not being blamed on global warming or global cooling. Mr Williams said: "It has made it all the way to New Zealand is a fantastic rare event, but I don't think we can draw any conclusions about changes in climate."Eleven people have died after a military helicopter crashed during an anti-narcotics flight in Western Mexico. The Bell 212 went down near Uruapan in Michoacan.Michoacan is a major area in Mexico's anti-narcotics operations, which are conducted by the nation's military. The rotorcraft went down around midday. Police cordoned off the scene and forensic officers have moved in to examine the site. The Defense Department is investigating.A statement by the military confirmed the crash. "There are 11 men dead, including a colonel, and one soldier was injured," said a state attorney general's office spokesman. The wounded soldier, who was the sole survivor, was flown to a Mexico City military hospital, and remains there in a serious condition.Although authorities released no crash details, witnesses say the helicopter lost power during attempts to land. "The motor stopped and the helicopter plummeted to the ground," said one local resident named Agustin Vargas. The flight had been headed to a marijuana field with the intention of raiding it.Police in the Netherlands have arrested twelve passengers after a US flight destined for Mumbai in India was escorted back to Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport. No further information about the arrests has been given. The plane, which had 149 passengers on board, was accompanied by two F-16 fighter jets on its way back to the airport after the security alert today. According to the Dutch Defence Ministry, the plane's pilot made the decision to land the aircraft after several passengers mustered suspicion. "A number of them behaved, in the opinion of the crew, in a suspicious manner," said a Defense Ministry statement. "As a result, the captain asked to return to Schiphol. The customs police have taken a number of people off the plane for questioning."An airport spokesman said that the plane's pilot decided to reroute while in German airspace.Earlier today, a spokeswoman said that several passengers were taken off the Northwest Airlines aircraft and have been detained for questioning. AP quotes Mirjam Snoerwang as saying: "A number of suspects were taken off the plane - I don't know how many. They're undergoing questioning now."The National Terrorism Coordinator has said that there is no reason to raise the terror alert level in the Netherlands. Spokeswoman Judith Sluiter said: "It is the same as it was before - light threat." Since August 10, when police in the UK claimed they had foiled a suspected plot to blow up several transatlantic planes, security has been stepped up worldwide.According to Buffalo Fire Department radio communications, at least 12 people were injured after a van carrying a church group flipped over on an expressway interchange in Buffalo, New York. Seven of the 12 people injured have been taken to a local hospital for treatment. At least two people were seriously injured. The church affiliation of the group is not yet known.The accident occurred on the on ramp to Buffalo's Route 198 Westbound at around 6:30 p.m. (EDT). The van was traveling from Route 33 Westbound. According to the fire department, a preliminary investigation on scene shows the driver of the van may have been going too fast on the interchange's turn, causing the van to flip over several times.At 7:00 p.m., according to New York Department of Transportation traffic cameras, police were still blocking all traffic from entering the 198 Westbound from route 33. At 7:10 p.m., the van was finally able to be towed from the scene. The scene was cleared at 7:30 p.m. and traffic was allowed back on the ramp.Thirteen people are missing from a boat believed to have sunk off Madagascar's Sainte Marie island on Thursday. Several Chinese people were on board, as well as some from Madagascar. Two crewmembers are safely rescued.There appears to be one man from the Chinese mainland on board. Xinhua reports that there are also eight from Taiwan, and all are businessmen. In addition there are four crewmembers left, with two others rescued. The crew were all locals.The boat had left Sainte Marie to travel 100km North to Masoala so that the businessmen could inspect some fishery assets. According to what Xinhua described as "a reliable source" at around 8:40 p.m. (1740 GMT) the vessel dropped anchor for reasons unknown about 20km from the coast. It is also reported the ship's engine had failed and she was taking on water.It is known that at around 12:40 a.m. Friday (2140 GMT Thursday) Liu Shouzhi, one of the Taiwanese on board, called his wife. He told her that the ship was in danger of capsizing due to strong winds. Contact with the vessel was lost shortly after.According to the rescued crewmembers, who were picked up on Saturday morning, those on board the ship had abandoned her in two groups. All of them had life jackets on at the time. They reported the ship could carry thirty passengers.The Madagascan Navy, coast guard and police are all participating in the search and rescue operation. Six ships and a number of aircraft have been deployed, and soldiers are assisting police in searching the nearby coastline.A Peruvian Air Force Twin Otter plane crashed on May 24 in Peru, killing at least 13 people.The plane was part of a service to help remote communities not served by commercial flights, and crashed shortly after takeoff in a thunderstorm in dense jungle 563 kilometres from Lima. The flight originated in Iquitos, capital of the region, and had flown on to Orellana, where it had just taken off from when the accident occurred.Survivors said after the crash that they had attempted to persuade the pilot not to takeoff in the adverse weather conditions, but they had been assured by Air Force personnel that they would be safe as they were on board a military aircraft.Survivor Juan Saavedra said that, on takeoff, the pilot immediately began struggling to control the plane in high winds. It then dropped and flew between two trees, shearing off its wings. Another survivor said that immediately prior to the crash the pilot gave an order to turn off the engine in a move that is speculated to have been intended to prevent a post-impact fire.Local officials said 20 people were on board, with police giving seven survivors and the Defence Ministry eight. No passenger list or official report has yet been released regarding the crash, but it is known that 13 bodies were recovered from the wreckage. Juan Montes, a police spokesman in the jungle village Contamana, supposed to be the aircraft's next stop, said that the plane had a three-man crew, all of whom were killed.Maria Luisa Armas, 93, the oldest resident of Contamana, is reported by survivors to have survived initially but insisted that other survivors leave her in the aircraft and go off to find help. She was one of the 13 deceased ultimately pulled out of the wreckage.The survivors were taken to Pucallpa, which was supposed to be the last stop on the flight.According to the state news agency, Andina, homes had been deroofed and trees felled by powerful winds earlier the same day."According to our latest information, 14 people died -- the driver of the truck and 13 people on the bus," said a spokeswoman for the Emergency Ministry. The crash occurred in Petushinsky, a district 100 kilometres (60 miles) to Moscow's east.The crash occurred on the Moscow-Nizhny Novgorod-Ufa highway, and the death toll may yet rise as the burnt-out wreckage makes identifications difficult. The death toll has already been revised from 25. A criminal investigation has been launched regarding possible violations of traffic laws.It is unclear where the vehicles were going. Reports suggest both were headed towards Moscow. It is thought that the truck left its lane and crossed into the path of the bus.Fifteen people are dead, and thirty more have become ill after attempting to steal fuel from a freight train travelling through Karbi Anglong, Assam, India. It is thought they broke into a tank containing toxic chemicals.According to a railway official, the train was in the remote region with 48 wagons of petrol and diesel when raiders intercepted it. The train was in a forested area at the time and was surrounded by armed men, a common occurrence in an area where trains transporting products to and from refineries are regularly targeted.Witnesses described liquid pumping out of a tank at high pressure. There are no reports as in to what the tank contained, but the fumes were toxic; when police arrived they found that fifteen had succumbed to the gas, and thirty more were sickened by it. A number of empty oil drums, presumably intended for fuel from the train, were also discovered.A 16-year-old male from Novato, California has been arrested in Tennessee over allegations he intended to hijack a commercial passenger airliner in the United States. The boy, who was unnamed due to his age, was a passenger on board Southwest Airlines Flight 284 from Los Angeles to Nashville on Tuesday, with his parents reporting him missing at 11:30 am the same day. Although he remained calm throughout the flight and made no hijacking attempt, authorities report he had handcuffs, duct tape and yarn inside the aircraft cabin with him. Although his arrest was only made public on Friday, it is reported that he was detained immediately on reaching Nashville International Airport.George Bolds, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said that the items were "suspicious" and that the boy had informed the FBI he had indeed intended to hijack the aircraft. An FBI agent told reporters that he felt the plot was ill-conceived, saying "His plan had a low probability of success."The FBI also conducted a search of his home on Thursday, finding in his room "a photograph of the inside of a small aircraft, something you'd find in a bookstore."Subsequent to his arrest he pled guilty on Friday to a "delinquent act," according to local officials. A juvenile court judge ordered him to be returned to California for continued perusal of that charge as well as others set to be made. He is currently in Davidson County Juvenile Detention Center in Nashville.Authorities believe that the teen was suicidal, but the FBI dismissed earlier reports alleging that he intended to crash the airliner into a Hannah Montana concert in Lafayette, Louisiana.At least seventeen people were killed on Sunday after a river ferry in Cambodia capsized in a tributary of the Mekong river.The ferry, with 30 people onboard, was travelling to a ceremony at a Buddhist temple. The incident occurred overnight in the Kratie province, about 160 kilometres northeast of Cambodia's capital Phnom Penh.Reports suggest that the boat capsized due to being overloaded with passengers. "There was no storm or heavy rain when the boat sank. The accident happened because it was overloaded with passengers," said police Major Leng Sarum.Two boys under the age of five and fourteen women were among the casualties, according to Kratie's governor Kham Phoeun.18 illegal immigrants from Afghanistan and Burma have died after the truck smuggling them crashed in Turkey. The vehicle had been converted with compartments for hiding people in, so that news agencies are describing the modified vehicle as both a truck and a bus.The driver appears to have lost control in Tekirdağ, near the town of Malkara, about 60 miles West of Istanbul. The vehicle overturned. 23 passengers were injured and are reported to be hospitalised and in good condition.The truck driver survived and fled the scene. The vehicle is thought to have been destined for Greece. No other vehicles were involved.2006 was the deadliest Datona Beach Bike Week ever, with a total of 18 bikers being killed on Florida roads, according to the Florida Highway Patrol. This year's festivities brought in about 500,000 bikers to the Daytona area, and 14 of those killed were from Florida. Walter Fliss, 51, had recently bought his motorcycle before being killed when he drove into a construction site. Another biker rode into a guardrail, and others were killed on their way home.Terry Knutsen, who performed under the name Terry Teen during the 1960s, died on Friday evening after life support systems were removed, according to sources close to the artist. Mr. Knutsen was seriously injured on Wednesday evening, while riding his bicycle along the outskirts of Tyler, Texas, United States.Doctors immediately classified Mr. Knutsen's condition as 'critical' upon his arrival at the hospital, and further stated that he never achieved notable brain activity while hospitalized. Reports indicate that Mr. Knutsen struck a tow truck while he rode his bicycle along Highway 110 along the outskirts of Tyler, Texas on Wednesday evening. A passerby describes seeing "...a smashed up bicycle covered in...plastic bags and...a yellow raincoat..." lying at the scene of the accident. Mr. Knutsen achieved some notoriety for his novelty song Curse of the Hearse, which was a staple for many years on Doctor Demento's annual Halloween radio program. Before his death, Mr. Knutsen had performed for many years throughout Texas as a professional clown. He made a brief (uncredited) appearance many years ago on one episode of the hit television show In Living Color. Sources indicate he also had minor roles in various films.A memorial service is planned for Monday evening at 7:00pm local time (CDT).At least 20 people have died and 20 more are injured after a partially constructed flyover (overpass) in Hyderabad, India collapsed onto traffic.The disaster occurred at the Panjagutta junction, near Nagarjuna Circle. Two large concrete sections dropped onto oncoming cars and motorised rickshaws, damaging several severely.A large emergency effort was immediately activated, but experienced severe difficulties in reaching the site due to congested traffic resulting from the collapse. Ambulances from the 108 EMRI Service and Appollo Hospitals attended the scene, and rushed the injured to a variety of nearby hospitals. All the region's major hospitals, particularly the nearby Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences, have placed their medical staff on emergency alert. Rescuers are now using cranes and cutting equipment in an effort to reach anyone who may still be trapped. It is expected that the death toll could rise further as many vehicles remain trapped under tons of debris.Various politicians also attended the scene, including the local district collector, Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh Dr. YS Rajasekhara Reddy, Senior Congress Leader and MLA from Khairathabad P Janardhan Reddy and several other ministers.Police have asked both the public and the press to keep away from the area, in order to prevent further collapse of the unstable structure. Preliminary investigations suggest the flyover had been been poorly constructed. The construction project had been carried out by leading contractor Gammon India Limited. It had been delayed, the original foundations having been built in 2005. After a successful request by the company to have the deadline for the project extended, work was slated to cease in November of this year, with the flyover entering operation by December. It is believed heavy rains in the area a few hours prior to the collapse may have contributed to the disaster.20 people are confirmed to have died, 28 have been rescued injured and more than forty are known to be missing after an overcrowded bus plunged into the Rapti River in a mountainous region of West Nepal. The 45-seater vehicle was carrying at least ninety when it skidded off a highway in Dang district, and many were trapped as the bus sank.Police and rescue crews pulled some people out alive but do not believe there wil be any more survivors. "The bus fell 100 metres off the road into the Rapti river. Thirty-two people have been rescued and are getting treatment at a nearby hospital," said local police officer Purna Gurung, although this disagrees with the Thaindian News, which states 28 were injured, and that just under half of these are hospitalised in a serious condition."We fear there may be bodies inside the bus and some may have been swept down the river... We are currently trying to lift the bus out of the river with a crane," he told reporters, adding that no cause has yet been established but it is known that no other vehicles were involved. Search and rescue and recovery operations were hampered by the remote location of the disaster.The bus was headed to a remote Hindu temple on a hilltop. At least 36 people are confirmed to be Indian nationals on a pilgrimage to the holy site.A survey released today by the RACV and Victorian Automobile Chamber of Commerce found that 20 percent of cars in Victoria have at least one worn or unroadworthy tyre.The study looked at 1,000 cars last month and found of those 200 had at least one tyre that had worn.Chief engineer for the RACV, Michael Case said that driving on worn tyres could increase the distance it takes a car to brake and road safety. "Increasing the braking distance can increase the chance of running into the car in front of you and having an unnecessary collision and if that collision is serious enough certainly it can cause injuries" said Mr Case.It is widely accepted that tyres are one of the most important parts of a vehicle. As tyres are the only part of a vehicle in contact with the road, they affect acceleration, braking and cornering.As well as the safety issues associated with driving a vehicle with a worn tyre, drivers can be fined for "driving an unsafe vehicle" and fined AUD$171, in addition police may "defect" the vehicle, restricting its use until repaired. Victorian law requires that tyres have a minimum tread depth of 1.6mm.Wikinews investigated the average price of each tyre on a typical large and small Australian sedan, and SUV and found the cost to be AUD$129, AUD$105, and AUD$191 respectively.The United States Coast Guard (USCG) has seized 20 tons or nearly 40,000 pounds of cocaine with a street value of over US$500 million in what authorities call one of the largest cocaine busts in history.Three busts in total were made in a period of nearly one month. The first on February 19, off the coast of Mexico, March 18 off the coast of Panama and on March 25, also off the coast of Panama.In the first bust on February 19, "the Ecuadorian-flagged fishing vessel Don Juan K was approached in the Pacific Ocean February 19 off the coast of Mexico while allegedly offloading cocaine into "go-fast" (cigarette-style boat) boats. The fishing vessel's crew apparently set fire to Don Juan K in an attempt to destroy the evidence and flee in the go-fasts. The USCGC Sherman stopped the go-fasts and recovered about 900 pounds of cocaine as Don Juan K sank. The 14 crew members are being processed for further legal action," said a statement on the USCG's website.The second bust on March 18 yielded nearly 40,000 pounds of cocaine."The 330-foot Panamanian-flagged motor vessel Gatun was interdicted in the Pacific Ocean Mar. 18 off the coast of Panama while heading north toward the United States. Sherman's crew stopped and boarded the vessel and found 765 bales of cocaine weighing approximately 38,000 pounds in two shipping containers. Gatun was escorted back to Panama and its 14 crew members processed for further legal action," added the statement.In the third bust on March 25, at least 2,000 pounds of cocaine was seized, also from a ship off Panama's coast."[The] Sherman's crew stopped and boarded a small stateless go-fast in the Pacific Ocean Mar. 25 off the coast of Panama following a short chase, in which, the go-fast attempted to flee at a high rate of speed. Approximately 2,000 pounds of cocaine was found aboard the go-fast and its four crew members were processed for further legal action," said the statement.Several agencies both in the U.S. and in other countries in Central and South America and will continue to investigate the extent of the drug ring."The Coast Guard works in close coordination with Joint Interagency Task Force South, U.S. Attorney's office, Panama Express South, DEA, FBI, Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, and Customs and Border Protection, as well as the Departments of Justice, State and Homeland Security on counter drug operations in the Pacific Ocean near Central and South America.  These drug smuggling routes are some of the most active, yielding roughly 70 percent of the cocaine seized annually by the Coast Guard," added the statement.Twenty years ago, on July 19, 1989, United Airlines Flight 232 crash landed in Sioux City, Iowa, U.S.. 111 of those on board were killed - but the actions of the crew helped save the other 185 flying on the DC-10.The airliner was a trijet, with one engine mounted in the tail. This engine had a cracked fan disc which went undetected by the airline despite inspections, and on that flight the component failed completely, shattering and sending debris flying. This debris damaged all three hydraulic systems that controlled the aircraft, leaving the jet without any conventional means of control. "We had no ailerons. We had no rudder. We had no elevator. We had no spoilers. We had no wing flaps. Everything that controlled the movement of the airplane we lost," said Captain Alfred C. Haynes.The pilots were quickly joined by a DC-10 instructor who was traveling as a passenger, and together they improvised a method of 'skid steering' the aircraft. Captain Haynes recalls "[We had] these two engines, and by varying the thrust on those two engines, we could skid the airplane one way or the other. And if you thrust both throttles up at the same time, the increase in thrust would pitch the nose up, and if you closed both throttles it would pitch the nose down." The flight crew flew the aircraft in this manner for 45 minutes before reaching Sioux Gateway Airport in Iowa's Soiux City. "It looked real good. I thought he was going to make it," said air traffic controller Kevin Bachman of the moments before touchdown. But it wasn't to be: the right wing dropped down and struck the runway, sending the aircraft cartwheeling down the tarmac until it broke up in a fireball.Haynes was knocked out in the accident, and when he came to he "asked if everybody made it. And [flight engineer] Dudley said no. And I said Oh my God, I killed people." The accident occurred as two nearby hospitals were changing shifts,meaning plenty of emergency personnel were on hand to help with the rescue effort. The National Guard were also in the area.Haynes has since come to terms with the accident. He does continue to provide lectures on pulling as a team in challenging circumstances. Today his stance upon the praise directed towards him and his crew is that "If you're going to call a hero, you've got to call everyone involved. The hundreds or thousands involved in the whole operation."A ceremony was held in Sioux City to mark the anniversary. Former 185th Air National Guard chaplain and doctor Dr. Gregory Clapper, who counseled victims and rescuers alike, commented that "Humans are historical beings. When we suffer a loss, the date of the loss becomes so significant. Although it may not be objectively important to others, taking note of that date may be beneficial for those who suffered the loss," he said at the event in Chris Larsen Park.The National Transportation Safety Board's investigation resulted in new procedures for the way airlines inspect their aircraft in the U.S. However modest Haynes and his fellow crew members may be, the fact remains that twenty years on their achievements remain recognized as one of the world's most remarkable displays of airmanship in the face of the odds.Although the 2007 Taipei IT Month closed last Sunday (December 9), it attracted more than 750,000 people to visit the show, but it exposed some problems especially on the traffic factor.Generally on weekdays (December 3-7), the traffic jam at Shi-fu Road often took place in the afternoon as many schools visited the show and several sightseeing buses sometimes parked there for patronages on students. In comparison with Sung-shou Road, Shi-fu Road was sometimes obstructed but not as serious than on weekends because the official shuttle buses played a key role on transportation.On the opposite way of two weekends (December 1, 2, 8, and 9), it exposed traffic problems as many people visited the show, even though the Traffic Division of Taipei City Police Department set medians around the Taipei World Trade Center and the Taipei 101, and it apparently decreased violations on illegal crossing, Shi-fu Road and Sung-shou Road were still trapped in traffic jams than on weekdays.Before the launch of the TWTC Nangang in March 2008, governments and show organizers will focus on the traffic issue at the Taipei World Trade Center during the construction of the MRT Taipei World Trade Center Station.2008 Taipei International Book Exhibition, recently closed on Monday (Feb. 18), showed not only significances from visitors' participation but also smooth traffic condition on roads near the Taipei World Trade Center (TWTC).Since several MICEs (meetings, incentives, conferences, and exhibitions) were held in the TWTC and Taipei International Convention Center, a major issue for the hall owner TAITRA and several show organizers and participants was traffic condition near the venues especially in a show related to information technology. If the venue was filled with overflowed visitors, roads near the venues would be gotten in a stuck especially when it rained.Even though the Xinyi Line of Taipei Metro is still under construction, and the 2008 Taipei Lantern Festival is still held in the Xinyi Shopping Area and Taipei City Hall Square, the traffic condition on Shi-fu Road, Song-chih Road, and Song-shou Road had some differences with a sudden rain in Sunday (Feb. 17) afternoon, in which period made a major impact in corrupting good traffic condition in the TIBE 2008 especially from Saturday (Feb. 16) to Sunday morning, in which period, a bad traffic condition ever taken place in past years.Even though what the TIBE will be transformed, the overall image and quality from an exhibition including the TIBE will be determined by several factors especially operations and contents from the venue owner and show organizers.Ever since the Taste of Taiwan Cuisine, a complex to promote the MICE (meeting, incentive travel, conference, and exhibition) and cultural industries in Taiwan exclusively in June, made its initiation at 2006, the tourism ratio from foreigners were progressively increased in this complex event.To bring up the MICE industry, Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), the event organizer, arranged several key events including Taipei Trade Shows, travel packages, views, and conferences for international businesspeople. This effectively redefined the MICE industry in Taiwan during the event.25 people were killed and eight more injured after a bus left the road and plunged into a river gorge in a mountainous region of Kashmir, Pakistan.The bus was carrying around 40 people when it left the road in the Neelum Valley. According to a local military official who declined to give his name to reporters "It was apparently due to overspeeding. That's the reason witnesses are giving".The crash occurred 45 km (30 miles) Northeast of the town of Muzaffarabad, according to the same official. The bus had been heading for the town, having originated from Jura.The military continues to search for six more passengers who are known to be missing.26 motorcycles and two cars have piled up on the Interstate 5 road in Oregon, United States. Two bikers have been critically injured.The crash occurred near the Baldock Rest Area, which is just south of Wilsonville, at 2:45 p.m. Friday. The group of motorbikes, belonging to members of the Brother Speed club, was in the left (fast) lane behind one of the cars when traffic slowed down. Despite attempts to take evasive action, the bikes and car collided. The second car was hit by a motorbike that veered into the middle lane.The bikes were in a formation of two columns — standard for large motorbike parties.  According to eyewitness Terry Scott, a silver SUV suddenly slammed on its brakes and while the leading two bikers managed to swerve out of the way, the rest were caught up in a chain reaction.  "There were bikes and people and gear flying," said Scott, who had been driving with his girlfriend behind the bikes.The crash scene was "ordered mayhem" according to Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue's captain Mike Towner. "Firefighters from Aurora and Canby were providing medical care to injured bikers as non-injured bikers tried to assist," he said.A LifeFlight air ambulance took two bikers to hospital and eight more were taken away by ambulances. Some bikers suffered from broken bones as well as shoulder and hip injuries. KPTV quotes the club's website as saying that they are "serious about brotherhood, respect, riding fast and building Choppers."The accident was responded to by paramedics and firefighters from various locations, including Canby, St. Paul, Woodburn and those from the multi-city Tualatin Valley Fire & Rescue. The entire road was closed northbound until 4 p.m., when one lane was reopened. Investigators kept the other lanes closed until 6 p.m.Officials say 27 people are dead after a plane crashed into the sea off east Indonesia today. Fifteen bodies have been recovered and it is thought the others on board have sunk with the wreckage."I can confirm that all the passengers were killed when the plane exploded as it crashed into the sea," an Indonesian navy official told local radio station ElShinta. He said around ten navy divers were sent to the Papua crash site 400 metres off-shore in six kilometres of water but "had difficulties locating them [trapped passengers] due to strong currents and limited equipment."Merpati Nusantara Airlines has not confirmed passenger numbers. A transport ministry spokesman said the ministry is "still checking on the passengers' situation," adding "the weather was pretty bad at the time [of the crash]." Built by the Aviation Industry Corporation of China, the propellor-driven MA60 was 500 metres from a runway when it crashed, according to airport officials.The nation of islands has heavy use of aviation and a poor safety record, including the crash of an Adam Air jet in 2007 that killed 102 people near Sulawesi. The European Commission had banned all Indonesian airlines from entering it, but two years ago flag carrier Garuda Indonesia was deemed to have improved and allowed to enter.Twenty-seven people have been killed after a bus was engulfed by fire in Chongqing, Southwest China today; 11 more were hospitalized.None of the 38 on board escaped unscathed after the disaster occurred at around 5 p.m. local time. Emergency services rushed the injured to a nearby hospital for treatment, while two vice-mayors visited the scene of the tragedy.It is not currently known what caused the accident.A Vietnamese coal transport ship sank in the South China Sea on Friday killing three people on board, reported the Xinhua News Agency.The ship sank 22 kilometers (14 miles) from the Fangcheng Port in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region.The Nanhaijiu 196 rescue vessel was dispatched about 8 pm local time, when authorities were notified that the ship may sink. The coal transport ship sank about 9:30pm Friday. There were winds up to 90 kilometers per hour when the ship sank during a gale.Saturday morning rescue operations were supplemented by a rescue helicopter. There were a total of seven crew members on board. Four are missing, while three bodies have been recovered by the South China Sea Rescue Bureau.At least 43 people have died and at least 46 injured, 4 of whom are in critical condition, in a metro train crash in Spanish city of Valencia, according to the regional government. It has been reported that two of the carriages have derailed and overturned, leading to the evacuation of 150 passengers. A part of the wall in the tunnel between the Plaza de España and Jesús stations in the southwestern neighborhood of Patraix may have collapsed, causing the derailment of one of the carriages, which in turn caused the carriage behind it to overturn.Another theory put forth by subdelegate of the regional government Luis Felipe Martínez is that the wheels on one of the carriages fell off while the train was speeding. The same source has also confirmed that there are two overturned carriages.The fire department, paramedics and local police are on the scene after a passenger in the crashed train called the emergency services at about 1:03 p.m. CEST (1103 UTC). The authorities have closed the area to all road traffic and routes 1 and 2 of the Valencia metro system, which use the affected rail tracks, are shut down.The incident comes days before Pope Benedict XVI was due to visit Valencia for the World Meeting of the Families, expected to be attended by one million pilgrims.The bodies of 46 Afghan illegal immigrants who suffocated to death in a container truck Saturday near Quetta, Pakistan, returned home Tuesday.The Edhi Foundation placed the victim's bodies into coffins to transport them back to Chaman. Funeral prayers were said before victims left Quetta hospital. "We are taking these dead bodies to Spin Boldak and later these will be flown to Kabul by helicopter. We are thankful to Pakistan government for every help," said Afghan consul general Daud Mohsini.Afghan officials received the bodies from The Edhi ambulances and Pakistan police escorts at the Pak-Afghan border Bab-e-Dosti (Friendship Gate). Security was high and traffic was backed up at the border crossing. The bodies were taken to Kandahar then to Kabul before they were laid to rest in their home towns. Hamid Karzai, President of Afghanistan dispatched aircraft to Pakistan to bring home the 46 victims. Poor weather grounded the planes, and the bodies were driven back across the border.Pakistan police found a locked truck packed with approximately 111 Afghan illegal immigrants around 20 kilometers (12 miles) south of Quetta on Saturday. The driver had fled the scene where 62 people were initially pronounced dead. Police said that from the strong smell emanating from the truck, the victims may have died days before they were discovered.45 other people were found unconscious and taken directly to the hospital. At hospital two more migrants died. "The death toll is 46," said Ghulam Dastagir, a police official.Wazir Khan Nasir, a senior police official said, "We have been able to talk to some of the people, who were trapped in the container. They were all Afghans in the container and the container was going to Iran, When the condition of people inside the container deteriorated, the driver fled, leaving the container." Survivors have reported that a human smuggling racket locked 64 Kabul residents and 37 Spin Boldak residents in the truck container Friday afternoon. The truck's air conditioning unit stopped working causing the locked passengers to cry out for help which was unheeded by the truck's driver, and they fell unconscious. However, the loud ruckus caused by the trapped people inside did alert police and local residents to their plight.  The trip had cost each illegal immigrant US$4,000 to 8,000 for the trip.  Gul Zameen, a survivor said, "We are all poor and wanted to find jobs in Quetta and Iran." The survivors have been charged under the Foreigners Act and some have been detained. Karzai has ordered an investigation and "demanded people avoid dangerous illegal migration and not be deceived by smugglers." "We'll go to Pakistan and talk to the survivors to find out what had exactly happened. The culprits will be brought to justice," said Moheeddin Baluch head of the investigating delegation. Pakistan's Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) is also investigating. Five suspects believed to be involved in running the human smuggling racket have been arrested.A Comair commuter jet crashed on takeoff from Lexington, Kentucky yesterday, killing 49 people on board and seriously injuring the plane's first officer, James M. Polehinke.The early-morning Flight 5191 was operating as Delta Connection and was headed from Lexington's Blue Grass Airport to Atlanta's Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport. It crashed about a mile west of the airport at 6:07 a.m. Eastern Time. The plane was a Canadair Regional Jet CRJ-100.Polehinke was taken to the University of Kentucky's Chandler Medical Center, where he was listed in critical condition. According to the National Transportation Safety Board, the aircraft departed from a shorter runway than it was cleared to take off from.According to Gary Ginn, the Fayette County coroner, there was a significant fire on board the aircraft after impact, after which it continued to move forward several hundred yards before coming to a stop. The aircraft, however, is largely intact, Ginn said, and most of the passengers remained inside the cabin.  Ginn said he expects the cause of death to be fire for the majority of the victims. The tail number has been confirmed as N431CA.Based on information recovered from the flight's data recorder and physical evidence on the scene, the National Transportation Safety Board is focusing on the theory that the pilot attempted to take off from a 3,500-foot or 1067-meter runway that is not certified for airline traffic. That runway is only for general aviation aircraft.Investigators believe the plane did not get enough speed to lift off the ground before running out of runway. Air traffic controllers in the tower had cleared the flight for takeoff from an adjacent 7,000-foot or 2135-meter runway used for commercial airlines.Local police and fire fighters responded to the scene within minutes, and it has been reported that two off-duty police officers helped pull Polehinke from the cockpit of the burning jet.Laura Brown, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration told CNN that there is no indication that terrorism was involved in connection with the crash.Family members and friends who suspected that their loved ones may have been on Flight 5191 began arriving at Blue Grass Airport shortly after the crash. They have been taken to a local hotel, where staff from Comair as well as airport officials are caring for them and providing them with information. Comair has also set up a hotline where family and friends can receive information: the number is 1-800-801-0088.Among the dead were Jon Hooker and Scarlett Parsley, who had married just the night before and were off to their honeymoon.A moment of silence was held for the crash victims before the Los Angeles Dodgers-Arizona Diamondbacks baseball game in Phoenix, where Brandon Webb, a former University of Kentucky baseball teammate of Hooker, is a pitcher. Another passenger, Charles Lykins of Naples, Fla., wanted an early flight so he could get home to his two young children after visiting friends and family in the Lexington area, said Paul Richardson of Winchester. Mike Finley, 52, who lived in Corbin and owned the Finley Fun Centers, was headed to Reno, Nev., for a rollerskating convention, said his son, David Taylor. "I'd say there's thousands of kids who grew up with our father," he said.Rick Queen, who works for Turfway Realty in Lexington, said his father-in-law, Les Morris, was on the flight. Queen and Taylor were both frustrated with how Comair handled the families. "I just felt Delta ran families around this morning for three hours. I finally got some help from a Lexington firefighter," Taylor said.Flight attendant Kelly Heyer was single and lived in the Cincinnati area. He had been working for the airline since 2004 and was recently appointed base representative for the flight attendant union said Tracy Riley, a union secretary and fellow Comair flight attendant. "He was a standup individual," Riley said. "He was very professional, loved the job."Bornhorst described his own reaction as "complete devastation" and he lamented the frustration of the families as they awaited word. "When tragedies like this happen, information can just not be relayed fast enough and I certainly understand the frustrations related to that," Bornhorst said.Five people were killed today and several more injured when a ferry carrying 260 passengers caught fire off Mindoro island's Paluan Bay in rough seas. One of those killed was a five-year-old girl. The bodies of the deceased were taken to Pasay City. The wooden-hulled ferry was completely destroyed by the fire and sank as a result.Rear Admiral Damian Carlos of the Philippine Coast Guard told reporters that the fire started in the cargo hold of MV Cataleen-D about 5 a.m. local time (2100 UTC yesterday), and the first distress signal was received by authorities at approximately 8 a.m. He went on to speculate that a cigarette or spontaneous combustion may have caused the blaze.When the captain realised the firefighters were unable to contain the blaze he steered the vessel towards the Mindoro shoreline.Most of the passengers and crew jumped into the safety of the sea when they saw that other parts of the ship had been engulfed by flames. The majority of them suffered burns to their faces. The first Coast Guard ship that responded was BRP Pampanga, with local fishing vessels saving around a hundred of those in the water. Carlos said of the Coast Guard, “It was a good thing that the rescuers were on a mission in Corregidor.”The ship was owned by Manila-based San Nicolas Shipping Lines and captained by Danilo Faeldog. It had departed from Pier 2 at the Manila North Harbor around 7 p.m. Saturday, and was destined for Coron, Palawan.It is the second disaster to strike San Nicolas Shipping Lines. In 2004 the MV San Nicolas sank after a collision with a WGA Super Ferry vessel. The San Nicolas was carrying 203 passengers, of which 25 were fatally injured.The Coast Guard has initiated a full investigation into the cause of the disaster. The Maritime Industry Authority is expected to conduct its own investigation via the Board of Marine Inquiry. Carlos said the vessel's owner, identified as Samuel Nicolas, and anyone else found responsible could be charged with "reckless imprudence resulting in possible homicide."A train carrying 200 people has crashed into a pick-up truck in Netanya, Israel. At least 75 people are injured and at least five have died. Police say that the truck was pushed onto the tracks by another car when the train smashed into it. The driver was not injured."A train travelling from Tel Aviv to Haifa struck a truck at ... a junction. As a result of the impact, the first three carriages of the train were derailed. We are dealing with a large number of casualties," said a spokesman for the Israeli Police.Witnesses say that the driver of the truck managed to escape before the train hit the vehicle "crushing" it in the process."I'm not sure why (the truck) got stuck, but its two front wheels got caught. The driver got out before the crossing gate came down. ... The train just continued steaming ahead with the truck, and the truck was crushed," said Miri, a witness on the scene.The train was traveling from Tel Aviv to Haifa.As many as 50 people have been killed after a wooden ferry capsized in the Irrawaddy delta region of Myanmar on Sunday night, according to officials.The Nay Win Tun ran into an oil barge in the Irrawaddy delta, causing it to sink. The ferry, travelling from the town of Pathein to Thetkelthaung, is said to have had about 200 passengers on board at the time of the accident. The barge didn't sink, authorities said."The boat sank after colliding with an oil barge. We have recovered 34 bodies and there are at least another 16 people missing who are believed to have drowned. The other passengers were rescued from the water and have gone back to their home villages," said an unnamed official in the area.Another official commented that "there is very little chance of finding those missing alive. Most of them are women and children."Ferry accidents in Myanmar are not infrequent, as most of the country's population relies on old, frequently crowded water vessels for transportation, which are sometimes not well maintained.Reports say that a team of treasure hunters from the United States has recovered over 500 million U.S. dollars (£253m) worth of gold and silver coins off the coast of Cornwall, United Kingdom in what is being called the biggest treasure find ever, but the exact location of the treasure has not been named because of security and legal concerns. The operation is codenamed the Black Swan Project.Odyssey Marine Exploration made the discovery and the treasure is believed to be from a 17th century shipwreck located some 40 miles off the Cornish coast. There have reportedly been hundreds of thousands of the silver coins and at least 200 gold coins found in the wreckage, some in "near mint condition." All the coins are being examined in the U.S. by experts. "The gold coins are almost all dazzling mint state specimens," said one of the founders of Odyssey Marine Exploration, Greg Stemm.The reports came out when Doctor Lane Brunner, who is located in the U.S. and is an expert on coins, said that the team had to report the discovery to a judge in the fall of 2006 before the finds could be salvaged."They told a judge at that point that they had found the wreck of a seventeenth-century merchant ship in the Atlantic Ocean, just outside the English Channel - about 40 miles off Land's End. So all we can do is add two and two together. It would seem logical given the timing and everything that could be the site," said Brunner.Reports suggest that the shipwreck is that of the Merchant Royal which is said to have sunk in 1641 near the Isles of Scilly."We have treated this site with kid gloves and the archaeological work done by our team out there is unsurpassed. We are thoroughly documenting and recording the site, which we believe will have immense historical significance," added Stemm.The incident happened Monday night, according to the railroad company, Chemin de Fer Congo-Ocean. The incident is believed to have occurred as the train rounded a curve in a remote part of the Congo, around 37 miles (60 km) from Pointe-Noire. Four railcars are reported to have fallen into a ravine.A spokesperson for the government, Bienvenue Okiemy, said that "excess speed" had been the cause of the derailment.Officials said 60 bodies have been recovered, and a further 450 people are being treated for injuries at a hospital in Pointe-Noire. Okiemy commented that the death toll could still rise, "because searches and operations to lift wagons which fell into a ravine are still ongoing."  A railroad official said that "[t]he material damage was also very severe", adding that "[a]ll steps have been taken to organise relief."The incident is the third major train crash on the line in two decades. In 1991, a passenger train collided with a freighter, killing around 100 people, and in 2001, another collision killed around 50 people.A large pile-up on an Austrian motorway has left one woman dead and at least thirty - up to thirty-seven - people injured, five seriously. Ongoing storms depositing snow and ice across western Europe are believed to have contributed to the extent of today's accident which occurred between Vienna and Salzburg. The pileup involved at least 60 vehicles, and some reports say up to 70. It is thought the direct cause was a coach. Multiple trucks were also involved.Numerous people required cut free from their mangled vehicles at the site on the A1 autobahn westbound, which is now closed in both directions. The crash was between Seewalchen and St. Georgen, to the north-east of Salzburg. The weather is making it difficult for ambulances and search and rescue helicopters to approach the scene. The deceased was a Spanish woman living in Switzerland.The same storm has also caused a large number of road accidents in neighbouring Switzerland, which saw 70 centimetres (28 inches) of snow on Sunday with four metre (13ft) drifts. Hundreds of tourists are trapped in the Aeolian Islands near Scicily, Italy after five metre waves prompted a two-day suspension of ferry services and destroyed roofs. In the Netherlands traffic jams reached a total of 836 kilometers (519 miles) long and Amsterdam's Schipol Airport saw delays while snow was shoveled off runways. Macedonia saw one fatality in the storms and Germany has also seen much snowfall.A fuel tanker explosion in Nigeria killed at least seventy people on Saturday, officials have said.The incident took place in the southern state of Anambra. According to the authorities, the tanker flipped over after driving over a pothole, causing it to ignite. The fire quickly spread to five crowded minibuses nearby.The death toll is expected to increase as bodies continue to be recovered from the debris.The head of operations for Nigeria's Federal Road Safety Commission, Ben Ekenna, warned that similar such accidents will happen again if something is not done to improve the poorly-maintained Nigerian road network."If something isn't done quickly, tragedies like this will happen again," he said.73,000 United Auto Workers (UAW) union members launched a nationwide strike today against General Motors (GM), the largest auto manufacturer in the United States.UAW President Ron Gettelfinger said GM would need to meet pay, health care, and job security issues. Gettelfinge said, "This is nothing we wanted...No one benefits in a strike. But there comes a point where someone can push you off a cliff. That's what happened here."The strike was officially launched at 11 a.m. EDT (UTC-4) today.Negotiations were reportedly going to occur again this afternoon, but there have been no reports of any negotiating going on from either side.80 facilities in 30 different states closed today because of the strike.CNN reports that GM facilities in Mexico and Canada may close soon, too. The vice president of global vehicle forecasts for CSM Worldwide, Michael Robinet, said today that dealerships in the US likely won't feel the effects of the strike for several weeks.A statement from GM today said, "We are disappointed in the UAW's decision to call a national strike. The bargaining involved complex, difficult issues that affect the job security of our U.S. work force, and the long-term viability of the company. We are fully committed to working with the UAW to develop solutions together to address the competitive challenges facing General Motors. We will continue focusing our efforts on reaching an agreement as soon as possible." If the strike continues, UAW strike funds will supply each striker with US$200 a month and medical coverage.Service to millions of Internet users in the Middle East and Asia has been disrupted, following damage to undersea cables. The cables, SEA-ME-WE 4 and FLAG, which provide communications services for various countries — including India, Pakistan, Egypt, and Saudi Arabia — are believed to have been damaged by a ship attempting to moor off Egypt on Wednesday, January 30, 2008. One day later, on February 1, the FALCON cable was also reported cut 56 km off Dubai. Repair ships have been sent to both breaks, with capacity to India expected to reach 80% of its usual speed by Friday, February 2.According to the telecommunications provider Qtel, a fourth cable linking Qatar to the United Arab Emirates was damaged on Sunday, February 3.A total of five cables being operated by two submarine cable operators have been damaged with a fault in each.A deadly road crash in New Brunswick, Canada has claimed the lives of eight people near the city of Bathurst on Saturday. A van carrying 12 people was returning from a school basketball game in Moncton when it slid on an icy highway and collided with a semi-trailer truck.Of the dead, seven were members of the Bathurst High School boys basketball team and the other was a teacher, the van driver's wife. The survivors are three teammates and a coach who was driving the van, all of whom were hospitalised at Chaleur Regional Hospital in Bathurst. The driver of the semi-trailer was uninjured. The crash occurred on New Brunswick Route 8 as it approached the junction with Route 11 into Bathurst.Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper expressed his shock and condolences, describing the tragedy as "unthinkable". New Brunswick Premier Shawn Graham also expressed his condolences.A minimum of 85 Hindu pilgrims have been killed in India and 64 injured after their lorry and trailer plunged 24m (80ft) into a river gorge late last night.Approximately 150 people were on board when the driver lost control on a sharp bend near the village of Nagbavji, Rajasthan, smashing through a concrete crash barrier and continuing down into the valley, coming to rest inverted. An overnight rescue operation was initiated, removing both survivors and bodies of the dead from the wreck, with the aid of cranes and spotlights. Ambulances and medical teams rushed to the scene from surrounding areas. Of the 64 who were hospitalised, three are reported to be in critical condition. The Press Trust of India reported that as many as 130 were injured, and Al Jazeera reported that there may have been 200 people on board. It is believed the death toll could rise still further, as many people remain trapped beneath the trailer.The truck was a 12-wheeled model designed for hauling shipping containers, and was carrying pilgrims from three nearby villages Shiwal, Madri and Bhawa. The driver had offered to take them to their destination for free, a practise common in India, despite the fact that such trucks are not safe for passenger transport, being designed primarily as freight transporters.The vehicle had been destined for the temple of Ramdev, a site considered by both Hindus and Muslims as being of high spiritual significance. The temple is the subject of an annual ten-day pilgrimage every September, which begins on September 13, although most of the 250,000 pilgrims who flock to the site arrive several days in advance of the festival.The Chief Minister of Rajasthan Vasundhara Raje visited the three villages in which the victims resided. The local government has initiated a full inquiry into the disaster.A semi-tractor carrying 9,000 gallons (34,000 litres) of liquid butane overturned at the weekend on the United States highway 50 east of Salida, Colorado, rupturing the tank and spilling its contents. The road was closed to traffic for 20 hours during one of the busiest times of the year, and traffic rerouted along a three-hour diversion route.Colorado State Patrol reports state the driver, Roger Meely, 62, was hauling a pressurised tank full of butane when he lost control and crashed near Mile Marker 228. Colorado State Patrol Sgt. William Holt described the accident, “He lost control of the vehicle in the curves, veered across the lanes and rolled it." Meely was treated and released from the Heart of the Rockies hospital in Salida after the crash, but escaped serious injury.The truck rolled at about 6:50 p.m. six miles from Salida, prompting closure of the highway. Although the driver escaped unharmed, 10-15 homes and an unknown number of campsites along the Arkansas River were evacuated as fumes began to drift downstream towards the town of Swissvale. Rafters were ordered away from the area, but Hazmat crews were able to prevent butane from contaminating the river.Emergency workers were forced to allow the butane to vent itself through the night. Capt. Jack Cowert of the Colorado State Patrol said, "I would say those of us on scene were surprised it didn't explode."In total, the following organisations responded: the Colorado State Patrol Hazardous Materials Unit, South Arkansas Fire Protection District, Howard Volunteer Fire Department, Arkansas Valley Ambulance, Chaffee County Emergency Services, Alpine Towing and the Colorado Department of Transportation.An attempt was made at 9:00 a.m. Monday to right the tanker and tow it away, but in the process of securing it to the tow truck it slipped and a dolly axle buckled, further lengthening the delay.The road was not reopened until 3:10 p.m. Monday. Sheila Johnson, a flagger working for Alpine Towing, later said of the commuters affected that they were mostly understanding, saying of them, "For the most part people were pretty good about the road being closed,".Holt blamed the driver for the accident, saying he “will be cited for something,” and that “anytime a crash like this happens, the driver either wasn’t paying attention or he was driving too fast.” It was later determined that the driver's excessive speed was to blame. He was ultimately charged over the incident.The incident sparked a full review evaluating the emergency response, which included about ten agencies.On Monday, an Air France Airbus A380, operating as Air France Flight 007, collided with a Comair Bombardier CRJ-700, operating as Comair flight 553/Delta Connection flight 6293 in Delta Connection livery, on a taxiway at John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City. The A380 had 520 people onboard, and the smaller plane had 66.The Comair jet had just arrived from Boston Logan International Airport, and was stopped on the tarmac, awaiting a gate to offload passengers. The A380 was preparing to depart for Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport, and was taxiing along a taxiway when its wingtip struck the tail of the other plane. The impact spun the CRJ around 90 degrees and resulted in some damage to both planes.A passenger on board the A380 said that "It really felt just like a speedbump or like hitting a pothole—a jolt—but it didn't feel right [it felt] like that shouldn't be happening."LiveATC.net captured the recording of the flight deck and ground control communications before and after the incident. In the recording, one can hear controllers giving taxi instructions to the Air France plane, then later a controller calling for emergency personnel to the intersection of taxiways Alpha and Mike.The National Transportation Safety Board plans to investigate the incident, and will study the flight recorders, air traffic control recordings, and data from radar on the ground.The Airbus A380, the world's largest passenger plane, was set to land in the United States of America on Monday after a test flight. One of the A380s is flying from Frankfurt to Chicago via New York; the airplane will be carrying about 500 people.It is being billed as the first time it has carried a near-normal number of passengers, though most will be staff of Airbus and German airline Lufthansa.A second A380 is also travelling to the U.S. on Monday, but without passengers. This will be branded as a Qantas flight and fly from Frankfurt to Los Angeles LAX airport. The first leg of the flight going towards New York will be travelling under a Lufthansa flight number, and is due to arrive at New York's John F. Kennedy airport at 12:30 EST (16:30 UTC).The test flights are being used to monitor everything from how easily the plane docks at the terminal gate to the way the in-flight dining and entertainment services work. Deliveries to Singapore Airlines, its launch customer, are not due until October - two years late.Delays of the production of the A380 have cost Airbus more than 6 billion dollars. Airbus has warned there could be additional charges to come.These monetary problems have led to a recently-announced restructuring program at Airbus, called Power8, in which 10,000 jobs go and several factories will be sold to Airbus partners. France will lose 4,300 jobs, followed by Germany having a loss of 3,700 jobs, while the United Kingdom and Spain will see 1,600 and 400 jobs cut respectively.The Belgian government has announced that it will give up to 150 million € (US$ 199 million) in aid to help sub-contractors which supply Airbus and employ thousands of workers.British actor Ryan Thomas has become involved in a vehicle collision in Manchester, England.  The actor, who is aged 25 and plays the character of Jason Grimshaw in ITV soap-opera Coronation Street, was believed to be involved in a collision involving his Chrysler striking a lamppost.  This occurred at around 0400 GMT on October 31 in the city centre of Manchester.It has been reported that Ryan has been taken away for questioning by the police. Another man was also arrested in connection with this incident, and was later charged with the offence of driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol, according to recent reports. Thomas was however not charged with offences relating to the accident.A spokesperson for the Greater Manchester Police has said the following about this incident: "Police were called following a report of a collision. Officers attended and found a Chrysler had collided with a lamp-post. A 25-year-old was interviewed by police on Friday 6 November 2009."Indonesian budget airline Adam Air has been given a three-week ultimatum by the authorities to prove its economic stability or its license will be revoked, said Transportation Minister Jusman Djamal. This is because major financial difficulties have become apparent today, with two major shareholders pulling out of the company.PT Global Transport Service (GTS) and Bright Star Perkasa, who between them own a 50% stake in the company, have decided to sell back all their shares to their original owners, who control the other 50%. These are the family of founder Adam Suherman and Sandra Ang. The companies invested in the airline last year, when the company was struggling after the New Year's Day disappearance of Adam Air Flight 574 with 102 on board. The Boeing 737 (B737) was ultimately determined to have crashed into the sea near Sulawesi, and all on board are presumed dead. Shortly afterwards, Adam Air Flight 172, another B737, snapped in half during a hard landing, but held together preventing fatalities. These were not the first serious accidents for the company, as in February 2006 Flight 782 became lost for several hours after navigation systems failed and the plane entered a radar blackspot, forcing a subsequent emergency landing many miles from the intended route. The given reasons for the withdrawal are a lack of improvement in safety and financial irregularities.The company has now also defaulted on debt payments to aircraft lease firms, resulting in 12 of their 22 planes being seized, and has cut the number of routes served from 52 to 12. The remaining ten planes are also in default and at risk of seizure. Adam Air owes leasing companies US$14 million compared to free capital of $4.8 million of free capital. They have agreed to buy back shares gradually for $11 million (100 billion rupiah), $6 million less than the investment firms paid for them. The cost difference will be borne by Harry Tanoesoedibyo's family, the founder of PT Bhakti Investama, of which GTS is a wholly owned subsidiary. The companies have also lost 157 billion rupiah worth of investment in the company since the April 2007 deal. 9,325 Rupiah are currently worth US$1.GTS director Gustiono Kustianto said that "Since we joined, our priority has been safety" but that Adam Air's management had been unresponsive to pressure from the new investors to improve its poor record. Last weeek another company B737 shot off the runway during landing, damaging the plane and injuring five.Lawyer Marx Andryan of Hotman Paris Hutapea, representing the investment firms, said they have documents proving the company has not adequatly seen to pilot recruitment, maintenance and insurance.Suherman said "We have defaulted and the investors have done nothing about it. We'll continue to operate as long as we have planes," adding that there are no current plans to declare bankruptcy."Out of 22 planes, now we only have 10 because 12 of them have been declared in default. The other 10 have been declared in default as well, but I'm still trying to work out a way to restructure the payments," he told Reuters. He went on to say that a cash injection is required, and that "There is a possibility starting on March 21 Adam Air will temporarily cease operations until there is a decision from the shareholders regarding the insurance premium."Indonesian budget carrier Adam Air has been warned by Indonesia's transport minister that unless the airline improves safety it will be shut down. Adam Air has suffered a string of recent accidents."We are giving them a chance to improve. If there's no change, we will place them in the third category," said Transport Minister Jusman Syafii Djamal, according to the state's Antara news agency. The third category refers to the lowest a three-category ratings system for airline safety introduced last year. Airlines in the third category will be shut down in three months unless improvements occur. Adam Air is in the second category, which means that although the airline meets minimum requirements some problems still remain. "We give an early warning to make the carrier improve its safety," Djamal told reporters.The announcement follows the news yesterday that an Adam Air Boeing 737-400 had overshot the runway at Batam island's airport, injuring five of the over 170 people on board. It is the third serious accident in just over a year. On New Year's Day 2007 Adam Air Flight 574 crashed into the ocean near Sulawesi, leaving 102 missing, presumed dead. The following month Flight 172 cracked in half after a hard landing but held together, preventing fatalities. Both aircraft were Boeing 737s.Danke Drajat, spokesman for Adam Air, said that the airline was making efforts to comply with the demand. "We are completing all manuals and revamping the standard operating procedure," he said.The Adam Air accidents accounted for two of the three main accidents that caused the European Union to ban Indonesian airlines from EU airspace last year over safety standards. The other, Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, involved a 737 belonging to the state owned flag carrier speeding off a runway at Yogyakarta during an attempted landing; 21 people were killed.The passenger numbers for Indonesian budget airline Adam Air have increased dramatically, following a slump after the loss of Adam Air Flight 574 on New Year's Day.Adam Air usually carries 450,000 - 600,000 passengers a month, but lost about 30 percent of those immediately following the crash. Adam Air corporate communications head Danke Dradjat explained the situation during a telephone conversation with reporters from The Jakarta Post. "There was a slowdown in the month following the crash, but it was brief and we managed to get back our passengers over the following three months, with a gradual increase of ten percent per month... There wasn't any special campaign to get the passengers back. We only emphasized the fact that our aircraft were maintained and serviced by the same technicians as Garuda Indonesia," he said. Garuda is Indonesia's state-owned airline.Adam Air currently operates services to as many as 150 destinations every day, including international services to Singapore and Malaysia. Danke, who defended Adam Air by pointing out that major airlines also suffer accidents, said he expects passenger numbers to continue increasing. "We're expecting up to a 30 percent increase in passengers in the seven days before and after the Idul Fitri festivities." According to Danke, Idul Fitri is one of three periods over which passenger numbers hit peak levels, the others being Christmas and New Year.Angry fans of the AEK Athens football team damaged the ferry "Ierapetra" during the route from Heraklio, Crete, to the port of Rafina in Attica. About 700 AEK supporters boarded the ferry after the end of the Greek football cup final between Olympiacos and AEK which took place in Crete. The victory of Olympiacos over AEK, 3-0, angered the supporters of AEK, which is believed to be the catalyst for damage in both the stadium and the ship. The Prosecutor ordered a preliminary inquiry into the incidents that took place onboard the Ierapetra. During the trip, a group of youths started breaking everything for no apparent reason. They caused extensive damage to the passenger lounges and the bars, while they responded to the crew’s pleas with cursing. A Greek police officer was injured in the leg by a flare, and a crewmember was also injured. The owner of the ship, Dane Sea Line of Piraeus, estimates the cost of damage to the ship at €150,000. The Greek media has accused the administration of Greek police and the Ministers of Public Order and Shipping of negligence in not doing more to prevent the events.Irish national airline Aer Lingus have purchased 12 new long-haul Airbus aircraft as a means of modernising it's long-haul fleet and improving it's transatlantic network.Under the agreement, Aer Lingus Group PLC said it will receive six new A330-300E aircraft from 2009 to 2011, then between 2014 and 2016 it will take delivery of six new A350 XWB (Extra Wide Body) aircraft, a new design currently under development by Airbus. Aer Lingus also have options of six more A350s to exercise by 2018.Aer Lingus already operates an all-Airbus fleet consisting of 30 short-haul aircraft( 24 A320s and 6 A321s) and eight long-haul A330s, and had made the purchase of new long-haul airliners a top priority since the formerly state-owned company was floated on British and Irish stock markets in September 2006. The airline had approached Airbus rival Boeing regarding a potential deal for their new 787 aircraft, but Aer Lingus Chief Executive Dermot Mannion stated that he believed the Airbus aircraft were “better on fuel and better on range” than the 787. He also said that, although the aircraft have a catalogue value of €1.78 billion (US$2.4 billion), Airbus had offered them at an "exceptional discounts” on them. Some of the A330s will be replaced by the new aircraft.As well as new routes to the US, Mannion stated that there was a possibility of routes elsewhere resulting from the new aircraft as well, saying, “We will prioritize the U.S. (but) we have an eye as to what's happening to the Far East and South Africa.” The airline already offers flights to New York, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, Dubai, and recently launched 3 new U.S. routes to San Francisco, Orlando, and Washington.Aer Lingus shares on the Irish Stock Exchange fell 2.5 percent to €2.73 ($3.68) the day the deal was announced. It will fall through unless backed by shareholders.Aer Lingus rival Ryanair has been attempting to take over Aer Lingus since December, and if this bid is successful, the new aircraft may become redundant as Ryanair intends to end transatlantic services. However, the Irish government, which holds a 25 percent share in Aer Lingus, disapproves of the takeover, as do Aer Lingus employee-controlled trusts that hold more than 15 percent shares. Ryanair owns a 25 percent share in Aer Lingus. The takeover is also unlikely to receive regulatory approval from the European Union.Mannion said of the integration of the new aircraft "The A350 XWB fits in with our ambitious plans to expand existing routes and to open up new ones from our hub in Dublin. We already have an all Airbus fleet and the new aircraft will fit in seamlessly."File:Boeing787 model transparant.pngRussian flag carrier Aeroflot has negotiated the purchase of 22 new Boeing 787 Dreamliners, an aircraft Boeing currently has under development. The first jets will be delivered in 2014. The Dreamliner will be the first commercial jet to be manufactured mainly with carbon-fiber composites instead of the aluminium previously used.The deal was announced during a large business forum that President Vladimir Putin had set up to showcase his country's role in the international market. The deal was the centrepiece of the event.The sale is the result of a deal begun between Aeroflot and Chicago-based Boeing last year, but negotiations had stalled due to worsening relations between the US and Russia. Aeroflot has suffered as a result of the delay. If had the sale gone through last year, the aircraft would have been delivered by 2011.The aircraft have a pre-modification catalogue value of US$3.5 billion, although neither of the companies involved would reveal the actual agreement reached between the two firms.When asked whether the deal should be seen as a step towards a resolution of the rift between Russia and the US, Boeing Executive Vice President Scott Carson replied, "It represents a business relationship between our Company and Aeroflot, and I'm really proud of it,". Boeing has had a policy of Russian involvement dating back to the early 1990s. More recently, Boeing has entered into an agreement with Russian manufacturer Sukhoi for worldwide marketing and after-sales support for their regional aircraft, the Superjet, and have reached a deal with Kremlin-owned Unified Aircraft for general co-operation. They also have a Moscow design centre that has 1,400 employees and a 30-year contract for supply of titanium parts with Russia's VSMPO-Avisma, which Boeing estimates to be worth $18 million.It has been reported that the deal between Boeing and Aeroflot was revived after Boeing promised that technical assistance would be provided to Aeroflot for the new aircraft. Aeroflot's current fleet of Boeing and Airbus aircraft was built during the Soviet era. Aeroflot say that the deal does not affect plans to purchase new Airbuses at a later date for later delivery.Hamid Karzai, president of Afghanistan, has opened a new terminal at Kabul International Airport. The US$35m (£22m) two-story structure was gifted by Japan as the old terminal building had become badly damaged by decades of war.Speaking at the event, attended by 150 Afghan and Japanese officials, Karzai expressed his gratitude for the building, saying "Afghanistan could not have made this terminal on its own for many years or without lots of effort." The new terminal is built next to the original sixties building, which had been considered luxurious when new but has fallen into decline, especially after the 1979 Soviet invasion and the civil war which followed.Increasing numbers of military aircraft joined the commercial passenger planes, making Kabul International a frequent target of rocket attacks. It was in a poor state of repair, as well as outdated and in need of expansion, by the time the Taliban were ousted from Afghanistan.Karzai implored his people to take proper care of the new terminal, which Afghan officials described as a step along the route to reconstruction after the Taliban were deposed."I hope, now this facility has been handed over to us, that our sisters and brothers, those in charge of the airport, the passengers passing through, the state officials and MPs using it, will look after it and they should not allow, God forbid, that we come here after a year and find its windows, doors and tiles broken," he said.The building will enter service next week, in time to carry passengers to Saudi Arabia for the annual pilgrimage of the Hajj. It has a capacity of one million passengers every year, and will service both domestic and international routes.Riots were ignited in Afghanistan yesterday, after a crash involving a U.S. sports utility vehicle claimed the lives of several Afghan civilians.Details surrounding the crash, in Kabul, are still unclear, although Afghanis who saw the crash blame U.S. forces for the incident.  "The civilian vehicle was trying to get into the main road when the two foreign vehicles hit it and killed all four occupants," said one bystander, "People gathered around the crash site to see what happened, got angry and started attacking the foreigners."  Some witnesses say a person was killed when U.S. contractors opened fire on a gathering crowd, but the U.S. embassy denies this charge.Police fired shots in the air to disperse rioters who chanted "death to America" and "death to Karzai". Security forces say that the incident could provoke widespread riots, as happened after a similar incident in May 2006 sparked riots in Kabul.Soon after a UN report highlighted the food crisis facing Somalia, a ship carrying food aid to Somalia has been hijacked off the coast of the country and its ten crew members abducted. The pirates are demanding a ransom of half a million dollars for the return of the ship.Neither the UN World Food Programme (WFP) nor the ship's owners are willing to pay the ransom. Last year, pirates killed 30 sailors.The WFP hopes the ship will be released soon but cannot continue shipments until then because of safety concerns. If the ship is released soon, there will be no interruption in aid supply.The WFP believe the crew is still on board the ship and that the crew are "fine". They hope the ship will be returned to them shortly.The WFP supplies about 3,000 tons of food for about 275,000 Somalis per month, and the country currently has about two weeks of stocks left.In the final quarter of 2010, airline Air Canada (TSX:AC.B) earnings rose to 134 million CAD, 42 cents per share, capping a sharp return to profitability in 2010.The year resulted in the company's highest-ever earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortisation, and rent (EBITDAR) of $1.39 billion, 707 million more than the previous year. Operating income for fourth quarter was reported as $85 million, which compared very favourably with an $83 million loss in 2009.Only 21 months ago Air Canada was threatened with bankruptcy and using its financial weakness in negotiations with its employees, achieving status quo contracts. With labour contracts scheduled to end this month and next, the strong position of the airlines is expected to stiffen union resolve to share in the increased net revenues.Those revenues were helped by increasing numbers of passengers and reducing costs, as well as foreign exchange gains. International travel, especially to the Pacific region, led the rises. US travellers through the main Toronto hub more than doubled, indicating the increase in foreign air traffic to and through Canadian airports.Canadian airline Air Canada has said that it will be laying off 1,010 machinists seconded to work at the Aveos Fleet Performance aircraft maintenance company.The layoffs will take place in April and June, with 470 and 540 workers to be laid off in each month, respectively.  They will affect some 445 workers in Montreal, 345 in Winnipeg, and 220 in Vancouver; 195 layoffs are to be permanent and the other 815 temporary.The layoffs reflect reduced demand for maintenance of the Airbus A319 and A320 planes in Air Canada's fleet, according to the Canadian Press. Mitigation efforts by the company meant that there would be fewer workers permanently laid off, but at the cost of more temporary layoffs.A spokesman for Aveos, Michael Kun, commented that some of the people temporarily laid off could return to work by July. "We will be recalling them within eight months, starting in July," Kun said, as quoted by the Canadian Press.Air France Flight 447 carrying 228 people from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil to Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport is reported missing off the Brazilian coast. The flight was scheduled to arrive in Paris at 11:10 CET on June 1, 2009.The Airbus A330-200 was last heard via radio at 22:30 local time (01:30 GMT). The Brazilian Air Force is confirming the disappearance of the aircraft, which vanished from radar approximately 190 miles (306 km) off the Brazilian coast. Reuters reports that an electrical short circuit during turbulence may have caused the plane to plunge into the Atlantic Ocean. The plane with registration F-GZCP has totalled 18,870 flight hours and went into service on 18 April 2005. Its last maintenance check was on April 16, 2009."We have received no news from flight AF447," said Air France in a statement. The plane was carrying 12 crew members and 216 passengers, of which 126 men, 82 women, 7 children and one infant. In a press communiqué, Air France stated that AF447 had encountered an area of heavy turbulence at 02:00 GMT and that the aircraft had sent an automatic message indicating an electric failure at 02:14 UTC. Search and rescue operations by the Brazilian Air Force are to be initially centered on the island of Fernando de Noronha. The aircraft has been missing for a sufficient time that it will no longer have any fuel remaining if it was airborne.French President Sarkozy said the prospects of finding survivors are "very small". He also requested that America use their surveillance satellites to assist in locating the plane.Air France has provided three telephone numbers for the families and friends of those on board AF447: 0800 800 812 for calls from within France 0800 881 20 20 for calls from Brazil+33 1 57 02 10 55, for calls from outside France or Brazil.A "specially reserved area" of Charles de Gaulle airport's Terminal 2 is being used to care for the families of those on board AF447.The Indian Air Force (IAF) has said that an Air France passenger jet was intercepted by a fighter jet on Thursday, after failing to identify itself correctly.A MiG-29 jet was scrambled to intercept the flight, an Airbus A340-300, which was bound for Bangkok after departing from Paris. The Air France plane had just entered Indian airspace from Pakistan. The pilot had apparently used the wrong Identify Friend or Foe (IFF) code, used to help radar determine whether or not an aircraft is "friendly".The fighter was ordered to return to the ground after the jet's pilot gave the proper code."IAF radars picked up an aircraft today [Thursday] morning southeast of Amritsar in the northern sector. The aircraft, at a flight level of 37,000 feet, had entered Indian airspace on an established border entry point. However, the aircraft was not in communication and also its secondary radar response code (IFF) was not correct and the aircraft identified as 'Unknown'," IAF officials said.The Indian government has increased security along the country's border with Pakistan, following the attacks in Mumbai last year which killed over 170 people.New Zealand's national airline, Air New Zealand has announced that they will be flying direct to Canada.Flights from Auckland to Vancouver will operate three times a week between November and March, to coincide with the peak travel season between the two destinations, as Canadians escape winter and New Zealand skiers head to the Canadian slopes. 46,000 Canadians visit New Zealand and 16,000 New Zealanders visit Canada each year, starting at the end of this year.  The reinstatement of the Vancouver link restores a route phased out in the 1990s.Canadian visitors make up two percent of international visitor arrivals, however they stay longer and spend more in New Zealand than many other visitors spent an average of 29 days in New Zealand in 2006, and spent almost $3400 each. In total, they contributed $136 million to New Zealand's economy.Tourism New Zealand chief executive, George Hickton has said that the direct flights will make New Zealand look much more appealing to the Canadian market. "This is great news for our tourism industry."The Tourism Industry Association New Zealand say that the new route has the added benefit of freeing up seats on Air New Zealand's busy routes from San Francisco and Los Angeles.Fiji's national airline Air Pacific has now officially returned to its original name: Fiji Airways. Fiji Airways adopted the Air Pacific name in 1971, slightly prior to its first international flight on June 3, 1973. The re-brand was described by interim CEO Aubrey Swift as allowing the airline to align itself "closer with Fiji as a destination". The name change is designed in part to reduce the confusion which surrounded the name Air Pacific. Swift noted that "Air Pacific just didn’t resonate with our customers" and said that same people "thought we were an air conditioning company". Along with the name change, the airline has redesigned its website, and changed the name of each of its classes of service. Pacific Voyager and Tabua Class have been replaced with economy and business class respectively. The airline has also introduced plans to overhaul its fleet of older Boeing 747s with Airbus A330s.  It has said that the completion of this overhaul and the re-branding efforts will be completed by the end of the year.The airline's new brand-mark and livery features a masi design created by Fijian artist, Makereta Matemosi. The new identity is to "symbolises the airline's new identity and epitomises all that Fiji Airways represents. It is authentic, distinctive, and true to the airline's Fijian roots”, the airline said.An Australian air safety group claims that Yogyakarta International Airport was opearating illegally with no license when Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, a Boeing 737, crashed at the airport, killing 16 Indonesians and five Australians.Flight Safety Pty Ltd had been asked to carry out an independent investigation by an anonymous client after the March 2007 disaster, which occurred when the aircraft landed at excessive speed and shot off the end of the runway. Flight Safety has now announced that they have found Yogyakarta International had been granted a five year license but this would be withdrawn after twelve months if several conditions were not met. Since these conditions remained unchanged, the license effectively voided six months before the disaster, claim Flight Safety. One of the conditions was extension of the runway and provision of an adequate Runway End Safety Area (RESA). The group adds that it also conducted checks on Solo International Airport and Semarang International Airport, and that these airports also had invalid Airport Operating Certificates. The final report was not released at the time as the client in question felt it 'too sensitive', and Flight Safety says that it was rapidly covered up three months later when it leaked in Indonesia.The group says it notified the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), and that they in turn said the Australian Transport Safety Bureau (ATSB) - who assisted in the crash investigation - was in control of the situation. However, Flight Safety claim that when approached, the ATSB denied knowing about it. Allegedly, the ATSB had missed the licensing discrepancy because they only checked the front page of the airport's license and did not conduct a detailed analysis of the small print.Flight Safety claim that the Indonesian Director of Aviation Safety told them that the situation had been rectified. However, the group have now conducted a re-audit and say Solo and Yogyakarta airports both remain illegal. They go on to accuse the ICAO, ATSB and Indonesian Director of Aviation Safety of "keeping quiet" and described them as 'compromised'.Flight Safety go on to claim that the survivors of the crash and relatives of the deceased have not been informed either, and say that this will have a serious effect on the compensation process and on any insurance claims. Crikey, an Australian news service, also suggested that AU$12 million of aid promised by Australia to help Indonesia improve air safety is also being misused. All Indonesia's air carriers are currently on the list of air carriers banned in the EU.An official statement by Flight Safety head Chris Weir concluded "It [the group's findings] should now be exposed as the safety issues remain unresolved."Mardjono Siswo Suwarno of the National Transport Safety Committee, the body responsible for investigating the disaster, denied that Yogyakarta Airport was illegal, saying "At that time [the license] was still valid, but the RESA was not long enough... But still in the [Garuda] case, even if the RESA length was adequate, the plane would have still overrun because the speed was 1.8 times normal speed."The final report found that the pilot-in-command, who has been arrested and charged over the crash, attempted to land after fifteen Ground Proximity Warning System activations to tell him he was landing too fast, and says that although a longer runway and full-sized RESA wouldn't have stopped an airliner traveling at such excessive speed it could have reduced the toll of deaths and injuries.The directors of Yogyakarta and Solo airports claim that since the re-audit they have taken steps to improve safety and rectify any problems, but have not actually admitted their airports were illegal. Indonesian director general of air transportation Budi Mulyawan Suyitno said that although local budget limitations have prevented some airports from being improved there are no problems currently at Yogyakarta, with improvements including declaration of a RESA for 140 metres of the 2,250 metre runway and stationing Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting trucks at the airport.Search and rescue teams today began recovering bodies after debris from Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 was spotted in the sea near Borneo.The flight from Surabaya to Singapore vanished from radar screens early on Sunday morning over the Java Sea. 155 passengers and seven crew were on board. Most were Indonesians, with three South Koreans, one Malaysian, one Brit and one French person on board.An Indonesian naval ship today recovered at least three bodies. TvOne broadcast uncensored footage that was seen by distressed relatives at Juanda International Airport, where the plane departed. TvOne has apologised and switched to blurred-out footage.Yesterday evening searchers stated they were using twelve helicopters, eleven planes, and 32 vessels. Australia, Singapore, and Malaysia sent assistance with the search. Local fishing boats have also joined. The US, UK, and France have been asked for help locating submerged remains. USS Sampson, a US Navy destroyer, is due to join search efforts today.National Search and Rescue Agency head Bambang Soelistyo says a "shadow" on the seabed, spotted by the air force, is thought to be the wreck site. The nearest airstrip is in Pangkalan Bun, Borneo, about 160km away.AirNav, the Indonesian national air traffic control (ATC) facility, yesterday said the aircraft was given permission to divert to avoid bad weather; the area was experiencing thunderstorms. That was at 6:12 local time. The flight crew next asked to climb from 32,000ft to 38,000ft. Controllers conferred with Singapore and agreed the plane could climb as high as 34,000ft with another flight preventing a higher altitude. When they radioed permission at 6:14 they received no answer. The flight vanished from radar at 6:17. The transponder ceased to be received a minute later.A leaked screenshot from an ATC radar screen shows the flight ascending without permission through 36,000ft with a ground speed of 353knts. The aircraft would normally be travelling faster, with an Emirates jet also on the screen showing a ground speed of 503knts at 36,000ft. An insufficient speed can cause an aircraft to stall.Indonesian Pilot Iriyanto and French co-pilot Remi Emmanuel Plesel did not explain their request to climb. They have over 8,000 hours experience between them. They were flying Airbus A320-200 registration PK-AXC and serial number 3648, which was six years old. It last underwent maintenance in November. Management company Doric own and lease the aircraft. The plane had accumulated 23,000 flying hours on 13,600 flights. It went missing around 40 minutes into a flight to Changi International Airport.Iriyanto's previous employers include the Indonesian Air Force, Merpati Airlines, and Adam Air. The 53-year-old also has ten years experience as a pilot trainer. He has flown for AirAsia for three years.Investigations are to be led by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee. France-based airframer Airbus, the BEA, which investigates aviation mishaps in France, and the US National Transportation Safety Board have all offered assistance.Reuters spoke to an anonymous source within the investigation. "Why did [Iriyanto] request to climb at that stage?" said the source. "Should he have climbed earlier? Other aircraft were flying at a higher altitude in that area. How did the two pilots react to the weather? We are asking those questions." The source said radar, weather, and communications data was being analysed.AirAsia owner Tony Fernandes said he has "full confidence in my[...] crew[...][Iriyanto] was extremely experienced". He added Iriyanto "came from the air force, one of their best graduates. He came from Surabaya, so he knows the area very well." Fernandes said it was "too early to speculate" about causes.AirAsia is based in Malaysia. 2014 has been a year of air disasters for the country; Malaysia Airlines flight 370 has been missing since March with 239 on board and in July Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down in Ukraine with 298 casualties. Both involved Boeing 777 aircraft.AirAsia has a good record with no previous fatal accidents.An Indonesia AirAsia jet vanished over the Kumai region today. The flight carried 162 people.Among the 155 passengers and seven crew  flying from Surabaya to Singapore are three Koreans, one Malaysian, and one person variously reported as a French or UK national. The rest are Indonesians. There are sixteen children and an infant. The plane was diverting around weather formations over the Java Sea when contact with air traffic control (ATC) in Jakarta was lost.Local search and rescue have been told the flight last spoke to controllers at 6:12 local time seeking to climb from 32,000ft to 38,000ft. The flight vanished from radar at 6:17. The transponder ceased to be received a minute later. ATC issued a series of escalating alerts in response. It was due to enter Singaporean airspace at 6:52 and land by around 8:30.The Indonesian Navy, police forces, and National Search and Rescue Agency are focusing on an area 20 nautical miles from East Belitung. The plane went missing in the vicinity of Pulau Belitung Island. A rescue boat with a crew of 22 has been dispatched, with water police providing an additional vessel. The Indonesian Civil Aviation Authority is overseeing the efforts. Searches are presently suspended until morning.The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore is "ready to provide any assistance to support the search and rescue effort" according to a statement. The Singaporean military has sent two C-130 aircraft to assist. The Indian Navy has reportedly placed three ships and a Boeing P8-1 on standby to help.Australia has also offered assistance. Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop telephoned her Indonesian equivalent, Retno Marsudi, to offer support. Bishop has also offered Australian assistance to South Korea, Singapore, and Malaysia. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott contacted Indonesian President Joko Widodo to offer sympathies and a P3 Orion plane.Areas for families and friends have been set up at Changi Airport where the flight was headed and at Juanda International Airport where it departed. The airline said in a statement they would "keep all parties informed as more information becomes available" about "the status of the passengers and crew members on board". "I hope I can get information soon on the whereabouts of our family members," one weeping woman at Juanda told Antara. She said she has four relatives on board and heard about the disappearance from news reports.The area where the plane vanished around 40 minutes into its trip was experiencing thunderstorms. Some clouds were as high as 50,000ft. The aircraft, Airbus A320-200 registration PK-AXC and serial number 3648, was six years old. It was undertaking flight designation QZ8501 and last underwent maintenance in November. Management company Doric own and lease the aircraft.Pilot Iriyanto  and co-pilot Remi Emmanuel Plesel have over 8,000 hours experience between them. Airbus released a statement saying the plane had accumulated 23,000 flying hours on 13,600 flights. The French-based airframer said it would assist investigators. The BEA, which investigates aviation mishaps in France, is liaising with their Indonesian counterparts at the National Transportation Safety Committee to provide assistance.The engines were built by CFM International, a joint enterprise between US firm General Electric and French engineering company Safran. The US connection means the US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) can also join the probe.The NTSB says it is ready and willing to assist if required.A screenshot apparently leaked from an ATC radar screen shows the flight ascending through 36,000ft with a ground speed of 353knts. The aircraft would normally be travelling faster, with an Emirates jet also on the screen showing a ground speed of 503knts at 36,000ft."My only thought are with the passengers and my crew" said AirAsia boss Tony Fernandes. He said he is heading to Surabaya and thanked Malaysian, Singaporean, and Indonesian authorities for emergency efforts. Fernandes bought AirAsia for a symbolic price from the Malaysian government in 2002. By 2010 it had expanded from two aircraft to 86."I am touched by the massive show of support especially from my fellow airlines" said Fernandes. "This is my worst nightmare." He urged staff to "Pray hard. [...] Our priority is looking after all the next-of-kin for my staff and passengers."Djoko Murjatmodjo, acting head of transportation in Indonesia, said "We don't dare to presume what has happened except that it has lost contact." Singaporean Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said he is "saddened" and his "thoughts are with the passengers and their families". Pope Francis used today's address in St. Peter's Square, the Vatican to say he was praying for the missing. Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak called the news "Very sad to hear[...] My thoughts are with the families. Malaysia stands ready to help."The British Embassy in Jakarta has acknowledged reports a UK citizen may be missing. US President Barack Obama has also been briefed. Initial reports claim AirAsia did not include British when listing the nationalities missing, but the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office say a UK victim's next of kin have been informed.The present version of AirAsia's statement lists a UK passenger and a French crewmember. France24 identifies co-pilot Plesel as French.AirAsia is based in Malaysia. 2014 has been a year of air disasters for the country; Malaysia Airlines flight 370 has been missing since March with 239 on board and in July Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down in Ukraine with 298 casualties. Both involved Boeing 777 aircraft.AirAsia has a good record with no previous major crashes.An Airbus A320 airliner owned by Air New Zealand crashed into the Mediterranean Sea near Perpignan, killing at least two of a crew of seven, French officials reported on Thursday.The aircraft crashed at about 5 p.m. local time (1600 UTC) during a test flight. The twin-engine jet airliner had just undergone maintenance at Perpignan in preparation for its return to Air New Zealand by German airline XL Airways, which had been operating it on lease.The seven on board included two XL Airways crew, Civil Aviation Authority inspector Jeremy Cook of Wellington, and four Air New Zealand personnel. Air New Zealand has identified involved personnel as Captain Brian Horrell and Murray White of Auckland, and Michael Gyles and Noel Marsh of Christchurch. No additional passengers were on board for the flight, which was part of a maintenance test procedure. At least two bodies have been recovered. Though rescue efforts persisted into the night, there is no hope of the remaining five crew members being found alive, according to French officials.The cause of the crash is not yet clear. The pilots may have attempted an emergency landing on water. Efforts are underway to recover the aircraft's black box. French, German, and New Zealand aviation authorities and investigators have been dispatched to the site to investigate the incident. Manufacturer Airbus, based in Toulouse, will aid the investigation, Airbus spokespersons stated.A Civil Aviation Authority spokesperson stated that the incident does not cast any doubt on the airworthiness of the A320 design, a popular aircraft which has been involved in only ten fatal accidents since its introduction in 1987. Air New Zealand's fleet includes 13 A320s.Thirty-three people were injured during a test of the Airbus A380, a double decker superjumbo jet, in Hamburg, Germany. Injuries include friction burns from sliding down the escape ramps and one broken leg. 853 volunteer "passengers" and 20 crew members took about 80 seconds to evacuate the aircraft, beating the test's requirements by 10 seconds and over 200 people "rescued". Only eight of the plane's sixteen exits were used, as required by the test; the crew members were not told in advance which doors would open. The test was carried out in a dark hangar and the plane's aisles were littered with debris to simulate actual emergency conditions.The A380 will be the world's largest passenger airliner, almost twice as large as the current largest airliner, the Boeing 747. Airbus has had 159 planes on order by 16 customers, and the first A380s will go to Singapore Airlines towards the end of the year.This test was important to Airbus, as in August 2005 an Airbus A340 overshot the runway and 300 people escaped before the plane burst into flames. Infrared camera recordings of the test will be analyzed by authorities such as the European Aviation Safety Agency, while the US Federal Aviation Administration was present during the test. The European Aviation Safety Agency will confirm the test results this week; Airbus intends to repeat the test on Saturday if the aviation agency fails this attempt. The volunteers, who were paid 60 euros (about US$72) and a meal, were from Airbus staff, sports clubs, and dancing clubs in the Hamburg area where the test took place.  Airbus recruited people from clubs in order to get volunteers in good physical shape.Two days later, the American and European aviation authorities (the FAA and EASA, respectively) officially certified the A380 to carry 853 passengers. This certification demonstrated that the test procedures use by Airbus met their respective standards.A test flight of the new Airbus A380 superjumbo, the largest passenger jet in the world, was delayed today after a superficial accident at Suvarnabhumi Airport, which serves Bangkok, Thailand.The minor accident occurred during push back, as the aircraft was leaving a parking space before it was due to fly to Chiang Mai International Airport. As the jet was being pushed back by a Thai Airways International tug operator, the left winglet struck the side of the hangar, and was crumpled against it.The winglets, designed to improve fuel efficiency, are non-vital parts. After an inspection, Airbus decided to remove both winglets and continue the flight without them. The plane left four hours after its scheduled 9:45 a.m. local time departure, carrying 150 passengers.The flight was intended to counteract criticisms that the massive airliner, which has a 79-metre wingspan, is too big (and thus too complex for ground crews) to be practically operated at most airports. It also demonstrates continuing problems at Suvarnabhumi airport, which has suffered various incidents since it opened last September, the most severe of which being the discovery of large cracks in airport taxiways shortly after opening.Airbus has said they will continue with their tour of Asia demonstrating the plane.Airbus, Europe's biggest aircraft manufacturer, has announced 10,000 job cuts over the next four years. The news comes as its parent company, EADS starts a major restructuring programme because the company is not efficient enough. Louis Gallois, the Airbus chief executive, said the company expects to cut approximately 4,300 jobs in France, 3,700 in Germany, 1,600 in UK and 400 in Spain. About half of those cuts will be made among subcontractors and temporary workers. Actual Airbus employee reduction would be about 5,000, or 9% of the total European work force of 55,000 full-time Airbus employees.Although Gallois said he hoped to achieve this mainly through attrition, the unions were displeased. Union officials said nearly 14,000 employees at four French sites had a two hour work stoppage Wednesday afternoon to protest the cuts."The response has been massive," said Julien Talavan, a spokesman for Force Ouvrière, the main Airbus union in France. "This is just the beginning," he said, hinting at future labor action.This move comes after well-publicized delays on its A380 super-jumbo commercial airliner. The restructuring announcement also includes the proposed sale or closure of 3 plants.Toulouse, FRANCE — In a ceremony attended by several European political leaders and 5,000 VIP guests, Airbus unveiled plans for the A380, a twin-deck aircraft that can carry up to 840 people in all-economy class (550 for a Boeing 747), or 555 people in typical three mixed classes layout.The new aircraft will take the world's-largest title away from rival Boeing's 747. Boeing's upcoming new design, the 7e7, does not attempt to compete directly with the A380 but instead is aimed at a more efficient and comfortable flight at 200-250 seats.Airbus chief executive Noel Forgeard stated that he expected sales of the aircraft to exceed the 250 required for the project to break even.  To date, 149 confirmed orders for the aircraft have been received.  Airbus has hopes that sales will exceed 700.  The company is currently in talks with China regarding possible sales there.The first test flight of the aircraft may take place as early as March, and the first commercial flight is expected to take off in mid-2006 from Singapore's Changi Airport.British and American airline Virgin Atlantic has purchased six of these aeroplanes and intend to fit them with gyms and bars as well as seats.Airbus have announced that they will be willing to contribute between €12 million and €20 million (about US$16 million to $28 million) to fund an extended search for the black boxes from Air France Flight 447. The Airbus A330 jetliner crashed into the Atlantic Ocean in June, killing all 228 people on board.Chief executive Thomas Enders said in a statement, "We want to know what happened, as improving air safety is our top priority. We are fully committed to support the extension of the search with a significant contribution." Although airframers normally supply technical assistance to investigations, the required impartiality makes funding rare, with Airbus spokesman Stefan Schaffrath saying the company's move was unprecedented."This is an exceptional accident and an exceptional situation," Schaffrath explained. France's investigative agency BEA has requested financial assistance for the search from both Airbus and Air France. Air France have discussed this possibility with the BEA.Investigators have already given up looking for the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder using the conventional method of tracing audio 'pingers', the batteries of which would have expired after 30–40 days.  Efforts are ongoing using sensitive equipment under tow from a French naval vessel, but if this search proves fruitless then the BEA will seek money for a further three-month search.The jet's Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) was able to transmit information regarding problems on board prior to the crash. The ACARS data suggests that the plane had suffered from a loss of valuable readings including airspeed, leading suspicion to fall on the pitot-static system which supplies various measurements. Airbus had already recommended that one component of this system, the pitot tubes, be replaced on A330s. Air France had not done this on the accident airplane although the entire fleet now features the modified design. Three other incidents have been identified since that may involve similar circumstances. The United States National Transportation Safety Board is probing two over American soil while earlier this month another Air France A330 equipped with the new tubes suffered a similar series of problems enroute from Italy to France.European Aeronautic Defence & Space NV (EADS), the parent company of European airframer Airbus, has won a £13 billion contract to supply the United Kingdom's Royal Air Force (RAF) with aerial refueling tankers to replace the nation's current ageing fleet.AirTanker Ltd., an EADS-led consortium, have signed a 27-year contract with the Defense Ministry to supply 14 new Airbus A330-200 passenger airliner converted for the task. They will be owned by AirTanker, who retains commercial leasing rights to five which can carry 290 passengers plus cargo, but will fly in RAF livery. They replace existing Lockheed Tristar and Vickers VC-10 aircraft. The first aircraft will be in service by 2011 and all by 2016.Rolls-Royce, part of the consortium, will supply engines. France's Thales will supply electronics, Wimborne, UK's Cobham will manufacture refueling equipment and Southampton, UK's VT Group will provide service management.Last month, Northrop Grumman and EADS defeated Boeing to win a massive order for 179 tankers from the United States Air Force. Airbus has also inked recent deals with the Royal Australian Air Force, the Royal Saudi Air Force and the UAE Air Force.Qatar Airways, which choose the Airbus A350 over Boeing's 787, will also purchase 20 of Boeing's larger 777 planes for $4.6 billion. Qatar has a previous order for 2 of Airbus' massive new A380's which it will begin to fly in 2009 out of London Heathrow.In 2004, Airbus sold more planes than Boeing for the first time ever, sparking questions whether the US company had lost its once seemingly impregnable grip on the aviation market. However thus far, Boeing has received far more orders than Airbus in 2005.Wreckage from an airplane in the Atlantic Ocean 650 kilometres from the coast of Brazil has been confirmed by the Brazilian government to be from Air France Flight 447.Nelson Jobim, the Brazilian Defence Minister, said that there were no survivors.An airplane seat and life vest were found floating in Atlantic waters on Tuesday. A French ship arrived at the area on the same day, and confirmed the debris. According to CNN, a vessel from the Brazilian navy is to arrive at the scene on Wednesday.The main goal for search crews will be to find the cockpit voice and data recorder to help find out what caused the crash. However, the Brazilian defence minister said that it may be hard to find them due to the large depth of the ocean in the area, saying that "it could be at a depth of 2,000 or 3,000 metres [6,500 to 9,800 feet] in that area of the ocean."Air France Flight 447 was an Airbus A330 en route from Rio de Janeiro to Paris, France, with 228 people on board, when it vanished from radar screens after entering an area with severe turbulence.An airliner has suffered an explosion and caught fire at Soekarno-Hatta Airport in Tangerang, Banten, Indonesia. The plane was being dismantled for spare parts and there were no injuries.The plane was at a maintenance facility operated by Garuda Maintenance Facilities, a subsidiary of Garuda Indonesia. Ownership of the plane is unclear, with Tempo Interactive saying that reports indicated Thailand's Phuket Air owns the plane and the Jakarta Globe quoting GMF corporate secretary Dwi Prasmono Adji as saying the plane belonged to Global Air Services.Adji also told the Globe that the aircraft has been parked at the airport for the last five years. "The airline has gone bankrupt and the plane was being taken apart so they can resell the pieces," and the fire occurred as several technicians cut the plane up, he said.Herry Bhakti Singayuda, the Ministry of Transportation's director general of civil aviation, attributed the explosion to the presence of fuel in lines on the plane's right wing, which was being cut up. Singayuda also said the accident occurred outside a hanger and prevented injuries. GMF spokeswoman Siska Tobing said the explosion was heard at Terminal 1 of the airport, which serves Jakarta.Singayuda and other Indonesian officials are currently in negotiations with the European Union in the hope of removing the nation's carriers from the list of airlines banned in the EU. This event is the second such coincidence, with the EU's last visit in March seeing one of Lion Air's McDonnel-Douglas planes crash-landing at the same airport.Four people have been injured after a passenger plane on a repositioning flight crashed at Durban International Airport, South Africa. The crew was attempting a crash landing in a playing field after the Jetstream 41 aircraft developed engine trouble.The aircraft, which belonged to Airlink, ran into difficulties shortly after takeoff, with at least one engine failing and smoke entering the cabin.  It crashed about three kilometres from the airport, or 400m from the perimeter, leaving both flight crew, a flight attendant and a bystander on the ground with multiple injuries.  No-one else was involved, and at least one person needed to be cut from the wreckage.The crash at a high school field narrowly missed houses. The bystander was a cleaner who was struck by the aircraft, and is in critical condition with broken legs. The flight attendant hurt her back and face. The captain suffered injuries to his legs and face, and the first officer broke her hand, both her ankles, her hip and her ribs. She has had surgery, the others are awaiting it.An investigation into the crash has been launched by the South African Civil Aviation Authority.42 people have died in the crash of an airplane that was flying to Yichun in the province of Heilongjiang, north-eastern China, on Tuesday. 54 people, including the captain, survived the crash. Chinese government news agency Xinhua reported that the Embraer 190 jet missed the runway during landing, was damaged and caught fire. The aircraft had taken off in Harbin.The reason for the crash is not yet clear. However, at the time of the accident, reports indicate that the Yichun Lindu Airport was engulfed in thick fog, though the local weather bureau contradicts this. A surviving passenger reported that the aircraft began to burn well before it came to rest. Many people then rushed to the front, instead of taking the emergency exits. The heavy smoke generated by the fire made breathing difficult.  Xinhua reported that government investigators recovered two 'black box' flight recorders on Wednesday.There were 91 passengers and five crew members aboard the jetliner.  According to a Xinhua report yesterday, at least five of the survivors, including three children, remained in a critical condition, and several more are seriously injured.This is the first major civil aviation crash in China since the crash of a China Eastern Airlines CRJ-200 in 2004. 55 people were killed in that crash.A man who hijacked a domestic flight over Afghanistan has been found to be working for British Airways.34-year-old Nazamuddin Mohammidy was one of nine men who forced the Ariana Airlines airliner to divert to the United Kingdom's Stansted Airport in 2000. A standoff followed for the next 70 hours with the men, who had guns and hand grenades, threatening to kill all 160 on board unless asylum was granted to them. The men ultimately gave themselves up to police and SAS.Mohammidy was jailed for 30 months but he and the other eight had their convictions overturned by the Court of Appeal, claiming the Taliban was subjecting them to "medieval and brutal tyranny" forcing them to flee. They went on to win a High Court case to prevent their deportation.It has since emerged that British Airways have employed Mohammidy to clean their offices, including a training center one mile from Terminal 4 at Heathrow Airport. It came to light when police officers stopped him near Terminal 5 believing he may be an unlicensed taxi driver, but he was able to suppply a worker's pass. He is now facing unrelated charges concerning an alleged assault on his landlord.The Conservatives have used this as an opportunity to attack the current Labour government. Shadow home secretary David Davis said "It would be an outrageous and potentially devastating breach of security if a former hijacker had access to British Airways property near the airport and a pass allowing him access to secure areas. Days after it was revealed that foreign airside workers at our airports do not have to pass proper security checks it is clear the Government do not have a grip on airport security."British Airways say he did not have a pass to allow him onto the tarmac at Heathrow and did not work inside the airport, but he could get into some secure company areas.Airlines have attacked new EU legislation which will force them to pay greater compensation to customers in the event of overbooking, cancellations and delays.Consumer groups have praised the new rules, which set the level of compensation between €250 and €600 depending on the circumstances and the length of the flight. "This is some comeback for passengers who have been inconvenienced," James Fremantle, industry affairs adviser for the Air Transport Users Council, told Reuters. Before this legislation came into effect, passengers "bumped" from a flight could claim between €150 and €300.The new rules apply to all scheduled and chartered flights. Previously only scheduled flight operators were obliged to offer compensation in cases of overbooking— they did not have to extend compensation to travellers affected by flight cancellations. Low cost airlines have criticised the new compensation levels arguing that the compensation paid will exceed the price of the ticket.The effort by the EU is to discourage airlines from deliberately overbooking flights, a practice which has become routine for most major airlines. Overbooking often leads to "bumping", where passengers who cannot be guaranteed a seat are moved to a later flight. In future when this happens airlines will have to offer compensation. Additionally, if flights are cancelled or delayed by more than two hours all passengers must be compensated. This will be the case except in "extraordinary circumstances", the definition of which may or may not include bad weather, security alerts or strikes."It's a preposterous piece of legislation, we among all airlines are fighting this," Ryanair deputy chief executive, Michael Cawley told BBC radio 4's Today programme. It has also been claimed that the advice may mislead customers by having them believe that they may be entitled to compensation if flights are delayed due to bad weather.Marja Quillinan-Meiland, European Commission spokeswoman has said that there are "grey areas" but added "these are not as big as the airlines are making out." Disputed cases would be heard by national enforcement bodies which would decide if there is a case to answer. European Regions Airline Association (ERAA) director of air transport Andy Clarke said "we reckon it's going to cost European air passengers – not the airlines, the airlines have no money, it has to be paid by the passengers – 1.5bn euros, that's over £1bn a year loaded onto European passengers. That's basically a transfer of money from passengers whose journeys are not disrupted to passengers whose journeys are disrupted."These extra costs may also lead to carriers cancelling routes to areas that have been identified as problem destinations. The European Low-Fares Association (ELFA) is mounting a legal challenge to the laws. ELFA and International Air Transport Association expect a ruling from the European Court of Justice in fall of 2005, until then airlines have said they will comply with the regulations.Approximately twenty flight routes for various airlines are to be modified to avoid the path of a rocket scheduled to be launched from North Korea later this month, the Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines said yesterday.Amongst the affected companies are Delta Air Lines, Garuda Indonesia, Japan Airlines, Korean Airlines, Cebu Pacific, Philippine Airlines and All Nippon Airways, all of which are to reroute their flight paths between April 12 and April 16, in which time the North Korean government says launch is scheduled, with the specific date being subject to weather conditions.The North Korean government has stated the launch is to celebrate the 100th birthday of Eternal President of the Republic Kim il-Sung.A statement from Japan Airlines clarifies four of their flight paths are to be modified in direct response to these rocket launch plans, including three from the Japanese capital Tokyo to the Filipino capital Manila, Singapore, and Jakarta, the capital of Indonesia, causing anticipated flight timings to rise by between five and twenty minutes. No modifications to domestic flights are planned for the airline.All Nippon Airways has stated that five of its flight routes are to vary at this time, with flights between similar locations affected. The flights will be otherwise unaffected, according to the company's statement.International airlines have responded to potential United States military escalation in Syria in the past several days by planning to reroute their airplanes around the region. Airlines with plans include Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways, Bahrain-based Gulf Air, Kuwait-based Al Jazeera Airways, Dubai-based Emirates Airlines, and United Kingdom-based British Airways.US President Barack Obama delayed a decision on potential US military action against Syria until after September 9, when the US Congress returns from recess.In an e-mail to Arabian Business, an Etihad Airways spokesperson said, "The safety and security of our customers is absolutely paramount and we have drawn up robust flight re-routing contingency plans in the event of any airspace being closed to commercial aircraft. [...] Our 24 hours Network Operations Centre is constantly in communication with all air space management organisations in which we operate."A British Airways spokesperson is quoted by the Sydney Morning Herald saying, "We are keeping our operations under review and we would make any changes that would be necessary".Gulf Air said in an e-mail to Arabian Business, "Nonetheless, given the current political climate, the airline has fully prepared contingency plans in case of any military intervention in the coming days [...] These contingency plans are ready for implementation should there be any changes in the current situation in Syria. Such plans could potentially involve re-routing aircraft away from Syrian/neighbouring airspace. At the moment operations continue as normal and we are ready for all eventualities." Gulf Air says it currently has no flights passing over Syrian airspace.Several airlines have already suspended commercial services into Syria, including Etihad who did so a year ago.  Al Jazeera suspended their services during the final quarter of 2012. Last week, Cyprus Airways rescheduled their flights into Beirut because of the potential conflict. Several airlines have had to deal with similar situations in the past few years as a result of events connected to the Arab Spring that closed parts of Middle East airspace and airports.Twenty-four people, among them seven children, were killed on Sunday after their airplane crashed in a river in Brazil. Four people survived the crash, including a 9-year-old boy. The aircraft, which was a twin-engine Embraer turboprop chartered by Manaus Aerotaxis, was carrying 26 passengers and two crew members when it crashed.The pilots of the plane, which had departed from Coari, had supposedly contacted the air traffic control near their destination of Manaus to announce that they were turning back. The plane, however, then disappeared from radar. The plane made an emergency landing in the river Manacapuru, a branch the Amazon river in the Brazilian state of Amazonas, 50 miles (80 kilometers) from Manaus.Rescue teams were dispatched immediately, and four passengers from the accident were recovered alive and in reportedly good condition. The rest of the passengers were found inside the plane. The rescue effort was made more difficult by nightfall and heavy rains.According to passenger reports, one of the plane's engines stopped shortly before the crash. Some survivors also said that they managed to jump out of a door in the back of the aircraft before impact.The authorities, who are still investigating the cause of the accident, suspect that the plane tried to make an emergency landing at the Panamacapuru airport nearby, but ditched in the river instead after falling short by half a kilometer. Heavy rain was reported when the plane went down and bad weather is hampering the investigation. Operations to recover the wreckage have been suspended until the weather improves.At least 98 people have been confirmed dead and a further fifteen wounded after an Indonesian Air Force Hercules C-130 airplane crashed in a housing area in the city of Magetan, East Java in Indonesia early Wednesday.The plane had taken off from the country's capital of Jakarta and was preparing to land at a military base nearby the crash site."As such the total number of people dead or injured so far is 113, including the two people on the ground. Meanwhile, reports of another person who died but has not been found cannot be verified as yet," said Banbang Sulistyo, the air force's chief of information. He added that investigations are currently ongoing to determine what caused the accident.The cause of the incident is as of yet uncertain, as the plane was reported to have been in good condition, and the weather was suitable for landing.Indonesian president Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono called an emergency meeting at his presidential palace with the Armed Forces and Air Force chief and defence minister."From the explanation I received from them [...] it cannot be determined yet if the crash was because of weather conditions, mechanical failure or human error. It's better not to speculate what caused the crash," he told reporters after the meeting," the president said.Witness reports say there was an explosion shortly before the plane crashed. "I heard at least two big explosions and saw flashes of fire inside the plane," said an eyewitness, a man working in a rice field near where the aircraft crashed. "The wing snapped off and fell to the ground."The accident is the deadliest in the Indonesian Air Force's history since an airplane crash in 1991 in Condet, East Java, which killed 135 people.A Boeing 737-800 registered to Turkish Airlines with 135 people on board crashed at Schiphol Airport in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, on Tuesday. At least nine people, including the three pilots, were killed and over 80 had been injured. The plane was traveling from Istanbul, Turkey.The airplane crashed short of the runway, close to the A9 highway, and broke into three pieces. According to witness reports, about twenty people were seen walking away from the crash."The plane was nose up and the tail section was at a 45-degree angle. The tail section broke down first, which broke off," said a witness in an interview with the BBC who was riding on his bicycle by the airport when the aircraft crashed. "And seconds after the crash people started exiting through the tail section [...] I saw dozens of people making it out very quickly, and as I was about to dial 112 the first sirens were noticeable, and within five minutes there were 10 or 15 ambulances." During the press conference, it was stated that a total of 60 ambulances went to the crash site and 150 medical people were present. Special vehicles were also used to enter the field, which wasn't easily accessible.A passenger on-board the plane gave this account: "We suddenly descended a great distance as if the plane fell into turbulence. The plane's tail hit the ground [...] It slid from the side of the motorway into the field," he said.Officials have not yet determined what caused the accident. "We cannot say anything about the cause at the moment. The priority of the authorities is providing help and care," stated the vice-mayor of the Haarlemmermeer municipality, Michel Bezuijen.72 Turkish and 32 Dutch people were on board the aircraft, according to the Turkish ambassador to the Netherlands.Yesterday morning near the international airport located on Weno island of Chuuk state of the Federated States of Micronesia, Oceania a passenger airplane of model Boeing 737-800 flown by the Air Niugini carrier crashed into sea as its pilot missed the runway. All 47 people on board — by differing reports, 36 passengers and eleven crew or 35 passengers and twelve crew — survived.The report by the international commercial aviation safety organization Jet Airliner Crash Data Evaluation Centre indicated the crash coincided with a sudden intensification of the weather conditions. timeanddate.com-supplied data from CustomWeather reported rain showers at 9:40 a.m. local time, following cloudy conditions at 8:50 a.m.The airplane reportedly landed around 9:30 a.m. local time, short of the runway by about 160 m to 200 m (about 525 to 650 feet), according to reports. Locals immediately began to rescue the passengers and crew on fishing boats. Officials arrived after about ten minutes, according to a witness quoted by The Guardian.In an interview, a passenger alleged the crew started panicking and yelling, The Guardian reported. A first responder, Dr James Yaingeluo, also said the airplane crew were in panic. He said, "There was a little bit [of] chaos at first because everybody was really panicked and tried to get out of the plane [...] other than that we were doing as much as we can. Luckily there are no casualties."Yaingeluo said nine people were taken to a hospital. Four people remained in hospital, one "seriously injured", according to reports recounted by ABC News on Friday evening.Flight 73 was coming from Pohnpei in the Federated States of Micronesia. Its destination was Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea, with a stop at the Chuuk state.Investigators have stated that Continental Connection Flight 3407, which crashed in icy weather near Buffalo, New York on February 12, was on autopilot when it went down, and that the pilot flying the aircraft might have violated the airline's policy and federal safety recommendations.The plane involved in the incident was a Bombardier Dash 8, which crashed into a home located at 6038 Long Street in Clarence Center, a suburb of Buffalo. It went down at approximately 10:17 p.m. EST (03:20 UTC), February 12. 44 passengers, an off-duty pilot, and four crew members died in the accident, as well as one person on the ground.When the plane crashed, it was carrying over 2.5 tonnes (5,000 pounds) of fuel. Amid rain and sleet, the aircraft exploded into a huge orange fireball, sparking a large fire which emergency crews had to contain. Twelve houses near the crash site were evacuated.Steve Chealander, an investigator for the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), said that the company which operated the flight suggests the pilot to fly manually when conditions are icy, saying that "you may be able in a manual mode to sense something sooner than the autopilot can sense it.""If the autopilot is left on while the ice is building up, the pilot may suddenly be confronted with a very difficult situation," said William Voss, president of the Flight Safety Foundation, speaking to the Toronto Star. "Ice actually changes the shape of the wing. If you don't keep the wings clean you could find yourself in a situation where [...] suddenly the aircraft decides to quit flying."The airplane's data recorders suggest that there was a significant accumulation of ice on the aircraft's wings and windshield before it crashed. Shortly before the crash, according to the flight voice recorder, the pilots were talking about the poor weather and ask the traffic controller for permission to descend. The airplane's de-icing system had been turned on before the crew had discussed the ice. Recordings of communications seemed to be normal until soon before impact, and the flight crew did not notify air traffic control of any problems.Investigations have suggested that the aircraft was headed away from its destination airport when it went down.Airports worldwide have implemented new security measures in the aftermath of the Christmas Day 2009 incident involving Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who is accused of attempting to blow up Northwest Airlines Flight 253 from Amsterdam, The Netherlands to Detroit, Michigan.American airline, Alaska Airlines have announced that they plan to cut 1000 jobs. They also plan to reduce their flight departures by 15%. The job losses will account for about 10% of their work force and affects pilots, cabin crew, technicians and service staff. The cuts are due to start on November 9 of this year and then lead into 2009.Bill Ayer, chairman and CEO of Alaska Air Group said, "The one-two punch of record oil prices and a softening economy, on top of increased competition, has burdened Alaska Air Group with a $50 million loss on an adjusted basis for the first half of this year. That demands decisive action to ensure the viability of our company."The airline made a $50m loss in the first half of this year. They currently have a fleet of 111 Boeing 737s and around 10,000 staff. These calls come around the same time as other airlines are making cuts due to the rising fuel costs. They also come as British leisure group XL entered administration.The Alaskan cruise ship "Empress of the North" was given the order to evacuate at 2 AM Alaska Time this morning after striking an underwater rock and taking on water. All 281 passengers and 29 crew are unharmed and the passengers have been evacuated, though the ship is listing roughly 8 degrees. The US Coast Guard has stated the ship is in no danger of sinking, but tell news reporters that the captain of the ship gave the order to evacuate to be safe. The ship's current location is 24 km (15 miles) southeast of Juneau, Alaska in an area of the Eastern peninsula known as the Icy Strait. Though it is unknown exactly what penetrated the ship's hull at this time, it is suspected by the captain and US Coast Guard that it was an underwater rock. This all occurred during the night hours on the second day of a seven day long cruise through the Alexander Archipelago and Inside Passage in southeastern Alaska.Dan Miller, representative for "Majestic America" has said the ship "is stable and is under its own power and as soon as all the guests and crew are transferred off, she will make her way under her own power over to Juneau where we will assess the damage."Several civilian pleasure-craft arrived at the scene and have taken some passengers off of the ship. The ships involved in this rescue operation were a commercial tugboat, a barge, 6 pleasurecraft, an Alaska Marine Highway ferry, and another cruise ship.As of 1:00 PM Eastern Time, all of the passengers have been transferred to an Alaskan Ferry, heading back to Juneau. The 29 crew members have stated they will remain on board to help bring the ship back to port in Juneau for investigation and repairs.The 109-meter long Empress of the North is owned by "Majestic America", a division of Ambassadors Cruise Group, which is in turn, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ambassadors International.Survivors of this weekend's airplane crash in Alaska, United States say they saw the forward cargo door of their Piper Piper PA-31 Navajo Chieftain swing open shortly after takeoff. The plane crashed into frigid waters a short distance from the runway, killing six of the ten on board, including the pilot, and leaving the other four hospitalized.The US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) is investigating the accident, and NTSB investigator Clint Johnson said "There have been some incidents and accidents that did result from the door coming open. We don't know yet if there are similarities." He refused to speculate on accident cause, pointing out that a full investigation would take some time to complete.The remains of the fuselage have been laid out in a maintenance hangar close to the Kodiak Island accident site and is scheduled for examination tomorrow pending arrival of an accident investigation representative from Piper, who will provide detailed technical assistance. The nine-passenger complement had chartered the Servant Air plane to fly to Homer, and represented maximum capacity for the twin-engined plane.It appears that the survivors were seated at the rear of the plane. The deceased were identified as pilot Robin Starrett, 50, of Kodiak and five Homer residents - Stefan F. Basargin, 36, Pavel F. Basargin, 30, Zahary F. Martushev, 25, Iosif F. Martushev, 15, and Andrian Reutov, 22. The survivor's names have now also been released; they are Karnely Ivanov, 32, of Anchor Point, Feodot Basargin, 33, of Anchorage, Anton Rijkoff, 30, of Anchorage, and Andrean Basargin, 25, of Homer.There have been two previous cases of Alaskan Piper Navajo crashes confirmed to have been caused by open forward cargo hatches. In April 1990 a compartment opened during takeoff from Deadnight; this caused separation of an engine cover which proceeded to strike and damage the horizontal stabilizer. No-one was injured.It was discovered that a vital spring designed to exert pressure and thus keep the door shut was missing; the operator had improvised its own device to shut the door without correctly locking it.The second crash occurred in May 1996. A Cape Smythe Air Services owned-and-operated aircraft attempting takeoff at Point Hope had its forward door unexpectedly open as the nose lifted off. Cargo went through the left propeller, forcing an emergency crash landing on the ice severely injuring two people. The pilot had loaded the hold and then visually inspected the door.  Under the false impression that it had been secured properly he proceeded to takeoff. He had originally attempted to turn the aircraft around and told the NTSB he had thought that the aircraft should have been able to fly despite the open door, although he appreciated aircraft documentation did not specifically mention such conditions.Small, local-based Servant Air had been operating the 1979 aircraft since 2004 without any difficulties. As with many such carriers, the pilot is responsible for loading and checking the door. The door is approximately 3 1/2 feet wide and 2 1/2 feet high.Italian state-owned flag carrier Alitalia's board has conditionally accepted a low-value takeover bid by Air France-KLM, a company formed by the merger of Air France and KLM.Alitalia say the offer requires various conditions to be met by March 31 if it is to succeed. A board meeting, which ended unanimously, started mid-Saturday and continued until early Sunday, at which point a press release was issued. This named key conditions as approval by the trade union, agreement from the government - which must also supply a credit line repayable after a credit hike - and "elimination" of risks from a suit by Milan airport operator SEA. The government owns a 49.9% controlling stake.Further conditions include receiving a government commitment to keep the airline's landing rights, agreeing with Rome International Airport's operator over servicing and a deal to buy back some activities at Alitalia Servizi, a maintenance arm.Air France-KLM, who placed their bid on Friday after negotiations lasting eight weeks, welcomed the decision in Paris. The deal values at Alitalia at €0.10, compared to a Friday trading value of €0.53, and will swap one Air France-KLM for every 160 Alitalia shares, valuing the airline at €140 million (US$240 million). The low price comes as a result of financial difficulties that the airline is currently facing. Initial rumours suggested the price would be €0.35 a share.Also being bid on is 100% of convertible bonds at €0.3145 a bond. The state owns 62% of these. The company will keep its brand, logo and Italian headquarters.Funerals began Monday across Newfoundland for the deceased of the downed Sikorsky S92 helicopter that crashed into the Atlantic Ocean on Friday killing 17 of the 18 people on board. All bodies have now been recovered, and the voice and flight data recorders have been retrieved to aid the investigation.“We have a big attachment to the sea, even if a family is not directly involved you know how dangerous it is out there. Some funerals are strictly a family matter. In this situation there's a large extended family because we're all affected,” said Jim Maher, the uncle of Allison Maher, 26, the first deceased recovered after the crash.The Archbishop of St. John's, Martin Currie, said, “Tragedy is no stranger to the people of Newfoundland. They're very resilient people and in a time of tragedy, they come together to support each other. Most of the communities in Newfoundland are small communities. Everybody knows everybody." The Transportation Safety Board has retrieved nine more bodies from the wreckage. The Atlantic Osprey is the offshore supply vessel which has been with the search and rescue effort since day one. The newly recovered bodies were taken back to St. John's aboard the ship.Since the recovery operations began Monday "it took 24 hours to get nine bodies out Each presents its own challenges depending on how it is entangled inside the aircraft" said RCMP Sergeant Wayne Newell.Operations continued Tuesday to recover the final seven bodies tangled inside the mangled wreck 120 to 150 meters (394 to 492 feet) below the ocean surface. Remotely operated vehicles (ROVs)  are being used in the icy waters to place the bodies in a basket so they can be raised to the surface. After the Atlantic Osprey arrived in port, the bodies were taken to the Newfoundland's chief medical officer by hearse for identification.Of the 19 people aboard, Robert Decker is the sole survivor. Decker's family has informed the RCMP that he is not yet able to communicate. Decker, who was put on life support when first admitted to hospital with injured lungs and broken bones, has said a few words; RCMP investigators hope that he will be able explain what happened in the accident and assist with the investigation, possibly toward the end of the week.  Twelve names of the missing victims had previously been announced, and with family permission, the RCMP have now released the names of Corey Eddy, from Paradise, N.L., age 32, and John Pelley, from Deer Lake, N.L. age 41.In a somewhat unexpected turn of events, it emerged on Monday that Arrow Light Rail — the existing operators of Nottingham, England's Express Transit (NET) system — were to have their contract ripped up, after the preferred bidder for the construction of Phase 2 was announced. The change means that the entire network will be able to be integrated throughout, rather than having two operators effectively running two separate systems.Nottingham City Council have selected Tramlink Nottingham as their preferred bidder to construct and operate the NET Phase Two lines to Chilwell and Clifton, and will now enter talks with the consortium, made up of Alstom, Keolis, Trent Barton, VINCI Construction UK, OFI Infravia and Meridiam Infrastructure, to finalise the exact details of the contract. It is expected that the concessionary contract will be awarded during the coming summer, with construction starting before the end of the year. The contract will run for 23 years.Tramlink Nottingham chairman Roger Harrison said: "Building on Arrow's successful legacy, we are excited to be taking forward the next chapter in Nottingham's tram story."Our focus now will be on working with Nottingham City Council to ensure NET Phase Two can be introduced at the earliest opportunity."The reshuffle of operating consortium means that Nottingham City Transport (NCT) — the main provider of bus services within Nottingham — will have no part to play in the extended network, despite the numerous awards and high satisfaction levels NET has had since its opening; it is the only one of Britain's five light rail networks to be an instant success."We're obviously very disappointed not to be part of the selected preferred consortium. Nottingham's tram has won numerous awards and after seven years passengers continue to praise its operation. We would have relished the opportunity to have been part of this continuing success," said NCT's Managing Director Mark Fowles.But the council stresses that they are still committed to the future of the company."This decision in no way reflects the excellent job Arrow Light Rail Limited has done operating the tram since its launch. Annual customer satisfaction figures remain very high and this is testament to this operation," added Jane Todd. "The decision to appoint a new consortium to build and operate the extended tram network was made on the basis of selecting the best proposal to meet the council's objectives for the future of the tram system. The overall offer from the Tramlink Nottingham consortium was stronger. Although disappointing for NCT it is nonetheless good news for the integration of public transport services that the city's other major bus operator, Trent Barton, is part of the preferred bidder. I am certain NCT will continue to provide award winning bus services for the people of Nottingham."Staff currently employed by Arrow Light Rail are expected to be transferred over to Tramlink Nottingham around August, when further details of the contract will become clear. Other changes that are proposed for the network include 'smart card' ticketing — similar to the highly successful Oyster scheme that is in use across Transport for London's service — and the phasing out of tram conductors in favour of on-platform ticketing machines. Current conductors will be offered new roles within the company, though talks are still on-going about how to combat any potential fare-dodgers.Furthermore, an additional 22 tram vehicles will be built by consortium member Alstom for the extended network, though these will be of a different design to the 15 existing vehicles, which were built by Bombardier to their Incentro design for the system's opening. The new trams will be part of Alstom's Citadis family, and will bring the total tram fleet to 37. This will also allow for service frequencies to be increased and for overcrowding to be eased at peak times.Ticketing arrangements for the network will also change when the new consortium takes over. Currently, combined tickets, cards and passes can be used for the tram and NCT buses, but these are due to be phased out and replaced with the new smart cards in time for the opening of the extensions. Prior to that, passengers will be able to use combined tickets, cards and passes for the tram and Trent Barton buses, in a similar arrangement to that which is already offered for NCT.Pat Armstrong, director for NET, said: "The move is very much towards more sophisticated smart ticketing, like the Oyster card in London. You use the same card but the money goes back to the company you are travelling with."The extended network, new trams and numerous other changes should be fully operational by the end of 2014, but NET users and tramway enthusiasts had mixed views on the matter:"I think it's a bad idea to phase out the conductors," said Andrew Blood, assistant editor of the Tramways Monthly e-magazine, "Not only do they help with revenue protection, but they are also responsible for the high passenger satisfaction levels on the system. In short, they keep tram users feeling safe."Greg Smith, from Hucknall, was pleased that service levels were going to increase: "The fact that the trams will be running more frequently is a massive bonus in my eyes. The service we get at [the Hucknall] end of the line is great already, but if [the trams] are running more frequently it's just another advantage of the system over the bus." But he was also wary of on-platform ticketing being brought into place: "I'm not sure that losing the conductors in favour of ticket machines is the way to go, though."All eight crewmembers on board a Kata Air Transport Antonov An-32 that crashed on April 12 in Moldova are confirmed to have died. The news comes as Moldova requests Russia assist the investigation by analysing the Flight Data Recorder (FDR) and Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR).The Sudanese operated and registered plane, manufactured in Ukraine, had departed Chişinău International Airport to travel to Khartoum via Antalya. The aircraft had rapidly disappeared from radar after takeoff due to a believed transponder failure. After air traffic control informed the flight crew a decision was made to return and perform an emergency landing, but the aircraft crashed before this could be achieved at 22:15 local time (20:15 GMT).The crew consisted of four Moldovans and four Ukrainians. Seven bodies have been identified.An American Airlines McDonnell Douglas MD-80 carrying 142 people was forced to return to Lambert-St. Louis International Airport after an engine caught fire shortly after takeoff. Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting (ARFF) personnel doused down the number one engine upon landing with foam.American Airlines Flight 140 had departed the airport at 1:03 p.m. on a scheduled domestic passenger flight to Chicago, but had developed the fire, coming back to land at 1:40 p.m. The aircraft was stopped on the runway, where it was met by ARFF crews, who extinguished the fire. None of the 137 passengers, three cabin crew and two pilots were injured, and they subsequently walked to the terminal.American Airlines have stated that their maintenance department will investigate the accident in an attempt to determine what sparked the fire. Federal inspectors from the National Transportation Safety Board will also investigate the accident, with at least two investigators dispatched, including a specialist in jet engines.An American Airlines (AA) plane made a safe emergency landing after it was diverted to Miami, Florida after the pilot reported that there was a problem with the plane's front landing gear.The plane, an McDonnell Douglas MD-80/MD-90 flight 862, took off just before 2:00 p.m. (eastern time) from Palm Beach International Airport and was en route to Chicago, Illinois when the problem was reported just after takeoff. It circled above Miami International Airport to burn off fuel and made a safe and uneventful emergency landing.The plane made a flyby of the airport's tower where officials could make a visual observation. The front gear appeared to be slightly bent in live footage shown by the Fox News Channel.None of the 138 people on board the plane were injured.An Amtrak train collided with a parked Norfolk Southern freight train in Chicago on Friday. 30 people were injured, five of them Amtrak personnel who were most seriously injured.Amtrak train 371, the Pere Marquette, started in Grand Rapids, Michigan and carried 193 people on board including six crew members. The train was in south Chicago heading towards its destination of Chicago Union Station when the crash occurred around 17:30 UTC. No injuries were reported among the crew of the Norfolk Southern freight train. Amtrak's locomotive, a GE Genesis, was derailed by the force of the impact, although the rest of the passenger train remained on the tracks.All Amtrak trains between Chicago and Michigan are currently cancelled while workers remove the locomotive from the scene and perform any needed repairs. A National Transportation Safety Board "Go Team" led by Ted Turpin was dispatched to the scene to conduct a federal investigation into the crash.The Syndicat du transport de Montréal (Montreal transport Union), representing maintenance workers of the Société de transport de Montréal (Montreal Transport Society), in Canada, voted "to go on strike at one minute past midnight this May 22", effectively cutting down the bus and metro services to only some hours of the day.The Société qualified the vote of "irresponsible", as talks are still under way in order to reach a mutual agreement between the workers, who want continued salary raises for the next few years, while the Société offers to freeze salaries for the first year and a lesser raise for the subsequent years. The Syndicat's total requests are in the neighborhood of $60 million (Canadian funds), while the Société "already anticipates a $22 million shortfall" for 2007.The Government of Québec's Essential Services Council has called for some services to be delivered to Montrealers during the strike. Bus and metro (subway) schedules are thus constricted to rush hours only:Monday to Friday: 06:00-09:00am, 03:30-06:30pm, 11:00pm-01:00amSaturday and Sunday: 06:00-09:00am, 02:00-05:00pm, 11:00pm-01:00amFor low-mobility users, the Société ensures that "[p]aratransit services will be provided in full as usual."The Société asks its clients to "note that bus drivers, metro operators and fare collectors are not responsible for the current situation", and thus to be "lenient" towards them.There is no information at the moment as to how long the labour dispute will last.According to a security analysis of the PATH tunnels as requested by Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly, the tunnels are more susceptible to attacks than once thought: if an explosive were to blow a 50 square foot hole in the wall, then over one million gallons of water per minute would flood in. This information has not been shared with other government agencies yet.Commissioner Kelly considers this to be a "cause for concern," but still believes the trains are safe. Marc La Vorgna, a spokesman of the Port Authority, claims that security has stepped up and bag checks will be increased.This report comes five months after arrests were made overseas of people who were conspiring to bomb the PATH tunnels.The four tubes of PATH trains, which connect New Jersey, and New York City, are used by 230,000 people each weekday. These tunnels are made of cast iron and only one-fourth of the length is reinforced with concrete or brick. Should a hole be punctured in one of those tunnels, that tunnel would flood in six minutes and the rest of the system would be overwhelmed in a matter of hours.The analysis was funded by the US government and was done by the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. The study has since been leaked to The New York Times by an official.According to the European Space Agency (ESA), 200 satellite images from the Danish National Space Center (DNSC) indicate that the Arctic ice levels are at an all time low, since the first images taken in 1978, and as a result the Northwest Passage has completely opened up for the first time since humans began to record history.The images have shown the melting of the ice has "dramatically increased" more than previously thought and that by 2030, all of the summer ice could be gone with the region being completely ice free by 2070. Researchers call it an "extreme" situation and say that the ice is now shrinking at a level of about three million square kilometers a year, up from one million square kilometers per year in 2005."The strong reduction in just one year certainly raises flags that the ice may disappear much sooner than expected," said DNSC spokesman Leif Toudal Pedersen in a statement.The new findings have put Canada and the United States at a standoff, both laying claim to the passage because it could be a valuable resource for the shipping industry. The passage goes through the boundaries of both nations. In 1985 diplomatic relations on the passage were strained after a U.S. icebreaker passed through without the U.S. notifying Canadian officials.As a result, the Canadian military is building two new bases at both ends of the areas they claim to be theirs. There will also be at least six new naval patrol ships built, that will be stationed in the passage.The U.S. claims that regardless which country boundaries the passage passes through, the waterway should be open to anyone who wants to use it."We believe it's an international passage," said U.S. President George W. Bush.Denmark, Norway, and Russia all also lay claim to the vast amounts of minerals, natural gas, and oil.Two medical helicopters en route to Flagstaff Medical Center reportedly crashed into each other near Flagstaff Arizona, United States, leaving six of the seven passengers dead, and one, a nurse, seriously injured. At least one passenger of three on a Bell 407 helicopter operated by Air Methods Corp. was reported to be a patient. The other helicopter, also a Bell 407, operated by Classic Helicopters, Ltd., carried four passengers who are all dead except for one with serious injures. Spokesperson Matt Stein of Classic Helicopters said that the patient on board the helicopter they operated was being lifted from a medical emergency on the South Rim of the Grand Canyon.The helicopters collided at about 3:45 pm PDT (22:45 UTC), according to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and crashed about half a mile (800 metres) from the hospital. The helicopters crashed into a forested hillside, igniting a fire that burned about ten to fifteen acres (four to six hectares) of land, but was contained quickly by rescue workers.Two medical rescue workers were released from a hospital after an explosion of one of the helicopters on the ground. Reuters was told by Sergeant Tom Boughner that "They were treated for minor burns injuries and were released from the hospital in good condition".Flagstaff is a city near the centre of Arizona in the United States. The surrounding areas north-east, west, and south-west are lined with hillsides. The city is just south-east of the popular tourist attraction, the Grand Canyon.Classic Helicopters states that their pilot had over 10,000 hours of experience and this is the first fatal incident they've had. The FAA is performing an investigation of the incident.The Seabourn Spirit, a cruise ship sailing off the coast of Somalia, narrowly escaped an attack by gunmen believed to be pirates.The pirate attack occurred on Saturday, when two boats approached the ship and began firing automatic weapons and rocket propelled grenades, injuring one crew member.The crew took evasive action and escaped safely by employing an acoustic bang which caused the gunmen to flee believing they were under fire.302 passengers and crew, mostly from the United States, Canada, and Australia, were onboard when the gunmen opened fire. The attack took place 160km (100 miles) off the Somali coastline, which has a reputation for pirate activity.Deborah Natansohn, president of the Seabourn Cruise Line told CNN Radio, "The occupants of those boats did not succeed in boarding the ship and eventually turned away ... our captain and crew did a terrific job taking responsive action."Edith Laird, from Seattle, told the BBC, "My daughter saw the pirates out our window. […] There were at least three RPG that hit the ship, one in a stateroom four doors down from our cabin."According to Mike Rogers, a passenger from Vancouver, the captain opted not to sound the alarm and instead announced the attack over the speakers, fearing the sound would drive people to the deck and place them in the line of fire.Natansohn has stated that the company will re-evaluate future trips to the area.  The Seafarers Assistance Program (SAP) is planning on highlighting the incident and its potential costs for tourism on Monday.Pirate attacks have been an increasing problem in the area, with 23 hijackings and attempted seizures recorded by the International Maritime Bureau (IMB).  Two of the attacks were on ships carrying aid for the United Nations World Food Program. One attack involved a ship carrying 935 tons of rice for Asian tsunami victims. The crew had been held for three months before being released. According to the IMB, the pirates - mostly made up of the Horn of Africa’s former navy as well as former fishermen - represent a serious threat to commercial shipping.Somalia has been a volatile area since the ousting of former dictator Mohamed Said Barre. The country has been operating without a central administration since 1991 and is now controlled by warlords.Australian media has speculated that the attack on the ship may be an act of terrorism rather than one of piracy.Arung Samudera, the Indonesian naval tall ship that was recently grounded off Queensland, Australia, has been salvaged from the beach at Inskip Point and is currently being towed to Brisbane for repairs.The 35m vessel has been stranded since last Thursday, when she was grounded whilst on her way to the APEC meeting in Sydney. The ship is expected to berth in Brisbane near the naval barracks at approximately 11 a.m. (AEST). The tri-masted sailing training vessel, built in New Zealand, is believed to be seaworthy, but has serious damage to her keel and rudder. After the completion of repairs, the ship is expected to continue to Sydney, although it will not reach it in time for the APEC meeting.The ship's 18-man crew are said to be "very happy" with developments. According to the Australian Navy's Commander Forbes Peters, Indonesian officials are as pleased as the ships crew, with Peters saying "The naval attache and the first secretary to the ambassador are on site here and they cuddled Lieutenant Commander Larry Cook. They are over the moon and I'm sure the commanding officer is as well, even though he's currently at sea on his ship."Controversy has arisen over the reported presence of blue asbestos on the MV Freewinds, a cruise ship owned by the Church of Scientology. According to the Saint Martin newspaper The Daily Herald and the shipping news journal Lloyd's List, the Freewinds was sealed in April and local public health officials on the Caribbean island of Curaçao where the ship is docked began an investigation into the presence of asbestos dust on the ship. Former Scientologist Lawrence Woodcraft supervised work on the ship in 1987, and attested to the presence of blue asbestos on the Freewinds in an affidavit posted to the Internet in 2001. Woodcraft, a licensed architect by profession, gave a statement to Wikinews and commented on the recent events.According to The Daily Herald, the Freewinds was in the process of being renovated by the Curaçao Drydock Company. The article states that samples taken from paneling in the ship were sent to the Netherlands, where an analysis revealed that they "contained significant levels of blue asbestos". An employee of the Curaçao Drydock Company told Radar Online in an April 30 article that the Freewinds has been docked and sealed, and confirmed that an article about asbestos ran in the local paper. Lloyd's List reported that work on the interior of the Freewinds was suspended on April 27 after health inspectors found traces of blue asbestos on the ship. According to Lloyd's List, Frank Esser, Curaçao Drydock Company's interim director, joined Curaçao's head of the department of labor affairs Christiene van der Biezen along with the head of the local health department Tico Ras and two inspectors in an April 25 inspection of the ship. "We are sending someone so that they can tell us what happened, where it came from, since when it has been there," said Panama Maritime Authority's director of merchant marine Alfonso Castillero in a statement to Lloyd's List.The Church of Scientology purchased the ship, then known as the Bohème, in 1987, through an organization called Flag Ship Trust. After being renovated and refitted, it was put into service in June 1988. The ship is used by the Church of Scientology for advanced Scientology training in "Operating Thetan" levels, as well as for spiritual retreats for its members. Curaçao has been the ship's homeport since it was purchased by the Church of Scientology. According to his 2001 statement, Lawrence Woodcraft had been an architect in London, England since 1975, and joined Scientology's elite "Sea Organization" (Sea Org) in 1986. He wrote that he was asked by the Sea Org to work on the Freewinds in 1987, and during his work on the ship "noticed a powdery blue fibrous substance approximately 1 ½" thick between the paint and the steel wall," which he believed to be asbestos. He also discovered what he thought was blue asbestos in other parts of the ship, and reported his findings to Church of Scientology executives. Woodcraft discussed his experiences in a 2001 interview published online by the Lisa McPherson Trust, a now-defunct organization which was critical of the Church of Scientology.Church of Scientology spokeswoman Karin Pouw responded to Radar Online about the asbestos reports, in an email published in an article in Radar on May 1. "The Freewinds regularly inspects the air quality on board and always meets or exceeds US standards," said Pouw. She stated that two inspections performed in April "confirmed that the air quality is safe," and asserted that the inspections revealed the Freewinds satisfies standards set by the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the U.S. Clean Air Act. Pouw told Radar that "The Freewinds will be completing its refit on schedule." The Church of Scientology-affiliated organization Citizens Commission on Human Rights (CCHR) had been planning a cruise aboard the Freewinds scheduled for May 8, but according to Radar an individual who called the booking number for the cruise received a message that the cruise had been delayed due to ongoing work on the ship. Citing an article in the Netherlands Antilles newspaper Amigoe, Radar reported on May 6 that a team from the United States and supervised by an independent bureau from the Netherlands traveled to Curaçao in order to remove asbestos from the Freewinds. "I stand by everything I wrote in my 2001 affidavit," said Lawrence Woodcraft in an exclusive statement given to Wikinews. Woodcraft went on to state: "I would also comment that if the Church of Scientology claims to have removed the blue asbestos, I just don't see how, it's everywhere. You would first have to remove all the pipes, plumbing, a/c ducts, electrical wiring etc. etc. just a maze of stuff. Also panelling as well, basically strip the ship back to a steel hull. Also blue asbestos is sprayed onto the outer walls and then covered in paint. It's in every nook and cranny."Many Scientologist celebrities have spent time aboard the Freewinds, including Tom Cruise, Katie Holmes, John Travolta, Kelly Preston, Chick Corea, Lisa Marie Presley, Catherine Bell, Kate Ceberano, and Juliette Lewis. Now magazine reported that Tom Cruise has been urged to seek medical attention regarding potential asbestos exposure, however a representative for Cruise stated he has "absolutely no knowledge" of the recent asbestos controversy. Cruise, Holmes, Travolta and Preston have celebrated birthdays and other events on the Freewinds.In a May 15 statement to the United Kingdom daily newspaper Metro, a representative for the Church of Scientology said that "There is not now and never has been a situation of asbestos exposure on the Freewinds." The Asbestos and Mesothelioma Center notes that agencies have recommended anyone who has spent time on the Freewinds consult with their physician to determine if possible asbestos exposure may have affected their health.Raw blue asbestos is the most hazardous form of asbestos, and has been banned in the United Kingdom since 1970. Blue asbestos fibers are very narrow and thus easily inhaled, and are a major cause of mesothelioma. Mesothelioma is a form of cancer which can develop in the lining of the lungs and chest cavity, the lining of the abdominal cavity, or the pericardium sac surrounding the heart. The cancer is incurable, and can manifest over 40 years after the initial exposure to asbestos. "This is the most dangerous type of asbestos because the fibres are smaller than the white asbestos and can penetrate the lung more easily," said toxicologist Dr. Chris Coggins in a statement published in OK! Magazine. Dr. Coggins went on to note that "Once diagnosed with mesothelioma, the victim has six months to a year to live. It gradually reduces lung function until the victim is no longer able to breathe and dies."According to the IATA, airlines lost a total of $400 million daily for the first three days of the week that European airspace was closed. The closures also impacted an estimated 1.2 million passengers around the world each day, until airspace around Europe began reopening last night.  IATA's chief executive officer, Giovanni Bisignani, said that "[f]or an industry that lost $9.4bn last year and was forecast to lose a further $2.8bn in 2010, this crisis is devastating." He also claimed that the airline industry would require three years to recover from the effects of the crisis, and called on governments to provide some form of compensation to airlines.Bisignani also criticized the response of European governments to the ash threat, saying that they had over-reacted and the shutdown of all airspace was excessive. He said that "Airspace was being closed based on theoretical models, not on facts. Test flights by our members showed that the models were wrong. [The crisis] is an extraordinary situation exaggerated by a poor decision-making process by national governments." Individual airlines also criticized the airspace closures. Micheal O'Leary, CEO of Ryanair, said that "It might have made sense to ground flights for a day or two...But by the time that that cloud has dispersed through 800 or 1,000 nautical miles of air space, a full ban should never have been imposed."In defense of the European airspace controller, Eurocontrol, the CEO of the Irish Aviation Authority, Eamonn Brennan, said: "It's important to realize that we've never experienced in Europe something like this before. So it wasn't just a simple matter of saying: Yes, you could have operated on Saturday or Sunday or Monday. We needed the four days of test flights, the empirical data, to put this together and to understand the levels of ash that engines can absorb." Additionally, scientists in Switzerland said that studies of ash content in the atmosphere were high enough that the total closure of most European airspace was warranted.Restrictions over air travel in Europe have been lifted in many parts of the continent today; three-quarters of the scheduled flights were operating, and most of the European airspace having been opened. Only parts of British, French and Irish airspace remain closed, and most of Europe's major airports are open, although not necessarily operating at full capacity; at London Heathrow Airport, about half the scheduled departing flights were canceled.Two passenger trains collided in India early on Wednesday, killing at least 21 people and injuring more than twenty others, reports have said. The accident occurred at around 05.30 local time (00.00 UTC), when a passenger train collided with another train which was waiting at a red signal near the northern city of Agra.Both the trains were in the final leg of their journey at the time of the collision. They were heading to the capital, New Delhi, which is about 200 kilometers north of the accident site. Passengers said that they were sleeping when they felt a heavy jolt. One eyewitness told television crews that people on the upper berths of the train came tumbling down due to the impact:  "We felt a massive jolt. People sleeping on upper berths fell to the floor.""There was a loud bang and we were suddenly thrown out  of our seats. There was panic everywhere," another passenger recounted.A northern railway spokesman, R. D. Vajpayee, told the Voice of America news agency that the rear coach of the stationary train bore the brunt of the collision's impact. "We had to rescue, take out the passengers which were trapped in the last coach. And, gas cutters were used, and we had called the army also. They had assisted us and, within a few hours, we had completed with rescue operations."An unnamed eyewitness told the CNN-IBN news agency that "there are many people who are injured and many people who are dead. A lot of people fell onto the tracks because of the impact of the collision."Railway officials said they are not certain what caused the accident, but one of the trains may have overlooked a signal to stop. An inquiry into the incident has been ordered.Trains are the most popular mode of long-distance travel in India. India operates one of the most extensive and busiest rail networks in the world; 9,000 passenger trains run every day, carrying more than eighty million people daily across the country. There are about 300 rail accidents in the country every year, prompting calls for improving safety standards on the rail network. Earlier this month, one person was killed when a train derailed. In February, another train accident in eastern India claimed sixteen lives.A train crash in Egypt killed at least 25 people on Saturday, officials said. Varying reports gave the number of injured between 24 and 55. Police officials have warned, however, that the true death toll might be much higher.The incident occurred in the village of Guerzah, near the city of Giza. Two passengers trains were travelling in the same direction on the same track, when the one in front made an unexpected stop, reportedly after driving over a cow. The train behind it, however, continued cruising at a normal speed until running into the back of the stopped train.A security official said to the Agence France-Presse news agency that "the trains were travelling on the same track. One ran into the other as they headed towards Upper Egypt."Tens of ambulances were dispatched to the scene of the accident. A crane was even used by rescue teams to lift a crushed wagon to try and find bodies underneath it.Railway accidents along Egypt's busy networks are not infrequent. At least twenty people were killed when a bus was hit by a train in northwestern Egypt in July of last year. In August 2006, 58 died and over a hundred were wounded after a train slammed into another one on the tracks. The country's worst rail disaster, however, was in February 2002, when at least 361 were killed after a passenger set fire to a moving train while using a stove.A bus bombing in Sri Lanka  has killed at least 25 and wounded at least 40.The bomb exploded just outside the capital city, Sri Jayawardenapura-Kotte, with the wounded transported to nearby Kalubovila hospital. The explosion occurred during the evening rush hour."It's a parcel bomb of about 3kg (6 lbs) with a time device. It was placed in the middle of the bus," said a bomb squad official to Reuters.As well as wounds sustained from the explosion, several passengers were burned after the commuter bus caught fire straight after the explosion.The government has blamed the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE)for the bombing."It's definitely by the LTTE, with the recent losses and battlefield defeats they are desperate," said Brigadier Udaya Nanayakkara, a spokesperson for the military.Fighting between the government forces and the LTTE has escalated since a cease-fire ended in January.At least 30 people have been killed and the death toll may rise further after a bus thought to be carrying 80 people fell 80 metres (262 feet) down a cliff in South Africa's mountainous KwaZulu-Natal province, coming to rest inverted in a river.Up to 32 more people have been hospitalised after the bus lost control due to a brake failure. The exact number of passengers, while thought to be 80, is unconfirmed at present as police have been unable to contact the vehicle's owner and the driver was killed in the disaster. The death toll could yet increase as police divers and military helicopters were still conducting search and rescue operations on the river and the wreck. Ambulances from across the Eastern Cape are at the scene.Four children are amongst the dead. It is unknown how many live passengers, if any, remain trapped in the wreckage of the bus, which crashed near Cedarville. It is also unclear how deeply underwater it is, with reports varying from half-submerged to one and a half metres below the waterline. Video footage from Sky News shows an overturned bus that is accessible to rescuers, suggesting either that the water is shallow or that the vehicle has already been dragged from the river.South Africa's death toll on roads is statistically among the world's worst, with 10,000 killed every year. It is unclear what caused the brakes to fail.At least 31 people have died and 35 more are missing after wooden passenger ferry Acita III sank off the coast of Sulawesi, Indonesia. At least 125 more have been rescued.The vessel capsized and sank at approximately 9 p.m. local time last night, going down near the port town of Bau Bau. It has been suggested that bad weather was the cause of the disaster, but Bau Bau mayor Amirul Tamin has told reporters that he believes overcrowding was a much more likely cause.An alternative explanation was offered by local police chief Mochammad Badrus, who says that the ship capsized after large numbers of passengers clambered onto an upper deck in attempts to gain mobile phone signals as the ferry neared land. Local residents and fisherman say they could hear people screaming for help as the accident unfolded.Passenger manifests are rare and usually inaccurate when they are available in Indonesia, so passenger numbers are unconfirmed, but the ship was thought to have been carrying 150 - 200 people. However, Tamin has said that the ferry should only have been carrying a maximum of 30 passengers.It is Indonesia's most serious ferry accident since the Levina 1 caught fire in February, which, in turn, came after MV Senopati Nusantara sank during a storm in late December.At least 65 people were killed and over 200 injured when a train derailed in West Bengal, India. Suspected Maoist rebels triggered the attack which occurred in the Howrah-Kurla Lokmanya Tilak Gyaneshwari Super Deluxe Express. The train, which runs from Kolkata to Mumbai, had thirteen coaches derailed, five of which were subsequently struck by a freight train coming in the opposite direction.The train derailed near the city of Sardiha, about 90 miles (150 km) southwest of the state capital of Kolkata. The region is a Maoist stronghold where multiple attacks have occurred in the recent past. The exact cause of the disaster was unclear, with some officials claiming an explosion had led to the attack, while some unaffected passengers stating they heard no blast. Police officials, including Bhupinder Singh, the head of police of the state, said the metallic parts which held parts of the rail track together were missing and labeled this as an act of sabotage. Singh blamed the Maoists for the attack stating policemen had found Maoist leaflets at the scene.However, the driver said he had heard an explosion in the attack which derailed as many as ten passenger coaches. The country's railways minister Mamata Bannerjee said the combined effect of sabotage to the tracks and a bomb blast led to the incident. According to her, there was "definitely sabotage" and the bomb blast had led to the derailment. "From whatever I have been told the apprehension is the Maoists were involved," she added. Police officials mentioned they were investigating whether the removal of the "fish plates" was the primary cause of the attack."The driver heard a loud noise which indicates there could be a blast. A detail investigation will reveal more, but definitely there was lot of tinkering done to the tracks," a senior railway official, Vivek Sahay, said.The incident occurred at around 1:30 a.m. local time, and police forces and local medics took an hour to rech the site. Lack of roads and the fear of an ambush by Maoists slowed rescue operations. Passengers complained of the slow operations; some of them claimed luggage and valuables were stolen in the confusion.E. Mitra, a doctor at the nearby Kharagpur Railway Hospital, noted 30 bodies had been taken to the hospital. But "a lot of dead bodies are strewn under the derailed carriages," he added. Home Secretary of the state, Samar Ghosh, said 65 bodies had been found till then.Air Force helicopters came to the scene at dawn as local television footage showed onlookers standing on the top of the affected carriages, as soldiers cut holes in the roofs with a gas-powered circular saw."People are crying. Rescuers are struggling to save the survivors and get the bodies out," Naresh Jana, a witness, said. "I can see body parts hanging out of the compartments and under the wheels. I can hear people, women, crying for help from inside the affected coaches.""There was a massive jerk, and we thought the Maoists had stopped the train to hijack it," another unidentified witness told local media. "But thank God it was an accident ... at least many people are saved. This area is very dangerous, very dangerous."The railways minister of India announced a compensation of $11,000 and a job in her ministry for the families of the dead and $2,200 for those wounded.The Maoists guerillas who are known as "Naxalites" in India are powerful force in Chhattisgarh, Orissa, West Bengal, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, which are the relatively poorer states of India. In the past few years, poor or landless peasants and tribesman have rendered their support towards the insurgents, due to the wealth gap and as a result of the former losing their land to government-aided mining companies.At least 706 passengers and 22 crew have been rescued after fire broke out on the top deck of an Indonesian passenger ferry. According to ABC News citing Sampit Police Chief Jihartono talking to ElShinta, at least 712 passengers and 57 crew were rescued.The boat was sailing from Surabaya, East Java to the port of Sampit, which is inland on the Mentaya river in Borneo. The ferry had reached the river and was near the town of Samuda when fire broke out.A number of boats were nearby at the time and were able to assist with rescue operations, as were residents on the river bank. It is believed that all on board were safely rescued, with four hospitalised and the rest in shelters at the riverside, but it is difficult to be sure because ferries often carry more passengers than manifestos suggest in Indonesia, where they are a major form of transport between the many islands that comprise the nation. Most of the passengers worked at local palm oil plantations.Harbour official Abdul Kadir told the press "The boat had no adequate fire-fighting equipment, so efforts were dedicated to rescuing the people on board," and said that transport officials and police have arrived at the scene. It took five hours to extuinguish the blaze, and an investigation will be conducted.At least nine people have been killed after a wooden ferry caught fire and sank in Indonesia. The Usaha Baru was carrying 77 passengers and crew when fire broke out within sight of land.Eight are confirmed dead and a two-year-old boy is missing and presumed dead. It is thought that the others all escaped the ship, and 35 are hospitalised in Ambon and receiving treatment for burns. Many survivors were rescued by fishermen in the area.Local authorities say it appears those on board panicked after a fire broke out in the engine room, but it is difficult to know exactly what happened at this stage because the ship was extensively damaged by fire before sinking.Search and rescue operations for the missing child - one of four children and one teenager killed - are ongoing at the site, which is near the small village of Salahutu, from which many of the rescuers came. Almost all of the passengers were Muslims headed home to celebrate Eid al-Fitr, which marks the end of the holy month of Ramadan.Ferry accidents are common in the island nation of Indonesia, where the fleet is largely old and overcrowded.Citizens in Israel who participated in the 2010 'Freedom Flotilla' to Gaza will not be prosecuted, according to a statement released today by the Attorney General of Israel, Yehuda Weinstein.Weinstein said the cases had been closed due to "evidentiary and legal difficulties" related to "proving the basis of the office as well as legal questions regarding the jurisdiction of Israeli law on crimes committed abroad."Haneen Zoabi, an Israeli Arab and member of the Knesset for the Balad party, was amongst the Israeli citizens who participated in the flotilla. She responded to the dropping of the cases by saying that it "proves what I said all along. My participation in the flotilla was a political act and entirely legal."Anastassia Michaeli, a Knesset member for the nationalist party Yisrael Beiteinu, said the decision to drop the cases was "a boost and reward for terror in Israel and around the globe".Dubai Aerospace Enterprise (DAE) of Dubai, United Arab Emirates has entered a controversial bid for New Zealand's busiest airport, the Auckland International. Merger documents have revealed that DAE would use "reasonable endeavours" to create new routes and services from Auckland for Emirates Airline. DAE's plan is to takeover 60% of the publicly-traded airport for NZ$2.6 billion (approx. US$2.1 billion).The chair of DAE, Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed Al Maktoum, also chairs Emirates, which flies four times daily into Auckland. DAE does not have a shareholding in the Dubai-based airline. Emirates has said its long term plan for the airport is to establish it as a secondary hub, with flights to the west coast of the United States, or Central America and South America. Another possibility being looked into is round-the-world flights through Dubai, South Africa and Auckland. Auckland has been chosen as DAE's hub of the region due to Australian laws preventing foreign control of major airports.DAE was set up last year by the government of the United Arab Emirates in Dubai, with funds of US$15 billion (approx. NZ$19 billion). One of the entity's goals is to build up a global portfolio of airports, particularly in emerging markets.DAE is not the only party interested in the airport. Canada Pension Plan (CPP) is among the potential buyers completing due diligence. CPP is said to be close to submitting a bid.Ron Cahill, a Canberra resident and chief coroner of the Australian Capital Territory, has concluded the inquest into the deaths of three Australian nationals who were amongst the 21 people killed in the crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200. The Boeing 737-400 aircraft overshot a runway at Yogyakarta, Indonesia on March 7.The inquest indicated that Alison Sudradjat, Brice Steele and Mark Scott died from injuries sustained in the crash. Cahill commented that this finding would also apply to the deaths of two other Australians on the flight; the remaining fatal injuries were sustained by Indonesians. The inquest was opened at the request of families of the three victims involved in this inquest after the repatriation of their bodies.Cahill agreed fully with a recent report issued by the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee, which indicated that the pilot-in-command attempted to land the aircraft at extreme speed despite 15 automated cockpit warnings and a request from the co-pilot to perform a go-around. He went on to suggest that the pilot should be prosecuted over his mistakes."I recommend that CASA and Air Services Australia and all Australian airlines review the report to consider whether any of the safety deficiencies identified have relevance to Australian aviation operations and therefore need to be addressed," he said.He went on to describe concerns with how these deficiencies are being addressed in Indonesia: "It is of some concern that the Indonesian regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, did not provide the National Transportation Safety Committee with details of safety action to address the recommendations which were in the draft report."Alison Sudrajat's daughter had this to say in light of the findings: "It was very informative and it was nice to know what exactly happened, because he went into quite some detail about everything." "It was quite comforting, but it's not going to bring anyone back."Yesterday, the state government of Victoria, Australia announced their decision to trial self-driving vehicles on two of the state's major connecting motorways, the CityLink and Tullamarine Freeway. The trial is to use autonomous vehicles from automobile companies including BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Volvo, and Tesla. The two-year trial is to have three phases.The cars are to drive alongside commuters, but in public testing a driver is always to be present, as Victorian law requires drivers always keep a hand on the steering wheel. However, in occasional closures of the Burnley Tunnel, with no other drivers to endanger, the cars are to be tested with nobody in the vehicle.Lane assist, cruise control, and recognition of traffic signs are in the trial's first phase, expected to complete before the end of the year. This includes monitoring how the driver-less cars respond to road conditions, including lane markings and electronic speed signs."Victoria is at the forefront of automated vehicle technology — we're investing in this trial to explore ways that this technology can be used to reduce crashes and keep people safe on our roads", said Luke Donnellan, the Victorian Minister for Roads and Road Safety. He noted, "Ninety per cent of the fault of accidents is human error [...] so we know that if we can take out human error we will have less accidents".Tim Hansen, Victoria Police's Acting Assistant Commissioner, said that police had founded a project team to investigate how self-driving vehicles would change policing on roads. "Can we intercept vehicles more safely to avoid pursuits and ramming?", he asked.The trial is a partnership between the state government, Victoria's road management authority VicRoads, owner of the CityLink toll road Transurban, and insurance company RACV.Engineers from the Australian airline Qantas are to hold a one-hour strike on Friday amid fears over job security. The strike will likely cause disruption for thousands of passengers.The strike was called after negotiations between the ALAEA, an engineers' union, and the airline, broke down. "What interests us more is job security, and for aircraft engineers that means simply being able to carry out aircraft maintenance in Australia," Steve Purvinas, the secretary of the ALAEA, said. It is likely the strike will be the first in a line of industrial action.Purvinas said last-ditch negotiations between the ALAEA and Qantas before a Fair Work Australia judge yesterday had "hit a brick wall." Analysts say the strike will probably have a huge impact on Qantas flights. The airline said it was "extremely disappointed" at the strike action but said disruption would be minimal. "We will not be able to negotiate on some of the demands they have put forward, they are simply unacceptable," an airline spokesperson said.The ALAEA said the main concern was that Qantas was outsourcing more work overseas and maintenance checks on aircraft are becoming less regular. Pervinas said Qantas engineers were "sick of the systematic dismantling of our industry by Qantas management."Australian airline Virgin Blue plans to increase its fares, making for an average additional A$5-10 charge to most airfares. The airline will also cease its Sydney to Prosperine route in July 2008 and Melbourne to Darwin route in August 2008 in order to cut costs due to the airline's rising fuel bill.Virgin Blue's fuel costs have risen above A$500 million, which is up 21 per cent as compared to the last financial year. The cut backs will also see 4 of the airline's aircraft removed from its fleet and an immediate wage freeze to all management staff.Virgin Blue CEO Brett Godfrey said that the move was part of a A$50 million package of cost savings and capacity cuts.Australian billionaire mining magnate Clive Palmer has announced plans to build a fleet of luxury cruise ships, including a replica of the famous RMS Titanic. Palmer has announced his new company Blue Star Line Pty Ltd has commissioned a close replica of the Titanic from CSC Jinling Shipyard in China. Construction would commence in 2013 and the maiden voyage would be in late 2016.Palmer said, "It will be every bit as luxurious as the original Titanic but of course it will have state-of-the-art 21st century technology and the latest navigation and safety systems". When asked if the replica would be unsinkable, Palmer said "Of course it will sink if you put a hole in it. It will be designed as a modern ship with all the technology to ensure that doesn't happen."Palmer also said the Chinese Navy had been invited to escort the ship on its maiden voyage. The original RMS Titanic sank in the North Atlantic Ocean on April 15, 1912 after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton to New York, with the loss of 1,514 people.According to Police, a 22 year-old male provisional driver from Macquarie Fields in Sydney's West has been clocked doing 202 Kph (125 Mph) in a 110 Kph (68 Mph) speed zone. In New South Wales provisional drivers are limited to a maximum of 100 Kph (62 Mph) regardless of the actual road's limit.The driver was detected by a highway patrol officer who was carrying out radar duties along the Hume Highway at Mittagong, South of Sydney.Police also discovered after stopping the man that his driver's licence had already been suspended. He was subsequently charged with driving whilst suspended and dangerous speeding.The residents of Speed, a small town in the south-east of Australia, have made the decision to modify the name of the town for one month in an attempt to improve road safety in the country. The name of the town will be adjusted to SpeedKills across next month.The idea was created by the Transport Accident Commission (TAC). A campaign was launched on the social networking website Facebook, saying that if 10,000 'liked' the campaign page, the name of the town — which has a population of 45 — would be changed. 'Rename Speed' has now gone on to achieve over 33,000 likes.Previously, the government had used various advertising campaigns in an attempt to get motorists to reduce speed. However, these campaigns were in large part unsuccessful. In 2010, Australia experienced a 25% increase in deaths on rural roads . TAC spokesperson Phil Reed has stated that, with this new name change campaign, "[w]e're trying to get people to stay within the speed limits, obey road safety rules" and cause motorists to "realise that when they don't, people die".One inhabitant of Speed has also made the decision to change his name during March. Phil Down, who grows wheat and raises sheep, has decided to change his name to Phil Slow Down. Speaking to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Down explained: "It's virtually on the road to somewhere else, so we've taken our quirky name and run with it to bring the attention to the campaign of trying to get people to slow down on country roads and especially through small towns".Austrian police today found an estimated 20–50 decomposing corpses in an apparently abandoned lorry.Roadworkers who spotted the vehicle, which had been there since yesterday at least, alerted police. Responding officers found it full of corpses. The lorry is on the so-called "Eastern Motorway", the A4, close to the Hungarian border. It was on the hard shoulder between Neusiedl and Parndorf, closer to Parndorf.The victims are thought to have suffocated. Police are seeking the driver. The Krone published an image of a non-articulated food lorry on the hard shoulder, which they report is the vehicle in question. The photo shows a pool of dark liquid on the ground beside the vehicle.Video from a passing motorist shows at least one helicopter on-scene. The truck, which has pictures of meat on the side, shows branding for Slovakian food firm Hyza. Earlier today the company's website sported an apparent anti-immigration graphic, which has since been removed.Wikinews got in touch with Hyza. "We are truly sorry about [the] tragedy" they told us in a statement. They said they have checked GPS trackers on their fleet and all their vehicles remain in Slovakia. The statement says the lorry in question was one of 21 Hyza vehicles sold on last year. It was then sold again and exported to Hungary, where it is now registered. Hyza told us the new owners have not changed the branding on the vehicle. According to the Bild newspaper, Agrofert -- the parent company of Hyza -- said in a statement the new owners were required to do so.Hyza says they will "actively cooperate with Slovak police", and "express [their] sincere condolences to the bereaved families."Interior Minister Johanna Mikl-Leitner called it "a dark day" and called for European Union-wide measures to protect immigrant refugees and tackle human traffickers. Neighbouring Hungary is constructing a border fence across its entire frontier with Serbia. Yesterday alone saw a record 3,241 attempts to enter Hungary illegally, according to authorities there.Conflict in Syria and other parts of the world has led refugees to Europe. Once inside, they can move freely inside the Schengen Area, which covers most of the EU.Austrian police earlier this week arrested three motorists suspected of people smuggling. One driver is accused of moving 34 people, ten of them children, into Austria from Serbia. The group were left by the roadside near Bruck an der Leitha and reported struggling to breathe in the van.The Japanese car making company Toyota has announced that their predicted profit loss for 2008 has tripled from their previous estimate. The company reports the loss after demand for its vehicles dropped. In December 2008, Toyota estimated its full year operating loss to be 150 billion yen (US$1.65 billion). Now the company has tripled that number, forecasting a 450 billion yen (US$4.95 billion) loss. This would be the first yearly loss at Toyota in 70 years.The firm also said that it predicts its global sales to fall by 17.87% to 7.32 million vehicles sold, compared to last year's 8.91 million vehicles sold. Overall for 2008, Toyota's car sales in the United States were down 15.4%, but that number was down from 2007 in which sales dropped 18%. For the month of January alone, Toyota's sales fell 31.7% compared to the overall U.S. sales loss of 37.1%.As a result of the loss, 17 of the company's 75 production lines worldwide, will be reduced to only a single shift of workers. The company also announced a full closure of all their Japanese plants for a total of 14 days between January and March 2009. Toyota's boss Katsuaki Watanabe described the loss as happening only "once in a hundred years".In January, the Japanese Nikkei newspaper said that Toyota was thinking of firing 1,000 Northern American and British workers, all of whom hold full-time positions in the company. The paper quoted Toyota's Executive Vice President Mitsuo Kinoshita as saying that "outside of Japan, we intend to make every possible effort to protect the jobs of our employees."Sales of automobiles in the United States fell as much as 35% in January, compared to the same month a year ago, as manufacturers reported their January sales.Ford Motor Company NYSE: F sales dropped 42% last month from the previous year. General Motors NYSE: GM reported a 49% decline. Chrysler was hardest hit among the domestically owned manufacturers with a plunge of 55%.The decline in sales has not been limited to just US manufacturers. Japanese automaker Toyota NYSE: TM reported a 32% drop in US sales from a year earlier, Nissan MotorsNASDAQ: NSANY dropped 30%, and Honda NYSE: HMC sales dropped 28%.Subaru and South Korean Hyundai Motor Company LSE: HYUD were two of the few auto firms that reported an increase in sales. They posted gains of eight and fourteen percent, respectively.On an annual basis, sales overall have also been plummeting. Industry-wide US car sales dropped 18% last year to 13.2 million automobiles.GM announced today that it will offer voluntary buyouts to 22,000 employees in the US, in an effort to reduce its expenditures.Last month, GM and Chrysler were given loans worth US$17.4 billion from the government after they warned of imminent bankruptcy.Autopsies from casualties of Air France Flight 447, which crashed in the Atlantic Ocean earlier this month, reveal fractures in leg bones, suggesting that the jet may have been torn apart in midair.A Brazilian medical examiners' spokesman said on Wednesday that autopsies found fractures on an undisclosed fraction of the fifty or so bodies that have been found from the wreck of the plane so far."We can say there is a little less uncertainty, so there is a little more optimism," Paul-Lois Arslanian, the leader of the French aviation accident investigation agency BEA, said. However, he added that "it is premature for the time being to say what happened."Frank Ciacco, a former forensic expert for the United States National Transportation Safety Board, said that "typically, if you see intact bodies and multiple fractures — arm, leg, hip fractures — it's a good indicator of a midflight break up. Especially if you're seeing large pieces of aircraft as well."Air France Flight 447 was an Airbus A330 that had departed from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, en route to Paris, France, when it disappeared over the Atlantic Ocean on June 1. A search investigation has found several parts of the jet, as well as some bodies of the passengers on board, but the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder, which could contain important information as to how exactly the plane crash occurred, are yet to be found.Authorities are currently working with employees of AirTran Airways to find passengers who sat near a teenage girl with bacterial meningitis on AirTran flights 687 and 862 on Saturday.After falling "seriously ill" during the second flight, from Atlanta, Georgia to Wichita, Kansas the girl was diagnosed with meningitis, an infection of the brain and spinal cord, at Wichita's Wesley Medical Center. Although meningitis cannot be transferred merely through casual contact, AirTran notified the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Sunday, and are attempting to track the passengers who sat near the girl on the two flights.In a televised speech from the White House at 16:00 UTC today, President of the United States Barack Obama presented a reorganization plan following the 12:00 UTC announcement by General Motors that it had filed for bankruptcy and Chapter 11 protection from its creditors, the largest bankruptcy of a U.S. manufacturing company.Describing the problem with the company as one that had been "decades in the making," Obama explained the rationale behind his proposed reorganization plan for General Motors. He stated that his intent was not to "perpetuat[e] the bad business decisions of the past," and that loaning General Motors money, when debt was its problem, would have been doing exactly that. His plan, he stated, was for the United States government, in conjunction with the governments of Canada and Ontario (which he thanked for their roles alongside the government of Germany which he thanked for its role in selling a corporate stake in GM Europe), to become shareholders in General Motors. The United States government would hold a 60% stake. The government will give GM a capital infusion of US$30 billion in addition to the funds it has already received.Of the government ownership he stated that he refused "to let General Motors and Chrysler become wards of the state", and described the bankruptcy of Chrysler, and the bankruptcy of General Motors that he envisioned as being "quick, surgical, bankruptcies". He pointed to the bankruptcy of Chrysler as an example of what he envision for General Motors, but stated that General Motors was a "more complex company" than Chrysler.Responding to challenges voiced by political opponents, before the speech, that the federal government would actively participate in the affairs of the restructured company, he stated that he had "no interest" in running GM, and that the federal government would "refrain from exercising its rights" as a corporate shareholder for the most part. In particular, he stated that the federal government would not exercise its rights as a shareholder to dictate "what new type of car to make." He stated that he expected the restructured GM to make "high quality, safe, and fuel-efficient cars of tomorrow," and several times described what he anticipated as "better" and "fuel-efficient" cars, after a streamlining of GM's brands.He said to the general public that "I will not pretend that the hard times are over." He described the financial hardship that some — shareholders, communities based around GM plants, GM dealers, and others — would undergo as a "sacrifice for the next generation" on their parts, so that their children could live in "an America that still makes things," concluding that one day the United States might return to a time when the maxim (a widely-repeated mis-quotation of what Charles Erwin Wilson once testified before the U.S. Senate when nominated for the position of Secretary of Defense) would once more be true that "what is good for General Motors is good for the United States of America."A Batavia Air Boeing 737-400 has landed safely after a segment of wing up to two metres in size separated from the aircraft 15 minutes after takeoff on a domestic flight between Jakarta, Indonesia and Pontianak late on Wednesday night.Batavia spokesman Anton Situmeang commented that the aircraft, which was carrying 138 passengers and six crew, could have continued to its destination without the part, but had returned for an emergency landing as a precaution. He went on to say that the plane's last major service was only a month or two ago, and consequently Batavia have launched their own independent investigation.Indonesia's National Transport Safety Committee senior investigator Frans Wenas told reporters that the missing part had been located close to the airport. News website Detik.com is quoted by the International Herarld Tribune as saying that the piece struck a house, but there are no reports of injuries on the ground.Deregulation of the Indonesian airline industry in the 1990s has resulted in the startup of many new budget carriers, including Batavia Air. However, industry analysists have raised concerns that deregulation has resulted in lax safety standards and poor industry supervision. Indonesia is now trying to address the concerns ahead of an EU review of the decision to add all Indonesian airlines to the list of air carriers banned in the EU.Jeremy Clarkson, one of the presenters on the BBC's motoring programme 'Top Gear' has been suspended by the corporation. Clarkson, responsible for several prior controversies, was suspended Tuesday, after allegedly 'punching' a producer last week. The next two episodes of 'Top Gear' have been pulled from broadcast, with a third — the season finale — also unlikely to be shown.The incident leading to Clarkson's suspension reportedly occurred after an argument with a producer. After filming had finished in Newcastle, it is believed Clarkson, 54 punched 36-year-old producer Oisin Tymon over a lack of catering availability. The incident was reported to the BBC on Monday. A source spoke to the British newspaper The Daily Mirror about the incident. They said, "They came to the end of filming after a long day and Jeremy discovered that no food had been laid on. He just saw red and hit the assistant producer, who he blamed for not having organised the food. He snapped." However a source close to the suspended presenter defended him saying "he didn't punch anyone". The BBC released a short statement clarifying the situation. It said "Following a fracas with a BBC producer, Jeremy Clarkson has been suspended pending an investigation. No one else has been suspended. Top Gear will not be broadcast this Sunday. The BBC will be making no further comment at this time." Previously Clarkson had been given a "final warning" by BBC bosses over comments he had made. In 2014 it appeared that the presenter used a racist term while singing a nursery rhyme, he apologised after the incident came to light. He also caused offence with comments he made about India and Mexico as well as comments about people with special needs.'Top Gear' is a motoring programme shown on BBC Two in the United Kingdom. Clarkson has presented the show since 2002, co-hosting alongside Richard Hammond and James May. He is one of the BBC's highest paid stars.At approximately 00:26 hrs, on Wednesday, March 22, the British Columbia ferry MV Queen of the North hit a rock near Gil Island in Wright Sound, off the coast of British Columbia, Canada, 75 from the start of ship's schedule journey from Prince Rupert to Port Hardy on the Northern tip of Vancouver IslandPort Hardy. The ship missed a course change and ran agroung off Gil Island. It took about an hour for the ferry to sink, giving passengers time to get out. The vessel was carrying 101 passengers and crew, and all but 2 were accounted for. Thanks to quick-response of nearby aboriginal fishing villager of Hartley Bay, and the CCGS Sir Wiflrid Laurier. Survivors were quickly fetched from the Queen of the North's lifeboat and brought to Hartley Bay and onboard the coast Guard ship, and eventually back to Prince Rupert onboard the Sir Wilfrid Laurier. Hartley Bay. The Queen of the North, is (apx) 9,000 gross ton, motor driven vessel, built in Germany in 1969. The Queen of the North had been on this 15 hrs, 274 nautical mile ferry run since late May 1980. In the summer and on relief work, her smaller sister ship, the Queen of Prince Rupert also performs that run.Do you have a hard time finding a parking space? Take the bus or tram if you go to the city. That's the message Belgian bus company De Lijn (The Line) is sending to promote public transport as a solution for car parking problems. As a part of their media campaign, they have jokingly suggested that people use the top of the busses as parking space.Another idea they are using in their media campaign: maybe you could park your car on the bottom of a canal? The bus company is using an invented diving company called Cardive, which has divers that offer to dump your car in the canal. The divers walk around in cities and hand out free bus tickets and maps of the bus network.To reach car drivers who are not using public transport, the media campaign has several radio commercials that present other solutions to the car parking problem. You could use "asphalt-spray" to camouflage your car, making it invisible for policemen (although you then need to remember where you've parked). Or you could use the "flat tire kit", which comes with a fake flat tire and an inflatable dummy, so it looks like you're replacing your flat tire. The final idea the bus company has is to use a View-Master to fool parking guards into believing that your car has been stationed correctly.A survey among 4000 customers of De Lijn shows that two out of three car owners who use public transport, do so to avoid parking space troubles, and in cities this percentage rises to 90%. The survey further shows that 39% use the bus to go shopping.During the month of May, the auto-bus and the divers tour several cities in Flanders (Leuven, Hasselt, Ghent, Bruges  and Antwerp).A Belgian ship has been hijacked by Somali pirates in waters off the coast of the Horn of Africa, according to a Belgian government's crisis management centre spokesman. The vessel involved in the incident was the 65-metre, 1,850 Pompei, en route to the Seychelles islands, located further south.The ship sent out two alarms at 04.30 and 05.00 GMT on Friday. Aboard the vessel were ten crew members, including four Croatians, three Filipinos, two Belgians and the Dutch captain."The ship has been spotted and we can confirm that it has been taken hostage," Benoit Ramacker of the crisis management centre said.Meanwhile, in the Gulf of Aden, located further north, a NATO commander announced that the authorities had responded from a distress call sent by a Marshall Islands tanker, which had also come under attack by pirates.Piracy is rampant in the waters off Africa's eastern shores, with sixty ships having been hijacked by pirates since the beginning of last year.The flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder, or "black boxes", from an Air France plane that crashed on June 1 last year in the Atlantic Ocean, have been localized to within about 2 square miles (5 square kilometers), a French official said on Thursday.The French government and military officials have urged caution, saying there is no guarantee the flight recorders will be found. French navy spokesman Hugues du Plessis d'Argentre commented to AFP, "[I]t's like trying to find a shoe box in an area the size of Paris, at a depth of 3,000m (9,800ft) and in a terrain as rugged as the Alps."The aircraft, an Airbus A330-200, carrying 216 passengers and 12 crew members, for a total of 228 people on board, crashed in the Atlantic Ocean after flying in bad weather. The pitot tubes, which measure airspeed, are considered likely to have been a contributing factor to the crash. However, the actual cause has yet to be determined.The search is now in its third phase, which started on March 30 – April 1, 2010 and was originally announced to last 30 days. However, on May 4, the search was extended to May 25.Eight months after the January 1st crash of Adam Air Flight 574 into Indonesian waters, the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) and flight data recorder (FDR) have been retrieved from the wreckage.The devices, collectively referred to as 'black boxes', had remained unrecovered over a dispute between the Indonesian government and the airline over who would bear the costs of salvage.Only recently has a contract been signed with United States salvage firm Phoenix International, who arrived last week in Indonesia to receive the recorders, working co-operatively with the Indonesian Transport Safety Commission (ITSC) and the US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB).The boxes were located by an underwater remotely operated vehicle searching the seabed near Majene, Sulawesi, where the plane went down. They were approximately 2,000 metres (6,500 ft) down and 1,400 metres apart. The FDR was recovered on August 27 at midday and the CVR was retrieved the following day at 10 a.m.According to Tatang Kurniadi, chairman of the ITSC, the boxes exibit only minor physical damage, but there is currently no way of knowing if the data they contain has been damaged or destroyed by their prolonged stay underwater.The devices will now be sent to Washington for analysis by NTSB specialists.Flights were disrupted at London's City Airport today by activists from the UK branch of the Black Lives Matter movement who occupied the runway at the airport. Inbound flights were diverted to either Gatwick or Southend while outbound flights from City experienced considerable delays.The Metropolitan Police, who arrived at the airport at 05:40 local time (0440 UTC), gave a further description: "There are currently nine protesters on the runway at the airport. They have erected a tripod and have locked themselves together."Black Lives Matter activists claimed responsibility via their Twitter account, saying they intended to shut the airport down "to protest the UK's environmental impact on black people", claiming the "climate crisis is a racist crisis" and contrasting the "small elite" who fly from City Airport to the "migrants have died or gone missing in the Mediterranean".In a further statement from the activists, they contrasted the expansion plans at City Airport with the lives of poor people in the surrounding borough, Newham: "Recently London City Airport was given approval to expand its capacity, a move that consigns the local community in Newham to further deterioration of their environment. The average salary of a London City Airport user is €136,000 euros and 63% of them work in business, finance or other business services. It is an airport designed for the wealthy. At the same time 40% of Newham's population struggle to survive on £20,000 or less. When black people in Britain are 28% more likely to be exposed to air pollution than their white counterparts, we know that environmental inequality is a racist crisis."A British airways flight from London, England to Miami, Florida containing British prime minister Tony Blair has missed a taxiway at Miami airport. The Boeing 747-400 plane hit lights as it was turning off the runway onto a taxiway taxiing at 1815 local time on Tuesday evening (2315 GMT).The pilot couldn't see the correct taxiway due to poor lighting, said British Airways spokesman John Lampl.Prime minister Tony Blair, with his family, was on his way to stay with Bee Gees star Robin Gibb at his house in Miami Beach when the incident occurred. The plane and all 343 passengers onboard were not damaged or hurt.A U.S. safety board has said that it's now investigating the incident.Automobile manufacturing company BMW has announced that its sales increased by 7.6 per cent during the month of July. BMW reported that 129,094 units were sold during the month, consisting of the motor vehicle brands of BMW, Mini and Rolls-Royce Motor Cars.In a statement, Ian Robertson, member of the Board of Management of BMW, told of the company reporting "the most successful July sales ever", claiming that it is "well on [the] way to achieving our recently announced target of over 1.6 million vehicles in 2011, the best ever sales result for the BMW group".Demand increases were notable in the United States and China in particular. 21,409 vehicles were delivered by BMW in the United States in July, an increase of 11.7 per cent from July 2010. In China, 18,858 units were sold in the month, meaning a sales rise of 36.1 per cent on the same month last year, with the increased popularity being attributed to "substantial gains in many markets", BMW said. Sales increases were also reported in South Korea, Russia, India and Brazil. BMW did admit to a decrease of sales by 0.8% in Germany, the country in which the company is based. As a brand, BMW sales stood at 108,721 for July, 7.1% more than July 2010. In the year to date, BMW delivered 962,468 vehicles, a 17.9 per cent rise. According to Agence France-Presse (AFP), developing markets have become the cause  of the substantial popularity of high quality automobile manufacturers. However, growth in this area may decline later on in the year, due to the difficulties facing the global economy, AFP claims. Meanwhile, General Motors stated on Friday that its China sales decreased by 1.8 per cent in July this year compared to the same month in 2010. This was due to a lowered demand for commercial vehicles, AFP reported.A boat sank in the western Democratic Republic of Congo on Wednesday, killing at least 73 people, according to reports.The International Committee of the Red Cross says the cargo boat was carrying passengers, as well as logs, when it sank in Lake Mai-Ndombe in the Bandundu province, apparently due to inclement weather. Local reports say the vessel was not authorized to carry passengers.The Red Cross announced 272 people survived the accident, but others remain missing and it is feared their bodies are trapped underneath the sunken barge."We are at 272 survivors and 73 dead. These are bodies that we have found along the shores of the lake. There are still some people missing. But we don't know how many because there was no ship's manifest," said Dominic Lutula, the president of the Congolese Red Cross, said to the Reuters news agency.Boat accidents are fairly common in the Democratic Republic of Congo because vessels are often overloaded and not properly maintained. The country has many rivers but few paved roads, forcing many people to rely on boats for transportation.A boat in Bangladesh sank in a river in the northeastern part of the country earlier today, killing at least a dozen people — including some children — reports say.The incident occurred in the district of Sunamgonj, about 296 kilometers (184 mi) from the capital of Dhaka. The Chinese news service Xinhua reports that the bodies from the ship have been recovered. Government official Babul Miah said the boat was making a trip between villages three kilometres apart. He noted that six of the dead were girls headed to school.At least two dozen other people, however, managed to swim to safety or were rescued after the boat's sinking.  The cause of the accident hasn't yet been ascertained.  An official said that 60–70 people were on board.Nine people are still reported as missing, and according to Miah, searches are underway for them.At least eighty people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) are feared dead after a boat capsized on the Congo River.The boat was carrying 125 people when it turned over on Wednesday evening near the city of Kindu, capital of the eastern Maniema province; 45 people have been rescued from the waters, but the rest are missing, and some reports say twenty people were already confirmed dead. Rescue efforts are still ongoing."It was yesterday. It is thought that there could be around 80 dead. There were around 120 people on board," said a spokesman for UN peacekeeping mission in DRC, Madnodje Mounoubai. It wasn't immediately clear why the accident happened; however, boats in the DRC frequently are overcrowded as they are a popular means of transport.A Florida man was killed and another man hospitalized after their boat sank off Cape May, New Jersey, US.The Sea Wolf sent a distress signal via emergency satellite beacon at about 1:35 AM on Thursday, seven miles off Cape May. A member of the State Police informed the Coast Guard who sent out an MH-65 rescue helicopter and two rescue launches.The helicopter managed to save Steve Hopkins of the District of Columbia but was unable to do the same for Gregory Arlotta of Florida. The 62 year old disappeared among the debris in eight-foot waves.Arlotta had recently bought the vessel in New York; its previous owner was in his seventies and had decided to sell the ship. The Sea Wolf had been operating  for a couple of decades prior to the sinking, and was described by one local as unfit for the voyage it was undertaking to New Orleans.  A 1963 Gilligan, it was designed for use within ten miles of shore for fishing.As the National Disaster Coordinating Agency continues to evaluate the reports coming from regions all over the Philippines, bodies of those who drowned or perished while at sea have started to float into the shores of islands in Central Philippines. On Thursday, the Philippines Coast Guard reported that villagers recovered 124 bodies whose identities are still uncertain.Advanced decomposition has made identification difficult for authorities and, fearing a health epidemic, all of the bodies were immediately buried in makeshift graves.The identification of the victims has caused a stir among relatives looking for their missing family members, as forensic investigators were rendered helpless in proceeding to the scattered locations where bodies have been washing ashore.Over 100 divers from the combined Philippines and United States naval forces have been working overtime to retrieve the bodies of passengers trapped inside the capsized MV Princess of the Stars.Disaster management officials in the country announced that the dead from the weekend battering from Typhoon Fengshen could reach to a high of 1,300 people nation-wide. State officials reported that some 2.4 million Filipinos were affected by the disaster, putting property damage at a conservative estimate of $125 million.Relatives of missing passengers were finally brought near the site where the ferry capsized. On board a tug boat, relatives became severely emotional after a Roman Catholic mass was celebrated to commemorate the memory of those lost at sea.Divers from the combined teams of the Philippine Navy and Coast Guard were able to penetrate the interior of the submerged sections of the MV Princess of the Stars.Spokesman for the Navy confirmed fears that there were several passengers of the ill-fated passenger ferry who were trapped when the ferry listed and over turned at around noon of June 22.Lt. Col. Edgard Arevalo of the Navy said that there could have been survivors initially, passengers who were trapped within a pocket of air but the rescue team were only able to reach and enter the ferry, almost three days since it capsized.The length of time for any survivor trapped inside the capsized ship to have breathable air would be limited.Four bodies were retrieved and the team with the help of specialists and salvage teams from the USNS Stockham of the United States Navy, supported by the resources of the US carrier group USS Ronald Reagan will return on Wednesday morning to attempt to stabilize the ship and retrieve more bodies.Philippine authorities are concerned that boring a hole or disturbing the ferry's present location could cause the ship to slide down into deeper waters or cause an environmental damage to the area due to the fuel the ship carries.The ferry capsized some 500 meters off the coast of the town of San Fernando in Romblon province.A body was found in the nose gear of a United Airlines 747 jet from Shanghai, China, which arrived in San Francisco at 7:42 a.m. (PST).According to San Mateo County Coroner Robert Foucrault, the man appeared to be Chinese and in his 50s, and had sustained several injuries prior to his death. Foucrault says that the man could have died from lack of oxygen, hypothermia, or being crushed by the landing gear.The man, currently unidentified, entered the plane's wheel well, and attempted to stowaway, making him the 65th similar stowaway attempt, and the 59th death resulting from the attempts, according to the Federal Aviation Administration.At least one person died and five more are injured after a Boeing 737 crashed onto the runway at 1:49 a.m. local time today on San Andres Island, Colombia. The jet, carrying 131 people, broke into three pieces.The AIRES flight departed Bogotá around midnight and, according to Colombian Air Force Colonel David Barrero, officials are investigating reports the aircraft experienced a lightning strike. Of the 125 passengers and six crewmembers, it is believed the only fatality was 65-year-old Amar Fernandez de Barreto. Thaindian claims that up to 114 were injured.San Andres Island's airport has closed its 7,545-foot (2,300-meter) runway until the wreckage can be removed. "It was a miracle and we have to give thanks to God," said Pedro Gallardo, governor of the resort destination island with around 78,000 inhabitants, adding it was lucky there were not more casualties. National police director Orlando Paez in an interview with The Star said a group of police officers awaiting the plane for their own flight back to the mainland assisted with rescue efforts. Barrero commented that "the skill of the pilot kept the plane from colliding with the airport." The landing occurred during a storm.A press release from the US National Transportation Safety Board, seen by Wikinews prior to its public release, identified the flight as number 8250. The NTSB is sending a team of four investigators, as well as technical advisers from Boeing and the Federal Aviation Administration, to assist the Colombia Civil Aviation Authority in their investigation.A Boeing 737 with 69 people on board safely made an emergency landing at Vnukovo Airport in Moscow, Russia, on Saturday, after the crew noticed excessive vibrations in the aircraft's left engine shortly upon takeoff. There were no reports of injuries or damage.The airplane circled around the airport to burn spare fuel in order to make the landing safer, according to Interfax. Fire crews and ambulances were at the scene when the jet landed."After the plane took off, a vibration of the left engine was detected, after which it was decided to return back to Vnukovo," ((Translated from Russian))Russian language: ‍После взлета была обнаружена вибрация левого двигателя, после чего было принято решение о возвращении самолета обратно во Внуково a spokesperson for the airport told Interfax. "The airplane made an emergency landing. None of the 69 people on board were hurt." ((ru))Russian language: ‍Самолет совершил аварийную посадку. Никто из находившихся на борту 69 человек не пострадалThe plane had taken off from Vnukovo and was en route to Sochi on the Black Sea.The aircraft involved in the incident was a Sky Express Boeing 737-500, flight XW-229.A Boeing 747-200 cargo aircraft operated by Kalitta Air has crashed near Bogotá in Colombia, killing three people on the ground after it hit their house. It seems that fire in one of four engines of the 747 caused the accident, just after taking off from El Dorado International Airport for a flight to Miami.The plane, which was carrying flowers, had declared an emergency two minutes after take-off and was said to be attempting to return to the airport when it crashed at 3:55 am local time. All eight crew survived but some were injured and were rushed to hospital in the nearby town of Madrid. The crash is the second involving a Kalitta Air 747 in two months. In May another of the company's 747s crashed whilst attempting to take-off at an airport in Belgium.A Boeing 747 cargo plane has broken in two after crashing off the end of the runway at Brussels Airport near Zaventem, Belgium. Some reports say four of the five crew were slightly injured when the Kallita Air jumbo jet failed to takeoff on a flight to Bahrain, but others state no injuries.Press images show the aircraft, which did not catch fire, broken immediately behind the wings, with the forward section level and the front end of the back section raised in the air. The right hand door has been opened and the emergency evacuation slide deployed by the crew, one of whom is in a state of shock. The area around the plane's wings was doused with specialist fire retardant foam as the tanks were full of fuel for the journey.The force of the crash at 1:30 p.m. local time today sent the plane 300 meters beyond the end of the runway. Air operations have continued as normal on the airport's two other runways,  but a nearby railway line is closed. Reports of the cargo on board vary, with one news agency reporting 70 tons of diplomatic mail, batteries and a car, while other reports state 76 tons of unspecified cargo.It is unclear what caused the accident, but the pilot reported hearing a loud noise as the aircraft attempted to takeoff. Weather conditions were clear, and the airport had seen some light rain in earlier this morning.Kalitta is a United States based carrier founded in 2000 by Conrad Kalitta with three 747s and now owns 18 including the one involved in today's accident.A Boeing 757 passenger jet, operated by Yakutia airlines, successfully made an emergency landing at the Vnukovo airport in the Russian capital of Moscow on Tuesday. The plane requested the landing after technical problems were reported on board. None of the 174 passengers and nine crew members aboard were injured."The airplane took off from Vnukovo airport, en route to Yakutsk. After some time, some technical difficulties started, due to which the crew made a decision to return to the airport," ((Translated from Russian))Russian language: ‍Самолет вылетел из "Внуково" в Якутск, однако через некоторое время появились какие-то технические неполадки, из-за чего экипаж принял решение вернуться обратно во "Внуково" said a spokeswoman for Vnukovo airport. The plane was originally scheduled to land at 20:20 local time, but circled around the airport in a holding pattern for three and a half hours to burn off excess fuel.Yakutia Flight 478 departed from Vnukovo at 17:26 local time. Twenty minutes after takeoff, at  17:46, the captain of the airplane reported technical troubles. He then decided to return to Vnukovo and land the plane. Reports suggest that the cabin depressurized while the jet was climbing to cruising altitude.This incident occurred only a few days after Sky Express Flight 229, a Boeing 737, had to perform a similar landing shortly after takeoff, though no reports have indicated the two incidents are related.A Boeing 767 cargo jetliner (tail number: N799AX) has been seriously damaged by a fire that broke out Saturday evening shortly after 22:00 PDT (UTC-7). It took two hours to extinguish the fire on board the Airborne Express aircraft, which was parked at a mail processing area of San Francisco International Airport in California, United States.Airborne Express Flight 1611 had arrived earlier and since then was parked at an area that a Federal Aviation Administration described as "far away from regular traffic," known as Plot No. 11. The fire broke out behind the cockpit, which contained two pilots at the time who were able to escape the fire.Roads around the airport were closed for ten minutes while crews responded, and 100 people were evacuated from a nearby building. The fire was described as intense and producing thick amounts of black smoke. Airport Duty Manager Lilly Wang said of the damage, "You can actually see through the top of the aircraft. It spread all the way through."An investigation into the cause is underway. It is unclear if there was cargo on board at the time. No injuries were reported.Boeing's newest commercial aircraft, the 787 "Dreamliner", made its first test flight Tuesday in Everett, Washington at 18:00 UTC.  Boeing claims that the new 290+ seat wide-body, twin engine jetliner is more fuel efficient than previous Boeing models.The release of the "Dreamliner" is almost two and a half years behind schedule.  The project has been plagued by various issues, including strike action, parts shortages and design problems. The aircraft is thought to have attracted 840 orders to date, though some have been cancelled due to the delays, making the 787 worth in the region of US$140bn (€96bn, £86bn) for Boeing. An aerospace analyst, Richard Aboulafia, said that "[The test flight] will provide a badly needed perception that the program is on some kind of schedule again, but it's still a long way from the ultimate result." Boeing's European rival, Airbus, is preparing to release a similar aircraft, the A350, in 2013.Boeing's Launch Systems, Launch Services and Delta Program business units are to be allowed to bid once more for U.S. space launch contracts, the USAF has announced.Boeing had been suspended since July 24, 2003 after violating federal law. The company was discovered to have been in possession of thousands of pages of documentation from Lockheed Martin, Boeing's rival during the 1998 evolved expendable launch vehicle source selection process. The USAF and Boeing have signed an interim agreement to protect the Air Force's interests. The agreement allows for the reinstating of the suspension if Boeing is indicted or convicted, or if new evidence is found. Boeing will have to submit to outside verification of the remedial steps it has taken, and cannot charge the Air Force for associated costs. Internal management responsibilities for ethical practice have been changed.Lockheed Martin's Atlas V and Boeing's Delta IV are two types of expendable rocket, designed to reduce the cost of space launches.Boeing Commercial Airplanes on Tuesday delivered the final 717 jet built to AirTran Airways in ceremonies in Long Beach, California, bringing production of McDonnell Douglas jets to an end.  "AirTran Airways would like to thank the many Boeing employees for their hard work and dedication over the years and enabling us to build a world-class aircraft fleet that is unparalleled in the aviation industry," said Joe Leonard, Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of AirTran Airways.The final Boeing 717 was the 15,599th plane built by the Long Beach plant, the original home of Douglas Aircraft and McDonnell Douglas.  It also marked the end of the popular DC-9 family of jets, which has sold over 2,400 units over its 41-year history.In 1995, McDonnell Douglas introduced the MD-95, which later became the Boeing 717 when McDonnell Douglas merged with Boeing in 1996. The 717 had suffered from slow sales throughout its history, with 155 planes ordered.  In January 2005, Boeing announced that it would cancel the 717 program after completing all outstanding orders.The 717 program's demise leaves the C-17 military cargo jet as the only remaining jet aircraft built in California.  Some workers from the 717 program have transferred to the C-17 program.  Its future is also uncertain as Boeing's contract to produce the aircraft expires in 2008.United States airframer Boeing has announced that development of a replacement for their 737 narrowbody airliner, begun two years ago, has been pushed back several years, Boeing saying that further advancement of technology is required.Spokeswoman Sandy Angers said that that the team formed to look at the development had been merged into the parent product development team and would cease looking at specific designs. Boeing say airlines demand performance improvements of 15-20% are required if a new airliner is to be commercially viable."We've reduced our airplane-design effort and are focusing more on the technology breakthroughs," said Angers. "We need technology breakthroughs in engines, aerodynamics, materials and other systems. You can't simply shrink the 787 and expect the same benefits for the narrow-body market. We've got difficult challenges."One important difference is that the plastic composite used for the fuselage of the 787 would not offer as significant a weight saving on a smaller aircraft. The delivery date for the plane is now anticipated to be around 2020, and not 2015 as previously hoped. This coincides with the expected date for Airbus to deliver their A320 replacement. Industry analysts predict development of one to trigger development of the other. Boeing had hoped to have their's ready for 2012.Boeing Commercial Airplanes CEO Scott Carson said "We're continuing our research effort until we find the right solution. It has to be a 25-year product."Since its 1967 debut 5,700 737s have been deliverd to date, with orders for 2,200 more, keeping the jet in production until at least 2014. It is Boeing's most popular airliner.Boeing has secured two large orders for new aircraft.Air Canada has ordered US$6 billion in new airliners, while Air India has signed a deal for a further US$7 billion.The Air Canada deal includes firm orders for 18 777s and 14 of the new mid-size, long-range 787 Dreamliner. Options are included for 18 more 777s and 46 more 787s.The Air India order is worth US$6.8 billion for 50 787s.Air India says the new fuel-efficient airliner will save US$300 million in fuel a year, while Air Canada has estimated a 30% fuel saving over their existing 767s. Air India have also said that the 20 extra seats the 787 offers over a similarly-sized Airbus A330 was a decisive factor.Korean Air also bought 20 Dreamliners earlier this month.Boeing now has a total of 237 orders and commitments for the 787.The Boeing 777 is a family of long range widebody twin engine airliners built by Boeing Commercial Airplanes. It carries between 305 and 550 passengers and has a range from 5,600 to 8,870 nautical miles (10,400 to 16,400 km). The first flight of the 777 was in 1994.The Boeing 787, or Dreamliner, is a mid-sized passenger airliner currently under development by Boeing Commercial Airplanes and scheduled to enter service in 2008. It will carry between 200 and 350 passengers depending on the seating configuration, and be more fuel-efficient than earlier airliners. In addition, it will be the first major airliner to use composite material in the majority of its construction.Boeing has unveiled a new ultra-long range version of its 777 airliner, capable of flying from London to Sydney non-stop.The 777-200LR can fly for 9,420 nautical miles (17,446 kilometers) with 301 passengers onboard, giving it a range greater than any other airliner in the world.The aircraft can fly from New York to Singapore and from Los Angeles to Dubai with a full passenger and luggage load non-stop, and has been named the Worldliner by Boeing to mark the fact it can connect almost any two cities on Earth. Although it can fly from London to Sydney non-stop, the 777-200LR will have to break its return journey to refuel due to direction of the prevailing winds in the upper atmosphere.So far, Boeing has received five orders from two customers for the 777-200LR since it was announced in February 2000. The first of the new airliner will be delivered to Pakistan International Airlines in January 2006. EVA Airways is the other launch customer.First flight is scheduled in early March.The 777-200LR will be the basis for an all-freight version of the 777, announced last November.Boeing's European rival Airbus, which has out-sold Boeing since 2003, believes that the future of passenger flight is in very large aircraft like its new twin-deck A380 airliner flying up to 840 people between a relatively small number of large hub airports world-wide. Passengers would then take connecting flights to reach their final destinations. Boeing, by contrast, believes passengers will want to fly direct between more local airports too small to handle aircraft like the A380.Aircraft manufacturer Boeing have unveiled their new 787 Dreamliner at their Everett Factory near Seattle, Washington, in the United States. Sunday was chosen as its date matches the aircraft's designation number when written in the American format, 7/8/07.The event was attended by 15,000 people including employees, customers, suppliers and officials from government and the local community. Scott Carson, president and CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes said, "This has been a wonderful and exciting day to celebrate this breakthrough airplane with our customers, employees, supplier partners and our communities."The mid-sized 787 will seat between 210 and 330 passengers, and will be the first commercial airliner of a mostly carbon fibre composites construction. Boeing claims that the resulting reduction of weight compared to the traditional aluminium will offer enhanced fuel efficiency, benefiting both operators and the environment. According to the company, the 787 Dreamliner will use 20 percent less fuel per passenger than similarly sized aircraft.On Saturday, Boeing announced 35 new orders from German airline Air Berlin and ALAFCO Aviation Lease & Finance of Kuwait, bringing the total to 677 orders from 47 customers. At the list price, these orders are worth US$5.62 billion.The first flight is expected to take place in August or September of this year, with the first customer, All Nippon Airways, due to receive their first aircraft in May 2008.The 787 illustrates the differing strategies adopted by Boeing and Airbus whose double-decker A380 first flew in April 2005 and is expected to enter service later this year. Whereas the Airbus A380 is aimed at flying large passenger numbers between major hubs, the Dreamliner is targeted at smaller airports where Boeing predicts will be an area of growth in the industry.Earlier in the day, Boeing received a congratulatory letter from Airbus. The company president and CEO Louis Gallois said, "Today is a great day in aviation history. For, whenever such a milestone is reached in our industry, it always is a reflection of hard work by dedicated people inspired by the wonder of flight. Even if tomorrow Airbus will get back to the business of competing vigorously, today is Boeing's day -- a day to celebrate the 787."A road crash in Bolivia has left at least 47 people dead. It is unclear if the vehicle was a bus or a truck with passengers on its back, but it is known it lost control on a mountainous South Bolivian road and fell 200 metres down a cliff.The accident occurred near Potosi, a mining town. "The truck was loaded with 60 people who were sitting on top of their loads, which crushed them when the truck fell," according to Erbol radio station, while BBC News Online has an image showing debris that appears to be a shed load from a truck, but not of the actual vehicle for confirmation.Local police say they have identified 41 dead and released their names, but six further bodies remain to be identified. At least twelve of the deceased are children, and at least eleven people are injured.There is no official word regarding the disaster's cause, but local witnesses have claimed to reporters that the vehicle was traveling at excessive speed.A bomb has been ruled out in the crash of a government-owned Learjet L45 in Mexico City, Mexico on Friday, killing all nine on board and five on the ground. There have been rumours that the crash was deliberate as two prominent politicians, interior minister Juan Camilo Mourino and leading anti-drug advisor Jose Luis Santiago Vasconcelos were aboard.Investigators have also confirmed both engines were still functioning upon impact and that there was no fire, structural failure or evidence of malfunction prior to impact, suggesting a loss of control may be to blame. The aircraft should have been headed East towards Mexico City International Airport, but was instead travelling roughly Northbound when the crash occurred.It is unknown why this occurred, but the investigation, which includes a team from the United States led by the National Transportation Safety Board, is looking at the possibility turbulence from another aircraft caused the plane to become uncontrollable. It was travelling at 300 mph (500 kph) when it struck cars moving through the city.Investigation head Gilberto Lopez said of the findings "this clearly proves what we had believed, that there was an abrupt loss of control," while Transportation Secretary Luis Téllez said they “strengthen the hypothesis that this was an accident.”A US Airways Express plane en route from LaGuardia Airport in New York to Louisville was diverted to Philadelphia on Thursday morning after a harmless Jewish prayer box was mistaken for an explosive device. According to Philadelphia police, a 17-year-old Orthodox Jewish boy on Flight 3079 was using tefillin, a set of black boxes attached to leather straps containing biblical passages. When used in morning prayers, one box is strapped to the left arm while the other is placed on the forehead. "It's something that the average person is not going to see very often, if ever," FBI spokesman J.J. Klaver told the Associated Press.When questioned about the object by crew members, the teen tried to explain the ritual. However, the plane's captain still thought it best to land in Philadelphia as a precaution. Once it landed, the plane was searched, passengers were questioned, and the tefillin was examined by the bomb squad and proven to be harmless. "The boy, who is from White Plains, and was traveling with his 16-year-old sister, was very cooperative," Philadelphia police Lieutenant Frank Vanore told local media. He went on to say, if anything, the two teens were "more alarmed than we were."Authorities said that because the whole incident was just a misunderstanding and neither of the teens had a criminal record, they both have since been released and cleared to continue their travels.A Yakovlev Yak-42 passenger plane flying the route from Moscow to Grozny was forced to make an emergency diversion to Volgograd due to an anonymous call about a bomb threat.The aircraft departed Moscow at about 4:14 PM local time, laden with 73 passengers. RIA Novosti reports that a spokesman from the Russian Federal Air Transport Agency said that several minutes into the flight the crew received a call which stated the plane experience detonation at any minute. Based on this information the crew decided to divert to VolgogradAirport officials have declined to comment on the situation and as of the last report disposal experts were searching the plane for bombs.A plane travelling from Heathrow to Cairo was diverted to Athens last night after a note containing the word 'bomb' was found mid-flight. The EgyptAir flight landed at 8:39pm local time at Athens International Airport, with 251 passengers aboard.Flight MS778 was checked for bombs by police last night, as passengers stayed in hotels in Athens. After it was found to be a false alarm, the jet took off again at around 1:30pm local time today, bound for Cairo.The scare happens as Egyptians protesting the thirty-year rule of the their President, Hosni Mubarak, clash with police for a fifth day. Last night, a curfew was put in place by Egypt's military, a move that was ignored by thousands.The Foreign Office of the United Kingdom is advising against "all but essential" travel to Egyptian locations, including Cairo, Alexandria, and Suez.According to the UK Department of Transport, Ryanair flight 25, carrying 172 passengers and crew en-route from Paris to Dublin, was diverted to Prestwick International Airport in Glasgow, Scotland following a bomb threat  discovered by the plane's cabin crew. The threat, a written note, was found in a magazine on the plane. The UK's Times Online and Reuters are now reporting that the threat was a hoax."This obviously had the potential to be a major incident and one which was taken extremely seriously by the security forces and indeed the police. I am extremely glad it appears to have been nothing more than a hoax, but I am disappointed about the inconvenience passengers have suffered. I’m very glad that the response has been entirely appropriate and that at the end of the day no harm has been done," said MSP John Scott, whose Ayr constituency covers the airport.Reuters also reports that police have not found a bomb on the plane, though passengers were still being questioned.The Ryanair jet liner, a Boeing 737, was diverted, and escorted while landing by two Royal Air Force Tornados."At approximately 13.45 today a Tornado F3 from RAF Leuchars was diverted from a routine training flight in order to assist a Ryanair flight from Paris to Dublin. Two additional Tornados were also scrambled from RAF Coningsby. The plane has now safely landed at Prestwick Airport and the three jets have now landed back at base. The incident is now a matter for Strathclyde Police," said a spokesman for the UK Ministry of Defence."There is an ongoing incident at Glasgow Prestwick Airport. Police and emergency services are in attendance," said a spokesman for the airport."A note was passed to the cabin crew onboard claiming that there was a bomb. The captain immediately reported this to UK air traffic control and was instructed to divert to Glasgow Prestwick Airport. said a spokesman for Ryanair. The scare caused the airport to close for two hours, according to police; a security alert remains in place. All 172 passengers were evacuated from the plane. Authorities are still searching luggage and passengers, but there is no word on whether or not explosives have been found or if there have been any arrests. Three other flights were not allowed to leave the airport and four arriving flights were diverted to Stansted and Edinburgh Airports in Scotland. Most of the passengers are reported to be in their twenties. Reports also note that at least 71 schoolchildren were on the plane.They were "quite distressed," said Strathclyde Police Assistant Chief Constable John Neilson. "As soon as they landed they were fine. There’s appropriate support from the health services for them." He also said "people are still being interviewed" and that he thinks "we will know for sure what’s happened once everybody has been interviewed.""All [passengers and crew] are safe and well and are being interviewed by Strathclyde Police," said a spokesman for the Strathclyde Police."All passengers together with Ryanair are co-operating fully with the police and local safety authorities. The aircraft will now be subject to a detailed search, following which we expect it will be cleared to travel onwards to Dublin. Ryanair apologises sincerely for any inconvenience caused to these passengers, however the safety of our passengers and aircraft will always be our number one priority," added the Ryanair spokesman.Around midnight on Sunday, a pair of bombs exploded on the Samjhauta Express (Friendship Express), a night train going from Delhi, India to Lahore, Pakistan. At least 68 fatalities have been reported. Two more suitcases with improvised explosive devices have been found on the train. Some 13 passengers were reported injured, some with severe burns. According to the police, the explosions were rather small but intended to cause a fire. Since lower class coaches in India generally have barred windows, people cannot flee easily through the window.The Indian prime minister's office condemned the act as an "act of terror" and promised to find the people responsible. The Pakistani government also condemned the attack.The incident comes just before a planned visit of Pakistan's foreign minister Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri to India for peace talks, and two weeks before both countries have scheduled a meeting to exchange information on terrorism. Kasuri said his trip would not be cancelled. Pakistani President Musharraf stated: "We will not allow elements which want to sabotage the ongoing peace process to succeed in their nefarious designs."Last July, attacks on trains in Mumbai killed 186. "It's sabotage. It's an act of terrorism like the one in Mumbai," said railways Minister Lalu Prasad Yadav. The attack also comes days before the anniversary of the Godhra train burning on 27 February, 2002.At least three people died today and seventeen more were injured after a road bridge collapsed on the Indonesian island of Borneo. At least three cars, several motorbikes, and a public bus all fell into the Mahakam River.The bridge was constructed from concrete roughly a decade ago to resemble California's Golden Gate Bridge, and links the East Kalimantan towns of Tenggarong and Samarinda. Police say there is no indication of why it failed. Completed in 2001, work started in 1995 and locals called it "Kalimantan's Golden Gate Bridge."The wounded have been hospitalised, some with broken bones. The scene at the bridge, in Kutai Kartanegara district, was filled with screams in the aftermath of the collapse. The suspension bridge was erected by state-owned builders PT Hutama Karya and one segment has fallen into the water. Some vehicles are close to entirely submerged, and Indonesia Today suggests as many as 100 people may be injured. One damaged car was left inverted and suspended above the water.Harmoni Adi, head of a search and rescue agency, said "[t]he death toll is likely to increase," after the 4:30pm local time collapse, with rescuers in Tenggarong searching the river for survivors. Some people swam ashore after falling from the structure, which spanned 700 metres. An eyewitness described heavy traffic on the bridge when it came down.The death toll from yesterday's suspension bridge collapse on the Indonesian island of Borneo has risen from three to four, with a six-month-old baby among the dead. Search and rescue teams continue to look for survivors in the Mahakam River.The initial death toll was raised at first to five, but was revised back down to four. The number of wounded rose from at least seventeen to at least nineteen, but Monsters and Critics offers a figure as high as 39 injured; Indonesia Today yesterday suggested the actual figure was 100 hospitalised. Roughly 40 people remain missing at the scene in East Kalimantan's Kutai Kartanegara district, where "Kalimantan's Golden Gate Bridge" linked the towns of Tenggarong and Samarinda.At least three cars, several motorbikes, and at least one public bus all fell into the Mahakam River. Another car was left overturned and balanced upon wreckage over the water. State-owned builders PT Hutama Karya completed the bridge about a decade ago in the image of California's Golden Gate Bridge, and it is now reported it was under repair at the time of the failure. New information suggests a cable on the 720-metre structure failed as workers dealt with it; six of the repair crew are among the missing.National police representative Boy Rafly Amar said "It is believed that some victims are still in the river. There are two buses in the river and efforts are under way to lift them." He said 39 were rescued with 20 still in hospital. Health Minister Endang Rahayu Sedyaningsih visited survivors in Parikesit Hospital and promised them medical treatment at government expense."It happened so fast, only about 30 seconds," according to National Disaster Management Agency spokesman Sutopo Nugoroho. National search and rescue head Daryatmo said Monday will see cranes attempt to move debris.The president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, has sent three ministers to the site to investigate the accident, while Bambang Widaryatmo, head of East Kalimantan's police, promised "parties found to be negligent will be prosecuted". The government has promised a replacement ferry service. The river is closed to boats as rescue operations continue, and a 22-strong team has been dispatched from the national police, comprising six forensics experts, five disaster victim identification specialists, and eleven investigators. They are there to augment the East Kalimantan Police.Some people swam ashore after falling, with the aftermath filled with screams. 40-year-old Adam Nur describes breaking free from a car and swimming 300 metres with one arm after his other arm was injured in the fall. Syakrani, 24, says he survived by clinging to empty plastic containers when he fell from the bridge after leaving his truck to investigate a traffic jam. "The authorities should have closed the bridge if it was under repair," he said.Five deployments of the taser and the physical struggle with the four Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers contributed substantially to the death of Robert Dziekanski is the chief finding of the inquiry led by retired British Columbia Appeal Court Justice Thomas R. Braidwood.Speaking at a June 18 media conference following the release of the report on the second phase of the inquiry into the events at Vancouver International Airport on October 14, 2007  Mr. Braidwood concluded "that the constable was not justified in deploying the weapon, and that neither that constable nor the corporal honestly perceived that Mr. Dziekanski was intending to attack any of the officers. I also concluded that the two other constables, during their testimony before me, offered patently unbelievable after-the-fact rationalizations of their police notes and their statements to the [RCMP Integrated Homicide Investigation Team] investigators.”RCMP Commissioner William J.S. Elliott responded to Mr.Braidwood's report in a press release saying "The RCMP acknowledges that its handling of this incident failed at many levels and we agree that events that took place at the Vancouver International Airport on October 14, 2007, should have unfolded differently. It is clear that our policies and training in place at the time were deficient. We acknowledge that the actions of our members who dealt with Mr. Dziekanski also fell short, including the fact that our officers did not take enough time to try to de-escalate the situation and did not provide an appropriate level of care to Mr. Dziekanski."The mandate of the Braidwood commissions of inquiry, launched by the government of British Columbia (BC) in February 2008, included reporting on and making recommendations about the appropriate use of conducted energy weapons. Sworn evidence was received from 91 witnesses over 61 days. The second phase was "to provide the Dziekanski family and the public with a complete record of the circumstances of Mr. Robert Dziekanski’s death and to make recommendations the Commissioner considers necessary and appropriate" as per the commission's web site.The government of BC has already moved to "severely [restrict] the use of Tasers by all police, sheriff’s and corrections officers, and developing standardized police training for Taser use, crisis intervention, and responding to emotionally disturbed people" according to a June 18, 2010  press release. The province also plans to create "a new civilian-led unit to investigate all independent municipal police- and RCMP-related deaths and serious incidents" within the next 12 months.Mr. Braidwood criticised the Canada Border Services Agency whose changes in response to the incident were "minor and few" but had high praise for Vancouver International Airport's "exceptional steps in the aftermath of Mr. Dziekanski’s death to identify inadequacies in its policies, practices, and procedures, and to remedy them."It has been revealed that the final report into a midair collision that killed 154 people in 2006 will blame a string of human error for the disaster. Gol Transportes Aéreos Flight 1907, a Boeing 737, crashed into the ground after an Embraer Legacy 600 executive jet's wing clipped it. The Legacy, owned by ExcelAire, performed an emergency landing at a nearby airbase. The report says the Legacy's transponder was "inadvertently turned off by the hand of one of the pilots," and says this was the "central point in a chain of errors" leading to the collision. Crucially, the transponder failure - which the US pilots have denied causing - prevented the Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) from functioning.The investigation, which was conducted by the Brazilian Air Force, criticised air traffic control (ATC) on a number of points; the Legacy was not properly advised on the altitude at which it should be cruising, when one controller changed shift there was a miscommunication between them about the Legacy's altitude and there was a failure of communication between the Legacy and ATC.The ExcelAire pilots, Joseph Lepore and Jan Paladino, were only allowed to return home after promising they would return to Brazil if summoned by the courts. The pair, along with four air traffic controllers, have been indicted over the crash and all six face up to three years in prison each.The purpose of this investigation, however, was not to acertain blame but to determine the root causes and suggest measures by which a reccurence can be avoided. Some moves have already been made in the aftermath; the accident was the deadliest in Brazil until TAM Airlines Flight 3054 crashed the following year and both were responsible for the 2006-2007 Brazilian aviation crisis. In response, a major overhaul of the nation's military ATC system is underway.ExcelAire's executive vice president David Rimmer was critical of the report. "The transponder issue is a distraction from the true cause of the accident, which is an air traffic control system that put two airplanes on a collision course for about an hour," he said. He complained that ATC did not "recognize the transponder failure and to provide increased separation between the two jets, as required by international aviation regulations."He was also concerned by the Air Force's methodology and the conclusions drawn from it. "We have no proof of how the transponder was turned off and no evidence to suggest it was inadvertently turned off by the pilots," he said. "[The Air Force] relied on theories rather than conducting in-depth testing of the equipment."The report's official release is next week, however it has already been seen by Brazilian newspapers, hence making its findings public today.Brazil has ceased searching for floating debris and bodies from Air France Flight 447. The Airbus A330 crashed into the Atlantic Ocean 26 days ago, on June 1.51 bodies from the 228 passengers and crew have been recovered, with most remaining unidentified. 600 pieces of wreckage have also been pulled from the sea. However, the Brazilian Air Force said that the chances of finding anything else was slim as it was nine days since the last corpse was found.French naval vessels, including a nuclear submarine, are continueing their search for the Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder. The recorders are due to continue to emit locator beacons until at least July 2.France's Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile (BEA) is due to release a preliminary report on the same date. Speculation is blaming a failure of the pitot-static tubes, which serve as speed sensors, but the BEA is warning against early conclusions regarding the cause of the accident, the worst in the airline's history.Brazilian aerospace conglomerate Empresa Brasileira de Aeronáutica, S. A. (Embraer) has revealed plans to cut around twenty percent of the company's workforce of 21,362 people. Twenty percent is over 4,200, but Embraer have not revealed exact numbers.The firm has also scaled back predictions for deliveries and revenue. Estimated delivery figures for 2009 now stand at 242 airliners and corporate jets, compared to the previous number of 270, in the second downwards revision of Embraer of their delivery figures for this year within three months. Revenue for 2009 is now predicted to be US$5.5 billion, down thirteen percent from the previous estimate of US$6.3 billion.Embraer is the world's fourth-largest airframer, following Airbus, Boeing and Bombardier. Embraer stock fell 1.9% after the announcement, or 16 centavos, to 8.46 reais in São Paulo. Over the last twelve months Embraer stock has fallen 55%. The manufacturer also produces military aircraft, but statistics for these are not published.In December, the Metalworkers Union of São José dos Campos, claimed the firm planned to cut 4,000 jobs, which Embraer at the time denied. Embraer said they would only take "such a drastic decision if there are risks to the company’s profitability and sustainability." The new statement said that production and administration would take the brunt of the cuts, with engineers retained to continue product development.The company described the decision as vital given "the new reality of demand for commercial and executive aircraft," and noted that "over 90 percent of its revenues are generated abroad. Therefore, the resiliency that the Brazilian domestic market has been demonstrating through the crisis does not significantly alter this adverse scenario."The official news agency Agência Brasil reported that Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva was upset by the layoffs. He will meet with company directors next week and wants Embraer to explain the decision.Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, the president of Brazil, said on Wednesday that not continuing to use biofuels would be a "crime against humanity.""Don't tell me, for the love of God, that food is expensive because of biodiesel," said Lula, when talking to reporters.Lula also stated that he was ready for a debate on biofuels. "Brazil is prepared for this debate. I and my government are ready to travel around the world," he said.This move comes soon after a press release was made available by the European Parliament saying that "in the last year scientific evidence, though disputed, has indicated that biofuels may not be as good for the environment as was once thought."Former Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney testified Thursday before an ethics committee in the Canadian House of Commons about the Airbus affair, a case involving alleged bribery at the highest levels of government to secure Airbus sales of aircraft to Air Canada.In his testimony, Mulroney said that he should not have associated with German businessman Karlheinz Schreiber nor should have he accepted bundles of cash — which he placed in safe deposit boxes in two different countries.Nonetheless, Mulroney denied accepting kickbacks. He admitted taking about CAD225,000 in cash from Schreiber in 1993 and 1994, which was after his departure from politics. He also said that the money involved promoting Schreiber's private business dealings.To the committee Muroney said: "When I look back on it today, I realize I made a serious error of judgment in receiving a payment in cash for this assignment even though it was decidedly not illegal to do so. That mistake in judgment was mine alone. I apologize and I accept full responsibility for it. ... I should have declined the offer. I should have insisted that payment be in a more transparent or more accountable manner. By not doing so I inadvertently created an impression of impropriety on the high office I was privileged to hold.""Do you realize, Mr. Mulroney, that the way in which you acted in this matter did not make it appear that it were a legitimate transaction," said MP Serge Ménard of Bloc Québécois.Two days earlier, Schreiber testified before the same committee, alleging that Mulroney agreed to accept CAD300,000 to promote a light armored vehicle factory and benefited from the purchase of 34 Airbus aircraft by Air Canada."I never received a cent from anyone for services rendered to anyone in connection with the purchase by Air Canada from Airbus of 34 aircraft," Mulroney said, refuting Schreiber.Mulroney also attacked Schreiber's credibility, pointing out that the German could be extradited to his home country where he faces charges. "He succeeded. He got what he wanted ... he’s sitting in his mansion over in Rockcliffe," Mulroney said. "I think he seriously misled every member of this House ... with this false affidavit."The committee's investigation will resume in late January, when it is expected to call dozens of witnesses.United Kingdom's most senior traffic police officer faces charges of speeding at 90 mph in a 60 mph speed limit zone (the equivalent of speeding at 144 km/h in a 96 km/h zone). The Chief Constable of the South Yorkshire Police, Meredydd Hughes was allegedly caught speeding on the A5 road near Chirk in north Wales.Hughes was caught by a camera that takes photographs of speeding cars. He is known as one of the main advocates for nationwide installation of such cameras.Hughes is set to appear at Wrexham Magistrates Court on November 21, 2007. He faces a £1000 fine and a driving ban if convicted.As the head of road policing within the Association of Chief Police Officers, Hughes can be considered the top traffic cop in the UK.All flights in and out of Birmingham Airport have been diverted or suspended until at least noon local time after a business jet carrying an organ for transplantation crashed on approach to the airport in Birmingham, England, during heavy fog. Two people were injured in the accident, one seriously. A spokesperson for the airport said: "We can confirm that an incident has occurred involving a private Cessna aircraft. The incident occurred on arrival into the airport and the emergency services are in attendance."West Midlands Police Chief Inspector Matt Markham confirmed that the aircraft was carrying an organ for transplantation, but said that it was undamaged in the accident and it had been taken from the aircraft. Later reports suggested that the liver had been transported to Queen Elizabeth Hospital, where the operation was being carried out.Inspector Markham that the police were "alerted to what was described as a 'hard landing' at the airport" at approximately 3:35 pm local time, and pledged to carry out a "thorough investigation" into the cause of the accident. He said: "It would appear the aircraft came down on landing and soon after there was a small fire within the aircraft. There were two casualties on board the plane. One we believe is in  serious condition and has been airlifted to hospital; and the second one has been taken to hospital but with less significant injuries."British Airways and Spain's Iberia airline have announced plans to merge. The merger is valued at £5.5 billion (US$9 billion dollars), and would create the third largest airline in the world.The new company will be headed up by BA's Willie Walsh with the board led by Iberia's Antonio Vazquez. Shares are split 55% to 45% respectively, with each BA share being exchanged for a share in the new firm and each Iberia share worth 1.0205 shares in the new firm, to be registered in Spain with head offices in London.A statement said the deal "is expected to generate annual synergies of approximately 400 million euros, and benefit both companies’ shareholders, customers and employees." It also stated Iberia may yet call off the plan "if the outcome of the discussions between British Airways and its pension trustees is not, in Iberia’s reasonable opinion, satisfactory." Subject to this, as well as shareholder and trustee consent, the merger is planned to be completed by next year.The European Union is also required to approve. The EU has already warned the duo off from forming a transatlantic flight alliance with American Airlines, saying it would breach antitrust law. The trio still want to win approval for the plan to operate as one unit for flights to Mexico, Canada and the US. The possibility of a merger deal has been public since July, and may result in cost reductions. Iberia's six-month figures are expected tomorrow; BA has already reported a record £217 million loss.British Airways is the United Kingdom's flag carrier and currently the third-largest carrier in Europe. The largest is Air France-KLM, formed in 2004 when Air France spent 700 million euros to acquire KLM Royal Dutch Airlines. That firm also owns 25% of Italian flag carrier Alitalia. This is followed by Lufthansa, who have acquired Swiss International Air Lines, Austrian Airlines and British Midland Airways. Lufthansa partially owns Belgian flag carrier Brussels Airlines.The British national airline, British Airways has announce that the former CEO of Aer Lingus, Willie Walsh is to be their new CEO. Mr Walsh is to replace the current CEO, Australian-born Rod Eddington in September after his retirement. Willie Walsh started as a cadet for Aer Lingus at the age of 17, later becoming a captain of the airline. In 1998, he became the chief-executive of the airline's charter subsidiary Furtura, and later in 2000 chief finance officer. In the wake of 11th September 2001, he became the chief-executive of Aer Lingus, itself. Worried about what happen to Swissair and Sabena, he looked at the rival Irish airline Ryanair for inspiration and made Aer Lingus in effect a no-frills airline, such as replacing the infamous turquoise uniforms with polo shirts and promoting via the Internet.British Airways (BA), the flag carrier for the United Kingdom, announced record losses today. For the first quarter of the year ending March 31, the airline reported losses of £401 million before tax, despite revenues which rose to £9 billion over the previous year. The company's finances have suffered from rising fuel costs and a weak pound. The loss also takes into account redundancy-related costs of £78 million: The company laid off 2,500 workers last year.BA's costs soared due to an unprecedented fuel bill of £3 billion following a 44.5% increase in the price of oil last year. The recent drop in oil prices has led the airline to announce an expected saving of £400 million in fuel by next year.Company CEO Willie Walsh announced that employees will be offered the option of taking unpaid leave or working part time in order to ease the financial crisis. In order to set an example, he said that he himself would forego pay for the month of July, describing his move as "no stunt," and added that he "saw no signs of recovery anywhere."Part of BA's troubles over the last year could be due to the company's dependence on the premium travel market. The company saw a drop of 13% in 'Club' and 'First Class' passengers. With two new aircraft on the way to operate a Club-only service from London, the company may struggle to fill the flights.Cabin crew workers at British Airways have begun a three-day strike, affecting over 60,000 people, after last-minute talks between BA and the union, Unite, collapsed.The strike will extend for three days, after beginning at midnight in London.  After the first strike, the union plans another four days of industrial action, beginning on March 27th.  According to BA, around 65% of the airline's passengers will be able to reach their destinations, despite 1,100 of the normal 1,950 flights being canceled.  The effect of the strike varied between airports; while all flights were operating from London City Airport, only 60% of long-haul and 30% of short-haul flights were expected to operate from London Heathrow Airport.  At London Gatwick Airport, all long-haul flights and around half of short-haul flights were still operating.The strike began after last-minute negotiations between BA and Unite collapsed.  BA and Unite have been at odds for some time; in November 2009, BA announced plans to reduce the number of crew on many flights and institute a two-year pay freeze from 2010.  While Unite says it recognizes the need for costs to be cut, it also claimed it was not consulted on the means to do so.The strike also has political implications in the United Kingdom, as Unite is one of the largest backers for Prime Minister Gordon Browns' Labour  Party.  The opposition Conservative Party have called on the Labour Party to sever financial ties with Unite during the length of the dispute, saying that "Labour's dependence on funding from Unite is compromising their ability to stand up to the unions and stand up for the interests of passengers."The Sunday Times and Observer newspapers today both stated that British Airways CEO Rod Eddington is planning to step down in the Summer. Althought no official announcement has been released from the airline about Mr Eddington's future, speculation is already mounting on who the successor will be.Possible internal candidates include marketing director Martin George and finance director John Rishton. However it is quite possible that an external executive such as Willie Walsh, former CEO of Aer Lingus, could take the post. Mr Walsh successful turned around Aer Lingus into one of the most profitable national carriers in the world after it had almost bankrupt in 2002.Mr Eddington took over the top job at British Airways in May 2000United Kingdom flag carrier British Airways (BA) has entered into merger talks with Spanish airline Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana SA. BA is already Europe's third-largest airline. The proposed all-share merger of BA and Iberia, meanwhile, is approved by the boards of both companies. BA already holds a 13.15% stake in Iberia, while Iberia have a 2.99% holding in BA. British Airways has been increasing its holdings in Iberia since 1999, from an initial 9% to the current 13.15%. Under the proposed deal, the airlines would go to a holding company and the new firm would be listed on both the FTSE 100 and the Madrid stock exchange."A merger would be good news for our customers and enhance our existing relationship," said Chairman of the Iberia board, Fernando Conte. Additionally, BA and Iberia have been in talks with American Airlines about a potential cross-atlantic joint venture.Both companies also say they feel confident they will get the European Union's approval that the deal needs for it to go ahead. BA and Iberia are partners under the Oneworld airline alliance and already have a codeshare agreement."The aviation landscape is changing and airline consolidation is long overdue," said BA CEO Willie Walsh. "The combined balance sheet, anticipated synergies and network fit between the airlines make a merger an attractive proposition, particularly in the current economic environment."Last Friday, BA completed its purchase of French airline L'Avion, a two-plane airline that flies business class between Paris and Newark. L'Avion will merge fully with BA subsidiary OpenSkies by 2009. Both offer transatlantic flights from Paris.Investigators examining the wreck of British Airways Flight 38, a Boeing 777 that crash landed short of the runway at London's Heathrow Airport in the first hull loss of a 777, are examining the aircraft's fuel system as a possible factor in the crash. No-one was killed as the scheduled flight from Beijing, China lost power during final approach on January 17.136 passengers and 16 crew were on board when power was lost to the two Rolls-Royce engines about two miles from the runway, at a height of 600 feet. Autopilot and autothrottle were engaged at the time, the latter having just commanded an increase of thrust to the engines when power was lost. Co-pilot John Coward, in control at the time, was subsequently praised for being able to glide the disabled plane to within 1,000 feet of the runway, clearing a number of houses along the way.Subsequent investigation has revealed that not only did the engines not fail simultaneously, but neither failed completely, contradicting initial belief. A preliminary report by the United Kingdom's Aircraft Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB) stated that after the autothrottle commanded more thrust "The engines both initially responded but after about 3 seconds the thrust of the right engine reduced. Some eight seconds later the thrust reduced on the left engine to a similar level... Both engines continued to produce thrust at an engine speed above flight idle, but less than the commanded thrust." This situation prevailed until impact.On Wednesday the AAIB stated that they were examining "All possible scenarios that could explain the thrust reduction and continued lack of response of the engines." However, it also went on to specifically mention attention to the jet's fuel system, saying "This work includes a detailed analysis and examination of the complete fuel-flow path from the aircraft tanks to the engine-fuel nozzles." The AAIB also ruled out the plane having completely run out of fuel, stating that there was "adequate fuel" in the tanks when the plane crashed. In addition to the fuel required to get to the target destination or emergency alternative airport - whichever is further - aircraft typically carry between thirty and forty-five minutes worth of extra fuel as a safety margin.Possible scenarios being examined include fuel contamination, coming either from fuel taken on at Beijing or leakage from an unknown source. In particular, a heavy contaminant at the bottom of the tanks would explain a lack of earlier problems on the flight, as the fuel levels would only have become low in the final stages of the trip. Another possibility is that a central part of the fuel system developed a leak, reducing the amount of fuel available to the engines.It is known that, according to the AAIB, "the autothrottle and engine-control commands were performing as expected prior to, and after, the reduction in thrust," suggesting that all software in the aircraft was functioning correctly and rendering a software failure unlikely, although this possibility also remains under investigation.The investigation into the crash of a British Airways Boeing 777 (B777) written off on January 17 after landing short of the runway at London's Heathrow International Airport has been updated. The crash of Flight 38 injured one passenger seriously and 12 others on board, including four crew members, as well as being the first hull loss of a B777.The latest word from the United Kingdom's Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) is that both engines had low fuel pressure in their high pressure (HP) fuel inlets, leading to the failure of both engines. Having departed from Beijing, China the aircraft was on final approach for landing at Heathrow when the thrust on the engines first reduced and became unresponsive, then ceased completely. The copilot, who was flying the aircraft at the time, received significant media praise for gliding the aircraft past housing and airport barriers to crash land the airliner onto the grass at the runway threshold, likely saving the 136 passengers and 16 crew from death or further injury as well as preventing potential ground casualties. The landing gear collapsed and the airframe, wings and engines were significantly damaged.Each HP inlet also exhibited "unusual and fresh cavitation damage to the outlet ports consistent with operation at low inlet pressure", according to the AAIB's latest report on investigatory progress, which also states engine failure was definitely caused by low pressure and that the autothrottle had opened up appropriate valves fully in an effort to increase fuel flow, but to no avail. The report indicates the investigation has also considered an area of unusually cold air over Russia which the B777 passed through at 40,000 feet on its journey. Between the Ural mountain range and East Scandinavia the air was found to have been as low as -76°C. The AAIB has ruled out fuel turning to ice as the fuel temperature never fell below -34°C. This is compared to an average freezing temperature of -47°C for jet fuel and test showing the fuel in the B777's tanks needed cooled to at least -57°C before it froze. Floating ice particles had previously been suggested as a possible causal factor.However, it has been suggested outside of the investigation that although the fuel did not freeze, it could have become unusually thickened, restricting its flow through the HP inlets, although the temperatures did remain within what are currently considered safe levels. Another possible explanation was that the fuel was contaminated or of inferior quality, but the AAIB has ruled this out. Also disproved are suggestions that the plane suffered a bird strike or that it was disrupted by electromagnetic interference from jamming devices set up to protect a motorcade carrying Prime Minister Gordon Brown.The report says that there was also no evidence to suggest any control systems failed, that the aircraft encountered a wake vortex or that there was core engine icing or other evidence that the engines suffered core lock. There was no damage to the fuel systems excluding that caused by the low pressure and no blockages, therefore it is suspected that fuel flow was restricted.The investigation has also begun analysing previous flights on comparable aircraft in a large sample of flights. Thus far, no parameters present on Flight 38 have been found that differ significantly from anything previously encountered. The purpose is primarily to identify potentially troublesome combinations of unusual operational parameters.The report concludes by stating that interested parties to the investigation, specifically the Federal Aviation Administration, the European Aviation Safety Agency, the Civil Aviation Authority and British Airways are being kept fully informed of the investigation's progress.Although this shows some progress, according to David Learmount, operations and safety editor at periodical industry magazine Flight International, “This report takes us absolutely nowhere, I think they still have no idea.”The B777 has never had any other hull losses or any fatal accidents and is considered to have one of the world's safest commercial airliners. According to one spokesman for British Airways “It has one of the best safety records of any commercial aircraft. At no stage since the accident has the AAIB, Boeing or Rolls Royce advised against the continued operation of the Boeing 777.”  The engines underwent analysis at manufacturer Rolls-Royce's facility in Derby, while airframer Boeing is studying the fuel systems in the United States. Rolls Royce's engine test bed was modified to replicate control inputs from aircraft control systems, and Boeing are working at replicating the cold conditions experienced over Eastern Europe. The investigation is ongoing.A British Airways flight from Beijing to London with 152 people on board has landed short of the runway at Heathow airport near London. One hundred and thirty six passengers and sixteen crew have been evacuated from the plane and thirteen people are reported to have sustained minor injuries.Reports suggest that the cause of the incident was a "total loss of power and avionics" in the plane, meaning that the pilot had to glide the plane towards the runway area.Flight BA038 from Beijing to Heathrow, a twin-engined Boeing 777-236ER, carried out an emergency landing at Heathrow Airport 12.42 p.m. local time, according to a Heathrow airport statement. The incident has delayed the flight carrying UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown, who is flying to Beijing today on a visit to China and India.   Witnesses said the plane flew low on its approach, touched down on grass short of the runway and came to a halt on its belly at the edge of the runway. Passengers were quickly evacuated by emergency chutes as emergency vehicles surrounded the plane. The plane's undercarriage broke off during the landing and both wings as well as the starboard engine are badly damaged.In a press statement, BA said it is "very proud" of the way its staff - three flight crew and thirteen cabin crew - safely evacuated passengers with only six minor injuries resulting. The southern runway has been closed for operations and has resulted in all European short haul flights from Terminals 1, 2 and 3 being cancelled. Passengers travelling by Heathrow have been advised to check their flight status before arriving at the airport.A British Airways (BA) flight from London to Denver made an emergency landing at an airport in Iceland today after smoke was seen emerging from an oven in the aircraft's rear kitchen. A BA spokesman said that the Boeing 777 landed safely at Keflavik Airport. He added that the plane’s 268 passengers left the craft unharmed. A spokeswoman from the Iceland Civil Aviation Administration ruled out any terrorist involvement. She added: "They were 50 miles from Keflavik when it was thought there was a fire. But it turned out to be only smoke."The flight should complete its journey to the US tomorrow. Passengers are spending the night in a hotel.The three members of the flight crew and thirteen members of British Airways Flight 38 have been awarded with the BA Safety Medal. The airline considers the award to be its highest accolade and has only awarded it three times before.On January 17 the Boeing 777 airliner was on final approach to Heathrow Airport with 136 passengers on board when it suffered a loss of engine power. The plane crash landed immediately beyond the perimeter fence, just before the start of the runway.British Airways say that due to the crew's professionalism only minor injuries were sustained. The medals have been awarded for their handling of the accident.Captain Peter Burkill, who was on board, said "It is a great privilege for us to receive the BA Safety Medal. We are extremely honoured to be added to the list of the very few people who have received this award. The training we undergo at British Airways is second to none. During the events of the 17 January these skills kicked in, as we did everything we could to ensure the safety of our passengers."The United Kingdom's flag carrier airline, British Airways (BA) has warned the markets that it will post a full year loss of up to £150 million.The former state airline, privatised in 1987, saw its shares fall 8.5% on the back of an announcement that "further economic weakness in January and the outlook for February and March combined with the fall in sterling are impacting our outlook for the year", according to The Daily Telegraph. Quarterly revenues are still anticipated to grow by 4%, but a full-year loss is now expected. Costs have risen in recent months, whilst the historic lows of sterling have hit the bottom line. First and Business Class traffic has fallen as the global credit crisis has hit premium and business travel. Fuel costs have fallen, but previous hedging has negated this benefit.The airline has been considering a merger with Spanish flag carrier Iberia, but The Guardian, relaying Reuters, reports that Iberia now has a larger market capitalisation than BA, changing the field of play.The airline sector in general is facing trouble, with American and United posting fourth quarter losses and the Franco-Dutch Air France-KLM issuing a profits warning.A BA CityFlyer Avro 146-RJ100 passenger jet with 71 people onboard made a crash-landing at London City Airport on Friday evening, after part of its gear failed upon landing. One passenger was hospitalised after the incident.According to witnesses, the aeroplane's front landing gear collapsed into the runway after the aircraft made a rough landing. The plane stopped on the runway, after which the 67 passengers and four crew members were evacuated by the use of emergency chutes.Following the incident, the airport's only runway was shut down and incoming flights diverted to other airports in the vicinity."Unfortunately, one passenger sustained a minor injury and is currently on the way to hospital. There was one other minor injury," British Airways said in a statement. "We don't know the nature of the injury or how it was caused yet. Our priority at the moment is to ensure all the passengers involved in the incident are well cared for by our ground staff."Justin Fletcher, a passenger onboard the aeroplane, described what happened in an interview with the BBC: "There was obviously quite a loud bang as the plane scratched in, the stewards and stewardesses were quick to evacuate everyone off, there was a few scrapes and cuts due to hitting the asphalt, all in all everyone seems to be doing quite well now." London City Airport is located in the eastern part of London, and is mainly used for domestic and European flights. It handles 80 000 flights and three million passengers a year.Due to greater consumer demand, British Airways announced yesterday that it would run a further three flights weekly on the route from Bucharest (Henri Coandă International) to London (Gatwick). The Bucharest-London flights will run on Monday, Thursday and Saturday, while the return flights will run on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. The extra flights will mean that British Airways will now fly from Bucharest to London, and back, ten times a week.What began as a ground crew strike on Thursday has escalated into the grounding of all flights from Heathrow's Terminal 4 until at least 8pm Friday.The row began with a funding crisis of meal provider, Gate Gourmet, which resulted in the axing of 200 full-time staff earlier on Wednesday.  In reaction, unions of ground crews and baggage handlers from British Airways announced a stop work from Friday, which escalated into a full close-down of Terminal 4 on Friday due to overcrowding and backlog.British Airways grounded more than 100 flights on Thursday evening, and by Friday evening, around 550 flights look to be cancelled.  Other airlines which utilise Terminal 4 are also affected, including Qantas, Sri Lankan Airlines and Finnair, with incoming longhaul flights now being redirected to other European airports, including Frankfurt.The airline British Airways have reported that they will start flying between Iceland and Gatwick airport, London. British Airways said they will provide the service five times a week; the first flight is scheduled March 26, 2006.Until now, only two airlines have been flying between the UK and Iceland with passengers: Icelandair, the oldest and biggest airline in Iceland, and Iceland Express, a recent low-fare airline and the competition between them has been fierce.Icelandair's PR, Guðjón Arngrímsson, said that Icelandair welcomes the competition and believes Icelandair can compete with BA: "This market has been growing rapidly. Iceland has been well marketed in London and Britain as a whole so number of passenger has been rising fast. We're always ready for more competition on every route between Iceland and other countries. We're ready and willing to compete here as we are on other routes" Arngrímsson said.Birgir Jónsson at Iceland Express agrees. "Iceland Express welcomes the competition without a doubt." He then added, "The competition will benefit us all".British Airways have reported the tickets will cost about €291.A helicopter crash Tuesday in Cranbrook, British Columbia left a pedestrian and the aircraft's three occupants dead. Authorities such as Canada's Transportation Safety Board continue to investigate, and have not yet identified a reason for the crash. Canadian Transport Minister Lawrence Cannon issued a statement of condolences regarding those involved in the disaster, while confirming the federal government's involvement in the investigation."On behalf of the Government of Canada, I would like to convey my condolences to the families of those killed in this tragic accident," said Cannon.He continued, "We will cooperate fully with the Transportation Safety Board as they investigate this accident. Transport Canada has appointed a Minister's Observer, who will keep me informed of the investigation's progress."He also stated that "in addition, the department will verify that the company continues to comply with all aspects of Canadian Aviation Regulations and the conditions of its air operator certificate."The British government has announced a £2.3 billion package of aid to attempt to support the country's car manufacturing industry.Lord Peter Mandelson, the Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform announced to the House of Lords that the government planned to obtain £1.3 billion from the European Investment Bank for the industry. A further £1 billion loan is available if the industry agrees to invest it in environmentally friendly vehicles.Mandleson told the Lords that the industry is vital to the British economy, which with "near one million employees from manufacturing to retailing" provides "£10 billion worth of added value to the economy." However, he stressed that the government was not providing a "blank cheque" and would not provide operating subsidies.His newly-appointed shadow Kenneth Clarke told the House of Commons that the plans were "pretty small beer" and repeated the Conservative charge that the government was "dithering" in the face of the downturn. Liberal Democrat John Thurso also expressed disappointment in the plans.Edward Stobart, famed for his construction of the Eddie Stobart truck empire and being its chief executive officer for over thirty years, has died at the age of 56. In a statement, the Stobart Group commented: "It is with great sadness and regret that Stobart Group shares the news that Edward Stobart, son of Eddie Stobart, passed away at 8:10 AM this morning at University Hospital Coventry, after heart problems yesterday."When Eddie Stobart — Edward's father, who is aged over eighty — created the company during the 1950s in Cumbria in northern England, it originally involved itself in the business of agriculture. In the 1970s, the business was given the name Eddie Stobart Limited and became a haulage service. Eddie Stobart then handed over the company to his son. The enterprise subsequently became the most popular of that industry within the United Kingdom, according to BBC News Online; it extended to include transportation by air and railways, as well as warehousing and management of logistics.Due to the cult following that they had achieved via a fanbase of 'Stobart spotters', which involves the observation of their company's uniquely named vehicles, the Stobart Group decided to create an official followers' group, which now has in excess of twenty-five thousand members. Eddie Stobart-branded merchandise has also been released.William Stobert — the brother of Edward Stobart — and Andrew Tinkler purchased the business from Edward in 2004. Edward subsequently relocated to the Midlands and took over what was to become an unsuccessful truck trailer building firm in 2009.Edward Stobart experienced his death in Coventry, England at 0810 BST (0710 UTC) on Thursday. The Stobart Group have expressed their condolences to "Edward's wife Mandy, his children and family at this difficult time."Haulage firm Preston's of Potto's chairwoman Ann Preston described Edward as "the most iconic figure that has ever been in this industry" and that the death of a man who "was very passionate about road transport" and "didn't want to do anything else" since he was a child was "a massive loss". The Stobart Members' Club have stated: "The club's members will certainly have fond memories of the man who started the phenomenon off, created the iconic Eddie Stobart brand and made it cool to spot lorries. Stobart Spotting will continue and the legacy of Edward Stobart will live on."Tuesday, famed ocean liner, Queen Elizabeth 2, popularly known as the QE2, arrived in her home port of Southampton, England for the final time.The Cunard Line ship has been in service since 1969, and is to become a floating hotel in Dubai. The homecoming was marred as the vessel ran aground on a sandbank near Calshot at the mouth of Southampton Water.The ship hit the sandbank at around 0530 GMT, and five tugs took around 30 minutes to pull the QE2 clear. The 70,000 tonne vessel was towed into port and eventually docked at 0730 GMT according to the Solent coastguard.  Around a thousand crew and 1,700 passengers were aboard the ship, which was returning from a cruise around the Mediterranean.A number of festivities are set to occur today to mark the QE2's last day in Southampton.  The Duke of Edinburgh will visit the ship and observe the two minutes' silence for Remembrance Day at 11am, while a Tiger Moth aircraft will fly over and shower the QE2 with a million poppies to mark the 90th anniversary of Armistice Day. The QE2 will leave Southampton for the final time this evening at 1915 GMT.The QE2 has been referred to as the "world's most famous ship" and has been a popular sight throughout her four decade career, taking passengers from Southampton on transatlantic cruises to New York and the Caribbean as well as the Mediterranean.  During the Falklands War the vessel was commandeered and used as a troop carrier.  For her conversion to a hotel, her distinctive funnel is to be removed and replaced by a steel and glass replica, which will house a penthouse suite.The QE2 is scheduled to push off for its voyage for Dubai this evening around 7:15 pm with a fireworks display. Its final destination will be as part of a Nakheel Properties' resort.A British plane caught on fire in Afghanistan. It was a four-engine propeller aircraft that got into trouble while landing. One of the aircraft's tyres exploded.Ambassador Stephen Evans escaped injury after the military transport plane, in which he was travelling, caught fire at an airstrip in southern Afghanistan. None were seriously hurt. All 27 people on board were safe.British Rail minister Claire Perry resigned on Thursday evening, after continuing problems with Southern Rail.Southern has an ongoing dispute with the Rail, Maritime and Transport union (RMT) about increasing driver-only services, without conductors or guards. The union objected, citing concerns about job losses and driver safety.London mayor Sadiq Khan said "This utter mess is now an embarrassment to our city" and that he was "calling on the government to strip Southern of its franchise and take over the temporary responsibility of running these services." Transport secretary Patrick McLoughlin focused instead on the union, saying "Most industrial disputes are about threats to employment or conditions so the RMT's attitude is absurd. There is no threat to safety, no threat to jobs, no threat to pay and yet they continue disrupting passengers' lives on a daily basis."In an attempt to reduce cancellations and delays, on Monday the company cut 341 trains a day, in light of the current staff shortages.  They said since this change the trains' reliability improved from 60% on-time to 80%.Bob Crow, the general secretary of the United Kingdom's National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers — better known as the RMT — died today aged 52 from a suspected heart attack. Crow is widely known for leading numerous strikes by workers that led to disruption of public transport services in the United Kingdom.After leaving school at 16, Crow started working on the London Underground fixing railway lines and felling trees. He joined a union shortly afterwards. In 1991, Crow was elected assistant general secretary of the RMT. Following the death of Jimmy Knapp in 2002, he was made general secretary. Under his leadership, the union's membership numbers increased by more than a quarter, to 80,000 workers.The current Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, said in a statement: "I'm shocked. Bob Crow was a fighter and a man of character. Whatever our political differences, and there were many, this is tragic news. Bob fought tirelessly for his beliefs and for his members."The current Labour Party leader, Ed Miliband said in a statement: "Bob Crow was a major figure in the labour movement and was loved and deeply respected by his members. I didn't always agree with him politically but I always respected his tireless commitment to fighting for the men and women in his union. He did what he was elected to do, was not afraid of controversy and was always out supporting his members across the country. He was a passionate defender of and campaigner for safe, affordable public transport and was a lifelong anti-fascist activist."Former Mayor of London Ken Livingstone praised Crow, in a remark to Sky News: "He fought really hard for his members. The only working-class people who still have well-paid jobs in London are his members."A British woman has been sentenced to death in Indonesia for drug smuggling. Lindsay Sandiford, 56, was found guilty of breaking the tough drug laws in place in Indonesia at the Denpasar district court yesterday, having being found with 10.6 lb of cocaine, worth about £1.6m, in the lining of her suitcase at Bali's main airport in May last year. Lawyers for Ms Sandiford, who is originally from the town of Redcar in Teesside, England, said the ruling "surprised" them, and they would appeal. U.K. Foreign Office Minister Hugo Swire expressed his strong objection to the decision and said the U.K. opposed the use of the death penalty. "We are aware that Lindsay Sandiford is facing the death penalty in Indonesia. We strongly object to the death penalty and continue to provide consular assistance to Lindsay and her family during this difficult time," he said.Ms Sandiford was stopped on May 19 during a routine customs check at Ngurah Rai airport in Bali, after arriving from Bangkok via Thai Airways. She told the court, "I would like to begin by apologising to the Republic of Indonesia and the Indonesian people for my involvement.I would never have become involved in something like this but the lives of my children were in danger and I felt I had to protect them."Prosecutors were not pursuing the death penalty for Ms Sandiford, instead asking for 15 years in prison.The court is expected to deliver a verdict in the trial of Julian Ponder today. He was allegedly involved in drug smuggling with Ms Sandiford and Rachel Dougall.Mr Ponder is accused of receiving the drugs from Ms Sandiford in Bali. He denies the accusations, saying he was expecting delivery of a birthday present for his child from Ms Sandiford.In the court verdict against Ms Sandiford, a panel of judges said she had damaged Bali's image.Although 114 Indonesian prisoners are sentenced to death, including about 40 foreigners most of whom are drug-crime convicts, no executions have taken place since 2008.The investigation into Continental Connection Flight 3407, which crashed near Buffalo, New York last week, suggests that the pilot of the turboprop commuter airliner may have put the aircraft into its plunge.A source close to the investigation says that information from the flight data recorder on board the aeroplane indicated that the pilot's control column, the device which is used to steer the aircraft, was pulled upward abruptly, thereby causing the nose of the aeroplane to pitch up.The sudden pitch-up movement happened soon after the flight crew received a warning in the cockpit that the aircraft was about to stall. In aviation, a stall is when the air no longer flows over the wings of an aeroplane, and the aircraft can no longer keep the lift necessary to keep it airborne, causing it to fall. The normal manoeuvre to recover from a stall for wing icing is to apply full power to the engines and push the nose down. For a tail stall recovery, the opposite procedure is used: the nose should be pulled up and engine power reduced. In this instance, the pilot seems to have pulled the nose upward, but also increased the engine throttles to their full setting.After the aeroplane pulled up abruptly, it then pitched down at an angle of 31 degrees, rolling left and right, partially upside-down. This sort of stall is known as an aggravated stall, and it can be very difficult to return the aeroplane to normal flight from one. In this case, the pilot had less than two thousand feet to do so before the aircraft crashed into the ground.The pilot's training has now been put into question, and it was discovered that the captain, Marvin Renslow, aged 47, had logged only 110 hours in this particular aircraft, though he had thousands of hours in similar aircraft. Experts say his experience should have adequately prepared him.A spokesman for the National Transportation Safety Board, Keith Holloway, said that it is currently too early to definitively say what caused the crash. "We have not concluded anything," he said.Continental Connection Flight 3407 crashed into a house in Clarence Center, a suburb of Buffalo on February 12 in icy weather, killing all 49 people on board the aeroplane and one person on the ground.An accident involving a city bus and a car at Sycamore and Monroe streets in the city of Buffalo, New York, United States, has injured at least 10 people, some seriously. The accident happened around 4:00 p.m. (EDT).According to Buffalo Fire Department radio communications, at least two of the four people in the car will have to be removed by the 'jaws of life'. Their condition is considered serious. The condition of the other two passengers is not known. There are at least eight people on the bus. At about 4:15 p.m., a mobile triage was dispatched to the scene to determine how many of the passengers on the bus would need to be taken to local hospitals for treatment. At least six will be "packaged" and transported to Buffalo General Hospital.By, 4:20 p.m., at least one of the trapped passengers was removed from the car. By 4:30, the second passenger had been removed. Both will also be treated at Buffalo General Hospital.The bus is operated by the Niagara Frontier Transportation Authority. The cause of the accident is under investigation.State TV reports that a bus collided with a train in Cuba Saturday killing at least 28 people. Another 73 people were injured in the accident, including 15 in critical condition.A statement read on state television said the collision occurred in the province of Granma.Juventud Rebelde newspaper reports that the accident occurred at a railroad crossing in the very small town of Veguita in the Bayamo municipality.The train was traveling from Santiago to Manzanillo, when it collided with a bus that was traveling from Bayamo to Campechuela.The train hit the bus, dragged it across the tracks, and pushed it off a nearby bridge. The cause remains under investigation.A bomb explosion on a bus in Myanmar (alternatively Burma) has killed a 55-year-old man and left another man wounded. The explosion occurred yesterday at 8:50 am local time (0220 GMT) as the bus traveled to Yangon, but state media has only posted news of the attack today.The deceased was identified only as Khant by the New Light of Myanmar, the Burmese government-owned daily newspaper. The article said that the injured man was 46-year-old Pa Pa and that he received a stomach injury. The bus had 35 passengers traveling from Kyaukkyi, and was near Daik Oo, some 85 miles from its destination.The bombing was blamed on insurgents, but it is unclear which group is responsible. The ruling military junta is subject to attacks from a number of extremist groups opposed to its rule.A bus carrying children from Smolensk to Kaluga on Sunday overturned in Babyninsky, Russia. At least seven, including four children, died.At least 45 were aboard, with occupants trapped for hours at the snowy roadside in the upended vehicle until rescuers extracted them from the scene. Police have opened a criminal case against the driver and detained him for questioning. The occupants were going to a dance competition, according to the mayor of Yartsevo via news agency Interfax. Local officials said 24 people have been hospitalised, but Agence France-Presse reported as many as 32 hospitalised.The Emergency Situations Ministry stated all occupants were from Smolensk. Officials said most of the injured were minors. Russia suffers one of the highest death tolls from road accidents in the world, reportedly 18.9 deaths per 100,000 people per year; this is lower than previous years. The Emergencies Ministry has, in a statement, called on drivers to "not forget that the health and lives of other people depend on you." It also urged people to "comply with the established rules of behaviour on the road."The Emergency Situations Ministry further indicated no additional vehicles were involved and suggested the driver lost control and left the road. The cause of the accident was not known. Dozens of occupants required extricated.A bus accident near the Spanish coastal resort town of Benalmádena has killed nine passengers and injured 35, all of whom were Finnish, police said Saturday night. The bus collided with a sport utility vehicle on a highway along the Spanish coast, causing the bus to veer off the road and overturn. The driver of the SUV had survived, and is being detained on suspicion of drink driving, Spanish newspaper Sur claiming a breathalyser test revealed twice the legal blood alcohol limit. Police say the SUV driver was attempting to illegally pass another vehicle."There were 44 people on the bus, and it seems they were all Finnish," said a spokesman for the Civil Guard. He also reported that six of the injured were in serious condition. A police spokeswoman added that the death toll could rise as rescue workers continue to search for victims.The tourists were being driven to Málaga Airport on a return trip to Finland when the crash occurred between Benalmadena and Torremolinos. The eastbound lanes of the AP-7 highway where the collision occurred have been closed, Spanish media reported.A field hospital was set up at the site of the accident, which provided emergency first aid to the victims. The injured tourists were then taken to five different hospitals in the Costa del Sol region. The 11 tourists who emerged from the accident unscathed were taken to a hotel.The bus accident is Spain's worst in more than seven years.A bus crash in Victoria, Australia has injured at least 20 people, two of whom are listed as critical. One victim is reported to be still trapped in the wreckage. The accident occurred between a bus and a semi-trailer on the Princes Highway in the Traralgon area around 10:50am AEST. The La Trobe Valley Busliner bus was traveling east when it collided with the back of a heavy haulage truck.Those critically injured are being airlifted to a hospital in Melbourne. Others are being transported by Ambulance to La Trobe Valley Hospital in Traralgon.SES crews are on scene, along with St. John Ambulance and fire crews.The eastbound lanes of the highway have been blocked by police and traffic is being diverted.A bus crash outside of Cusco, Peru has killed at least 13 people, police say.  The bus hit a parked car as it was leaving Machu Picchu, outside the Incan city of Cusco.  Cusco is one of the busiest archaeological tourist destinations in the world, which is the reason the tourists were visiting.  The bus then swerved out of control and crashed sideways.Among the dead are tourists from Bolivia, Chile, and the United States.  In addition there are reportedly up to 28 people injured, including a Chilean man who had previously been reported as dead.  According to the police, one of the buses was a flat bed truck modified to fit more passengers, which are illegal in Peru.A public bus has crashed into a shop in Cardiff, Wales. No one is believed to have been injured.The nearly-empty bus was leaving the Cardiff central bus depot in Wood Street at approximately 7pm local time when witness say it failed to complete a left turn onto St. Mary Street, instead crashing into the shuttered doors of the Pure Rugby sport memorabilia shop. The shop was closed and empty at the time. Police and an ambulance were called to the scene of the accident and the area was cordoned off; St. Mary Street was closed to bus traffic and buses throughout the city centre were put on alternate routes for the evening.While South Wales, along with much of Great Britain, has suffered from icy conditions in recent weeks, roads and sidewalks were clear. The accident comes three days after a three-bus collision injured a driver on Westgate Street, one street over from St. Mary Street.A bus driver thought to have caused a 2008 crash after falling asleep behind the wheel in California has been convicted of killing eleven on board. Quintin Watts was found guilty of eleven counts of gross vehicular manslaughter and 21 counts of causing great bodily injury.Watts was driving a coach carrying 41 Hmong and Mien people from Sacramento to the Colusa Casino Resort. The vehicle left the country road it was traveling on and rolled over in Colusa County. Most of those on board were elderly.Watts' stepfather Daniel Cobb, who owned the bus company, was amongst those killed. A jury took three hours to return guilty verdicts against the 53-year-old driver, who now faces a maximum of 76 years in jail at his November 4 sentencing.At least 15 civilians, including women and children, have been killed in a bus explosion in Mogadishu's northern district of Yaqshiid in Somalia. The explosion occurred when the bus drove over an IED (improvised explosive device) or landmine while traveling to the Suuqa Holaha district in northern Mogadishu on Wednesday.It is not known who was behind the latest bomb attack but it appeared to be aimed at the government or Ethiopian soldiers. In Mogadishu, the insurgency by militants linked with the ousted Islamic Courts Union has been going on since the Ethiopian invasion in December 2006-January 2007The bus explosion is one of the deadliest terrorist attacks in Somalia in the recent years. In a separate incident today, a roadside blast killed two Somali government soldiers in Baladweyn, Somalia.At McClellan-Palomar Airport in Carlsbad, California, United States, a Cessna 560 twin engine jet skidded off the runway and burst into flames immediately after. Four people were killed in the accident.The Associated Press reports that the plane had run through a barricade and fell down a 100-150 foot cliff, which left parts of the plane in a trail behind it. It then hit the side of the Carlsbad Airport Self-Storage building before it came to a stop in a twisted metal ball of flame. One of the victims was Janet Shafran who was the wife of Ketchum City Councilman Steven Shafran. The Union Leader, a Manchester, New Hampshire newspaper, also reports that another one of the victims was Frank H. Jellinek, Jr., of Hampton, N.H. According to the Union Leader, Jellinek was one of the state's most prominent corporate executives. Jellinek Jr. was chairman emeritus of Fisher Scientific in Hampton since Aug. 2, 2004.By the end of the day Tuesday, the San Diego County Medical Examiner's office had not yet confirmed the identities of the two pilots who were also killed. They are believed to be local residents.The US Secret Service has released the first photos Wednesday of the new presidential limousine that will transport Barack Obama down Pennsylvania Avenue next Tuesday as part of the 56th Presidential inaugural parade after he is sworn in at the Capitol. The First Limo - the 2009 Cadillac Presidential Limousine - will replace President Bush’s Cadillac DTS Presidential Limousine that rolled out in 2004.Nicknamed "The Beast", the hulking machine is a new model year 2009, modified limousine. According to General Motors, the new "2009 Cadillac Presidential Limousine" is the first not to carry a specific model name. The Obama Mobile was introduced on January 14 with noticeably different styling borrowed from the Cadillac Escalade and STS, while the suspension is most likely related to the Chevrolet Kodiak medium-duty truck. Mr. David Caldwell of General Motors has revealed that the sleek black car would include a hand-crafted interior and "state of the art electronics." The car's high-tech security features include five-inch-thick (12.7-centimeter-thick) bombproof glass, tough-as-nails tires, and a sealed interior that's invulnerable to chemical attack. The armoured limousine has been heavily modified to withstand potential attacks by weapons or bombs. The San Francisco Chronicle puts it in a proper perspective noting, “a half-inch of transparent armor is enough to stop a .44 Magnum round at point-blank range; at a thickness of 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 inches, the same material can withstand higher-velocity bullets fired from military assault rifles.”According to spy photographer, Brenda Priddy, and General Motors, the limousine, which has the intricate, dual-textured grille, is also equipped with standard Goodyear Regional RHS truck tires in a 285/70R19.5 size, on 19.5-inch wheels. The rims have a run-flat device (manufactured by Hutchinson Industries). Xenon headlights from the Escalade are installed in the front, while the rear has some STS part. The doors are at least 20 centimeters (8 inches) thick. It carries the US flag on the front fenders and an embroidered Seal of the President of the United States is affixed to several panels in the back.According to the US Secret Service, the vehicle would be a "valuable asset" in providing the President with the highest level of protection. "Although many of the vehicle's security enhancements cannot be discussed, it is safe to say that this car's security and coded communications systems make it the most technologically advanced protection vehicle in the world," Nicholas Trotta, Assistant Director for the Office of Protective Operations said in a statement. The new limousine is the responsibility of White House Transportation Agency.The Presidential State Car is the official state car used by the President of the United States. It is informally known as "Cadillac One". The current Presidential State Car is a 2005 hand-crafted, armored, and stretched DTS (DeVille Touring Sedan) built on a GM four-wheel drive platform. It was first used on the second inauguration parade of George W. Bush in 2005. But the version to be used by President Obama uses a GMC Topkick chassis, while maintaining the Cadillac exterior.The President of the United States travels in one of two armoured Cadillac limousines based upon the normal sedan, the Cadillac DTS, with heavy customisation. Lincoln cars have also been used in the past, most notably by President John F Kennedy. The current limousines were custom-built by O'Gara, Hess and Eisenhart, founded in Fairfield, Ohio in 1942. It specializes in armouring limousines for presidents and heads of state.President William McKinley was the first US president to ride in an automobile. However, it was President Theodore Roosevelt who rode on the first government-owned car, a white Stanley Steamer. Roosevelt's successor, William Howard Taft, was the first president to use a presidential state car that was permanently stored in the White House garage.Meanwhile, Obama's 2005 Chrysler 300C Hemi was auctioned on eBay with a starting bid of $100,000 and a buy-it-now price of $1,000,000. It has less than 21,000 miles on it and is in like-new condition. He leased the car in 2004 and traded it for a Ford Escape Hybrid in 2007. The car was sold to Tim O'Boyle.California, the most populous state in the United States, is offering rebates of up to US$5000 to residents who purchase alternative fuel vehicles. $1.62 million in rebates are scheduled to be granted statewide by California Center for Sustainable Energy, an independent nonprofit organization based in San Diego.Owners of Vectrix electric motorcycles may qualify for up to $1,500 and Global Electric Motorcars owners may receive $950 and $1,300. The largest rebates will go to owners of full-sized zero-emission cars, which have not yet been approved by the state.  Compressed-gas vehicles also qualify, but the agency has already awarded its budgeted allotment for this type of vehicle.  The eligible period for purchases and leases is May 24, 2007 to March 31, 2009.  Applications will be accepted on a first come, first served basis.  A complete list of qualifying vehicles can be seen at the California Center for Sustainable Energy's website.The program is part of $25 million authorized in 2007 by California Assembly Bill 1811 to promote alternative fuel infrastructure and vehicles.  According to the California Air Resources Board, about 25,000 dedicated alternative fuel vehicles are in use in California.In an ongoing labor dispute from May of this year in California, United States, Teamsters Local 952, which represents the Orange County Transportation Authority's 1,200 coach operators, went on strike at 12:35 a.m. (0035 hrs) PDT Saturday morning after a cooling-off period declared by State Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger expired.Sanctioned picket lines have been formed outside Authority facilities in Garden Grove, Anaheim, and Santa Ana. About 200,000 regular passengers are affected. Major sticking points in the negotiation appear to be related to cost-of-living increases and pension funding allocations. The strike was declared after the Authority's bargaining agent said he lacked authority to approve a union counter proposal, which he said had to be taken before the OCTA's board of directors, who will not be available to meet until Monday the 9th at the earliest.Australia is calling for criminal charges to be made in light of the final report into the Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 disaster, which was published yesterday. Five Australians were among the 21 killed when the Boeing 737 jetliner overshot the runway at Adisucipto International Airport, near Yogyakarta, Indonesia on March 7 this year.Australian Minister for Foreign affairs, Alexander Downer, said that the "very credible report" made it clear the two-man cockpit crew were responsible for the accident. The report found that alarms sounded no less than 15 times to warn the pilot in command that he was flying at an excessive speed for proper operation of the flaps, and that the co-pilot had also been ignored when he asked for a go-around to be made. The co-pilot was criticised for not taking control of the aircraft. The pilot was found to have ignored 15 emergency activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System telling him to slow down. Other criticisms were leveled at the inadequate training provided by the airline, the inadequate inspections by authorities, the lack of a mandatory runoff area at the runway and improper fire suppressants and slow response from the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting facilities at the airport."I've asked our ambassador today to make it absolutely clear to the Indonesians that we want people prosecuted for this accident," said Downer. "I want to see people who have negligently allowed Australians … to be killed, I want to see those people brought to justice," he added. He has also expressed a pledge to discuss plans for a class action suit with survivors and relatives of victims, but he commented that "you're dealing with the Indonesian system here, it's a different system from our own, so it's not necessarily going to be very easy." Bill Madden from the law firm Slater and Gordon, who have a speciality in class actions, disagreed: "It would seem as though the families and people injured would have a fairly strong case," he said. "You'd be holding an airline responsible for the negligence of a pilot and that's a fairly standard approach that the law can follow."Meanwhile, the Sydney Morning Herarld spoke with Ari Sapari, head of operations at Garuda Indonesia. He told reporters that the pilots, who remain grounded after the crash, may be sacked next week, when any disciplinary action is expected to be announced. However, if they are charged over the crash, he has promised the airline will assist in their defence, saying "They are still our employees, up to now. They have the right to be assisted." Police say they are examining closely the possibility of charging both with manslaughter, which could see them sent to prison for up to five years if convicted. When queried about the fact that the report found the crew had not received adequate simulator training from the airline, he defended the company, saying "Nobody is perfect in this entire world." Since the suspension of the pilots, all other Garuda pilots have undergone the appropriate training missed out by Garuda.Australian Prime Minister John Howard said in a statement made after the report came out "I am quite astonished. I can understand how people who are still grieving, both in Indonesia and Australia, might feel." The Opposition Leader, Kevin Rudd, has said he has telephoned secretary-general of Indonesia's foreign affairs department and former ambassador to Australia Imron Cotan, telling him that he wanted those responsible "prosecuted to the absolute full". "This is a serious matter, many Australians visit Indonesia, Garuda is an often used airline and there is a basic national interest at stake here as well," he said.It is, however, stipulated in the Convention on International Civil Aviation that accident reports and related material, specifically transcripts of interviews, communications with crew and cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder (collectively known as black boxes) readouts, must not be used for any purpose other than determining the cause of an accident or incident. The only possible exception to this is where potential benefit would outweigh the "adverse domestic and international impact" on the investigation in question or any other either in progress or in the future. This legislation is in place to provide protection to witnesses on the basis that without it they may be less likely to cooperate with investigational procedures.Downer's response to this law was to comment that "I think our first priority is to make sure those who are responsible - who survived the accident - are brought to justice." Aridono Sukman, the police member in charge of the criminal investigation, has said that the contents of the black box are vital evidence. Officials have commented that some relatives have expressed their frustration over the legal challenges involved in the prosecution effort.Tatang Kurniadi, chairman of the Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee, has already confirmed that investigators cannot speak to the police, with the only permitted testimony under the legislation being to testify at a court hearing. He also pointed out that the document does not actually appoint any blame. "The investigation determined the flight crews' compliance with procedures was not at the level to ensure the safe operation of the aircraft. That's enough," he said. However, Sisno Adiwinoto, a police spokesperson, told reporters the police would attempt to summon the investigators to court as expert witnesses on aviation, rather than as the actual investigators involved with the disaster.Another fact that has become apparent is that the runway at Adisucipto International will not be lengthened to meet international standards despite assurances that work would begin shortly. The airport claims it cannot build the mandatory 90-metre runway end safety area because, says a small-print comment by the state-owned airport operator, the airport does not have the land." It has, however, promised to bring other airports under its jurisdiction up to standard, with work initialising next year. The company has also stated that a study of engineering methods providing alternative solutions could be completed by June.Canadian cruise ship MS Explorer is sinking in Antarctic waters, near the South Shetland Islands. Having struck an unknown underwater object and taking on water, all but the captain and chief officer of the 156 on board, have abandoned ship for life boats and await rescue. Despite having a strong reinforced ice breaking hull, the ship is said to be listing heavily and expected to sink soon. A cruise ship in the vicinity, the Antarctic Dream, has been diverted to help but is not expected to arrive until at least 11.00 hours UTC. Four Argentine vessels were also dispatched but are not expected to arrive for some time.The rescue effort is an international affair, being undertaken by the Argentine Coast Guard, with help from the U.S. Coast Guard in Norfolk, Virginia, and the U.K. Coast Guard in Falmouth  in an advisory capacity.Two life boats were empty, one person is dead and sixteen others are missing after a helicopter crashed into the frigid north Atlantic Ocean reported search and rescue official, March 12. The Sikorsky S92 helicopter sunk below the surface and the debris field was located about 47 nautical miles (87 km; 54 mi) southeast of St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador.Maydays and alerts were sent at 9:18 local NL time (7:48 EST). The helicopter pilot radioed his intent to return to St. John's.File:CHC S-92.jpgThe lone survivor, Robert Decker, was taken to a local hospital in critical condition. He was rescued by a helicopter which arrived 45 minutes after take off.Of the eighteen people on board one other body was found and taken to St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador. The cause of the crash is under investigation, but Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper called the incident a "tragic accident". Julie Leroux of the Transportation Safety Board said that mechanical problems were reported on the helicopter, but further investigation was needed.Earlier reports stated that two people and a life raft were seen in the waters 87 kilometers (54 miles) southeast of St. John's. There were reports of a second life raft as well. Rescuers soon discovered that the life rafts were empty.For those wearing survival suits, the survival time would be approximately 24 hours. Wave heights at the time of the crash were six to nine feet (two to three meters), with freezing water temperatures. As a result, emergency rooms at St. John's hospital were prepared for survivors suffering from hypothermia reported Deborah Collins of the Eastern Health Board.  On board were workers heading to two offshore oilfields, mainly the Sea Rose platform, a part of the White Rose offshore oilfield 315 kilometers (196 miles) southeast of St. John's. Two people on board were staff of Cougar Helicopters, and two passengers traveling to the Hibernia platform.Two Cormorant rescue helicopters and one military Hercules plane flew into high winds during the rescue effort. The search and rescue team was supplemented by a coast guard ship and supply ship. There were reports that two other helicopters were dispatched as well.Canadian National (CN), the Montreal-based rail operator, has bought the main lines of the U.S. Elgin (EJ&E).CN began to buy the railway from U.S. Steel in September 2007. Regulatory approval in the US was given in January. The Canadian railway company will use the lines to avoid congestion in Chicago, taking freight along a 300km loop through the American Midwest. The route will begin the new operations on March 4. U.S. Steel will keep the facilities and staff required to keep the Gary steelworks in Indiana rail connected, renaming the resulting operations to the Gary Railway. The rest of the EJ&E will be integrated into CN's existing networks. The railway passes through suburban areas of Chicago, causing residents to fear the noise and traffic that greater intensity of operation could bring. The Surface Transportation Board (STB), the US rail regulator, has required CN to make upgrades to ease local concerns but opponents have vowed to continue to fight against the changes. The Chicago Tribune speculates that CN will switch trains from the former Wisconsin Central line to the EJ&E south of Mundelein. This would reduce traffic in suburbs north of the crossover from 19 trains a day to just two; whilst south of the junction trains would increase from five a day to 20.CN paid $300 million for the lines, and will pay $100 million to upgrade them and $60 million to make the STB's required improvements.Stephen Harper, the Prime Minister of Canada, has announced an investment of C$13.5 million (US$10.8 million) to upgrade the Blue Water Bridge.This bridge connects Port Huron, Michigan and Point Edward, Ontario across the St. Clair River, and is the second-busiest Canada – United States border crossing. "Blue Water Bridge is a crucial link in trade between Canada and the United States.  This cross-border traffic is vital to our export industries – and more important than ever, given the current global economic downturn," said Harper. "This project will reduce border congestion, improve trade, and create local jobs."The investment will widen the bridge approach to Ontario Highway 402 and provide new Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) inspection booths.File:Media 2011 Picture (Leg) Bhullar Headshot.jpgA road accident killed Alberta Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) Manmeet Bhullar on Monday. Bhullar pulled over to the median on a snowy stretch of the Queen Elizabeth II highway between Edmonton and Calgary to help a fellow motorist who had gone off the road, before a semi-truck lost control and hit him. Bhullar died at hospital at the age of 35.Bhullar represented the Calgary-Greenway electoral district, and was a member of the Progressive Conservative party. His family received condolences from his colleagues after his death.Bhullar became the first turban-wearing Sikh in the Alberta cabinet in 2011, as Minister of Service, and held cabinet positions until earlier this year. According to Calgary mayor Nasheed Nenshi, Bhullar was influenced to enter politics by early experiences of coping with others' discomfort about Sikhs.Bhullar was "a true warrior for fairness and justice, a big man with a giant heart, a friend", said Nenshi. In a teleconference with journalists, Alberta Premier Rachel Notley recognised him for his work in making the governmental system more transparent.Notley said she "quite frankly [expected] to see Manmeet in public life for decades to come. And I believe all Albertans are poorer for the fact we will not."A trio of Canadian trekkers said Friday they completed the fastest unaided on-foot trek using the traditional route from Hercules Inlet on the Ronne Ice Shelf to the South Pole in a record time of 33 days, 23 hours and 30 minutes. Ottawa ultra-runner Ray Zahab, age 39, adventure journalist and architect Kevin Vallely, age 44, of Lynn Valley, North Vancouver and North Pole expeditionist Richard Weber, age 49, said they completed the 700-mile (1,130-kilometer) journey, at 10,000 feet altitude, finally arriving early Wednesday morning.They endured a white-out but survived on a 7,000-calorie-a-day diet of pemmican, Gatorade drink powder, outdated salami, deep-fried bacon, cheese and butter. "If you took a cloud, wrapped it around your head and then duct-taped it, that's what a white-out is like," Mr Zahab, explained. The trio also suffered altitude sickness, vertigo, massive, painful blisters, and temperatures as low as minus 40. Zahab had to pull 170-lb (77-kg) sleds of equipment, traveling on foot and on snowshoes while the other two men skied. According to ExplorersWeb.com's founder, Tom Sjogren, the trio erased the previous record of 39 days, 7 hours and 49 minutes, which was set by American Todd Carmichael, the first American to cross Antarctica to the South Pole alone, on foot and with no assistance. He arrived at The Pole on December 21, 2008. "They have definitely broken the record," said Sjogren. Guinness World Records spokesman, Damian Field, in London, however, said that "Guinness monitors a category for fastest unsupported trek to the South Pole, but it has no record currently listed." Prior to Carmichael, the record was held by Briton Hannah McKeand. In the fastest journey to the South Pole (600 nautical mile journey), she completed solo and in just 39 days, 9 hours and 33 minutes. In March 2008 she attempted to reach the North Pole alone and unsupported but had to abandon the trip after falling through the ice and badly damaging her shoulder.Ray Zahab is a Canadian ultramarathon runner, personal trainer, and motivational speaker. He lives in Chelsea, Quebec, and is famous for his 4,300-mile (6,920-kilometer) epic run across the Sahara Desert in 2007, which was the subject of a documentary narrated by actor Matt Damon's "Running the Sahara." He heads Impossible2Possible, a nonprofit organization which advocates planet protection. "I started looking at impossible places on the planet in the past year, and I said Antarctica is one of those impossible places, and if we can create an expedition, perhaps we can inspire a bunch of young people to realize they can achieve,' Zahab said.Richard Weber, M.S.M. (born June 9, 1959 in Edmonton, Alberta) is a world-renowned Canadian Arctic and polar adventurer, from Alcove (near Wakefield). From 1978 to 2006, he participated in, lead and organized more than 45 Arctic expeditions. Richard is the only person to have completed six full North Pole expeditions. He has therefore trekked to the North Pole more than anyone in history.The trio were waiting out a storm before boarding a flight to Chile for Ottawa. "I'm pretty tired, actually," said Kevin Vallely, calling from Patriot Hills, Antarctica. During the saga, Vallely was solely burdened with carrying the high-tech gear in his sled consisting of video cameras, satellite phones, hand-held computers, different kinds of solar panels, batteries and wires chargers. "Had we not brought all that stuff we probably would have got it done faster because we wouldn't have had to carry all that weight, but then it doesn't matter as much," he explained. Vallely said he also intends to produce a documentary of the expedition.CanJet Flight 918 was hijacked on 19 April 2009, at approximately 22:30 local time at Sangster International Airport, Montego Bay, Jamaica.The hijacking was executed by a single armed gunman, who later released all of the passengers and two of the crew, keeping six crew members hostage, according to a press statement by CanJet.  The man broke through security and boarded before the plane was scheduled to leave. There are contradictory statements on the number of passengers on board when the man forced his way onto the plane. According to the BBC, there were more than 150, while CBC states that "Most of the (...) passengers had not yet boarded the flight". The hijacker apparently demanded passage to Cuba.The plane was stormed by Jamaican police in the morning of the 20th of April, who succeeded in taking the hijacker into custody and freeing the captives.The flight had started from Halifax International Airport, in Nova Scotia, Canada, at 7:15pm local time. It was stopping in Montego Bay and was scheduled to continue to Santa Clara in Cuba. The airplane in use is a Boeing 737-800.In light of an oil spill that occurred off the coast of southeast Queensland in 2009, a captain of a cargo ship and four companies are set to appear in court.In March of last year, the cargo ship Pacific Adventurer, with Filipino national Bernardino Gonzales Santos at the helm, encountered bad weather, which resulted in its fuel tank being damaged by loose cargo, leading to the spillage 270,000 litres of oil into the Pacific Ocean. The oil later washed up on Sunshine Coast beaches as well as Moreton and Bribie islands and was dubbed "one of Australia's worse environmental disasters" by the media.Santos and four companies behind Pacific Adventurer face individual counts of discharging oil into the ocean and can be fined a maximum of AU$1.75 million in the case of the companies, while Santos faces a $350,000 fine if found guilty.Santos is also charged with not taking reasonable action following the incident.Richard Kendall, an executive of one of the involved companies, Swire Shipping LTD, said today that "[w]e are deeply regretful. But we will vigorously defend the charges [...] We stand by Captain Santos, who is a first-class captain".Like Swire Shipping, China Navigation Company LTD and Bluewing Shipping LTD, who are both joint owners of Pacific Adventurer, pleaded not guilty to all charges.However, prosecutor Peter Davis stated that "[t]he prosecution's case is that the cause of the cargo going overboard was due to faulty lashings [...] By failing to maintain the lashings, the defendants acted recklessly," an act that prosecutors say should see the companies and captain pay.The captain of a USA Jet Airlines McDonnell-Douglas DC-9-15 freighter has been killed and the co-pilot seriously injured after the aircraft crashed onto a highway in Mexico. The crash occurred near Jose Lopez Portillo and split the aircraft into four main pieces.The accident at 0:14 local time yesterday left debris strewn across a 600-metre radius. The co-pilot was hospitalised in a critical condition with second and third degree burns, but is expected to recover. The plane had picked up four tons of car parts in Hamilton, Ontario and after making a stop at Shreveport, Louisiana was headed toward Plan de Guadalupe International Airport, which serves Mexico's Saltillo city.The crash occurred around twelve kilometres from the runway. An investigation has been launched and the Public Ministry and the Civil Aeronautic Authority say an engine failure seems to have left the plane uncontrollable. The deceased has been identified as 46-year-old Lon McIntosh, and the co-pilot Chris James, was listed in critical condition after undergoing surgery at a Saltillo hospital.The jet was registered N199US. Because the plane was registered and manufactured in the United States, and the engines were built there, a team from the US has been sent to assist Mexico in the investigation. The US National Transportation Safety Board has sent a senior investigator as the US representative, and he brings with him experts in weather and aircraft systems. Also on the team are technical advisors from the Federal Aviation Authority, manufacturer Boeing (who bought out McDonnell-Douglas) and engine manufacturer Pratt & Whitney.The highway, which leads to Monterrey, was blocked as a result of the crash.The captain and five of his crew on Sea Diamond have been charged following the cruise ship's collision with a known and well-charted reef. The charges laid against the captain were "causing a shipwreck through negligence". Additional charges of breaching shipping safety regulations and pollution were laid against the captain. All six accused were released shortly after questioning and their full testimony will be taken in the following weeks.At the time of the crash the ship had been a few kilometers away from the dock under the spectacular cliffs that make Santorini one of Greece's top tourist destinations. At the time of the collision the Sea Diamond was carrying more than 1,500 people, 1,154 passengers and 391 crew members.The damaged vessel was quickly evacuated in a 3 hour operation, but it failed to find Jean-Christophe Allain, 45, and his 16 year old daughter, Maud, both from the Doué-la-Fontaine state in western France.A 3 day search and rescue has failed to find them with officials stating that a robot submarine would investigate the wreck, which is lying under 330 feet (100 meters) of water, within the following weeks. The panicked evacuation soon brought to the fore memories of the September 2000 Express Samina ferry shipwreck of the island of Paros, killing 80 people. The spokesman for the Cyprus based operator, Louis Cruise lines, read out a statement saying that the company was working closely with Greek investigators. The Sea Diamond, a 21 year old vessel sank at the end of a four day cruise, which included visits to Rhodes, Patios, Crete and Mykonos islands. Officials at the Greek Tourism board went into damage control to lessen the impact on its industry which accounts for 18 percent of its GDP (Gross Domestic Product).Reports say that a subway train and a car have collided in downtown Buffalo, New York.Witnesses say that calls to 911 came in just before 12:00 p.m. [EST] that a car had driven onto the tracks of the Metro Rail operated by the Niagra Frontier Transit Authority at the Theatre District rail stop which is near West Tupper and Main Streets in Downtown Buffalo.The train was traveling on the northbound track toward the Allen Medical Station when the vehicle apparently began to drive norhtbound away from the train. The train did stop but still managed to make light contact with the vehicle from behind.The driver of the car is reported to be a 73 year-old male who was not injured in the accident but is currently being evaluated at Erie County Medical Center. Witnesses say the man was "out of it" when police arrived. It is unknown if charges will be filed against the driver.There were no injuries to passengers and witnesses have stated that all the passengers on the train were evacuated.Buffalo is now the smallest city in the U.S. to have a subway system.Two people have died due to a recent car crash in Shepton Mallet, near Bristol, United Kingdom.The incident occurred when a Honda Civic Type R car swerved off the road. Police reports suggest that the car hit a tree, causing the two fatalities.The incident resulted in the closure of the A37 road, where the incident occurred, for several hours. It reopened at 01:00 UTC today.Avon and Somerset police appealed for information regarding the crash:Glasgow International Airport in Renfrewshire, Scotland was evacuated after a green Jeep Cherokee struck the airport's terminal building and burst into flames at 1511 BST. An eyewitness told the BBC that "[A] man was on fire." All flights are grounded, and two men have been arrested and the United Kingdom has raised the national threat level to "critical" which means another terror attack is imminent.Eyewitnesses described a Jeep speeding toward the building with flames coming out from underneath.  They also reported seeing two Asian men in the car, one of whom was on fire.The BBC quoted an eyewitness as saying that two attempts were made to ram the Jeep through the wall, and that the passenger was holding a lit Molotov Cocktail and made several attempts to throw the bottle.The Strathclyde Police Chief announced that the event is being linked to the earlier attempted car bombings in London, and as such is being treated as a terrorist investigation.Eyewitnesses are now saying that one of the two men was pouring bottles of petrol into the car's interior and onto himself, before running from the car, on fire, into the main terminal building. Witnesses have also reported that gas cylinders were removed by bystanders from the burning vehicle.According to the BBC, the driver of the vehicle put up a violent struggle before being overpowered by the police and public. One person who tackled him was Stephen Clarkson, a member of the public.Richard Gray, an eyewitness to the event, stated "There was an Asian guy who was pulled out of the car by two police officers."Seven people have been taken to local hospitals with injuries.Police said that this incident was a deliberate attempt and not a road accident. Officials have also said that the incident is connected to earlier attempted car bombings in London the day before. Two people have been arrested, one of whom was badly burned. Seven known casualties, including the Asian male have been taken to the Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley.While the suspect was being treated in the hospital, a suspect device was discovered in the hospital, resulting in the partial evacuation of the building while the device was moved to a safe area.  This object later turned out to be mundane, although initial reports believed it to be a suicide belt.The BBC announced that the Prime Minister is being kept fully informed.  He chaired a meeting of Civil Contingencies Committee (COBRA) at 1900 (BST), after which the Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith, announced that the national threat level been elevated from "Severe" to "Critical", meaning another attack is expected "imminently."Officials at Edinburgh Airport have said that all cars are being turned away from the airport, and at Heathrow in London, passengers are being advised not to bring private cars near to the terminal buildings. Some passengers were kept waiting in planes while the area was secured.The first bomber, who was taken to Govan high security prison, has now been interviewed, though no further statements from Strathclyde police have been forthcoming. The second bomber, who was taken to the Royal Alexandria hospital in Paisley, is listed in critical condition tonight, and is being kept under 24-hour guard.2,300 passengers who were due to set off from Glasgow Airport today have been driven by coach to a conference centre, where a reception area has been set up for them.Two people were arrested by The Metropolitan Police Anti-Terrorist Branch on the M6 motorway in Cheshire in connection with the Glasgow International Airport attack and attempted London car bombings.The Prime Minister Gordon Brown is expected to hold another COBRA meeting with other members of the Cabinet today.  This will be the fifth COBRA meeting in 48 hours.An Antonov An-12 has crashed North of Upper Nile State capital Malakal, Sudan. Seven crewmembers were killed but an eighth escaped injury.The aircraft, owned and operated by Juba Air Cargo, had departed Khartoum International Airport at 5:55 am (0255 GMT) and was an hour and ten minutes into its flight towards Juba Airport. Juba is the capital of Southern Sudan.Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) spokesman Abdel Hafiz spoke with AFP, and told them "One person survived out of eight. His name is Mohamed Hamza, a Sudanese. Two Sudanese were among the dead (as were) four from Ukraine and one from Armenia," he said, adding "A thunderstorm hit the plane, as the survivor said, one of the crew. This apparently is the cause. The survivor is not injured but was taken to hospital (as a precaution)."Those killed were removed from the wreckage and flown back to a Khartoum morgue.The Sudan Media Centre (SMC), which is thought to be tied to the intelligence services, said the aircraft had returned to Sudan recently after major maintenance work in the United Arab Emirates. The SMC also agreed with he nationalities of the deceased, adding that one of the Sudanese was the pilot-in-command.It said the surviving air operations officer had said the plane was struck twice by lightning. It also said the plane had been talking to Air Traffic Control in Khartoum at the time to request permission to reduce altitude to avoid the worst of the storm.Major General Abdubaker Jafar, manager of the CAA, was quoted by the SMC as praising the quick emergency response, which was conducted with three helicopters owned by local companies.According to Wakalat Anba'a al-Emarat, the official news agency of the United Arab Emirates, a Boeing 747-400 cargo plane belonging to the United States courier UPS Airlines, crashed after take-off in Dubai on Friday. Two crew members were on board at the time of the crash, both of whom were killed. There were no reports of any other deaths or injuries on the ground.The aircraft was en route to Cologne Bonn Airport in Cologne, Germany when it crashed.  According to witnesses, at around 7.45 p.m. local time, it caught fire and attempted to return to the airport, then crashed into the ground near Dubai Silicon Oasis.  It had just taken off from Dubai International Airport a few minutes beforehand.  The crash site is inside the perimeter fence of Emirati air base, located near a busy highway intersection.A contributing witness on the Professional Pilots Rumour Network, an aviation discussion board, wrote: "Just five minutes ago. I heard and saw an aircraft, possibly an airliner going down in Dubai near Silicon Oasis. It has just over-flown my house and [there was] a big fireball." Another contributor suggested that the aircraft was attempting to land on Runway 30L, when it declared an emergency and subsequently veered off course. The aircraft then allegedly disappeared from radar, descending through 500ft doing 250 knots. Another contributor reported that "the wreckage trail is fairly long ... so it looks like it is possible they still had control & tried to force land it."UPS international operations manager Bob Lekites released a statement describing the incident as "very unfortunate" and that UPS "will do everything to find the cause." An investigation into the cause of the incident has been launched by UAE authorities, and Boeing has announced it intends to "send a team to provide technical support to the investigation upon invitation from the authorities." The National Transportation Safety Board of the United States also released a press statement, stating that it "will dispatch an aviation investigator to assist the government of United Arab Emirates in its investigation of the crash". The team will, according to the statement "include NTSB specialists in the areas of human performance, fire, operations, and systems."An Ilyushin Il-76 cargo jetliner has crashed minutes after takeoff from Sudan's Khartoum International Airport. The crew consisted of seven Russians, at least four of which are dead. It is thought there are no survivors."The plane crashed in an empty area about one or two kilometres from the airport," according to an anonymous witness, who went on to say "Parts of the plane are lying everywhere. There are huge patches of dark engine oil." The plane belonged to local firm Ababiel and was headed to Southern Sudan capital Juba.The plane is reported to have caught fire and exploded after the crash at 8:00 am.The crash is the fourth major air crash this year in Sudan, and the second within a week. On Friday a Juba Air Cargo Antonov An-12 crash killed seven. Earlier, 27 were killed in another crash including two Southern Sudanese ministers, and Sudan Airways lost a plane at Khartoum International, with at least 30 dead. Flag carrier Sudan Airways were grounded over unrelated safety failings.Cathal Ryan, an early board member of Irish non-designated flag carrier, and son of late co-founder Tony Ryan, has died. He was 48, and had been diagnosed with cancer.Cathal bacame one of Ryanair's first pilots, having trained as one in the 1980s in Sri Lanka, when his father set up the airline in 1985 in trust for his three sons, of which Cathal was the eldest. He left the Far East specifically to join the airline.In 1986 he became the head of London European Airways, a business in which Ryanair had bought an 85% stake. This position, however, quickly disappeared as the carrier became Ryanair UK and was then merged entirely with Ryanair.Over the next decade, Cathal worked both on the executive board of the airline and as a pilot, although he resigned from the latter by 1996. He remained with Ryanir until leaving the board 2002, by which time he was a multi-millionaire due to the success of the airline.He continued to be actively involved with business ventures, taking an active role in running his family's stud farm, as well as being a director for Irelandia, a family-owned investment company. With Irelandia he was involved in the launches of such airlines as Tiger Airways and AeroBus.Cathal died yesterday at his home in Celbridge, Co Kildare, in the company of his children Cillian, Claudia, Danielle and Cameron, his mother Mairead and brothers Declan and Shane.Friends and colleagues expressed surprise at his passing, commenting that at the funeral of his father, who had also been diagnosed with cancer, ten weeks previously he had "seemed fine." Cathal had also recently begun regular trips to Italy, where he had become interested in the performing arts.Ray MacSharry, a long-serving Ryanair director, described Cathal as "invaluable" to the air carrier's "continuing success". Michael O'Leary, CEO of the company, called him "one of life's originals". "He was bright, charming, witty and tremendous company," Mr O'Leary went on. "He was also an extremely skilled pilot, having become one of the youngest ever captains on the Boeing 747 aircraft, which he flew for Air Lanka in the early 1980s. Cathal's vision, his expertise and his dedication to aircraft safety was pivotal to the development of Ryanair, and to our 22-year safety record. "Cathal was one of Ireland's aviation pioneers. He was a comet who shone brightly in our lives and has passed away at a tragically early age. We will all be much the poorer for the loss of his talent, his ability and his friendship," Mr O'Leary concluded. "His vision, his expertise and his dedication to aircraft safety was pivotal to the development of Ryanair."His former fiance Michelle Rocca, mother of Claudia, expressed her sadness at his passing: "He was a wonderful father to Claudia; he and I had a very good relationship over the past number of years and he will be greatly missed by all of us."Others described him as a "well-heeled chap", and one of the few members of Ryanair early in the airline's history to be able to afford expensive items, such as his luxury car and his high-quality suit. Cathal's prosperity had often helped Ryanir through financial problems in it's early stages.Several colleagues recalled one famous incident where airport authorities had refused to allow an aircraft he was piloting to be refueled unless it was paid for up front due to an unpaid bill. When Cathal was informed of the issue, he produced his gold credit card to pay for the fuel.The US-based Cessna Aircraft Company, a subsidiary of Textron Inc., is expected to statically display seven of its aircraft and a mock-up of its latest business jet large cabin concept at the 47th International Paris Air Show, dubbed the LCC.The seven aircraft expected to be on display are the Citation CJ2+, Citation Encore+, Citation XLS, and Citation Sovereign business jets, a Grand Caravan, a 206 Stationair, and a 172 Skyhawk single engine piston aircraft.Cessna Chairman, President and CEO Jack Pelton said of the exhibit, “There is so much synergy now with other companies under the Textron corporate banner – companies like Bell Helicopter and Textron Systems – that we felt it made sense for us to return as an exhibitor to the Paris Air Show... We are particularly excited to have our large cabin mockup as the highlight of our exhibit."Cessna originally announced plans for a new large model of business jet for the Citation range at last year's annual National Business Aviation Association meeting, and the idea has been in development since, culminating in the new large cabin concept design. The mock-up at the Paris Air Show includes a large galley, seating for nine passengers, a toilet and a dummy flight deck.Cessna claim the new design, which outsizes their previous large cabin and long-range business jets, would "set a new standard for performance, cabin comfort, passenger amenities and environmental friendliness," if launched.Cessna refuse to release details such as exact internal design specifications and manufacturers of avionics and engines unless the new model actually enters production. Cessna Senior Vice President of Sales & Marketing Roger Whyte told reporters that preliminary wind tunnel testing had "fully met... expectations" and that they had "received extremely positive reaction to the performance parameters as well the cabin design of the proposed aircraft from our customer base", although he warned that there are still a number of processes to be completed before Cessna actually decide whether or not to launch the new model.Neil Parish, a Member of the European Parliament and the chair of the Agricultural committee of the European Parliament, was recently interviewed by Wikinews on the subject of biofuels and renewable transport. The interview was held after a workshop was held in the European Parliament on the subject of biofuels."I believe that the mixing of biofuels with mineral oils can provide us with significantly cleaner fuel," said Mr. Parish.In a press release by the European Parliament about the workshop, the legislative body stated some possible disadvantages to biofuels:In the interview Parish also said that encouraging public transport was an important method of combating climate change. Below is the relevant quote:Mr. Parish also mentioned road pricing in the interview. Biofuels are often used because they provide a way of limiting the emissions  of carbon dioxide. Many people do, however, note that rainforest are destroyed to make space for the production of biofuels.A Boeing 737-200 owned and operated by Chanchangi Airlines has overshot the runway at Nigeria's Port Harcourt International Airport and crashed into a field. There are no reports of serious injuries or structural damage to the aircraft, which had arrived from Nigerian capital Lagos.The crash occurred at 5:44 local time yesterday. Passenger numbers are unclear. A Rivers State police spokeswoman said there were 47 passengers and crew on board, but an airport official said there were thirty passengers and did not mention crew at all. The Aviation Herald reports both 43 and 45 passengers.The aircraft was on flight 5B138 and registered 5N-BIG. It sustained some damage in the accident, and two passengers were treated for minor injuries at the airport. The accident occurred in gusting winds and drizzle after a heavy downpour, and the airline said that the accident occurred because the rain had left the tarmac slippery. As the plane turned onto the taxiway at the runway's end, it skidded off the paved surface.There is a history of poor safety in Nigerian aviation. Officials have promised improvements but analysts say corruption is preventing this from happening.The Channel Tunnel, which runs between France and Britain, has resumed limited services after an earlier fire. Of the two tunnels, only the South tunnel has been reopened to the trains that run the route, the blaze having seriously damaged the North tunnel.The fire started on a freight train loaded with lorries. It burned for 16 hours and at its hottest was at 1,000°C. 27 lorries, six freight cars and a locomotive have been damaged. Significantly, the damage to the tunnel itself runs along a 700m stretch and exceeds the damage caused by an earlier fire last decade. The other fire required £200 million and a six month closure before the tunnel could be reopened.The incident required 32 people, mainly lorry drivers, to be evacuated from the train, which was heading to Calais. Fourteen were taken to hospital, some suffering from smoke inhalation. Several of those who escaped have said that they had expected to die. The fire's cause is unclear. The Guardian reports the fire started on board a vehicle carrying chemicals, but the BBC reports that the origin is unknown. Both sources confirm a lorry carrying carbolic acid was on board and French authorities say it is overturned near the seat of the fire, but it is unclear if this is the lorry the Guardian meant.Eurostar are operating some passenger trains through the tunnel, and limited freight services have also resumed, but long delays are expected. Car trains have not yet resumed.Conservative transport spokesman Timothy Kirkhope commented that he felt the fire was worrying, saying "[w]hile thankfully nobody was killed in this incident, two significant fires in 11 years should act as a wake-up call."However, operator Eurotunnel, who run regular evacuation drills, was pleased with the response by its staff.French authorities are investigating the accident as it occurred at the French side, seven miles from the French exit of the 32-mile tunnel.Thirty-four people had to be evacuated this lunchtime after a fire started on a lorry, which was being transported on a freight train in the Channel Tunnel.Eurotunnel, the operator of the Channel Tunnel, said all services had to be suspended this afternoon due to the small blaze in which nobody was hurt.John Keefe, a spokesman for Eurotunnel, said: "It was a freight shuttle going through with about 34 people on board, who have all been evacuated safely."Eurotunnel is conducting checks of the tunnel and its equipment. Once these investigations are completed, Eurotunnel will commence a progressive restart of commercial services." The company also said services through the Tunnel would hopefully resume later today. "Unfortunately with this being a very busy time of year, it's going to take a few hours to clear the backlog once we've got started again," said Mr Keefe. A Eurostar spokesman said: "We are advising passengers to avoid travelling today if possible. Tickets can be exchanged for another day." The Channel Tunnel is a 31 mile long rail tunnel beneath the English Channel which connects Folkestone in Kent to Coquelles near Calais in northern France.Chicago's Metra is currently considering the possibility of selling the naming rights to its train stations, rail lines, and even bridges to generate more revenue. The regional rail system for Chicago and its surrounding suburbs has been experiencing revenue shortfalls, along with other public transportation agencies such as the Chicago Transit Authority and Pace. They all rely on sales taxes and fares to fund their services, but the recent recession has reduced sales tax revenues, and unemployment has caused ridership to fall. Compared to 86.8 million trips in 2008, Metra reported that only 82.3 million trips were provided in 2009. As spokeswoman Judy Pardonnet said, "We're looking at any opportunity to increase non-fare revenue."A law approved by former Illinois governor Rod Blagojevich in 2008 granted free rides to all seniors regardless of income, adding to the decreasing fare revenues as well. State lawmakers are trying to restrict the free rides to low-income seniors; Metra has not yet commented on the issue, however. New designs put on the agency's website last September has attracted more traffic, and Metra is considering selling advertising space online. In addition, advertising space could be sold on the outside of train cars as well. As for the naming rights to stations and routes, Metra plans to hire a consultant that would figure out the details of such a proposal. Spokesperson Meg Reihle did not know how much money Metra could gain from the sale or which organizations would be interested in buying. According to Ms. Reihle, public transit agencies in other cities have sold naming rights as well, such as the Greater Cleveland Regional Transit Authority in Cleveland and Long Island Rail Road in Long Island. TECO Energy sponsors a rail line in Tampa's Hillsborough Area Regional Transit for US$1 million over ten years. Throughout its 26-year history, Metra has named several of its locomotives and renamed two stations: Ogilvie Transportation Center, which was previously named North Western Station, and Millennium Terminal, which was previously called Randolph Street. No transactions were made in renaming those two stations, however. There is also a  Station named after the candy maker Mars, but that station was named before Metra took it over, and the company doesn't pay Metra for any naming rights. Execuive Director Phil Pagano sees the proposal as a way for businesses to advertise themselves. "I think the business community recognizes that transit is positive for their advertising benefit," said Mr. Pagano at a board meeting. In addition to businesses, hospitals located near the train stations could purchase naming rights as well. However, Mr. Pagano has also stated that "the agency would be selective about the type of businesses it partners with."Metra has said that it will be sensitive to the wishes of the communities near the stops, and town names will not be removed from station names. Rather, both the municipality and the sponsoring organization would share the naming rights, such as in renaming Naperville Station to "Naperville Boeing Station". "I'm not sure whether [the old name] is first or second, but definitely it's going to have to be there," said Mr. Pagano.Mayra Ramirez, a 16 year old Chicago, USA student is blind. In order to graduate, she and dozens of other visually impaired students in Chicago schools are required to pass a written rules-of-the-road exam. "In other classes, you don't really feel different because you can do the work other people do," Ramirez said. "But in driver's ed, it does give us the feeling we're different. In a way, it brought me down, because it reminds me of something I can't do."Michael Vaughn, a spokesman for Chicago schools said, "I can't explain why up to this point no one has raised the issue and suggested a better way for visually impaired students to opt out of driver's ed."Blind students are typically told that they must take the class to graduate; although, by law, any parent can request a change in a disabled student's education plan. This law is rarely, if ever, disclosed to the students, according to the Chicago Tribune.Chicago Transit Authority (CTA) riders on the subway portions of the Red and Blue lines may see relief of the slow zone in the coming months. So-called "slow zones" are locations where trains travel at restricted speeds because of track work or deteriorating conditions.The CTA is putting nearly US$15 millions towards renovation of the O'Hare to Clark/Lake portion of the Blue Line and Chicago to Belmont portions of the Red Line. Work will happen during off peak and overnight hours. The CTA says that one track operations and delays may occur."We have heard our customers' frustration with slow zones and today we are acting to address their concerns,” said Chicago Transit Board chairperson Carole Brown. "I am pleased that we are able to leverage existing contracts to begin this work and I look forward to working with state lawmakers to increase transit investment to bring our entire system to a state of good repair."China Eastern Airlines stated on Thursday that it had signed a contract to purchase a score of Airbus A320 passenger jets for 9.9 billion yuan (about US$1.4 billion).The airline, which is the third largest in China, signed the agreement in Paris on June 15. The company said that the planes would meet additional demand for domestic passenger routes.The deal was approved unanimously by China Eastern's board of directors. The China Daily newspaper reported that the deal is waiting for an approval by Chinese aviation authorities.The planes are expected to start delivering in 2011 and end two years later.The Airbus A320 is a single-aisle airplane, and Airbus' best selling jet. It can seat up to 150 people and is used primarily for medium- and short-haul routes.China has finished production of the first of its Chinese-built magnetically levitated (maglev) trains in Zhuzhou, Hunan. Described as low-cost and eco-friendly, the trains are to begin operating next year on the Daitai line between Haidian District and Beijing. The three-coached trains are able to carry up to 600 passengers and run at a top speed of 100 km/h."It's ideal for mass transportation, as it is quiet and environmentally friendly", says Xu Zongxiang, general manager of Zhuzhou Electric Locomotive Company. "Its manufacturing cost is about 75 percent of a conventional light-rail train".The train claims zero emissions as opposed to conventional trains which run on coal or diesel. It has a minimum turning radius of 50 meters and the production company has stated that it has reduced the risks of derailment and overturning. The company is exploring possible future operations in certain cities. Meanwhile, the Daitai line between Haidian District and Beijing is scheduled to operate by next year.Liu Youmei, a railway transport specialist, said, "It can be used for public transport in populous areas and at scenic spots with fragile environment."China operates the first commercial maglev in the world, in Shanghai between a metro station and Pudong International Airport. The train takes less than 8 minutes to cover the 30 km route with a top speed of 430 km/h. Maglev trains can accelerate to high speeds as they run suspended in the air by magnetism, avoiding friction between the train and the tracks.Officials from the People's Republic of China have agreed to purchase 60 Boeing 787 Dreamliner aircraft in a deal worth US$7.2bn.In China, airliners are selected and purchased by the government, which then distributes them to different airlines. The preliminary agreement will see Dreamliners delivered to six airlines - Air China, China Eastern Airlines, China Southern Airlines, Hainan Airlines, Shanghai Airlines and Xiamen Airlines. The deliveries are scheduled to be in time for the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games.The aircraft was once named the 7E7 but was renamed at the same time the deal was announced. Boeing will begin production in 2006 and the aircraft should enter airline service in 2008. It will seat 200 to 300 people and will have a range of 3,500 to 8,500 nautical miles. Through the use of the latest materials and designs it will be 20% more fuel efficient than the equivalent aircraft today.A Chinese cargo ship was fired on and sunk by a Russian cruiser last Sunday near Russia's far-eastern port of Vladivostok. Eight out of 16 crew members on board were saved while the others remain missing. According to Natalia Gelashvili, a spokeswoman for the Far East Transport Prosecutors office in Nakhodka, the cargo ship New Star fled on Feb. 12 after the shipment of rice it unloaded was rejected by the buyer, who then requested the court to seize the ship while suing for damages. But the Beijing based Global Times reported that the ship was sequestered for alleged smuggling.Russian Federal Security Service spokeswoman Natalya Rondaleva confirmed that the ship was fired upon by Russian vessels. An unnamed source asserts that warning shots were fired before more direct shots were taken.The ship began sinking while being escorted back to the port.The sinking of the boat forced all 16 crew members to abandon the ship by taking two life boats. One boat carrying eight people was saved by Russian sailors while the other was engulfed in the waves. The missing crew include seven Chinese and one Indonesian. The Canadian Press reports that they are presumed to have drowned."The cause of the sinking isn't clear because the incident occurred during a storm," said Captain Veniamin Ivanichev of the Marine Rescue Center in Vladivostok.China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs today said it asked Russia to investigate the "mishap" and identify the cause as soon as possible.All the rescued crew members have gone back to Nakhodka while the Russian keep looking for the missing sailors. The Russian News Agency said the coast guard found only an empty boat in a three-day search. China's foreign spokeswoman Jiang Yu declined to comment on the Russians' opening fire on the ship.The ship was registered in Sierra Leone, and the owner is a shipping company based in Hong Kong.The Chinese embassy in Cameroon said earlier that a fishing boat was hijacked off the coast of Cameroon. Seven Chinese fishermen were kidnapped in the incident, which happened on Friday, and a group called the "Africa Marine Commando" claimed responsibility, according to an embassy official."We are working together with the Cameroon authorities on ways and means of seeking their release," the official said. The ship was hijacked "in international waters off Bakassi", a peninsula in southwestern Cameroon.The Chinese news agency Xinhua quoted the Chinese embassy as saying that the kidnapped fishermen were being fed, and their lives were not in danger.The Agence France-Presse news agency quotes a source close to the investigation of the incident as saying that authorities from both Cameroon and China "are working jointly to secure their release," and that the fishermen were on a trawler when they were kidnapped.Two year old Wang Yue from Guangdong, China — who was hit and run by two van drivers, then disregarded by eighteen passers-by — has died. Video footage caught by a CCTV camera last week shows the onlookers pass her whilst she lay cataleptic and bleeding in a busy market in Foshan. In the end Wang was rescued by a 58 year old rubbish collector, who has been proclaimed a hero after he moved her to the side of the street and got help.The incident resulted in a worldwide outcry questioning the ethics of the Chinese people. The local government is now looking to bring in a law to make it obligatory for members of the public to assist those in anguish.Chinese police are offering a reward of 300,000 yuan (US$43,900) over twin bombings on morning bus services earlier this week. Two people were killed in the attacks in Kunming.The explosions were both on route 54 and were caused by small nitroamine devices. Fourteen were wounded. The reward is triple the amount initially offered after the Monday attack.The first explosion was at 7:10 a.m. at Panjiawan Bus Stop on West Renmin Road. The second was on a bus at the intersection between Changyuan Road and West Renmin Road at 8:05 a.m. The second bus was close to its last stop of Minshan.Police are now asking anyone who used a route 54 bus between 6:00 and 8:30 a.m. that day to come forward.A collision between Christian band MercyMe's tour bus and a car has killed two passengers in the car and the 18-year-old driver's unborn baby. The woman is in critical condition following the crash, which occurred in Fort Wayne, northeastern Indiana.The bus was headed to Six Flags St. Louis in Missouri for the band to play to a sold-out crowd. At 1:15 a.m. Saturday, according to witnesses, the bus was going through a green light when the car made a turn in front of it.No-one on the bus was injured, and the band rescheduled the show for September as a result of the incident. A photograph of the damaged bus was posted on the band's website, depicting moderate crumpling to the front area of the vehicle.A 1987 Dodge Ram Wagon van registered to the Tabernacle of Deliverance and Prayer flipped over on a highway in southwest Georgia yesterday killing four and injuring fifteen. The van, with nineteen passengers, was heading south on Highway 27 when a tire puncture caused the driver to lose control and crash into the median; it then rolled over several times at about 6:45 local time. According to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution at the time of the accident the van was overloaded and heading to Florida. The county coroner declined to reveal the age and names of the victims, but it is believed that children were among the passengers and the pastor of the church has been confirmed as one of the fatalities. Two teenagers — a boy of nineteen and a girl of thirteen — are among the dead.Police officers examined the wreckage in situ. The severity of the injuries sustained is unknown, but it is reported that all fifteen survivors were taken to hospital, with some requiring an airlift.On July 18, 2005 CN Rail notified the CAW that they intend to cancel the CN-CAW previously Negotiated Health & Safety Plan. The CAW will be going to arbitration this fall to address the issue. The CAW has asked that employees notify their Health and Safety Rep about any safety concerns at the work place.One terminal has lost 5-6 full-time positions. CN Rail used to have part-time positions filled as well, but at this time there are no part-time employees to cover work if a full-time employee is absent. Overtime is necessary to keep the trains running on time. Intermodal traffic goes up, but staff goes down. CN Rail expects the trains to go out on time, and in a safe condition, but staff is overworked, because there are not enough of them. In fact, one worker noticed that most of the rail cars that contained 40 foot overseas containers did not have their loading guides in place. Trains are not allowed to go out without these guides placed into the cars (the guides stop the loads from swaying from side to side in the cars), important for safety with double stacked containers, but it seems that in this case the lack of employees forced the train to leave without them.Senior first officer John Coward feared everyone on board British Airways Flight BA38 was going to die in a "catastrophic crash", the Sunday Mirror reports. Coward landed the Boeing 777, registration G-YMMM, by putting it down with a "series of thuds as it bounced along the grass" 400 metres short of the runway threshold, and just within Heathrow's perimeter fence at Hatton Cross last Thursday. All on board survived.Speaking from his family home in France last night he said "As the final approach started I became aware that there was no power. Suddenly there was nothing from any of the engines, and the plane started to glide." This "total loss of power and avionics" occurred at a height of 600ft above Hounslow, two nautical miles from touchdown and within one minute's flying time of the airport. He added: "I didn't think we'd clear the fence at first. As we landed I was bracing myself for an enormous thud. But instead of one thud, there was a series of thuds as it bounced along the grass. Eventually it shuddered to a halt. While I was trying to stop the plane, I struggled to try and keep it in a straight line."Co-pilot Coward was under the command of Captain Peter Burkill, who said Mr Coward had done a "most remarkable job" in landing the aircraft and praised him and all his crew for showing "the highest standards of skill and professionalism".All 136 passengers and 16 crew on board escaped - 18 of the passengers needed treatment including one with a broken leg - there were no fatalities. The plane was removed from the end of runway 27L during the afternoon of Sunday 20th January.Members of the Air Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB) have been working on G-YMMM (built in 2001 and one of 43 in the British Airways fleet) continuously since the crash-landing to determine the cause of the failure.The Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) announced Tuesday that they had seized approximately 160 kilograms of cocaine discovered in buckets of frozen mango puree imported from Mexico.Investigations led the police to a shipping container destined for the Port of Montréal, in the Canadian province of Québec. A CBSA officer at the Container Examination Centre in Montréal identified the suspect container. The drug was found in brick-shaped plastic wrapping of about 4 kilograms in weight each. There were 1,200 buckets of frozen mango puree in the shipment, not all with cocaine inside.RCMP Sgt. André Potvin told reporters that the value of the shipment was significant and was the largest maritime port drug haul in the force's history. At CA$20 per half-gram, "that's in the vicinity of $38 million," said Potvin.The investigation by the RCMP Drug Section, CBSA Intelligence officers, the Marine Security Enforcement Team and the Port of Montréal Security Group, determined that an import company, named Quality Mexport, was allegedly a front for the drug-smuggling operation.Five Mexicans, holding visitor status in Canada, were arrested in the matter. They are:Juan Manuel Huerta Canela, 31;Jose Gerardo Bernal Vasquez, 52;Jose Luis Navarro Ochoa, 33;Jesus Manuel Villa Quiroz, 32; andAlfonso Strag Estrada, age 50.The suspects have been charged with importing and possession of drugs for the purpose of trafficking. The charges are allegations at this point in time.The co-pilot and the widow of the pilot of Comair Flight 5191 have sued the United States Federal Aviation Administration, Blue Grass Airport where the crash occurred, and Jeppesen Dataplan Inc, the manufacturer of the airport charts the pilots were using and a subsidiary of Boeing.The co-pilot was the only survivor in the disaster, which killed 49 people one year ago on August 27, 2006. The aircraft crashed after attempting takeoff on the wrong runway, which was only for general aviation and therefore not long enough for use by commercial airliners.The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) determined last month that the primary cause of the accident was most likely pilot error. However, First Officer James Polehinke and Amy Clay, widow of Captain Jeffrey Clay, allege that all three organisations they are suing were also negligent.Despite this, one lead investigator has named other contributing factors, including staffing deficiencies in the control tower, an air traffic controller suffering from fatigue, airport charts that were out of date and the fact that vital documents warning pilots of a route change due to construction work did not reach the aircraft's flight crew.In addition to the other three companies, Polehinke is also suing the company that designed the lighting system in use at the airport.The NTSB's official probable cause for the disaster is as follows: "The National Transportation Safety Board determines that the probable cause of this accident was the flight crewmembers’ failure to use available cues and aids to identify the airplane’s location on the airport surface during taxi and their failure to cross‑check and verify that the airplane was on the correct runway before takeoff. Contributing to the accident were the flight crew’s non-pertinent conversations during taxi, which resulted in a loss of positional awareness and the Federal Aviation Administration’s failure to require that all runway crossings be authorized only by specific air traffic control clearances."Sydney's transport systems fell into chaos on Friday after gale force winds caused damage to an overhead train line on the Sydney Harbour Bridge. Services on the North Shore Line were cancelled, leaving commuters stranded in the city.Just after 2:30 p.m. AEST (UTC+10), a maintenance hatch blew from a train travelling North on the Harbour Bridge hitting overhead lines and landing in northbound traffic lanes. The hatch caused damage to around 300 metres of overhead line, causing Cityrail to cancel services between Wynyard and North Sydney stations.The 30 passengers aboard the train were evacuated and placed onto buses shortly after 3:00 p.m. AEST. The Daily Telegraph reported that passengers feared electrocution, as it was uncertain whether or not the fallen lines had come into contact with the bridge. There were also fears for bridge climbers who were on top of the bridge.The incident causes transport chaos, with bus services replacing trains, traffic congestion on the bridge and the refusal of taxis to carry passengers into the city.Commuters reported queues of up to one kilometre long in North Sydney waiting for buses and around 200 people waiting for buses at Wynyard. It is believed that passengers at Wynyard had to wait some 45 minutes before buses arrived.Commuters criticised the government over the way the incident was handled. Commuters said they felt as if nobody knew what was going on and  Cityrail transit officers did not seem to be in control. The government responded with Transport Minister John Watkins saying that the government did the best it could under the circumstances.Mr Watkins said that the government had arranged "an extra 50 buses to run a shuttle service between North Sydney station and Wynard,""But when you have a major problem like this, a major breakdown in our rail system, it is going to put pressure on our road system and on other public transport."Train services were resumed at around 9:00 p.m. AEST between Wynyard and North Sydney, with Cityrail warning that delays should be expected.Indonesian pilot Marwoto Komar has been arrested over a crash he was involved in. Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 was a Boeing 737 that shot off the runway at Yogyakarta International Airport on March 7 last year, killing 21.The final report into the disaster blamed pilot error for the crash, which killed several Australian journalists following a visit by their foreign minister as well as Indonesian nationals. The investigation determined that Komar was responsible, having brought the plane in at almost double the safe landing speed. He attempted a landing at 408 kph (254 mph), which is 160 kph (100 mph) above the safe speed. The plane overshot the runway, coming to rest in a rice field where it caught fire.On Monday, Komar was arrested. He has been charged with manslaughter over the crash, and if convicted could face five years imprisonment. However, the London-based International Federation of Air Line Pilots Associations (IFALPA) commented that they were "saddened" to hear the news.IFALPA contends that further investigations are needed into the crash, and that criminal proceedings could prevent an accurate version of events from ever being known.A statement was released that read as follows: "The Federation expects that Capt. Komar will be released ... as he has agreed to fully cooperate with the police investigation and clearly poses no danger to society. He remains a professional who was involved in an unfortunate tragedy."The ship of the organisation Greenpeace, the Rainbow Warrior II, was blockaded off Marseille by a fleet of 30 fisherman ships. The fishermen protested against the campaign by Greenpeace regarding an alleged over-fishing of blue-fin tuna.The fishermen encircled the Rainbow Warrior II, leaving her only the room to receive supply from the land by means of small boats. The confrontation was settled when Greenpeace accepted that a ship of the French Navy, the oceanic tug Abeille Flandre, escort her to another harbour for supply, before leaving for Spain.After blockading the ship, the fishermen blockaded the commercial harbour of Marseille, blocking traffic of passengers. The préfecture maritime has required an investigation by the parquet regarding the multiple infractions which the Navy reported; these include the fishermen blocking and boarding the Rainbow Warrior II, the Rainbow Warrior II twice violating orders from the préfecture maritime not to stay off Marseille, and "problematic manoeuvers" on both sides.A Boeing 737 passenger jet owned and operated by Continental Airlines taking off from Denver, Colorado, in the United States ran off the south end of runway 16L/34R and into a ravine at 6:20 PM local time on Saturday. The Houston-bound airplane burst into flames, and the 112 people on board were forced to evacuate the aircraft by the use of slides. Ground crews promptly arrived at the scene, and the fire was swiftly extinguished.Thirty-eight people sustained injuries, such as broken bones, after the accident. Two of the injured were reported to be in critical condition.Patrick Hynes, the Denver Fire Department Division Chief, stated that the fire associated with the crash burnt the entire right side of the plane, causing melted plastic from the overhead compartments to drip onto seats below them.Mike Wilson, a passenger on board the airplane, described the accident and the chaos that followed: "By the time the plane stopped we were burning pretty well and I think I could feel the heat even through the bulkhead and window. I made for the exit door as quickly as I could, fearing the right wing might explode from the fire. Once out, I scrambled down the wing."The cause of the accident has not been confirmed, but preliminary reports indicate that a braking malfunction may be to blame. The weather in Denver at the time of the crash was cold, but not snowy. Kim Day, the Denver International Airport manager of aviation, reported that the airplane went off course about 2 000 feet off the end of the runway, and did not seem to be airborne.The accident forced the west airfield of the airport to shut down, and resulted in delays of 40 minutes.  The runway re-opened Monday, December 22 by 6:00 P.M.United States air carrier Continental Airlines and two of their employees have been charged over the crash of Air France Flight 4590. The disaster involved a Concorde crash on July 25, 2000 near Charles de Gaulle International Airport, Paris, France that killed all 109 on board and four more on the ground. It was carrying mostly German tourists to John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York.The crash occurred after a metal strip detached from a Continental DC-10 that departed before the Concorde and was left behind on the runway. When Concorde took off afterwards it hit the strip, which punctured a tyre. As the tyre disintegrated a piece of debris punctured a fuel tank, triggering a large fire as the jet took off. The badly damaged aircraft crashed into a hotel before it was able to perform an emergency landing. The final report was not released until 2004.One Continental employee, mechanic John Taylor, is being charged over making and installing the non-standard strip. Head of maintenance Stanley Ford is being charged for allowing the part to be modified by Taylor without clearing the changes properly, and the airline is charged for allowing the widebodied passenger jet back into the air and having failed to maintain it adequately. It is also claimed the titanium strip should have been made of softer aluminium, which had a lower risk of damaging tyres.Three further individuals have been charged as well. Henri Perrier, head of the initial Concorde programme at Aerospatiale, Jacques Herubel, Concorde chief engineer at the time and Claude Frantzen, ex-head of technical services at the French civil aviation authority are all facing charges. The charges are primarily for involuntary manslaughter.As a result of the Concorde disaster the aircraft was grounded pending emergency modifications. It was official removed from service in 2003 by its only two operators, British Airways and Air France. The model's first commercial flight was in 1976, and it was the world's first supersonic airliner. It was developed as a collaboration between Britain and France.United Airlines and Continental Airlines shareholders yesterday approved a US$3.2 billion merger that would create the world's largest airline. 98% of shareholders approved of the deal.In the deal, United stockholders will hold 55% of the company, while Continental stockholders will get 1.05 new shares for each Continental share and will hold the remaining 45% of the company. The deal was earlier approved by United States antitrust regulators. The new company, which keeps United's name but Continental's globe logo, has little overlap in its route network, and will be headed by Continental CEO Jeff Smisek.The new company surpasses rival Delta Air Lines, which merged only a year ago, to become the world's largest.The airlines expect to complete the merger by October 1 of this year, and customers can expect to see major changes in spring 2011, when the new United will rebrand their kiosks, worker uniforms and airplanes. The new company is calling the day when they rebrand "Customer Day One"."Our stockholders recognized the value of bringing together Continental and United to create a platform for increased profitability and sustainable, long-term growth," Smisek announced after the merger.Some analysts agree. "No further obstacles to the merger are likely at this point," Jim Corridore, Standard & Poor's equity analyst, said to investors. Corridore also said that "we are positive on the planned merger, which we think creates an extremely strong global route network with opportunities for cost and revenue synergies." Other people were less positive about the merger. Rick Seaney, CEO of FareCompare.com, said that "losing a major competitor is likely to make prices rise — all things equal on the economy and fuel prices." Also, a lawsuit in California accusing the merger of monopolizing the market and raising fares has been filed by lawyer Joseph Alioto, who claims that he represents consumers. United and Continental have defended themselves against accusations of monopolizing the airline industry by stating that they compete with low-cost carriers such as Southwest Airlines on three quarters of their US network. The airlines have also said that the low overlap and the low-cost competition will bring fares to heel.Continental Airlines and United Airlines officially announced Monday their plans to merge after both companies' boards of directors approved the plan on Sunday afternoon. The joint company, branded as United Airlines, will take its livery from both airlines, acquiring the United name and using the Continental Globe and colors, giving it a co-branded look. This merger will allow Continental and United to surpass the recent Delta and Northwest merger, becoming the largest airline in the world when the merger is finalized.The two airlines failed to reach an agreement on a separate merger several years ago when Continental dropped out of the talks. Some experts cited United's poor financial status as being one of the contributing factors for the breakdown in talks. This led United to begin merger talks with alliance partner US Airways, which also failed to come to fruition.File:N775UA.jpgThe stock price of both companies rose when news of their merger was announced. Unlike most mergers, this one is relatively even in terms of what each company receives as a result. United Airlines is taking 55% control of the combined company and keeping its name, as well as becoming the main base for the group in Chicago. Continental’s Chief Executive Officer will become the CEO of the combined company, known as United Continental Holdings Inc, and will gain control of the other 45% of the new airline. Since base operations are moving to Chicago, the city of Houston recently submitted proposals arguing for not cutting Continental’s over 1,000 jobs in Texas. Little has been said as to what will happen to regional carriers, like ExpressJet Airlines, that work closely with the two companies. For now, the companies will remain operating independently pending a United States Department of Justice anti-trust review which will set the stage for finalization of the merger later this year.Spain's Ministry for Development has leaked a preliminary report into the crash of Spanair Flight 5022. The McDonnel-Douglas MD-82 that was lost at Madrid's Barajas Airport in Spanair's first and only fatal accident resulted in the deaths of 154. Controversy has come as a result of both the documents' contents and the fact that it was leaked at all.According to the report, the airliner was defective for as yet undetermined reasons. The wing flaps failed to move into the required configuration for takeoff, and the alarm system that would normally alert pilots failed to activate, leaving the pilots unaware of the impending crash. The report goes on to note that after a similar accident befell Northwest Airlines Flight 255 in the United States in 1987, also with 154 dead, manufacturer McDonnel-Douglas (since merged with Boeing) told operators of MD-82s that they recommended pilots verified the alarm system was operational before every takeoff.Spanair, however, did not follow this advice and instead trained pilots to check the system before the first takeoff each day and after each change in flight crew. The plane had been taken to Madrid from Barcelona earlier that day with the same flight crew, and therefore the pilots were not expected to check the alarm.File:Columnas de humo del accidente aéreo de Madrid-Barajas (2008).jpgSpanair's director of operations, Javier Muela, has responded by denial that the primary cause of the crash was the alarm's failure, as was implied by the report. He did confirm that the airline was not following the recommendation from the airframer, but in his defense said that "Spanair did not exist" at the time - "it was made in 87, Spanair was founded in 88," he said. He also said the airline's independent experts did not believe the reports claims about the incorrect flap position was accurate.Typically, airliners come with documents detailing operating recommendations among other details, but newspapers have not confirmed that Spanair did in fact receive this information with any of its MD-82s.Regardless of the report's accuracy, further controversy has arisen over its status, with a pilots' union enraged over the fact that it was ever made public. The Pilots College, COPAC, expressed an intention to bring legal action against the Ministry for Development. The union say the ministry broke protocols on both confidentiality and law.Meanwhile, the investigation continues. It remains unclear why the systems on the aircraft failed, if they indeed did, although Spanish paper El Pais speculates it may be linked to a faulty temperature gauge on one of the engines, which caused the first attempted takeoff to be aborted and delayed the flight an hour. Javier Pérez, the judge in charge of the investigation, will examine the contents of the aircraft's flight recorders tomorrow. It is also reported that he is unlikely to call any witnesses to the disaster.Three bomb explosions have hit London Underground trains, and a further bomb destroyed a bus in the city centre. The Metropolitan Police Service has initially confirmed that 33 people have been killed in the four explosions on London's transport system this morning, and said the overall number of wounded was as high as 700, in what are believed to be terrorist attacks.  (See later reports in the box at the side for later announcements made on following days.) The first reports were of an explosion at 08:49 BST (UTC+1) on the Hammersmith & City Line between Liverpool Street station and Aldgate East.  Explosions also occurred on a train between King's Cross and Russell Square and another at Edgware Road. The explosions are currently being reported, and described by Prime Minister Tony Blair, as being "terrorist attacks." Traces of explosives were found at two of the sites according to the BBC.Scotland Yard has confirmed one explosion onboard a double decker red London bus travelling south outside the British Medical Association on Tavistock Square. Police cannot confirm whether this bomb was intended for another train and accidentally detonated aboard the bus instead.Pundits are speculating the attack was co-ordinated by al-Qaeda. Dr. Shane Brighton, an intelligence expert at the Royal United Services Institute for Defence, claims that, "If what we are looking at is a simultaneous bombing — and it does look like that — it would very certainly fit the classic al Qaeda methodology." Two militant Islamist groups are reported to have claimed responsibility for the blasts.Police have bailed the driver of a coach which crashed on Tuesday in Cornwall, England, killing two people.The driver was arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving following fatal injury of two elderly women when the coach reportedly hit a wall. A further seven passengers, seriously injured in the crash, were hospitalised.Devon and Cornwall Police reported being alerted to the incident, about three miles (five kilometres) from the town of Looe, at approximately 1:00pm local time (1200 UTC) on Tuesday. The force arrested the 57-year-old male coach driver from Exeter on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving. He has been released on bail.The cause of the crash is not yet known although police say they are investigating the incident, in which no vehicle other than the coach was involved. The passengers were travelling on a coach trip from Exmouth to Looe with Age UK.The Chief Constable of South Yorkshire Police in England, Meredydd Hughes, was found guilty of speeding at Wrexham Magistrates Court today and banned from driving.  He was caught driving at 90 mph where the speed limit was 60 mph.  Wrexham Magistrates court disqualified Hughes from driving for 42 days and fined him £350.The Chief Constable did not appear in court in person, but was represented by his solicitor, Huw Edwards.  Mr Edwards said:"He doesn't seek to make any excuse about this matter. He totally accepts that the police have a duty to do.  He is no exception and he accepts that he must be punished for the offence.""He asks me to apologise for the offence. He recognises that the matter is a serious matter." Hughes had already received six penalty points on his license from previous speeding convictions and a conviction for failing to identify the speeding driver of one of his force's vehicles in 2006, although his driving licence was free of points at the time he went to court.  Wrexham Magistrates Court had adjourned the case to today from a date in late November, as Meredydd Hughes initially claimed that he has still not yet found a solicitor to represent him.Matthew Elliot, the Chief Executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, criticized Hughes for wasting Court time at the taxpayer's expense. "Meredydd Hughes has shown breathtaking hypocrisy in this case," said Elliot. "Not only has he been caught preaching one thing and doing another in the past, but he has also wasted court time and therefore taxpayers’ money."Jools Townsend, speaking for the Road Safety Campaign group Brake, said the offence was "Shocking" and the sentence "lenient" - and that the Chief Constable should "Seriously consider his position as a result".The incident is embarrassing for South Yorkshire Police, as Hughes was the Chair of ACPO's road policing enforcement committee, with responsibility for developing police policies about how speed cameras are used.  Hughes is a supporter of mobile speed cameras and believes that all speed cameras should be deliberately hidden from motorists, and has given interviews on the importance of road safety management in businesses.According to The Wall Street Journal, the U.S. Department of Transportation has analyzed data from the vehicles involved in accidents caused by sudden acceleration, which led to Toyota, the world's top automaker, recalling a large number of automobiles. Early analysis showed that the throttle was wide open and the brakes weren't engaged when the cars crashed, and suggests that the accidents may have been caused by drivers unintentionally flooring the accelerator instead of the brakes. The U.S. Department of Transportation did not confirm this report.However, Toyota is still under federal investigation for a number of known issues with its cars' acceleration.  The accelerator is known to not return to idle after it has been released, and the floor mats are known to trap the accelerator pedal.  Toyota is also suspected of having electronic glitches in its computer-controlled throttle systems, but released a statement on Wednesday saying that its investigations found no problems in the throttle systems.Over the years Toyota has received more than 3000 complaints about sudden acceleration.  These may have caused up to 75 fatal crashes that led to 93 deaths.  Due to these accidents, Toyota provided the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) with ten event data recorders from cars involved in accidents.  However, the NHTSA has only managed to confirm that one of these accidents was caused by malfunctions in the car – an accident in California this August that was caused by the floor mat trapping the gas pedal in a depressed position.The NHTSA, in conjunction with NASA, has begun a broader study into what caused these accidents, however conclusions aren't expected for months. The ongoing lawsuits against Toyota could result in more than $10 billion of damages.A crash has killed nine people on a turnpike (toll road) northeast of Miami, Oklahoma. The accident occurred on Friday when a semi-trailer truck struck a line of stationary traffic from behind on the Will Rogers Turnpike near state lines with Missouri and Kansas.Traffic had come to a standstill as a result of an earlier accident eastbound when the accident occurred. The road has a speed limit of 75 mph, and it is currently thought that the truck driver made no attempts to stop his vehicle. He was hospitalised. A spokesperson for the nearby Freeman Hospital said eight people were treated there, and it is reported a twelve-year-old girl is among the injured.The girl had to be cut free from the wreckage of her car, and was taken to the Children’s Mercy Hospital in Kansas City where she was in critical condition. Her parents were both killed. The accident occurred at 1p.m., and it was four hours before any eastbound lanes re-opened, leaving vehicles stranded in high temperatures and prompting emergency services to distribute water to motorists.Also killed are an Oklahoma City family of four and a seven-year-old Texas girl and her father. The mother from that family is in a critical condition, and another woman was also killed in the same car.Lt. George Brown of the Oklahoma Highway Patrol described the scene: "It looks like a war zone. There's mangled metal everywhere. There's debris, fluids, dead bodies." A man who has worked thirty years as a tow truck driver said the crash was "the worst one I've ever worked."A number of other smaller incidents occurred in the area afterwards. At least three accidents were caused by vehicles slowing down in response to the crash, and four cars collided with each other westbound. No-one was killed in the other accidents.It took hours to locate the last fatality, who was in a car pinned under the semi-trailer. Two tow trucks were required to separate the vehicles. A total of seven vehicles were involved, including three cars which were beneath the truck by the end of the accident sequence.A criminal investigation has been launched. A blood sample has been taken from the truck driver, 76-year-old Donald Creed, who has been released from hospital after treatment. There is no indication alcohol was a factor in the accident.Portuguese football player Cristiano Ronaldo has been involved in a car crash in Manchester, in the United Kingdom.The Manchester United winger who also plays internationally for Portugal crashed his Ferrari 599 GTB Fiorano at 10:20 a.m. on Friday January 9. The car, worth approximately £200,000 ($305,000) was totally destroyed. A wheel came off the car and debris was placed all over the road. Ronaldo was not injured during the crash and no other vehicles were involved. Team mate, Goalkeeper Edwin van der Sar was said to be following behind Ronaldo.Ronaldo turned up for training later in the day. He has been with Manchester United since 2003 and scored 74 goals in 178 games. He has also scored 21 goals for Portugal and has competed for them in Euro 2004 and 2008 as well as the 2006 FIFA World Cup and 2004 Summer Olympics. He returned to the training ground in his £150,000 Bentley.Police released a statement saying "at about 10:20 a.m. police were called to the A538 Wilmslow Road near to Manchester Airport following reports of a road traffic collision. Officers attended and discovered a Ferrari had collided with a barrier. No one is believed to have been injured. Inquiries are continuing." The statement also added that Ronaldo was not intoxicated.The Qingzang Railway is a project by the Chinese Government to build a unique railway linking Tibet with Mainland China. The railway will include sections at high altitude, crossing 5000 metre high mountains, long tunnels and lots of track laid on permafrost. The railway is being hailed in China as "an engineering miracle", but has attracted criticism from across the world over fears that the railway, the first to link it to outside the region, will increase Chinese control over the Tibetan autonomous region and will erode Tibetan culture and traditions.Currently, Tibet can only be reached by air and by road. Departing from lower-altitude airports to fly into Tibet carries the risk of experiencing high altitude sickness, and the landing at Lhasa can be 'hair-raising'. Travelling by road means several days on a bus or hitchhiking on trucks over windy mountain roads. When the Quingzang Railway opens, it is expected that direct trains will run from Beijing and other cities.China has long received criticism over its treatment of Tibet. The Tibet Autonomous Region excludes many areas claimed to be part of 'historic Tibet', and the former government of Tibet, headed by the Dalai Lama, now live in exile in India. China claims that the railway will bring greater freedoms and economic opportunities to the people of Tibet. For an area that has long been in relative isolation though, the railway is bound to have a profound effect. Locals may worry about what would happen to their trade if they were suddenly forced to compete with businesses from Mainland China. Much of Tibet is also ancient, with old buildings and traditional practices, which may be under threat from the new physical link with China.There are also concerns from environmentalists. The passage between Tibet and China contains some unique flora and endangered animal species, such as Tibetan antelope, which may be threatened by the railroad. Construction of the railway will generate 7,000 tons of rubbish from 20,000 builders. Some of this rubbish will have been buried on the spot whilst some forms of non-degradable rubbish which may pollute water is said to have been transported to Golmud or Lhasa for treatment. A bridge is also said to have been built at Wudaoliang Basin to enable animals to cross. Once open the railway will generate more waste, and whilst the carriages are said to be enclosed, preventing passengers from throwing out rubbish, it remains to be seen what additional impact the running of the railway will create.As well as passengers, the railway will also have a strong use in transporting freight, currently carried on trucks. This will mean that more coal and petroleum-based products will be brought into Tibet. Whilst China claims that this will enable Tibetans to stop logging pine trees for fuel, aiding the local ecology, the railway will accelerate Tibet's use of climate-damaging fossil fuels.Some Canadian student groups had called for a boycott of the Bombardier Transportation group, who has a contract with China to provide some of the carriages.Most of the line is now complete, ahead of schedule. Signaling equipment is currently being installed, with trials said to begin in July. The railway is scheduled to open fully in 2007. Luxury carriages will carry tourists, with sleeping compartments and oxygen tanks to enable breathing within the high-altitude areas.The British Parliament approved the first stage of the new Crossrail underground railroad through London as a £15 billion construction project earlier this month. Crossrail is the first major new train line to be built in London in decades. The rail line being implemented as a hybrid bill in Parliament. After a second reading in Parliament, it was voted upon and decided that the government will commit to the project so that the line will be built.The next issue before Parliament of to ensure that the implementation of the bill so it is consistent with private interests of neighborhoods to be affected by Crossrail. This is when residents can petition Parliament to change the way the line is constructed.As a result of construction of the Crossrail line, hundreds of homes will have new tunnels excavated beneath them. On contacting Crossrail, they have indicated approximately £50 will be offered to each landowner to buy all the land rights-of-way to build the train tunnel more than 9 meters below the residential buildings. The average value for properties in the affected areas is £350,000. Under UK compulsory purchase laws to be used in this bill, the residents are entitled to the difference in the value of the whole property with and without a tunnel under it. If the offer given by Crossrail is not accepted by any of the residents, the residents can take the case to the Land Tribunal, where the fair value will be established. This however, could be cost prohibitive. Crossrail does not indicate that it will attempt to assign a fair value in the original offer and instead is only going to offer around £50 per property in the hope that not many people take the matter to the Land Tribunal.The £16 billion Crossrail Scheme, that will run through London, Berkshire and Essex was given the go ahead; construction will begin by 2010 and it is expected to be finished by 2017. The line, that will provide 24-hour trains to the centre of London from the east and the west, will provide a better rail link to the West End.UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown said "It was a great day for London, Crossrail and the economy" with the project expected to add £20 billion a year to the UK economy.The government is providing a third of the money with the rest made up from borrowing against future fares and a levy on London business rates.The news was also welcomed from the railway union RMT, who had been protesting to the government to go further for a new north to south high speed rail link.Crossrail is also hoped to reduce the overcrowding to airports such as Heathrow and many others.A cruise ship caught fire 32 km (20 miles) off the southeast coast of England. The blaze started in the engine-room of the Calypso, which had 708 passengers and crew onboard. The passengers were mainly Dutch.Specialist firefighters transported by helicopter from the East Sussex Fire and Rescue Service tackled the fire.It was tugged to Southampton by the Anglican Monarch, a tug boat jointly operated by England and France. The relieved passengers left to boat 16 hours after the fire started. "A team will be going onboard to assess the situation, so time will tell," said the Maritime and Coastguard Agency spokeswoman.There were no causualties and no evacuation.An evacuation operation was carried out today as a cruise ship ran aground off the coast of Santorini, a Greek island, leaving up to 1,167 passengers and 391 crew to abandon the ship.The Sea Diamond took on water and listed twelve degrees after running aground, but had been stabilized. Fifteen hours after the grounding, the ship sank.Cruise operator Louis Cruise Lines had announced earlier that all passengers and crew were accounted for. Officials are now reporting that two passengers are missing. A 45-year-old man, Jean-Christophe Allain, and his 16-year-old daughter, Maud, were reported missing by family members also on the cruise, according to a merchant marine ministry official.BBC journalist Malcolm Brabant reported that the missing passengers had been in a lower-deck cabin when the ship ran aground. Allain's wife and son escaped safely to the upper decks.Most of the passengers on board the Sea Diamond ship are either American or German. Local news reported that the ship is taking on water after striking a reef in the volcanic island's lagoon, similar to a lake, and issued a distress signal, launching an operation that led more than a dozen ships and five Greek Navy helicopters to evacuate all the people on board, with many boarding a small ferry.The ship was about one nautical mile - 1.8km - from the island's coast when it ran aground. The ship's operators, Louis Cruise Lines, earlier said that a "controlled evacuation" was underway, but that "there is no danger to passengers". The ship had left the Athenian port of Piraeus on Monday for a five-day tour of the islands. The sea was calm when the incident occurred."Some passengers have already reached the island and no-one has been hurt," an official at the Santorini coastguard has said, whilst Merchant Marine Minister Manolis Kefaloyiannis  said to reporters, "Thankfully, everything has gone well so far. Emergency services responded very quickly and very well."A CSX freight train traveling from Buffalo to Selkirk derailed in Oneida, New York. No injuries have yet been reported as a result of the accident.  It is not yet known what caused the accident; CSX and NTSB officials are investigating.Twenty six  of the train's 79 cars derailed around 7:00 a.m. local time; the derailment led to the explosion of at least one tank car carrying propane.  Two other cars are known to contain hazardous materials. As many as seven cars have been reported as burning. As a precaution, 23 miles (37 kilometers) of the adjacent Thruway have been closed between Syracuse and Verona. Authorities have ordered a complete evacuation for a one-mile radius around the derailment site, including a jail and two elementary schools.  Amtrak's Empire Service between Albany and Syracuse is suspended and Lake Shore Limited between Syracuse and Chicago is also affected; passengers on these routes are being bused around the affected area.At the time of the accident the train had a two-man crew and was traversing a section of track that has a 60 mile per hour (MPH) speed limit.  The train crew were not injured; it is not yet known what speed the train was traveling when the accident occurred.Pedro Pablo Perez, a Cuban cyclist who had qualified for the Olympics in Beijing, will miss the event after a car crash left him in a coma with brain trauma.Perez is receiving treatment at the Abel Santamaria hospital, in the province of Pinar del Rio where the accident took place. Details are unclear, but it is known Perez was driving the car at the time when the crash occurred in San Cristobal. It has not been reported by Cuban media if anyone else was in the car, or if other vehicles were involved, but it is known his wife, 2004 world scratch cycling champion Yoanka Gonzalez, was not present. He received "cerebral ... lacerations and remains in a coma" according to state newspaper Granma.Perez, 31, has won the Tour of Cuba five times, competed in the 2000 Sydney Games and received medals at the 1999 and 2003 Pan American Games.The Cutty Sark, one of the most famous historic sailing ships in the world, was seriously damaged by fire in the early hours of Monday morning, May 21, 2007. The 19th century ship, which is in dry dock in Greenwich, London, England, set a speed record during its working days, and has been a popular tourist attraction for many years.The fire brigade was first called to the blaze on the tea clipper at 4:45 a.m. BST and reported that the flames had been extinguished by 7:00 a.m., but firefighters were still on the scene damping down at 8.30 a.m. The blaze was so intense that eight fire engines and 40 firefighters were sent to put out the fire. No injuries have been reported. Cutty Sark Trust chief executive Richard Doughty said he was told the blaze was being treated as suspicious. "We're losing history," he lamented. "It's unbelievable." He went on: "When you lose the original fabric, you lose the touch of the craftsmen; you lose history itself. What is special about Cutty Sark is the timber, the iron frames, that went to the South China Sea. To think that is threatened in any way is unbelievable. It is an unimaginable shock." However, Doughty also confirmed that half of the ship's planking, and all of the masts and rigging had been removed for renovations prior to the fire. The iron framework of the hull has been twisted and buckled.The Chairman of Cutty Sark Enterprises, Chris Levitt, speaking later at the scene, said: "We had removed 50% of the planking, so 50% of the planking wasn't on site and that's safe and secure, and from where I stand there is not a huge amount of damage to the planking that was left on. There are pockets of charred planking and some have gone, but it doesn't look as bad as first envisaged."Cutty Sark Trust curatorial consultant, Dr Eric Kentley was optimistic that the Ship is not completely devastated and can be saved. Speaking about the Cutty Sark, he said: "We will put her back together - but it's going to take much much longer and a lot more money than we originally thought." The historic ship, one of London's best known tourist attractions, has been in dry-dock in Greenwich since 1954. It is currently undergoing a £25 million renovation scheduled to last until 2009. It was feared that gas canisters used in the reconstruction work might explode in the blaze but the London Fire Brigade later confirmed that none were present, although concerns about the risk of explosion had caused some delay in tackling the fire. It is a Grade I listed monument and is on the Buildings At Risk Register in the UK.A court in Cyprus has begun the trial of defunct airline Helios and four managers over an air disaster in Greece. The five are facing a total of 1,190 charges after Flight 522 went down near Athens in 2005, killing 121 people.All defendants entered not guilty pleas, and are alleged by prosecutors to have operated their business in an unsafe manner. It is alleged that the flight should never have been allowed to take off. As well as the company, executive chairman Andreas Drakos, managing director Demetris Pantazis, operations manager George Kikkides and head pilot Ianko Stoimenov will face a full trial when proceedings are resumed on November 27. They will return to the Nicosia court then. The charges include manslaughter and causing death via a careless act.The unresponsive Boeing 737, supposed to be flying between Lanarca to Prague, had entered Greek airspace, where it was intercepted by two F-16 fighter jets on August 14, 2005.The F-16 pilots reported the airliner's pilots were slumped over the controls. After flying on autopilot for two hours the aircraft crashed near Athens despite the efforts of a flight attendant, who was training to become a pilot, to take control and save the jet.The subsequent investigation discovered that the pilots failed to adequately monitor the pressurisation system. The plane lost cabin pressure and hypoxia caused the incapacitation of the passengers and flight crew. It is thought that the conscious flight attendant had used multiple crew oxygen cylinders to outlast the others on board. Investigators also believe that the equipment had been left in the wrong setting after testing by maintenance engineers and never checked before flight.After failing to resuscitate the pilot-in-command, the trainee pilot turned off the autopilot and attempted an emergency landing at Athens International Airport, which the aircraft had been circling in a holding pattern awaiting human input. However, the aircraft ran out of fuel before reaching the runway.A two-year trial concluded yesterday in Cyprus with the court in Nicosia clearing former senior staff of Helios Airways of manslaughter. They, alongside the defunct airline, had been accused of responsibility for killing 119 in a crash near Athens.All 121 on board Flight 522 were killed but the prosecution did not charge manslaughter in relation to the two flight crew, deeming them partially responsible for their own deaths. The accident remains the worst air disaster to befall both Greece and Cyprus. Most victims were Cypriot tourists.The Cypriot jet left Larnaca on August 14, 2005. It was headed for Prague in the Czech Republic. Contact was quickly lost with the aircraft, which flew itself as far as the Greek capital on autopilot. The Boeing 737's pressurisation system is believed to have been incorrectly set by maintenance and oxygen starvation had knocked out German Captain Hans-Jurgen Merten and Cypriot co-pilot Pambos Charalambous. They never checked the system before takeoff, which had undergone testing prior to flight.An alarm had sounded both on the ground and in the air but had been ignored by those flying, as the same alarm was used for a different problem and the pilots therefore misinterpreted the alarm. This design would later be cited by victims' relatives in a civil case against Boeing.As the unresponsive jet entered Greek airspace two F-16 fighter jets intercepted. The air force reported back that the civilian craft's pilots were slumped over the controls. Passengers were similarly incapacitated. The plane reached Athens International Airport — an intermediate stop in Athens was planned — by itself and then began circling the area awaiting human input.That input eventually came in the form of a trainee pilot working on-board as a flight attendant. Investigators believe Andreas Prodromou had used multiple crew oxygen cylinders to be the last conscious person on board. The fighter pilots were able to watch him enter the cockpit. F-16 pilot Panayiotis Athanasopoulos was the last person to see Prodromou alive. He previously told the trial of initially receiving no response when signalling the jet in an attempt to get the pilots to follow him, then discovering the flight crew unconscious. The captain was out of sight. He testified he also signalled people wearing oxygen masks in the passenger cabin with similar lack of response. Prodromou, 25, entered the cockpit as the jet began losing altitude. After trying but failing to resuscitate Merten, the fighter pilots saw the trainee pilot take over the controls himself in a bid to save the plane. He was out of time. By then the aircraft had been in the air for two hours, and it ran out of fuel before it could reach the runway. Although many were deeply comatose from lack of oxygen, everyone on board was still alive when the plane crashed into a mountain at Grammatiko, north of Athens.Athanasopoulos says he gesticulated to Proprodomou and signalled him to land upon getting his attention. The trainee pilot simply pointed downwards, after which he "looked ahead and did not look towards me again as the plane went down". The airliner struck the ground levelly on its underside after straightening out moments before impact. It was torn apart.The following year saw an air accident report primarily citing human error, and an inquiry by ex-Judge Panayiotis Kallis. The Kallis report was never made public. Helios, which was renamed Ajet Airways, closed down in 2006. Helios and Boeing were sued by victims' relatives; they sought €76 million but reached a settlement for an undisclosed sum. The accident report had also blamed Boeing for an "ineffectiveness of measures" over the dual-purpose alarm system.The five defendants were charged in 2008. The defunct airline and four senior staff members each faced 119 counts of manslaughter, and alternative counts of causing death by a reckless, thoughtless or dangerous act. This gave a total of 1,190 charges. Manslaughter carries a potential life sentence with up to four years available on the lesser charge. "The charges concern two of the three most serious offences under the Cyprus penal code," deputy attorney general Akis Papasavvas said at the time.The prosecution case was that the pilots were unfit to fly and the defendants were negligent in letting them at the controls. The state prosecutor therefore needed to prove the actions of Merten and Charalambous caused the disaster, as well as that those in the dock were responsible for their employment and aware — or ought to have been aware — of inadequacies in their competence.The prosecution had noted the accused failed to seek references from Jet2, Merten's last employer. He lost that job owing to failings in his duties and was later the subject of Helios co-pilots' complaints. Charalambous was considered unlikely to achieve promotion to pilot and his ability to handle stress was questioned at trial.In reaching a majority decision, two of the three judges noted Helios chief executive Andreas Drakos and managing director Demetris Pantazis would be acquitted even if the prosecution proved its case as they were not responsible for employing the pair. This fell to co-accused operations manager George Kikkides and chief pilot Ianko Stoimenov.In any event, the verdict described "a dead-end for any procedure of identifying the competence of Merten" with only Jet2 among his previous employers being known to have a negative view of him. Subsequent official evaluations rated both him and Charalambous suitably competent to fly."The lack of any causal association between the defendants and the negligence they were charged with for the fatal accident completely disconnects the defendants with the accident," said the 170-page verdict. "Regardless... [of] how the charges are viewed, they remain groundless and without supporting evidence. It's judged that this reason is sufficient to dismiss all charges and acquit all defendants." Assize Court President Charis Solomonides read the decision: "we conclude, without reservation, that no case has been proven prima-facie against all the defendants in all the charges they face and therefore, all the defendants are acquitted and charges are dropped." Solomonides made repeated mention of an inability for the prosecution to link the pilots' actions to those on trial, and noted that therefore no assessment had been made of their performance that day.Judge Nicolas Santis dissented. Nonetheless, he too had criticisms of the prosecution. He said they failed to properly define 'competence' and called very few experts to testify. Victims' relatives shouted in the courtroom after he finished reading his opinion; cries included "killers!" and "is this justice?".Victims' relatives had in fact predicted the acquittal and blamed the state for what they characterised as a poorly presented case. Relatives’ Committee president Nicolas Yiasoumis said "It was common knowledge that proceedings were weak due to the phrasing of the charges." There were also renewed calls for publication of the Kallis report. Yiasoumis claimed the Kallis report reached different conclusions to those used at trial, and said "We did not believe they could be convicted on the basis of the argument that they had not employed the appropriate staff."Attorney General Petros Clerides initially said an appeal will be decided upon once the decision has been read, and that the Law Office was presently studying it. Yiasoumis said relatives may take Cyprus to a European court over the case once Cypriot legal matters are concluded. Clerides has now confirmed an appeal will be filed, which the prosecution has two weeks to do. He defended the performance of those who prosecuted "this titanic case". The appeal would be to the Supreme Court.Cypriot prosecutors have charged five people over the 2005 crash of Helios Airways Flight 522. The loss of the Boeing 737 killed all 121 people on board in what was the deadliest air disaster for both Greece and Cyprus."The charge sheet was submitted to the court [in Nicosia] today [Tuesday], and a response to the charges has been set for February 26," said deputy attorney general Akis Papasavvas. The names of those charged were not released, and they face charges of manslaughter and causing death by a reckless, thoughtless or dangerous act, which carry life and four year terms respectively. They all worked for Helios."The charges concern two of the three most serious offences under the Cyprus penal code," said Papasavvas. Families of the victims, who had already called for criminal prosecutions, are still carrying out a civil action against the Cypriot civil aviation authority and airframer Boeing. Helios closed in 2006, having been renamed Ajet Airways.The unresponsive aircraft, supposed to be flying between Lanarca to Prague, entered Greek airspace, where it was intercepted by two F-16 fighter jets on August 14, 2005.The F-16 pilots reported the airliner's pilots were slumped over the controls. After flying on autopilot for two hours the aircraft crashed near Athens despite the efforts of a flight attendant, who was training to become a pilot, to take control and save the jet.The subsequent investigation discovered that the pilots failed to adequately monitor the pressurisation system. The plane lost cabin pressure and hypoxia caused the incapacitation of the passengers and flight crew. It is thought that the conscious flight attendant had used multiple crew oxygen cylinders to outlast the others on board. Investigators also believe that the equipment had been left in the wrong setting after testing by maintenance engineers and never checked before flight.After failing to resuscitate the pilot-in-command, the trainee pilot turned off the autopilot and attempted an emergency landing at Athens International Airport, which the aircraft had been circling in a holding pattern awaiting human input. However, the aircraft ran out of fuel before reaching the runway.Cypriot prosecutors have announced that they intend to charge five people over the 2005 crash of Helios Airways Flight 522. The loss of the Boeing 737 killed all 121 people on board.Attorney General Petros Clerides announced the plans today, but did not indicate who was to be charged or exactly what the offenses were."We came to the conclusion that, from the evidence gathered, a criminal prosecution is justified against several people whom we consider accountable for the plane crash," he said at a press conference in Nicosia.The unresponsive aircraft, supposed to be flying between Lanarca to Prague, entered Greek airspace where it was intercepted by two F-16 fighter jets on August 14, 2005.The F-16 pilots reported the airliner's pilots were slumped over the controls. After flying on autopilot for two hours the aircraft crashed near Athens despite the efforts of a flight attendant, who was training to become a pilot, to take control and save the jet.The subsequent investigation discovered that the pilots failed to adequately monitor the pressurisation system. The plane lost cabin pressure and hypoxia caused the incapacitation of the passengers and flight crew. It is thought that the conscious flight attendant had used multiple crew oxygen cylinders to outlast the others on board. Investigators also believe that the equipment had been left in the wrong setting after testing by maintenance engineers and never checked before flight.After failing to resuscitate the pilot-in-command, the trainee pilot turned off the autopilot and attempted an emergency landing at Athens International Airport, which the aircraft had been circling in a holding pattern awaiting human input. However, the aircraft ran out of fuel before reaching the runway.Vít Bárta, the Minister of Transport for the Czech Republic, has been banned from driving. Bárta has been banned for six months after being caught driving with a fake licence plate.The minister was driving with a sticker with his registration number written on it glued to the hood of his car. He was caught in July, while driving his Maserati home from his own wedding. He claimed to have lost the original licence plate while driving along a dirt road. It has been reported that Bárta does not plan to appeal the ban.As well as his six-month driving ban, Bárta has also been fined 5,000 koruna. The charges were announced by Karel Hanzelka, a spokesman for the Transport Ministry.Bárta spoke to reporters about his ban. He joked around saying that he wouldn't really miss his licence and that his "wife will drive him around". He also said that he accepted his punishment.According to media reports, at least one person was killed and several more were injured when a train derailed in the Czech Republic yesterday. The incident occurred near Ústí nad Labem in the north of the country.As a result of the crash, the train was seriously damaged. At least six people were injured with wounds of varying seriousness, all of which were hospitalised; conflicting media reports, however, suggested that the number of hurt passengers was substantially more. According to Czech media, the dead man was the train's driver.According to the press-secretary of the local fire department, the train went off the rails a few hundred metres from the station.Preliminary investigation has revealed that the train derailed when crossing a railroad switch 58 km/h faster than authorized.  The safe speed limit is 120 km/h when the switch, also known as a turnout or a set of points, is set to a straight path, and 50 km/h when the switch is set to divert the train to another track.  In this case, the switch was set to divert, but the train's speed is reported to have been 108 km/h.The accident happened on one of the most important railroads in the country, which is double-tracked, electrified and used daily by long-distance international trains.  Therefore it is checked often, and investigators consider track failure to be improbable. Investigators have ruled out signal malfunction. Media reports suggest two possible reasons for the derailment: driver's error or brake malfunction.Train operations on the line from Ústí nad Labem to the capital Prague had to be cancelled as a result of the crash.International car company DaimlerChrysler announced today it would cut 13,000 jobs in North America. It could part ways with the loss-making business.It also plans to cut two Chrysler plants in an attempt to make Chrysler business profitable by 2008.About 9,000 production jobs will be cut in the U.S., 2,000 production jobs in Canada, and 2,000 salaried jobs."It's hard to say if it's enough ... but the stock is reacting nicely, which is further verification that this is a favorable restructuring move and a much-needed one at Chrysler," said chief investment officer at Solaris Asset Management, Tim Ghriskey.Following some speculation that the companies Daimler-Benz (Mercedes-Benz) and Chrysler, which merged together in 1998 to make DaimlerChrysler, would split, chairman Dieter Zetsche denied allegations."We do not exclude any option in order to find the best solution for both the Chrysler Group and DaimlerChrysler."Some personal details of 3 million British learner drivers who had applied for the 'theory test' component of their Driving licence have been lost in Iowa, in the USA.The data was lost on a hard drive that was owned by Pearson Driving Assessments Ltd, a private contractor to the UK driving standards agency.Details were given by the UK Transport Secretary, Ruth Kelly, in the House of Commons at 1730 UTC yesterday. It is the first major loss of data in the UK since information on 25 million people was lost by HM Revenue in October.In her statement to MPs, Ruth Kelly confirmed that no banking information was contained within the lost data, nor were individuals' dates of birth. She highlighted that security measures had been taken, and that the information that had been stored was not in a format "readily usable or accessible" by standard means.Political figures in the UK continue to raise concerns about both the specific loss of this information, and the nature of governments ability to safely gather and maintain information. Susan Kramer, representing the Liberal Democrats stated "This constant attempt to gather data, to get more data, to know more about you, to link it more together, all of that it seems to me is what comes into question."The death toll from the weekend suspension bridge collapse on the Indonesian island of Borneo has risen from four to eleven. Search and rescue teams continue to look for bodies in the Mahakam River.The number of wounded is currently 39 injured; reports from locals suggest 33 people remain missing at the scene in East Kalimantan's Kutai Kartanegara district, where "Kalimantan's Golden Gate Bridge" linked the towns of Tenggarong and the regional capital, Samarinda. A six-month-old baby is among the dead.Cars, motorbikes, and buses all fell into the Mahakam River when the bridge came down during repairs. Another car was left overturned and balanced upon wreckage over the water. State-owned builders PT Hutama Karya completed the bridge about a decade ago in the image of California's Golden Gate Bridge. A cable on the 720-metre structure is thought to have failed as workers dealt with it; six of the repair crew were reported missing yesterday. It had been the longest suspension bridge in Borneo.Eyewitnesses described heavy traffic at the time of the collapse, and one survivor said he left his truck to investigate a traffic jam. Some people were left trapped by debris as the bridge came down. "It happened so fast, only about 30 seconds," according to National Disaster Management Agency spokesman Sutopo Nugoroho.National search and rescue head Daryatmo said yesterday cranes will attempt to move debris today, with new reports saying echo-sounding equipment will be used to check it is safe to begin lifting. It is believed the bodies of more victims will be found trapped in vehicles beneath the water, which is 35-40 metres deep. Visibility is poor, and one official explained authorities are still unsure how many vehicles are on the riverbed."The above-water search is continuing, but underwater operations have not been carried out because we're worried that the bridge's pylons are unstable and could collapse any time," said Nugoroho today. He explained that bodies had washed onto the riverbanks overnight and were recovered today.The president, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, has sent three ministers to the site to investigate the accident, while Bambang Widaryatmo, head of East Kalimantan's police, promised "parties found to be negligent will be prosecuted". The government has promised a replacement ferry service. The river is closed to boats as rescue operations continue, and a 22-strong team has been dispatched from the national police, comprising six forensics experts, five disaster victim identification specialists, and eleven investigators. They are there to augment the East Kalimantan Police. Health Minister Endang Rahayu Sedyaningsih yesterday visited survivors in Parikesit Hospital and promised them medical treatment at government expense.Some people swam ashore after falling, with the aftermath filled with screams.  Survivor Syakrani, 24, yesterday asserted "The authorities should have closed the bridge if it was under repair." His words were followed by a Jakarta Globe editorial declaring the accident "unacceptable".The Globe went on to comment upon suggestions corruption may have played a role; "It is too early to point fingers and look to place blame, but if shoddy materials were used in the building of the bridge, those responsible must answer to the public." Another suggestion is coal barges striking the bridge may have weakened it. Local coal company Harum Energy lost five percent of its share value today amid fears the river blockage will hamper their ability to ship coal.Samarinda's seen a population and construction boom lately. A few years have seen the population triple and the construction of a large mosque, and a sports stadium; an airport and port are set to follow. However, the Corruption Eradication Commission warns 70% of the corruption it investigates concerns government contracts and up to 40% of money earmarked for infrastructure ends up stolen.The official death toll for a recent derailment in Pakistan has been lowered from 58 deaths to 40. The Karachi Express from Karachi to Lahore left the rails at high speed in Sindh province.At least 115 passengers were injured in the crash, of which ten remain in hospital. Most of them were returning from the Islamic festival of Eid al-Adha.Fourteen of the sixteen cars that comprised the service were derailed. The force of the accident, which occurred near Mehrabpur, about 250 miles from Karachi, was such that two were completely destroyed and the rails were severely damaged.Junaid Qureshi, director of operations at state owned Pakistan Railways, who operate the service, said that the official figures are now 40 dead and 269 injured. Most of the casualties were in the two carriages that were destroyed. "The position now is that there are 40 dead," Qureshi told reporters, adding that the original figure appeared sourceless. "I do not know where they (the officials) got it from."He went on to say that of the 40 deceased, 39 bodies had been returned to families, whilst one body remained unidentified and is currently awaiting being claimed at a morgue in Karachi.However, there are still conflicting reports about the number of casualties. Representatives of the Edhi Foundation, Pakistan's largest private emergency service provider, which attended the scene, said that the foundation had removed 45 bodies from the wreckage, while Mohammed Shafi Toor, head of the state-owned hospital at Mehrabpur, put the figures at 46 dead and 290 injured.Meanwhile, an official inquiry has been launched. "The inquiry is underway and will be completed within the next five days," said Pakistan Railways Secretary Ghiasuddin, continuing to say that the panel conducting the investigation will make recommendations as a result of it's findings. It is believed the track failed due to extremely low temperatures.Officials have re-opened the line having repaired the damaged section.The death toll in a collision between two helicopters in Arizona, United States has been finalised at seven after the only survivor died. James Taylor was an emergency nurse present on one of the helicopters, which were both Bell 407s performing patient transfers to nearby Flagstaff Medical Center. The other six, including two patients, died at the scene.Taylor, 36, worked at Salt Lake's St. Mark's Hospital, and also part-time with Life Flight, who operated the helicopter he was on board at the time. He had only recently started working at St. Mark's after 17 years at the Intermountain Medical Center, and was also a veteran of Desert Storm as a member of the Utah Army Reserve.His sister said of him "He loved serving others ... and especially being paged for lifeflight duty. He gave his life trying to save another ... he truly was a hero." As well as an extended family mostly residing in Utah Taylor is survived by his wife and three young sons.Zion's Bank have established the James Taylor Memorial Fund to help the family he left behind.In two separate ferry incidents, more than 40 people are feared dead in the Philippines. The first accident on Thursday involved a wooden ferry near Limbones Island colliding with a large fishing boat, the Nathalia. 46 people were rescued, four confirmed dead. The BBC reports as many as 24 may still be missing from the incident.The second incident occurred today, south of Manila at Batangas. The MV Baleno-9 capsized after listing and taking water, drowning three. At least twenty remain missing. Commander Armand Balilo, a coastguard spokesman, said rescue operations are continuing. "Hopefully their [search] flights will not be fruitless and they may find a few more of the missing," he told a local radio station, "We always hope that there will be survivors."The Philippines has a history of storms, lax safety enforcement, and aging boats, leading to common ferry accidents despite the island nation's heavy reliance on ferries for transportation.According to the South African government's Department of Transport, the number of fatalities on the country's roads during December 2005 was 1,215.  This is compared with 1,234 the previous year, where the total number of deaths in traffic accidents was 10,530.Department of Transport spokeswoman, Collen Msibi, stated that 512 of the fatalities were pedestrians, 414 passengers, and 289 drivers.  2005 saw the number of vehicles on South Africa's roads rise by nearly half a million to just under eight million with 779,000 new drivers adding to the dangers on the country's roads."To deal with this high level of unsafety, traffic authorities will increase the number of patrol vehicles on the road, law enforcement officers and unmarked vehicles to do more spot checks and roadblocks," Msibi said."Our analysis has revealed that most accidents are preceded by offences such as ignoring road signs, driving drunk, speeding, vehicles cutting in front of others, driving defective vehicles and fatigue."The road toll in South Africa is similar to that of South Korea, Mexico, Japan and Thailand.  However, except for South Korea these countries have significantly larger populations.The worst country in the world for deaths in road traffic accidents, is currently accepted to be China.  Figures released for 2002 reveal that 250,007 people were killed in that year.The South African government has acknowledged the problem since 2001. At that time they launched their "Arrive Alive" campaign, targeting vehicle condition, driver fitness, speeding and drunk driving.A website has released a document it says is from the United States government, and which it claims contains information related to Air Force One's anti-missile defense system. An Air Force base website is believed to be the source of the information, but was not identified in the document, however."Having information about a target's countermeasures does two things. It gives you an opportunity to choose a different weapon and to choose a different attack style... perhaps choosing to launch a salvo attack, or choose a missile that uses an active beam," said Daniel Goure of the Lexington Institute.Air Force One is the primary form of transportation for the President of the United States, George W. Bush. The U.S. Air Force maintains two Boeing 747-200B series aircraft that are used only for the transportation of the President."It is not a good thing. We are concerned with how it got there and how we can get it out. This affects operational security," said director of public affairs for the Air Mobility Command's 89th Airlift Wing at Andrews Air Force Base, Lt. Col. Bruce Alexander.The document also is said to include detailed maps of the interior of the two planes, the locations of Secret Service agents and the location of the plane's medical center, detailing where the oxygen tanks are kept. This would assist snipers to target and detonate them.As of Friday, the document was said to be still available online, however efforts to locate the page have so far been unsuccessful.Delta Air Lines may enter merge discussions with one of two other major United States air carriers - Northwest Airlines or United Airlines.It is known that Chief Executive Richard Anderson has asked for authorisation to begin talks, and believed executives have held a meeting at which permission was sought to enter discussion with one of the two airlines, but the results are yet to be confirmed.Ajc.com reported that airline spokesman Kent Landers refused to confirm even the existence of the meeting, saying "Delta has a longstanding policy not to comment on board meeting dates or agendas. Our board is working with management to look at all strategic options to remain a leader in the industry, including potential consolidation transactions. [Delta] won't provide updates on the board's process."The airline has been in exploratory talks with both Northwest and United since late 2007, and it is believed that the purpose of the New York meeting was to select which airline offered Delta the better deal and authorise moving talks on to the next level. If a deal goes ahead and survives regulatory checks and potential opposition from politicians and consumer advocates then a merge with either airline would be the biggest between two US airlines, and would result in the biggest airline in the world.Rapidly rising costs in the aviation industry are driving airlines towards merges. In particular, the price of jet fuel jumped 58% in 2007, driven by the rapidly increasing price of oil. When Anderson joined Delta in early September, he commented that he was not interested in potential merge deals. However, as prices rise and shares fall for airlines, he publicly changed his stance to being open to Delta-led mergers. Shares in all three companies shot up amid the news of a potential deal, although they have begun falling again, and did not hit last year's highs. Delta has a current market value of around $4.2 billion, less than half the amount US Airways offered last year in an attempt to buy Delta, which failed.Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines announced plans to cut 7,000 to 9,000 jobs by the end of 2007, approximately 17% of its employees. CEO Gerald Grinstein will take a 25% pay cut. Executives have their pay cut by 15%. Other employees will have their pay reduced by 7 to 10%. Employees that make less than $25,000 a year will not be affected by these pay cuts.Delta has already cancelled leases on 40 aircraft and they plan to reduce its fleet by at least 80 more. They plan to reduce domestic capacity by 15 to 20 percent and increase international capacity by 25 percent.Delta is the third-largest airline in the US. They have lost 10 billion dollars since 2001 and are 14 billion dollars in debt.  Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection last Wednesday, joining United Airlines and US Airways. Four of the seven largest US carriers are operating under bankruptcy protection. Chapter 11 protection gives companies time to rearrange its finances while continuing to operate.Delta CEO Gerald Grinstein said they intended "to move from being an unprofitable airline today to a profitable airline in just over two years". "This means we will become a smaller, more cost-efficient airline, with a strengthened network and a stronger balance sheet." These cuts should help save Delta up to $3 billion dollars.Delta Air Lines flight 1457 departing from Atlanta made an emergency landing after it blew out a tire during take-off. The flight was destined to Portland, Oregon. There are no injuries reported at this time.The Boeing 737-800 departed from Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport Thursday afternoon. The flight was carrying approximately 160 passengers and six crew members. Federal Aviation Administration spokeswoman Kathleen Bergen said that the flight turned around when the flight crew noticed the blown out tire. The flight was forced to go into a holding pattern to burn off fuel for more than an hour before it landed. The 737 landed safely at around 1500 local time (2000 UTC).Delta did not immediately return calls inquiring about the flight. After some time Delta Spokesperson Anthony Black told the Associated Press that the 160 passengers on board would be put on a future flight to Portland.Delta Air Lines emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy Monday, following a 19-month restructuring that left it with 6,000 fewer employees, US$3 billion less in annual costs, and a different mix of international and domestic routes.While cutting back on domestic service, Delta has expanded into "over 60 new international routes," according to its website. It is not known exactly what domestic service was cut or by how much to achieve the cost savings that allowed it to expand internationally.Delta has faced pressure from low-fare airlines domestically and is hoping to benefit from the higher profit margins on international flights, which have not yet felt the same competitive pressure.To reflect the airline's new international focus, Delta unveiled a new logo Monday, with an updated Web site launched the following day. They are also in the process of re-painting their airplanes with a new livery, a process that could take up to four years.As of Monday Delta's shares were trading on a "when issued" basis at just above $20, giving it a market value of over US$8 billion, second only to Southwest Airlines among United States carriers. Shares are expected to begin trading Thursday, May 3.Delta Airlines flight 4951 made a safe emergency landing at JFK International Airport in New York City yesterday after the aircraft's right landing gear failed. There were 64 passengers and crew members aboard as well as 3,000 gallons of flammable fuel.  The pilot maintained composure as he radioed air traffic control.  He reported “The right gear is stuck up.  The other two are down”.  When asked which runway he wanted to land on, he stated “Whichever one would be better for you all.”   They settled on Runway 31 Right.  Flight crew members prepped passengers for the emergency landing by telling them “heads down stay down!” in the crash position.  The captain told them to brace for impact over the intercom. Rescuers on the ground feared the worst on account of the 3,000 gallons of flammable fuel.  As the plane landed, sparks flew from the righthand side but the plane did not catch fire.  All 64 people were shuttled safely from the aircraft to the airport.The United States Department of Defense (DOD) is releasing surveillance video showing American Airlines flight 77 hitting the Pentagon on September 11, 2001. The video was taken from a Pentagon Security camera.On December 15, 2004, a legal advocacy group called Judicial Watch filed a lawsuit against the DOD in an attempt to have the video released through the Freedom of Information Act."We fought hard to obtain this video because we felt that it was very important to complete the public record with respect to the terrorist attacks of September 11," said Judicial Watch President, Tom Fitton."Finally, we hope that this video will put to rest the conspiracy theories involving American Airlines Flight 77. As always, our prayers remain with all those who suffered as a result of those murderous attacks," added Fitton.According to the advocacy group, U.S. officials say they did not release the video earlier because it was part of the investigation into convicted plotter for al-Qaeda, Zacarias Moussaoui."Now that the trial of Zacarias Moussaoui is over, we are able to complete your request and provide the video," said chief of the Department of Defense, Office of Freedom of Information, William Kammer.However; some are not sure what is shown on the video. Michael Berger, spokesman for 911Truth.org said "In fact, I thought that was underwhelming." and "It doesn't clarify anything — I don't see a plane in that image. We would like to know what happened. Four-and-a-half years later, we still don't have definitive proof that a plane hit that building." 911Truth.org received five times the average visits to their website after the video's release on Tuesday. Mr. Berger's group is hosting a conference June 2 in Chicago where skeptics of the official explanation of 9/11 plan to work out a variety of scenarios that suggest the U.S. government's complicity in the September 11, 2001 attacks on the Pentagon and World Trade Center.Two train derailments in two days have closed railway lines in Australia.A Rio Tinto iron ore train derailled at Pilbara, on a spur of the Tom Price to Dampier line on Thursday 29. The following day, a freight train with 40 wagons derailed east of Kalgoorlie, injuring three people.The second derailment has closed the line used by the long distance Sydney to Perth Indian Pacific passenger train. Operators Great Southern Railway expect to lose A$500,000 revenues as the line remains closed until at least Thursday. Police say heavy rain has affected the area, and the federal Australian Rail Track Corporation say that a new access road needs to be built in order to clear the wreckage and repair the track.Rio Tinto have sufficient stocks of iron ore already in place to keep working. However, the freight train was carrying consumer products, which may run short in the south of Western Australia in the next few days. The Kalgoorie crash is to be investigated by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, while maintenance company Transfield Services will also be examining the incident.In a press release on February 22, 2007, Disney announced the expansion of its cruise line.  Disney plans to add two new ships to its current fleet of two.  This expansion is expected to more than double the cruise line's current passenger capacity.  By expanding, Disney hopes to meet the increasing demand for its cruise line.The two new ships are to be very similar to each other and will weigh about 120,000 tons. They are planned to be two decks taller than the two existing ships, the Disney Magic and the Disney Wonder and will have 1,250 staterooms. These two ships are scheduled for christening in 2011 and 2012.In the press release, Disney President and CEO Bob Iger stated: "Since our maiden voyage in 1998, Disney Cruise Line has been a huge success for our guests and for our shareholders alike.  It has brought our unparalleled family vacation experience to the high seas, and has also generated high margins and double digit returns on invested capital.  We're excited to announce the expansion of our fleet, which is a logical next step in what is a real growth business for us."Names have not yet been announced for the ships.Divers yesterday recovered three bodies from December's air disaster in the Java Sea. Added to four retrieved on Friday, they bring the total to 100. An additional 62 victims remain to be recovered.There were no survivors when Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 crashed on December 28. The six-year-old Airbus A320-200 was 40 minutes from Juanda International Airport with 155 passengers and seven crew, bound for Singapore's Changi International Airport. Most were Indonesians, with three South Koreans, one Malaysian, one Brit and one French person on board.One of the latest bodies was a uniformed man strapped into a cockpit seat, and presumed to be either Indonesian Pilot Iriyanto or French co-pilot Remi Emmanuel Plesel. Underwater currents have complicated recovery of the other body from the cockpit. Efforts to retrieve the entire aircraft last month were abandoned. Some bodies have been found roughly 1,000 kilometres (600 miles) from the crash site, floating near Sulawesi.Iriyanto and Plessel had over 8,000 hours experience between them. Iriyanto has a decade of experience training other pilots, and previous employers include the air force. Their actions have come under scrutiny as the National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) investigates.The aircraft entered an excessively steep climb before stalling, the NTSC said last month. It took three minutes for the plane to reach the water, during which time the flight crew tried to regain control. Bloomberg claims the flight crew switched off computers designed to aid them after they issued alerts. AirAsia has declined to comment pending the NTSC investigation, which is expected to continue for several months. The Agency for Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics suggests weather caused the disaster, suggesting ice led to engine failure. NTSC head investigator Marjono Siswosuwarno last month reported satellite data showed storms as high as 44,000ft. The plane was attempting to avoid storms in the minutes before contact was lost.The National Search and Rescue Agency has over 60 divers working to retrieve the bodies.Divers from the Philippine Coast Guard and Navy were given a clean bill of health from any effects from the toxic waters surrounding the sunken passenger ferry, MV Princess of the Stars off the coast of Romblon province.Fifty six diving personnel tasked to retrieve bodies of passengers trapped inside the ferry will undergo more tests on Saturday for any ill effects from pesticides that are suspected to have leaked in the cargo hold of the ferry.Retrieval operations for the bodies of passengers were suspended on Friday when the cargo manifest of the ship showed large quantities of a highly toxic pesticide called endosulfan. Authorities feared that the pesticides could have contaminated the waters around the sunken ferry and could prove fatal to the diving crew.Divers started to complain on Thursday of experiencing skin irritation after surfacing.The Philippines government slammed the ferry's owners for not immediately divulging the contents of the ferry's cargo hold and threatened to add other possible criminal charges against the owners.Environment officials are concerned that the pesticide could cause a severe damage to the delicate aquatic environment around Romblon province.Tuesday, February 11, 2014An undercarriage door opened during a Qantas flight yesterday, causing the flight to make an emergency landing. The Boeing 737-800 plane departed Adelaide, Australia, was bound for Melbourne, but returned to Adelaide to make the landing at approximately 6:15 p.m. local Australian time.According to Qantas officials, the door did not close correctly over a wheel bay and the flight turned back towards Adelaide when it was near Murray Bridge. Passengers in the plane said there was chaos in the cabin when the undercarriage door opened.When the jet arrived back in Adelaide, some of the passengers aboard were transferred to another Qantas flight. Some passengers refused transport on another Qantas flight though, and chose to fly with Virgin Blue or another method of transport. It is not known how many passengers were aboard, but the plane could have carried up to 168 passengers.This incident follows a hole blasting in the fuselage of a Qantas 747 international flight to Melbourne, forcing the plane to land in Manilla, Philippines.Yesterday, Jetstar boss Alan Joyce was named the new chief executive of parent company Qantas; he will take over for Geoff Dixon on November 28.At least thirty people are dead in Cameroon after a bus rolled over, reports say. The accident happened on Saturday near the city of Bafia, 135 kilometres or so north of the capital Yaounde.The accident happened when the bus lost control, rolled down a hill into a ditch, and broke in half. Officials say the death toll may increase.Traffic police official Fifen Idrissou told the Agence France-Presse news service: "At the scene we've identified around 30 bodies but the death toll could be much greater given that some of the injured evacuated before we arrived reportedly died. The bus lost control [...] 200 metres further on the bus hit a ditch. It rolled over several times," he said.It wasn't immediately clear how many people were aboard the bus when it crashed.According to reports, at least 35 people are dead while six are seriously injured in the northern Philippines after a bus plunged into a 100 meter deep ravine. The accident occurred early Wednesday near the city of Baguio, 200 kilometres north of the capital Manila.The accident happened when the brakes on the vehicle failed and it rolled down a hill into a ditch.  Officials say the death toll may increase.  There were a total of 47 passengers on board.The bus conductor, John Patrick Flores, survived the accident with only minor injuries by jumping out the door before the bus fell into the ravine. He said that "the driver tried to ram the bus into a mango tree to prevent it from falling, but failed."A Garuda Indonesia passenger plane with 140 people on board has crashed and burst into flames in Yogyakarta, Indonesia today. At least 21 people have died after the jet plane overshot the runway at 0700 local time. The Indonesian air company Garuda said earlier that at least 49 persons were killed but have now changed the estimate.95 people have been confirmed as having survived the crash, including Din Syamsudin, the leader of the Muhammadiyah Islamic organisation. Survivors are being treated in a local hospital for severe injuries and burns. Survivors report that the aircraft was shaking violently prior to the crash. The operations chief at Adisucpito International Airport said that the front wheel of the jet was on fire as it landed, causing the vehicle to skid off the runway and veer into a boundary fence. An engine then broke away from the aircraft and the fuselage burst into flames. It took firefighters over two hours to put out the blaze. Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer has confirmed that there were 9 Australians on board the flight, 4 of whom remain missing. The Australians included officials and journalists heading to Yogyakarta to prepare for the Foreign Minister's arrival there. The journalists known to be onboard include Cynthia Banham of the Sydney Morning Herald and Channel Seven cameraman Wayne Sukarda. Fairfax media are still attempting to contact a journalist from The Australian Financial Review.More than forty passengers have been hospitalised, fourteen of whom are seriously injured, after an Airbus A330-300 owned and operated by Qantas suddenly departed level flight, hurling people into the airliner's ceiling.The flight between Singapore and Perth, Australia was cruising at 37,000 feet when a cockpit alert was triggered warning the flight crew of a possible malfunction with the aircraft's elevator, which controls pitch.The aircraft then performed an uncommanded climb of 300 feet, before nosing down hard and falling an undetermined distance believed to be several thousand feet. During this descent, many of the 303 passengers and 10 crew were thrown against the ceiling, injuring many of them. The flight crew declared 'pan-pan', one level below a full life-threatening emergency, and performed an emergency landing at an air base at Learmonth after informing air traffic control of flight control difficulties and injured passengers.The injured people were flown to hospital by Royal Flying Doctor Service and Skywest Airlines. The most seriously injured were suffering from broken bones and three people had concussions.An investigation has been launched. Although such events are often blamed on turbulence, it has been suggested by industry experts that the circumstances of the accident are more in keeping with a computer malfunction. The A330 is a fly-by-wire aircraft.Marie-Laure Kawanda, the transport minister for the Democratic Republic of the Congo, has been sacked by the government after a series of boat accidents in the country. Kawanda was dismissed after a boat sank on Monday while sailing on the Kasai River left around 100 people missing.A spokesman for the government released a statement saying that Kawanda had failed to "ensure that regulations related to navigation are respected." Information minister Lambert Mende commented on Ms Kawanda's sacking, saying, "She should have introduced rules to prevent boats travelling at night and to stop cargo boats from carrying passengers. We don't have the exact number [of victims] but we think it is probably considerably higher than what has already been reported."He added that the government will be paying for the funerals of the victims.Fatal boat accidents are a common occurrence in DR Congo. On the same river where Monday's accident happened, up to 200 people died last year when a boat capsized. According to the Red Cross, 40 people died when an overcrowded boat sank on Lake Kivu last week.A train derailed on Sunday and fell into a ravine where it caught fire, according to Radio Okapi, in Buyofwe, Lualaba Province, southern Democratic Republic of the Congo. By varying reports 33 or more people were killed.The train, with cargo including tanks of flammable fuel, was traveling from the country's second-largest city of Lubumbashi to the town of Luena. After the thirteen-carriage train derailed and fell into the ravine, Associated Press reported, eleven carriages caught fire.Early on, the Minister of Mines, Jean-Marie Tshizainga, confirmed eight deaths in the crash, according to Radio Okapi. By one report, the dead and injured, who suffered severe burns, were stowaways. The chief medical officer of Lubudi Territory told Radio Okapi about 30 injured people had been taken to hospital, while others were waiting to be transported. The provincial governor, Richard Muyej Mangez, said the number of dead likely would rise.The driver of a propane gas tanker has died after his vehicle fell 70 feet onto a railway line in Country Durham, northern England. The tanker left the road and smashed through a bridge near the small town of Wolsingham and landed on the Weardale Railway below with the driver being thrown from the cab.The driver, who was in his twenties, had been airlifted to a hospital in Newcastle-upon-Tyne but later died from his injuries. The Calor Gas tanker was said to be carrying 13,000 litres of liquefied petroleum gas at the time of the accident and nearby homes were evacuated. The fire crews who responded to the incident did not detect any gas leaking from the tanker.Chris Hockaday, from County Durham and Darlington Fire and Rescue Service described the problems they were facing, "There are a few options to consider - one is to see if we can decant the gas out into another vehicle. The problem is that it's gone off next to a bridge so it will be difficult to get any heavy lifting gear into position. We may have to right the vehicle and move it along the tracks somehow, maybe even using a train." The Weardale Railway operates over a five mile section of restored track between Stanhope and Wolsingham. In a statement the railway company said, "There will be no further services on Weardale Railway until further notice and we apologise to our passengers for any inconvenience this may cause. We have appointed an incident manager and have alerted the Rail Accident Investigation Board and Her Majesty's Rail Inspectorate. We will not be able to assess the damage until the site of the accident has been declared safe by the fire brigade and the tanker removed from the track."A driver in the New South Wales city of Bathurst, West of Sydney has had a lucky escape after rolling his vehicle onto its side and narrowly avoiding other vehicles.The accident occurred shortly before 9 a.m. AEST today when a small Sports Utility Vehicle sped out of Gilmour Street, Kelso onto the Great Western Highway before attempting to turn into Lee Street. Witnesses told Wikinews that the car hit the median strip, spun and then rolled onto its side.Michael Reynard, a witness to the accident told Wikinews it was amazing that only a single vehicle was involved. "The road is busy at this time of day, he only just missed cars on the other side of the road," said Mr Reynard."He came flying around the corner, hit the median strip and just lost it. The next thing you know, he was on his side," recalled Mr Reynard.Nobody was injured in the accident.LOS ANGELES — Eleven charges of murder have been brought against the driver who caused the Glendale train crash, in which 11 people died. Juan Manuel Alvarez, 25, could well face the death penalty for his actions. It appears he parked his Jeep Cherokee on the railway line with the intention of committing suicide, but then changed his mind and left the vehicle. Three trains carrying approximately 350 people were involved in the crash, injuring up to 200 passengers.His arraignment was delayed from Thursday to Friday due to his medical condition. He was charged with 11 counts of murder and was held without bail in a hospital's jail ward after apparently slitting his own wrists and stabbing himself in the chest. Prosecutors have filed 10 counts of murder with so-called special circumstances, and will add the 11th victim to the complaint shortly. Under California law, this makes Alvarez eligible for the death penalty.The accident was caused as a result of a chain-reaction derailment of three Union Pacific trains. Investigators are continuing to try to determine the exact sequence of events.The driver of a National Express coach has been arrested on suspicion of Drunk Driving and Dangerous Driving after his coach clipped the curb and overturned, hitting a lamp post and tree, at Newport Pagnell services, in Buckinghamshire, United Kingdom, at around 16:00 BST.Six of the 33 passengers were seriously injured and another 24 sustained minor injuries on the 777 service carrying holiday makers from Birmingham to London Stansted.  First Aid was administered by the staff at the services before the 15 ambulances and 4 air ambulances arrived at the scene.After firefighters arrived at the scene it took them 40 minutes to remove the driver from the wreckage on the entrance slip to the services and the scene remains closed as investigation work continues.It is the second recent incident involving a National Express coach, the previous involving the overturning of a double decker coach which caused the death of three passengers.Dubai has announced the purchase of the British ocean liner RMS Queen Elizabeth 2 from Cunard Line for US$100 million, for conversion into a luxury floating hotel, starting in 2009. It is part of Dubai's ongoing plans to develop its tourism industry, and it intends one day to rival such destinations as Las Vegas.In a statement, Dubai World Chairman Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem said that "Dubai is a maritime nation and we understand the rich heritage of QE2. She is coming to a home where she will be cherished." Bruce Vancil, Regional Vice President of the West Coast Steamship Historical Society of America, expressed surprise and disappointment at the move. “We were kind of hoping she could find more nostalgic waters to call home,” he said. However, [Forbes.com] is reporting that the ship would likely have been scrapped had the deal not gone ahead. Vancil does say that he continues to hope that the vessel's new owners will respect the historic nature of the ship.The ship's new home will be the Palm Jumeirah, an artificial island created by the Dubai government where she will be permanently berthed, according to Istithmar, the investment section of Dubai World, a state-owned development company. Istithmar also announced plans for a refurbishment to recreate the QE2's original interior from her first year of service in 1969, and an on-board museum dedicated to the ship's history.Dubai World will take delivery of the ship from Cunard in November 2008. She is 963 feet (293 metres) long and weighs 70,000 tonnes. She has a combined passenger and crew capacity of 2,794. She is famous as Cunard's longest-serving flagship and for being launched by Queen Elizabeth II.India summoned the Ambassador of the Netherlands, Eric Niehe to the Ministry of External Affairs today, following the detention of 12 Indian nationals in Amsterdam because of their alleged "suspicious" behaviour onboard a NorthWest Airlines flight headed for Mumbai. Minister of External Affairs Anand Sharma said that the Indian Government's views had been communicated to their Dutch counterparts at the "highest level" and that India's envoy in that country was also in touch with the officials there. U.S. air marshalls were guarding the flight from Amsterdam to India and according to a Tennessee politician,John Duncan, the American air marshalls "..felt that there were passengers on the plane that were acting in a suspicious way, they conferred with both the flight attendants and the captain and they decided to turn the plane around and bring it back to the airport," Duncan said.The Ministry's secretary (Western relations), Mrs. Shashi Tripathi met Niehe at the South Block and conveyed to him that India had taken the detention of the Indian citizens "very seriously". India has asked its Ambassador in The Hague to submit a detailed report of the incident to the Government for further analysis of the issue. Niehe expressed his regret over the incident and clarified that his government had had nothing to do with the detentions. He said the passengers were arrested after they allegedly behaved in an "unruly" manner and were released after being interrogated. He said that the arrests of the 12 Muslims, who according to eye-witnesses, sported beards and spoke Urdu, had nothing to do with racism. The detainees, who had gone to Tobago on business, have since left for their homes in Mumbai and are expected to reach by Friday night. The detainees and their family, however allege that they were unfairly targeted on racist grounds.Sharma rejected claims that the government had mishandled the issue, saying his officials had acted quickly to get the Indian citizens out of custody within 30 hours of their arrest. He also pointed out that consular access had been provided to them much before the 48 hour time limit stipulated by the Vienna Convention.New Delhi authorities hope a fierce looking primate will solve the problem of mischievous monkeys infilitratring the city's subway system. The Hindustan Times reports that langurs will be used to scare away their smaller cousins. A langur-wallah (or handler) is being paid 6,900 rupees (US$ 167) a month as a retainer and "will be called in whenever there is a monkey problem" says Anuj Dayal of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation. "There are too many monkeys" said Mr. Dayal.  In June, a monkey reportedly crawled through some pipes and into a subway car jumping around and making faces at passengers who were evacuated to another car while staff chased the creature. Delhi is known to suffer from trouble brought on by monkeys. The animals are reported to invade homes, schools and government offices in the city. Scores of animals have moved in as the city expands into surrounding forests. In an effort to control the problem, the Delhi administration captured about 500 monkeys and took them to the outskirts of the city last year.Efforts to salvage the Indonesian naval vessel Arung Samudera from where she ran aground on the Sunshine Coast Queensland, have been delayed due to poor weather conditions.The 35-metre, tri-masted vessel was originally grounded on August 23 in stormy weather at Inskip Point, near Rainbow Beach. A salvage contractor has being brought in to rescue the stricken vessel, her hull is intact and it is believed the ship is in no imminent danger of breaking apart.However, the tall ship did drag its anchors and break its rudder and centreboard during the beaching.Australian Navy Commander Forbes Peters says that although salvage has been postponed until early next week, the vessel will be surveyed today by the salvage firm."To develop a plan for how they would salvage the vessel of the beach, that's going to involve a tugboat pulling the thing off the beach with a longline."The trouble with actually conducting the salvage will be the sea state... Until the weather abates there really will not be able to do much in terms of salvage," he said.The 18-man crew - six officers and 12 sailors - of the New Zealand-built vessel have managed to retrieve their belongings from the ship, and are now expected to be transported to temporary accommodation in local barracks in Bulimba, Brisbane.It is still hoped the ship can be repaired in time for it to attend a summit next month in Sydney, but this to be unlikely. A decision on whether to take her to Brisbane or Gladstone for repairs is expected to be made on Monday.The collision of a freight train with a passenger train just north of Cairo in the town of Shebin al-Qanater.  The accident claimed 5 lives and injured another 30.  It is reported that one of the dead was the engineer of the freight train.In August the director of rail service in Egypt was fired after a similar accident killed 58 people in the town of Qalyoub.  A public inquiry into that accident is underway amid growing criticism of the government for lax rail safety and transport regulation.  Mohammed Mansour, Egypt's new director of transport has agreed that the transportation system is in need of extensive overhauls.  The government has approved $860 million to develop the rail infrastructure, plus another $600 million in loans to private rail operators.An investigation has been commenced by Egypt into the Friday sinking of one of El Salam's passenger ferries in the Red Sea. M/V al-Salam Boccaccio 98 was carrying 1408, including many Egyptians returning from work in Saudi Arabia. The ship left from the port of Dubah in Saudi Arabia enroute to the port of Safaga in Egypt. On the west coast of Saudi Arabia during the night a sandstorm occurred due to high winds.David Osler of  Lloyd's List has said of the ship that "It's a roll-on, roll-off ferry, and there is big question mark over the stability of this kind of ship," he continued and said that "It would only take a bit of water to get on board this ship and it would be all over. ... The percentage of this type of ferry involved in this type of disaster is huge." Mamdouh Ismail, head of Al-Salaam Maritime Transport Company, stated that another one of El Salam's ferries, Saint Catherine received a distress call from one of the lifeboats of the Boccaccio when it arrived in Dubah from Safaga. The Saint Catherine notified its company headquarters, and El Salam reported it to Egyptian authorities.According to a statement given to the Associated Press by Ismail, the ferry was carrying 96 crew members, 1,200 Egyptians, and 112 other passengers. A Transport Ministry spokesman has stated that 314 people have been rescued. More than 185 bodies have been recovered from the sea according to an Egyptian police official who has requested anonymity.Four rescue ships from Egypt arrived Friday afternoon, approximately ten hours after the sinking of the 35-year-old ferry in the night near the Egyptian port of Hurghada. Aid from Britain and the United States was initially refused. Later, both the British HMS Bulwark and the US P3-Orion maritime naval patrol aircraft were recalled, but due to its distance at the later time, the request for the return of the Bulwark was called off by Egypt.At least forty people are reported to have died and another fifty are injured after an accident at a level crossing in Egypt. A truck failed to stop at the crossing near Marsa Matruh, pushing several vehicles waiting ahead of it onto the tracks. The train then struck the traffic that was in the way. Two carriages toppled on top of cars, and two more derailed. Thirty-five died at the scene, and five more were pronounced dead in hospital. The death toll has already risen from twenty after more bodies were recovered.Three vehicles were struck by the service from Matruh to Alexandria, and at least two were crushed underneath it. It is unclear whether the truck was amongst the vehicles hit, or if a bus was involved. A fifth carriage was detached from the train.Heavy equipment has been dispatched to the scene to remove the carriages, and dozens of emergency vehicles are present. It is feared that more bodies remain in the wreckage. It is unclear if the victims are all Egyptian or if anyone from abroad was on the train.An investigation has been launched into the disaster, but a witness said that the level crossing is hidden behind a hill, leaving drivers with little time to react.Eight people are dead and two more are missing and presumed dead after an explosion and fire on a cargo ship undergoing repairs at a naval dockyard in Kaliningrad, Russia.The container ship MV Yenisey was the scene of an explosion while in drydock at about 3:00 p.m. Moscow time (11:00 GMT). Ten people were missing after the explosion. It was confirmed today that the eighth body has been recovered, and the remaining two are thought to be dead as well. Three more were injured.Captain 1st Rank Igor Dygalo, acting as a navy spokesperson, said "Each family of the victims of the fire on the Yenisey civilian vessel will be paid more than a million rubles." This makes their compensation roughly equivalent to US$43,000.Dygolo said that the dockyard, in the closed military town of Baltiysk, near Kaliningrad, had been leased to the Yenisey's St Petersburg owner, a private company, who were conducting the work themselves. He said an investigation has been launched by the navy led by top admiral Vladimir Vysotsky.Vysotski himself has indicated that serious safety legislation breaches concerning welding regulations by both the vessel's owner and the naval dockyard's bosses. He did not go into details, but RIA Novosti claimed that a source at the dockyard said a gas burner applied to the roof of a fuel tank to heat and therefore loosen its bolts had triggered the disaster.Today is an official day of mourning for Kaliningrad Region to mark the deaths.An investigation is currently under way in Argyll, Scotland, following a derailment on the Glasgow – Oban railway.  The incident took place at 2100 BST (2000 UTC) on Sunday, close to the Falls of Cruachan station.  According to reports, both carriages of the derailed unit had also caught fire.  At the location of the incident, the railway line is on an embankment above a local roadway, and the lead car came to rest overhanging this road.All passengers have been successfully evacuated, with eight being taken to hospital with "serious but not life-threatening" injuries. There were no fatalities. A spokesperson for the ambulance service stated soon after the incident: "There's quite a lot of walking wounded. There's a couple of bumps to necks and backs and things like that."The British Transport Police gave a short statement:Inspector David McEwan being quoted as confirming that the lead coach was "sitting in a precarious position overhanging the roadway", and continued "the coach could slip further down the embankment on to the roadway [...] This is obviously a major concern for the engineers at this moment in time."Railway engineers are currently working to stabilise the site, and re-open the line. According to a Scotrail spokesperson "an investigation is already under way into the cause of the incident by appropriate agencies and industry partners".The line between Glasgow and Oban remains closed, with buses to Crianlarich and Oban replacing trains.A Norwegian University of Science and Technology study released Thursday found electric vehicles have a potential for higher eco-toxicity and greenhouse impact than conventional cars. The study includes an examination of the electric car's life cycle as a whole rather than a study of the electric car's environmental impact during the use phase.The researchers conducted a comparison of the environmental impact of electric cars in view of different ratios of green-to-fuel electricity energy sources.  In the case of mostly coal- or oil-based electricity supply, electric cars are disadvantageous compared to classic diesel cars with the greenhouse effect impact being up to two times larger.The researchers found that in Europe, electric cars pose a "10% to 24% decrease in global warming potential (GWP) relative to conventional diesel or gasoline vehicles".The researchers suggest to improve eco-friendliness of electric vehicles by "reducing vehicle production supply chain impacts and promoting clean electricity sources in decision making regarding electricity infrastructure" and using the electric cars for a longer time, so that the use phase plays a more important role in the electric vehicle life cycle.File:Minsk-Metro-Oktyabrskaya-08.jpgEleven people are reported dead and more than a hundred injured after a bomb went off in a Minsk Metro station in Minsk, Belarus on Monday evening.According to witnesses, the explosion happened just after a train entered the Oktyabrskaya station at about 1755 local time (1555 UTC).  The explosion reportedly damaged the station, with a section of the ceiling having collapsed. One witness said: "People are being treated on the spot, some are being taken away, some—those who are conscious and in a more or less normal state—are being helped into ambulances."A police spokesperson said security forces were placed in a state of "heightened alert" after the incident, and the area around the station was closed. President Alexander Lukashenko said police forces are to "turn the country upside down" to determine who was responsible.The cause of the explosion was not immediately clear, though police are saying that terrorist activity was responsible. "We must find out who gained by undermining peace and stability in the country, who stands behind this," Lukashenko said. "Who did not like the stability in Belarus?"At least eleven people have died in a crash between a van and a tractor-trailer on Interstate 65 south of Munfordville, Kentucky. The collision occurred around 5:16 a.m. CDT (1016 UTC) yesterday morning near the 63-mile marker.According to officials the tractor-trailer crossed the median and struck the 18 passenger van head-on. The truck then hit a rock wall and burst into flames. The driver of the truck is reported to have died along with ten passengers in the van.  The family in the van were Mennonites from Kentucky on their way to a wedding in Iowa.Officials said that one infant was killed but two other children in the van aged four and five that were in child restraint seats survived with minor injuries.  Northbound Interstate 65 was to be closed until at least 4 p.m. CDT (2100 UTC) according to the Kentucky Department of Transportation.Twenty-nine persons survived when the engine stopped on a boat near Islanj Island, about 40 kilometers (25 mi) north of Khartoum, the capital of Sudan, on August 4, 2009. Eleven of the forty passengers trying to cross the Nile River drowned when the boat sank."Police said the accident was caused by the severity of the current and the overloading of the boat," a police statement said. "People on the island said they had not seen an incident like it for more than 40 years."Forty farmers, along with their goods, had boarded the boat, overloading it. State ministers from Khartoum, the commissioner of Karrary district, and the police visited Islanj Island following the accident.File:Swan Hill3.jpgEleven people have been killed, and more than 20 injured, when a V/Line passenger train and a semi trailer collided at a level crossing on the Murray Valley Highway in northern Victoria, Australia. At least 13 more are still missing and are believed to be trapped in the wreckage.The collision, which occurred at 1:40 p.m. local time, was approximately 10 km north of the town of Kerang, on the Swan Hill railway line.The train involved in the accident was a service from Swan Hill, which departed at 1:00 p.m. from Swan Hill railway station, and was destined for Melbourne. The train was comprised of a locomotive and three carriages.Witness reports say that the semi-trailer collided into the second of the three carriages, and then detached the third carriage from the remainder of the train and causing it to derail.  The whole side of the second carriage was ripped open from the direct impact of the semi-trailer. The injured have been transferred from the scene to hospitals in the area, including Kerang and Mildura, by ambulance. Helicopters and light aircraft have been used to transfer patients to Melbourne, as local hospitals struggle with the sudden influx of patients. The driver of the semi-trailer has been moved to the hospital in Mildura in "critical condition", according to police at the scene.The train had 39 people on board the 1:00 p.m. service, according to train documents. This included three staff employed by the train operator V/Line, who have all been accounted for and are not injured. Of the 36 passengers on the train, it has been reported that 23 have suffered injuries.Reports say six people were airlifted to Melbourne for treatment, however one has since died. The remaining 17 have been moved to regional hospitals, including the temporary relief centre in Kerang, according to a Rural Ambulance Service spokesperson.Although there are still 13 people unaccounted for, police say it is possible that some had bought tickets and were therefore listed on the train manifest, but did not end up catching the service.Premier of Victoria Steve Bracks is expected to fly to the crash scene this evening. He has ordered a full investigation into the incident. Federal Minister for Transport Mark Vaile has offered Federal government assistance from the Australian Transport Safety Bureau to help with the investigation. The Prime Minister John Howard has offered the Victorian government any additional aid that is requires in the aftermath of this incident.Yesterday, Elizabeth II officially surpassed her great-great-grandmother Victoria, to become the longest-serving monarch of the United Kingdom. Victoria was queen for much of the 19th century, with a grand total of 23,226 days, 16 hours, and 23 minutes. However, the precise moment in time when Elizabeth reached her milestone remains a mystery because it isn't known for certain exactly what time the Queen's father and predecessor, George VI, passed away.The milestone was the subject of widespread praise from around the world including Kamalesh Sharma, the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth of Nations, of which Elizabeth is ceremonial head. British Prime Minister David Cameron said that her reign was "truly humbling" and had been a "golden thread" for British society in the post-war era. He was joined by members of both the House of Commons and the House of Lords. The occasion was also marked in London by a flotilla proceeding down the River Thames. Buckingham Palace unveiled photographs taken by Mary McCartney, daughter of musician Sir Paul, in which the Queen was sitting in the room where she meets the Prime Minister on a weekly basis.However, the Queen was not present in London because she is currently on holiday in Scotland. She appeared to underplay the significance of the day, only briefly mentioning it whilst attending the opening of a restored railway line in the Scottish Borders region. Accompanied by her husband, Prince Philip, and Nicola Sturgeon, the First Minister of Scotland, she met crowds of admirers who had turned out in force to welcome her. The First Minister emphasised the Queen's "dedication, wisdom and exemplary sense of public service".Sikorsky S92A helicopters are expected to be grounded until the mounting stud on the main gearbox filter bowl are changed. Following examination of the wreckage from a Canadian helicopter crash, the United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is developing an emergency safety directive for operators of similar Sikorsky helicopters to change titanium studs to steel studs before any S-92A helicopters can take to the air again.Cougar Helicopters Flight 91 crashed into the north Atlantic Ocean last Friday, March 13, killing 17 of the 18 people on board. All bodies were recovered Tuesday and they have been released by the coroner to their families. The voice and flight data recorders have been retrieved and are in good condition. They have been sent to Ottawa for examination by aviation officials.Mr. Robert Decker was the only survivor and has not recovered enough to speak with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP). "Mr. Decker was back in the fuselage and what happened during the occurrence, happened in the cockpit and Mr. Decker wouldn't be privy to that. But on the issue of survivability, he may be able to help with that," said Dave Cunningham, of the Transportation Safety Board.A review of immersion suit standards of the two year old suits worn during this trip is being called for by the Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador, Danny Williams. Williams is also urging for a review of offshore safety procedures, including placement of search and rescue aircraft closer to the capital.  The final report on the crash will take about a year to compile, however Cunningham will speak to the media at the end of next week.The United States Federal Aviation Administration has issued an emergency Airworthiness Directive to all owners and operators of certain Next Generation Boeing 737s to inspect their aircraft in light of recent developments in the investigation of the recent China Airlines explosion.The measures have been imposed due to the discovery that a structural bolt in the aircraft that exploded had come loose and punched a hole in the aircraft's right wing fuel tank.It is thought the bolt came loose after a worker failed to replace a washer after a routine maintenance procedure several months prior to the accident.Boeing spokesman Jim Proulx said "This was determined to be an issue of flight safety... It's very, very important."Operators must complete an initial inspection of the wing slat assemblies of the affected aircraft in ten days, and must ensure the fasteners are properly torqued within 24 days. They must then repeat the inspections every 3,000 flight cycles thereafter. The directive is believed to affect over 2,000 aircraft worldwide.According to officials, an Airbus A340 jetliner registered to the Emirates airline struck its tail upon the runway as it took off from Melbourne Airport in Melbourne, Australia Saturday. More than 225 people were on board.Flight EK407, which had departed for Dubai, United Arab Emirates, had to circle around the airport for 45 minutes, dumping fuel, before making an emergency landing.There were no reports of injuries, although some of the runway lights were knocked out during the incident."It [the aeroplane] took off very steeply, the tail touched the end of the runway, and it went up, stabilised and came back," a Melbourne Airport spokesman told the Agence France-Presse news agency.One passenger, Catherine Edmunds, described the event at terrifying while speaking to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation."We did land successfully, thankfully, and the plane was surrounded by paramedics and fire engines. It was terrifying," Edmunds said. "I'd hate to go through it again."The Emirates airline stated that they had dispatched a safety team to Melbourne to investigate the accident.Aviation authorities from Australia also launched their own investigation. Ian Brokenshire, a spokesman for the Australian Transport Safety Bureau, announced that "we will be looking at the flight data records, getting data off that, interviewing the crew, interviewing the company representatives, inspecting the runway and aircraft."The plane's passengers were given alternate flights to Dubai.A fire broke out earlier today at an Airlines ramp control tower at the Miami International Airport. The building is currently being constructed. The fire is believed to have been sparked by hot roofing tar that spilled. The building is part of an expansion at the airport.There fire is confined to the upper deck of the tower. There are no reports of flight delays because of the fire.According to the chief of the agency investigating the Turkish Airlines aeroplane crash at Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport in the Netherlands yesterday, engine trouble may have been a factor in the accident.Addressing Dutch state television, chairman of the Dutch Safety Board Pieter van Vollenhoven said that the way the aircraft dropped from the air suggests that the engines may have failed. "If you then lose speed, you then literally fall out of the sky," he said. However, he noted that the reason for the apparent engine failure had not yet been established.Van Vollenhoven said that the analysis of the aeroplane's flight data recorders could be finished as early as Tuesday, but added that the Dutch Safety Board would most likely not disclose any preliminary findings until next week.Fred Sanders, a spokesman for the board, said that the damage to the aircraft corroborated witness accounts that the plane impacted with the ground tail-down."This may indicate that the plane had lost its forward momentum, that there was no motor function," he said, adding that it may be be a long time before a full explanation of the accident is available. "We will have an official finding probably in about a year, but we should be able to give an interim finding within weeks," he said.Nine people were killed and 86 injured on Wednesday when a Boeing 737-800 with 135 people on board registered to Turkish Airlines crashed just short of the runway in a farmer's field near Schiphol Airport.The departure from France of the new Airbus A380 superjumbo airliner on a tour of Asia and Australia has been delayed, leading to a rearrangement of its public appearances. Citing "a precautionary measure", Airbus announced that two of the Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines on the prototype airliner would be replaced before the tour commenced.Singapore will remain the airliner's first stop, where Singapore Airlines will display the aircraft they intend to launch into passenger-carrying service in November 2006. It is expected that the Airbus 380 will wear the livery of Singapore Airlines when it arrives on November 11, three days later than originally planned.The massive airliner will then bypass the planned stop in Malaysia, and fly directly to Sydney, then Melbourne and Brisbane as part of the leadup to Qantas' 85th birthday celebrations on November 16. Qantas plans to commence A380 operations starting in April 2007. The Malaysia visit will be rescheduled for November 17, occurring during the return flight to France.It is unclear whether the originally planned Australian tour dates can be kept, and sources indicate that the airliner's first stop in Brisbane, on November 11, maybe eliminated in favour of a brief appearance on November 16.Very early Wednesday morning, an engineer was killed while working at Waterloo station in the British capital London. Emergency services received the call at about 2:20 a.m. local time (0120 UTC), according to British Transport Police (BTP), but the man was found dead at the scene. He was working on a travelator — a moving walkway — at the station when the incident occurred.Waterloo station is in central London and is part of the London Underground mass transit system. London Ambulance Service and London Fire Brigade were the first responders and already there when BTP arrived, by BTP's report. The man was a 44-year-old contract worker from Cambridgeshire, England.The travelator allows passengers to transfer between the Northern and Jubilee lines of the Underground. Transport for London (TfL) told morning rush-hour passengers to take a longer way around instead of the travelator.BTP started an investigation of the death, which they treated as not suspicious but unexplained. Detective Inspector Darren Gough said, "This is a truly tragic incident, and our deepest condolences are with the man’s family." An official from TfL stated: "We are working with colleagues in the British Transport Police following an incident at Waterloo station in the early hours of this morning."The mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, gave his condolences via Twitter, adding, "An urgent enquiry into what happened is underway to ensure it cannot happen again."Twenty six people took an organised outing by rail this weekend to a little used station in North East England, in an effort to highlight its poor rail service. The trip was organised by Alex Nelson, the stationmaster of the nearby independent Chester-le-Street railway station. He wanted to raise the profile of the little used Teesside Airport railway station, which serves Durham Tees Valley Airport (known as Teesside Airport until 2006).The station, which is on the Tees Valley Line and served by Northern Rail, is one of the least used stations in the country, and is in the bottom five of national rankings of passenger visits.  Figures for 2007–8 year showed that only 52 people used the station in that period, which only has one timetabled train calling in each direction, on Saturdays only.  In the current timetable, a train calls at the airport station from the Darlington direction at 10.28am, while later a second train calls in the opposite direction, leaving at 1.41pm.By organising a group of people to travel on this service at the weekend, Mr Nelson hoped to raise the officially recorded passenger numbers for the station, and to highlight the poor rail service to the region's airport. He also hoped to persuade rail authorities to move the station, which is little more than a halt, 500 metres closer to the airport terminal. The present station is, according to Mr Nelson, "a good 15-minute walk from the airport terminal" building.Nelson said:"They haven’t closed the station because it is incredibly difficult to do so – you have to go through all manner of consultations and government acts, instead they run the minimal service which is no use to anybody. We say that if a station is going to be there it may as well be of some use to the public"Mr Nelson was originally hoping for 50 people to take the trip, organised as an outing from Chester-le-Street station to the airport station and back, changing en-route at Darlington railway station.Ethiopian Airlines Flight 409, scheduled to fly from Beirut, Lebanon, to Addis Ababa, Ethiopia crashed into the Mediterranean Sea shortly after taking off Monday morning. Ethiopian Airlines report 83 people on board.Flight ET409, a Boeing 737, was set to leave at 2:10 am local time, but was delayed until 2:35. The passenger plane took off in stormy conditions, and it disappeared from radar five minutes later. Eyewitnesses reported a ball of fire as the plane went down. Debris has already been seen off the Lebanese coast.Rescue efforts are underway amid continuing heavy rains. However, it is unknown if there are any survivors. Among the passengers are 23 Ethiopian, 51 Lebanese, 1 Turkish, 1 French, 2 British, 1 Russian, 1 Canadian, 1 Syrian, 1 Iraqi nationals. The French embassy also stated that the wife of the French ambassador to Lebanon was on board.Lebanon's Transport Minister Ghazi al-Aridi said that the crash site "has been identified three-and-a-half km west of the village of Na'ameh".File:Angela Merkel SJ8.jpgEuropean Union leaders on the second day of their summit have agreed on measures to decrease emission of greenhouse gases and to start using more biological fuels. The governments of the 27 countries in Brussels  endorsed 3 main binding targets:to reduce greenhouse gas emission levels by the year 2020 by 20% compared to the level of 1990renewable energy should make up 20% of energy consumption by 2020a 10% share for biofuels in the total consumption of fuels in E.U. transport.This way, the E.U. wants to contribute in reaching the strategic goal of limiting the global average temperature increase to less than 2°C above pre-industrial levels. The individual targets for countries will need to be established based on national starting points and potentials, according to the plan. The plans don't mention an enforcement mechanism yet.In the summit's conclusions, the E.U. underlines its ambitions as a leading force in international climate protection. German Chancellor Angela Merkel called the targets "ambitious and credible". Europe is prepared to even increase the objectives if other developed countries follow suit, and it invites other countries to come forward with their plans for the environment beyond 2012, when the Kyoto protocol ends. In June, Merkel plans to discuss the measures with the other members on the Group of Eight summit.The proposal takes into account the sovereignty of individual countries to determine exactly which energy sources they use. More specifically, each member state should decide if they wish to use nuclear power or not. Some countries oppose the use of nuclear energy as an alternative to fossil fuels, and Germany is even in the process of dismantling its nuclear energy production. France on the other hand produces 70% of its electricity in nuclear power plants. [13% of France's total energy consumption is nuclear.] The report also stresses the importance of nuclear safety in the discussion over nuclear energy.The summit also asked the European Commission to come up with proposals to reduce energy consumption in lighting and offices by 2008 and 2009. The idea is to replace conventional light bulbs with more energy-efficient alternatives such as the energy saving light bulb.Another energy-related topic in the conclusions is an agreement on increased security of energy supply. Through member state solidarity and a more interconnected and integrated market, eastern European countries hope to secure their energy supplies in case Russia would cut the supply.During their two-days summit, the E.U. also discussed economic growth, employment, better regulations and international relations issues.EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot on Wednesday banned 92 airlines, some planes of which he described as "flying coffins," from landing at European airports, declaring them unsafe by international standards. "This blacklist will keep dubious airlines out of Europe," Barrot said. "It will also make sure that all airlines operating in Europe's skies meet the highest safety standards."The airlines categorically banned are:Air Koryo (Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea)Air Service (Comores)Ariana Afghan Airlines (Afghanistan)BGB Air (Kazakhstan)GST Aero Air Company (Kazakhstan)Phoenix Aviation (Kyrghizstan)Phuket Airlines (Thailand)Reem Air (Kyrghizstan)Silverback Cargo Freighters (Rwanda)All air carriers certified in the Democratic Republic of CongoThe full list can be found at the EU website (PDF).The European Union banned all of Indonesia's air carriers yesterday, none of which presently operate services to Europe, as well as several from Russia, Ukraine and Angola. They are the latest additions to the already extensive List of air carriers banned in the EU. The ban is scheduled to come into effect on July 6. Just hours after the ban a Boeing 737 operated by one of the blacklisted airlines, TAAG Angola Airlines, crashed into a house during landing, causing at least six fatalities in Northern Angola.Indonesia currently has 51 airlines, having grounded several and revoked the licences of others on June 25. The EU said that substandard maintenance and operation and a slow reaction by Indonesia to solve the problem were the main causes of the ban. EU holidaymakers who have booked flights with banned airlines via travel agents will be refunded for the services. EU transport commissioner Jacques Barrot said of the ban "Once more, the EU blacklist will prove to be an essential tool not only to prevent unsafe airlines from flying to Europe and to inform passengers travelling worldwide, but also to make sure that airlines and civil aviation authorities take appropriate actions to improve safety."Operations and safety editor at Flight International David Learmount commented that Indonesia, whose airline industry was deregulated the early 1990s, is one of a handful of cases where deregulation has lowered safety standards instead of improving them, saying of the move by the EU "Standards in aviation safety have been going up dramatically on a worldwide basis, but there are still places where they are [of the standards of] the 70s and 80s. In Indonesia the safety watchdog was told earlier this year to pull its socks up, but the EU is clearly convinced that it has not done so." One unnamed EU official was reported by The Guardian to have described Indonesia's civil aviation authority as "not very reliable", referring to a lack of reaction to warnings of an imminent ban and requests that Indonesia reassured officials that the problem was being dealt with. Indonesia has responded to the ban by saying that, according to information unseen by the EU, Indonesian safety standards are rising. Director-general of civil aviation at the Indonesian transport ministry Budhi Mulyawan Suyitno told Reuters new agency that, "Our data can show them that we have improved on every line. The US had already downgraded Indonesia's safety rating earlier this year.Also affected by the bans are Ukraine's Volare Aviation, while Russia has imposed bans on four of its airlines after consulting the EU and restricted six others, Bulgaria has revoked the licences of six cargo airlines and Moldova has banned eight airlines.Meanwhile, Pakistan International Airlines, subject of a controversial EU ban earlier this year, had restrictions on some of its aircraft lifted. The airline's fleet of Boeing 777s and some of their Boeing 747s and Airbus 310s will now be allowed back into European airspace.The announcements come after three accidents involving Indonesian airliners - the New Year's Day crash of Adam Air Flight 574, which killed 102 people, the subsequent accident involving Adam Air Flight 172, which cracked in half on a hard landing but held together, preventing serious injury, and the March crash of state-run Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, which claimed 23 lives. All the accidents involved ageing Boeing 737 aircraft.The European Union has maintained its ban on all 51 of Indonesia's airlines on the grounds of safety concerns. The Indonesian foreign ministry, which had earlier believed its plan to "fast-track" safety improvements for three airlines would see them back in the EU by July's end, suggested that the ban may have political overtones.Indonesia had implemented a program to bring state-owned flag carrier Garuda Indonesia up to EU standards, as well as private rivals Mandala Airlines and Airfast. This received a boost in May when Garuda passed a safety audit by the International Air Transport Association."Indonesian authorities have still not developed and implemented an efficient oversight program on any of the carriers under their regulatory control," said the EU's Air Safety Committee upon rejection of the three airlines' request for permission to return to the EU. It was added that Indonesia had no effective oversight program and that the International Civil Aviation Organisation had been unable to assess recent changes. The committee also noted that inspectors did not have the power to ground substandard aircraft and urged Indonesia to increase inspections themselves. A report from the Indonesian director-general of civil aviation said that, between January and April, Garuda performed just nine of 56 mandatory surveys, while Mandala conducted only two out of 27.The committee acknowledged some improvement by the three airlines, but was unanimous in rejecting their request to have the ban lifted.Teuku Faizasyah, spokesman for the Indonesian foreign ministry, expressed disappointment at the result and questioned the reasoning behind it. "We are disappointed with the prolonging of the ban. We've done some improvements so we do hope that those actions taken could be considered," he told reporters. "The way we see it, the EU always puts their actions (in terms of) technicality issues. But we question if there are political motivations behind the decision."The ban was implemented in 2007 following deregulation in the 1990s that triggered a string of aviation accidents. On New Year's Day 2007, 102 people were killed when an Adam Air Boeing 737 crashed into the ocean near Sulawesi. This was followed in March by a Garuda 737 overshooting the runway at Yogyakarta Internataional Airport with 21 fatalities.Adam Air has since been grounded, while on Thursday Captain Marwoto Komar, pilot of the Garuda jet, went on trial charged with a range of possible offences, the most serious of which could see him imprisoned for life.Aviation experts are warning that air traffic across western Europe may continue to be affected by an Icelandic volcano, which has been billowing clouds of ash and spreading it throughout the region.Experts say that the Eyjafjallajökull volcano, located in Iceland, continues to have "sporadic eruptions"; dark ash clouds have been moving south and east of the area, causing mass flight cancellations all over Europe, spanning from the UK to Russia over fears that the soot may be catastrophic to planes - such as causing engines to fail in-flight or severely reducing the pilot's visibility.The ash clouds are drifting between six to nine thousand meters above the ground, and are moving eastwards, over northern France and Austria and towards Russia at about 40 kilometers per hour.Already, thousands of passengers have been left stranded around the world, unable to travel to and from various points in Europe. The continent's air-traffic control center predicted 17,000 flights to have been cancelled on Friday alone, and indicated there would be further disruption today. The cancellations are costing airlines about US$200 million daily, the International Air Transport Association reports.A global association of air traffic control companies commented that ash clouds would probably continue to affect flights for some time. "The knock-on effect of the volcanic ash plume over northern Europe is likely to disrupt European airspace for several days," the Civil Air Navigation Services Organization said in a statement. "Traffic will have to be reorganized and rerouted and flights preplanned, all on a dynamic and quite unpredictable basis.""The skies are totally empty over northern Europe," said Eurocontrol's deputy head, Bryan Flynn. The agency said more than half of Europe's average 28,000 daily flights were cancelled yesterday, twice as many as were called off on Thursday.In a special report, Wikinews takes a look at how different countries have been affected by this event.Some of Europe's airlines and airports have called into question whether the mass restrictions imposed on the continent's airspace, due to volcanic ash in the area, are necessary. Millions of travellers have been stranded by the cancellations; however, some airlines have made test flights to see if there were any immediate effects on jets after flying through ash. Authorities fear that the ash can cause vital aircraft parts, such as the engines, to fail in-flight.Three large airlines — KLM, Air France, and Lufthansa — have already made test flights.  Ulrich Schulte-Strathaus, the head of the Association of European Airlines (AEA), commented: "Verification flights undertaken by several of our airlines have revealed no irregularities at all; this confirms our requirement that other options should be deployed to determine genuine risk."KLM, meanwhile, said that it will allow three freight planes to make flights to Asia, and had transferred seven passenger planes from Duesseldorf, Germany to Amsterdam, without any travellers."We observed no irregularities either during the flight or during the initial inspection on the ground. We hope to receive permission as soon as possible after that to start up our operation and to transport our passengers to their destinations." said KLM chief executive Peter Hartman.ACI Europe and the AEA also commented about the issue in a statement: "While Europe's airlines and airports consider safety to be an absolute priority, they are questioning the proportionality of the flight restrictions currently imposed." "Airlines must be able to fly where it is safe to fly and make decisions accordingly. It is what our passengers demand of us."Airport closures and cancellations are estimated to be costing airlines about US$200 million daily, the International Air Transport Association reports.The operations control head for Eurocontrol, Brian Flynn, rebuffed notions that aviation officials were being too cautious, describing the issue as an "unknown phenomenon". "With the over-riding objective of protecting the travelling public, these exceptional measures have to be taken," he remarked. "[...] As soon as we are able to, with confidence, and when I say we, I mean the entire community of aviation experts [and] aviation authorities, are able to declare parts of the air space and airports open that will be done."Hundreds of thousands of air travelers had their travel plans disrupted in Europe by volcanic ash from the Eyjafjallajökull eruption.Tens of thousands of air travelers were stranded when all flights into and out of the United Kingdom were grounded, as it became one of the first nations to be affected. The grounding was even more extensive than that following the September 11 attacks of 2001 when only trans-Atlantic flights were canceled.Eurocontrol released a statement saying "...most air traffic in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, Norway and Sweden is suspended."The grounding is because the volcanic ash drawn into the jet stream is of a particle size which allows it to remain aloft in the atmosphere. Ingestion of this foreign matter, because of its distribution, would lead to flame outs in all aircraft engines. The composition of the ash also means that it would first melt into glass if it were to enter the engine of an aircraft before solidifying again as it cooled. This could lead to damage to the compressors and fan blades, which would make it impossible to restart the engines, even if the aircraft were to exit the cloud. The current contingency is informed by the experience of British Airways Flight 9, which on June 24, 1982 suffered just such complete engine flame outs when it flew through the plume of Mount Galunggung in Indonesia.  In that case, the flight crew after many efforts was able to restart the engines, though one failed shortly after, and the aircraft landed without casualties.The UK National Air Traffic Services (NATS) has stated that "restrictions will remain in place in UK controlled airspace until 1300 (UK time) tomorrow, Friday 16 April, at the earliest," and that "We will review further Met Office information and at 0230 (UK time) tomorrow we will advise the arrangements that will be in place through to 1800 (UK time) tomorrow." The NATS statement concluded "...the situation cannot be said to be improving". In addition to Northern Europe, the ash is drifting south; Berlin and Hamburg airports in Germany are closed, and airports in the Netherlands, Belgium and Northern France are described as now being closed or closing.  Some flights from Spain and Portugal, together with upwards of 4,000 flights across Northern Europe, have been affected, and the knock-on effect of aircraft and crews out of position could disrupt air travel worldwide for up to 72 hours.One affected group are British musicians booked to play at this weekend's Coachella Festival in California. Amongst those stranded are Frightened Rabbit, Gary Numan, The Cribs and Bad Lieutenant.The European Commission (EC) has approved yesterday a takeover of loss-making UK airline bmi from Lufthansa by International Airlines Group (IAG), owner of British Airways (BA). IAG will have to make concessions after Virgin Atlantic told the EC the deal would be anti-competitive.The deal is set to cost IAG, who also own Iberia, £172.5 million. That value could fall as budget subsidiary bmibaby may be retained by Lufthansa or sold elsewhere, and IAG are reported to be primarily interested in the main bmi business. A regional subsidiary also exists.IAG intends to use acquired slots at the busy Heathrow Airport, which serves London, to expand their own routes into Asia. The EC required IAG to surrender a number of flight slots at the airport. The slots surrendered or made available for lease are for use to destinations in Scotland, France, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Russia. The EC also insisted that combined BA/bmi routing be made available for competitors to buy transfer seats upon.Lufthansa intended to shut down bmi had the bid failed. The transaction is presently scheduled for completion April 20.IAG boss Willie Walsh called the sale "great news for Britain" with results that are "good for UK business and UK consumers." Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson had previously said the move would give BA excessive dominance on Scottish flights. More Heathrow slots earmarked for Scotland have been given up than any other destination.Ryanair took the opportunity to claim only their own takeover bid for Aer Lingus has been a major EC casualty. "Today's rubber-stamping of BA's purchase of bmi shows yet again that the EC has one rule for Europe's flag-carriers, but different rules for Ryanair", said Ryanair chief Michael O'Leary.On Wednesday, the European Parliament approved the "Single European Sky II" legislation that will lead to the creation of a single European airspace. The single European airspace will result in "more efficient rules, leading to shorter flights, fewer delays and reduced fuel consumption". In turn, this should result in fewer CO2 emissions and cheaper ticket prices. Implementation should be completed by 2012.Currently the European airspace consists of 650 parts with 60 different control centers and 27 air traffic control (ATC) zones. International flights have to switch between national air traffic control zones, also known as "blocks", when they enter another country. This leads to delays and bottlenecks, causing airplanes to consume more fuel.Euro parliamentarian Corien Wortmann stated that "the EU countries have stepped on the break for years in creating a European airspace, because they wanted to keep influence over their own airspace. Luckily that resistance is now broken." ((translated from Dutch))Dutch language: ‍De EU-landen hebben jarenlang op de rem gestaan bij de vorming van een Europees luchtruim, omdat ze eigen zeggenschap over hun luchtruim wilde houden. Gelukkig is die weerstand nu doorbroken. Euro parliamentarian Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert agrees: "Everyone agrees - in theory - that this is important for security, efficiency, reliability, cost reduction, capacity improvement en durability. But self-interest of organizations and countries appeared often more important." ((translated from Dutch))Dutch language: ‍Iedereen is het er - in theorie - over eens dat dit van belang is voor veiligheid, efficiëntie, betrouwbaarheid, kostenverlaging, capaciteitsverbetering en duurzaamheid. Maar zelfbelang van organisaties en landen bleek soms vaak belangrijker.Benefits for the aviation industry over the next ten years are estimated at €2 to 3 billion. CO2 emissions should be cut with approximately 16 million tonnes.As a first step the airspace of Germany, France, The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Switzerland will be combined. The European transport ministers are expected to approve the legislation at the end of March.Eurostar train services which link the United Kingdom with Europe via the Channel Tunnel have moved to a new London terminal. The first services from St Pancras International launched today following the completion of the Channel Tunnel Rail Link which promises to reduce journey times to Europe by 20 minutes.The Channel Tunnel Rail Link, to be branded as High Speed 1, has been built in two phases; the first section was completed in 2003 and the second section was brought into use today. Eurostar chief executive Richard Brown said: "Today marks a new dawn for short-haul travel in Europe. Our move to St Pancras makes Eurostar even more accessible to travellers across Britain. We will carry passengers with greater speed, ease and reliability than ever before, and our travellers will have the extra reassurance of knowing that they are making far less environmental impact compared with flying." Waterloo railway station, the previous international London terminal, will be returned to domestic use following the move to St Pancras.Bruce McCaffrey, who was formerly the vice-president in charge of freight operations in the United States for Australian flag carrier Qantas, has been sentenced to eight months imprisonment and fined US$21,000 by the US Department of Justice (DoJ) for his involvement in a major air cargo price fixing cartel.McCaffrey is one of six past and present employees of the airline who have been charged over the arrangement, which is thought to have run for six years starting in 2000. He is also the first individual to be sentenced regarding the cartel. He, as well as Stephen Cleary, group general manager for freight in Sydney, Harold Pang, general manager for freight sales in Singapore, Peter Frampton, former group general manager for freight, John Cooper former general manager for freight sales and Desmond Church, a former freight employee, were all charged after being exempt from immunity granted in a plea bargain by Qantas in which the airline paid a US$61 million fine. In Australia price fixing is not actually a criminal offense, so former head of freight Peter Frampton and three other staff members in Australia will not be extradited to face charges. Meanwhile, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission is seeking admittances of guilt from airlines whose operations fall under its jurisdiction in exchange for lighter penalties. Qantas is amongst those airlines.The cartel, which prevented competition in air freight shipments rates, is said to involve almost thirty airlines. As well as Qantas, Japan Airlines, British Airways, Korean Air and Lufthansa have all had their involvement confirmed. Whistleblower Lufthansa, a German airline, was granted immunity from prosecution in exchange for exposing the operation. In August, British Airways and Korean Air pled guilty to their involvement and received fines of US$300 million each. Last month Japan Airlines also admitted to their role and paid a US$110 million fine. Amongst the others alleged to be involved are Air New Zealand, Singapore Airlines and Cathay Pacific. Hundreds of Australian businesses are involved in a class action suit against these seven airlines for AU$200 million that they believe was unfairly charged to them as a result of criminal activity.McCarthy, who ran Qantas's Australia-US cargo route for twenty years, entered a plea bargain with the authorities. Under the US Sherman Act he could have faced up to a US$1.06 million fine and up to 10 years imprisonment, but the DoJ says that the maximum fine could actually be double the gain from the offences committed or double the loss of those victimised if either were found to be higher than the normal maximum. According to the case, he was involved with "meetings, conversations and communications in the US and elsewhere to discuss the cargo rates to be charged on certain routes to and from the US".In light of the news, shares in Qantas fell 3¢ to AU$3.41.The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced on Sunday that a NextGen airspace upgrade for the Washington, D.C. metro area would be in place in time for the holiday travel week. The FAA said this will improve the efficiency of air travel in this area.U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx said this upgrade highlights the difference the federal government is making in air travel. He also said this upgrade will improve on-time performance and reduce fuel consumption and emissions.FAA administrator Michael Huerta said with the busy holiday travel season approaching, it is important to get travelers to their destination safely and on time.The D.C. metroplex now includes three Optimized Profile Descents (OPDs) that allow aircraft to descend smoothly to the airport, as opposed to a staircase-style decent. This reduces fuel burn during decent because every time an aircraft levels off, it needs to burn more fuel for each step in the descent. The FAA said it will benefit three major airports in the area: Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport (DCA), Dulles International Airport (IAD), and Baltimore–Washington International Airport (BWI). In a video describing the OPDs in D.C., Brian Townsend, a tech pilot and captain for American Airlines, said this gliding down approach will be more environmentally friendly than the traditional approach.This initiative at the D.C. metroplex involves collaboration by United, Southwest, and American Airlines and some labor unions, and is also an effort to improve efficiency for aircraft arriving and taking off from surrounding airports such as Joint Base Andrews, Richmond International Airport, and other small airports in this region. The agency announced yesterday it has finished the work for the NextGen system in D.C.  NextGen is a replacement for the ground-radar-based system that has been in operation since World War Two. They also completed a NextGen metroplex project in North Texas last week. The NextGen system is expected to cost billions of dollars to implement and the FAA funding is expected to expire in late 2015. Lawmakers, however, are holding hearings to possibly extend the funding window next year.NASA is also conducting studies of the NextGen System. Researchers are using a brand new laboratory to test NextGen's operations with simulated flights. They plan also to put unmanned aerial vehicles into the National Airspace System.According to the National Weather Service, a storm system originating over the Gulf of Mexico flowing to the Northeast region of the U.S. may affect travel this week, bringing heavy snow, rain, and winds.File:Busca voo Air France 447 1.jpgTeams from France and Brazil have confirmed that neither have recovered any debris from Air France Flight 447. The Airbus A330 with 228 on board vanished from radar on June 1st over the Atlantic Ocean.The Brazilian Air Force had previously released a statement on June 2 saying debris from the lost jet had been found. A wooden cargo pallet and two buoys had been recovered, but are now believed to have been from a ship. The flight was carrying no wooden pallets. On June 2, it was reported, and previously confirmed by the Brazilian Air Force, that one seat and a life vest were found floating in the water. A fuel slick also thought to be from the plane, has also been confirmed to have come from another source, most likely a ship. The presence of fuel was used as evidence to suggest there had been no fire or explosion on board. Spanish paper El Mundo has quoted an Air Comet pilot flying over the Atlantic at the time as saying he witnessed "an intense burst of white light" falling out of the sky and breaking apart. A bomb threat, which later turned out to be "false", was also reported on a separate Air France flight from Buenos Aires, Argentina to Paris on May 27, just days before Fight 447 went missing.  The French Bureau of Enquiry and Analysis for Civil Aviation Safety (BEA) is leading the investigation, and has so far established that there were thunderstorms in the area and a series of automated signals from the plane indicated an inconsistent speed and a string of systems failures.At 11:10 p.m. the autopilot disengaged and at least one computer switched to an alternative power source. There was an indication that flight control systems had sustained damage, and this was followed by the failure of speed, heading and altitude indicators as well as flight control systems, while control systems for the central computer system and wing spoilers also failed. Four minutes after the problems began the last message indicated total electrical failure and a loss of cabin pressure.French armed forces spokesman Christophe Prazuck commented that "Everyone has doubts about everything at the moment and we do not have the slightest beginnings of an answer yet." French paper Le Monde commented that the aircraft's speed was too low, prompting the BEA to warn against "hasty interpretation or speculation" in regards to the cause. Airbus have reminded all A330 operators of correct operating procedures in extreme weather conditions.France has sent the research ship Pourquoi Pas? to the scene and the vessel is currently en route with mini-submarines to assist in searching for and recovering debris. The search is still underway for the plane's cockpit voice and flight data recorders, or black boxes. Brazilian officials previously said the boxes could be at the bottom of the ocean, between "2,000 or 3,000 metres [6,500 to 9,800 feet] in that area of the ocean."A fire on a train last night in Bedfordshire, England, may have been started deliberately in a suicide attempt. The  British Transport Police has told Wikinews the incident "is not being treated as an accident". One female passenger, who is believed to have started the fire in a lavatory cubicle, was killed.No-one else was injured in the accident, but it led to the closure of the critical West Coast Main Line after emergency services attended the scene. The train was approaching Leighton Buzzard when smoke was seen coming from the washroom. "A passenger reported the fire to a conductor," a spokesperson for London Midland said. "All the other passengers got off safely."Witnesses said the blaze broke out on a rush hour train travelling to London from Northampton. "The smoke was so thick it got onto your chest," one 68-year-old said. "The fire, police and ambulance service were here very quickly." The fire caused severe rail disruption as the line was closed while electric cables running along the track were turned off to protect emergency workers at the site of the incident. Passengers have criticised London Midland for how they handled the incident. "People would have been more understanding if we knew how bad the fire was [and] that the power was off," one passenger, giving his name as Wai, wrote on the the social networking site Twitter. Another, Ross Lankshear, wrote: "It's very frustrating when you are waiting 1 hour then told trains are running but the staff are in the wrong place."London Midland told Wikinews they were attempting to restore rail services on the West Coast Main Line. "We apologise to those passengers disrupted by this tragic incident," they said. "London Midland tickets were accepted by other operators and buses used as rail replacement services." They said service on the line was resumed at 7.30pm.Christopher Soghoian, 24, a doctoral student in information security at Indiana University, released a boarding pass generator for Northwest Airlines on October 25th.  In the release, he stated that it demonstrates flaws in airport security and the no-fly list.A few days later, on October 27th, Soghoian was visited by the FBI who told him to take down the site.  Soghoian complied with the FBI request.  However, the FBI then raided his apartment that evening; apparently due to lack of a warrant during the first visit.Representative Ed Markey (D-Mass.) had called for Soghoian to be arrested in October.Fake boarding passes are quite easy to create in Microsoft Word; assuming you have access to a old boarding pass for comparison.  Indeed, Amnesty International has created a similarly passable fake boarding pass for their AirTorture fundraising site. In February 2005, Senator Charles Schumer noticed this loophole in no-fly list.  He urged the TSA to "check every passenger's ID against the passenger's face and his boarding pass and ticket", as has been done immediately after the September 11th attacks.  TSA declined to follow the senator's recommendation.Mirrors of the fake boarding pass generator are available online.One hundred and thirty three people were injured, nineteen of them seriously, when two high-speed ferries travelling between Hong Kong and Macau collided in heavy fog on Friday. Ten crew members were also injured but no deaths have been reported.The two high-speed Boeing 929 - 100 Jetfoil hydrofoil ferries, Funchal and Santa Maria operated by Hong Kong-based ShunTak-China Travel Ship Management Limited (under the brand name TurboJet), collided five nautical miles away from Macau at around 8:30 p.m. local time. The incident has been confirmed by an official of the Maritime Administration of the Macau Special Administrative Region. In Shangai, a river ferry carrying twenty two people capsized in thick fog on Friday. Ten people are reported missing. Sixty six people were rescued after another ferry ran aground at Zhuhai near Macau.A ferry caught fire near Jakarta, Indonesia this morning. The National Disaster Mitigation Agency said at least 23 had died and at least seventeen remain missing.The Zahro Express caught fire shortly after leaving Muara Angke port in Jakarta. It was heading to Tidung Island, in the Kepulauan Seribu chain. Police said the fire began in the engine area. A manifest listed 100 passengers, but officials estimated over 200 were on board. Sumarsono, acting governor of Jakarta, dismissed suggestions the vessel was overloaded. Its blackened wreckage was towed back to Muara Angke.Rescuers continue to search for bodies. As of earlier today, nine of the injured remained in hospital. Three bodies have been identified as Jaksen Wilhelmus, Masduki, and Alia. Jaksen and Masduki are both from West Java. The National Disaster Mitigation Agency said ten ships continue to search for bodies or survivors."Fifteen minutes after the boat set sail, people at the back of the boat started making noise," one survivor said. "Then I saw smoke, there was more and more, the boat was crowded and people were fighting for life jackets." Another told Reuters passengers panicked when the fire broke out, and were met with a sudden conflagration when flames reached fuel.Boat accidents are common in the island nation. The National Transportation Safety Committee reported to The Jakarta Post today that shipping accidents were up from fifteen in 2015 to 28 in 2016. Lead marine investigator Aldrin Dalimunte told the paper some boats are well-maintained but run by poorly-trained crew who lack the motivation and knowledge to prevent accidents.A ferry has sunk in Bangladesh earlier today, killing at least five people, according to authorities. About fifty more people were missing after the incident.Police said that the accident occurred as the vessel, called the MV Coco-4, came near a river station at Bhola Island, located 300 kilometres from the Bangladesh capital of Dhaka. The ferry was reportedly overcrowded, and the boat tipped to one side as all its passengers moved to disembark."It was overcrowded with over 1,000 passengers. It tilted and part of it sank due to crowd pressure as it arrived near the Nazirpur river station," said a local police chief, Zakir Hossain, to the Agence France-Presse news agency. He also added that "many passengers have managed to land safely. But we believe some others who were staying in the cabins were trapped under water. We are trying to rescue them," Rescue teams and divers are reportedly searching underwater for bodies.Ferry accidents are not infrequent in the country; incidents have usually been due to overcrowding, or the use of old vessels. "At festival time it is really difficult to stop passengers and relevant ferry operators from flouting rules," said an officer for the Bangladesh water authority.The Sea Express One (formerly SeaCat Isle of Man) of the Isle of Man Steam Packet was hit twice, in heavy fog on the River Mersey at Liverpool by a tug towing the Alaska Rainbow cargo ship near the entrance to Alfred Dock, Birkenhead, at 11.20 on Saturday morning.None of the reported 294 passengers and crew were hurt, and the ferry is moored at Liverpool Pier Head while water is being pumped from the engine room. 80 cars remain on board, and passengers have been warned that some may have been damaged.While further north a plane was lost in the fog. Missing airplane may have been found.MV Suilven, a ferry in service in Fiji, capsized and sank in Suva Harbour today.Around thirty people, all crewmembers, were on board. Local media report all were rescued. The 41-year-old vessel previously saw service in Scotland and New Zealand.The ship capsized early this afternoon and sank within an hour. It had been converted from passenger to cargo use following its most recent sale, to Venu Shipping in 2012 or 2011. Local reports indicated police, the Navy, local tug boats, and volunteer rescuers all attended the accident.The converted ferry reportedly began to list on entering the harbour. It was working a route carrying cargo between Suva and the Northern Division.Built in Norway, in service from 1974, the ship served with Scottish ferry firm Caledonian MacBrayne until 1995, connecting the mainland town of Ullapool to Stornoway on the Isle of Lewis. It was ultimately replaced by a larger, faster vessel and was sold to Strait Shipping who used it until 2004 to ply New Zealand's seas, connecting Wellington to Picton and to Nelson.The name MV Suilven is in reference to the Suilven mountain in Scotland's Sutherland region.At least 28 people drowned and were confirmed dead, 46 were rescued, while 34 others remain missing on Sunday, after an overcrowded passenger motorboat capsized off waters in Ballesteros, a town of 17,000 people, the Cagayan police reported. 'M/B Mae Jan', a wooden-hulled ferry, was carrying 102 passengers, after an eight-hour voyage from Calayan Island in the Luzon Strait for Appari when it capsized less than 300 meters (984 feet) from its destination, at 8:30 p.m. Its bamboo outrigger broke due to strong waves, as it reached the mouth of the Cagayan River ('Bannag' Rio Grande de Cagayan, 'Ilog ng Kagayan'), along Barangay Linao, about 50 meters from the shoreline of Pallog village.Divers from the combined teams of the Philippine Navy and Coast Guard helped in the rescue operations. 11 of the fatalities, including the vessel owner, Arellano, and her daughter were identified. The police said  "there was a possibility that the boat was overloaded," saying that "there was also livestock on board."  Due to "trauma," the ferry's captain refused to talk to police.Meanwhile, the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) formed a Special Board of Marine Inquiry (SBMI) to investigate the sea tragedy. It ordered the "immediate dispatch of SAR-003 and MCS-3005 vessels and the PCG Islander for aerial surveillance." PCG noted the  possible overloading of the vessel since the boat's franchise authorized it to carry only 40 passengers and 10 crew members.In November, a cargo vessel sank in rough seas north of Cagayan, and passing vessels rescued 16 of 20 passengers. Weeks earlier, separate storms sank two passenger vessels in the central Philippines, drowning more than 50 people.Prior to the ferry sinking, the Philippine weather bureau had issued Gale warnings to coastal towns, of approaching tropical storm "Ulysses" (international codename: Dolphin) from the Pacific with winds of up to 60 miles (95 kilometers) per hour, centered off southeastern Catanduanes, eastern Philippines.7,810 Jeep SUVs are to be recalled in order to address a software vulnerability in the vehicles' entertainment systems which allows the vehicles to be "hacked" — allows vehicle software security to be compromised — Fiat Chrysler Automobiles US (FCA US) said on Friday. This recall affects some 2015 model Jeep Renegades.FCA US said exploiting the vulnerability would take "unique and extensive technical knowledge, prolonged physical access to a subject vehicle and extended periods of time to write code.” They said there are no known instances where the software vulnerability has caused injury to anyone.They said owners of affected cars can fix the software vulnerability by inserting a device containing a software patch into a USB port inside the car.Another 1.4 million vehicles manufactured by the company have also been recalled last month, when white hat hackers discovered they were able to hack and disable the engines of the affected vehicles remotely.Nine people have died in a fiery tourist bus crash in Egypt on Thursday. The bus was carrying 40 North American and European passengers when it crashed in the Sinai peninsula.The bus left the road when it skidded off a tight bend and struck a concrete barrier, rolling over and catching fire. The bus ended the roll back the right way up and was completely destroyed by the fire. One wheel lay twelve metres from the main wreckage and skid marks were left on the road. The coach had been travelling from a resort at nearby Sharm el-Sheikh to the capital Cairo when it crashed at Abu Zenima, with some reports suggesting the cause was a blowout on a tyre.According to the Egyptian security official eight Russian nationals were killed, as was one of two drivers on board, both of whom were Egyptian. This was contradicted by Russian state owned service RIA Novosti, which stated just two Russians were among the dead. The Russian foreign ministry only said 16 Russians were injured and none killed, also contradicting the Egyptian security official who said only 14 people were injured in total. The Ukrainian foreign ministry said a Ukrainian woman had been killed and the Romanian foreign ministry said a 41-year-old Romanian woman was amongst the dead. The driver behind the wheel at the time survived the accident.The crash occurred at 6:00 am (0300 GMT) about 70km (45 miles) from Suez, and many of the injured were rushed to hospital there. Traffic officials, security personnel, civil defence soldiers and ambulances all responded to the crash. In addition, the Azure Travel coach, like all Egyptian tour buses, had at least one armed police officer travelling on board.Other injured passengers were taken to Sharm. Two Canadians and two British citizens are reported to be amongst the injured. The Brits are in a serious condition and one Canadian woman had her hand amputated. At least one person died in hospital. It is also reported that Italians were injured in the crash.Road accidents claim around 6,000 lives and injure 30,000 every year in Egypt. This high accident rate is fed by poor maintenance and regulatory enforcement and reckless driving, with many roads allowing high rates of speed to be achieved. A fog-triggered pile-up killed 29 in February, and 23 died in March in a head-on collision between two lorries.Fifty people are feared to have drowned after a boat capsized in the Bagmati, an Indian river, on Tuesday, according to the government.75 people, mainly women and children, were aboard the vessel when it flipped over during a storm.  They had been returning from a fair that marked the end of the Durga Puja, an annual Hindu festival that celebrates the worship of the Hindu goddess Durga.Fifteen people were able to swim to safety, but it is unlikely the other passengers of the boat were able to survive, according to a report.An official from the district where the accident occurred said that "we have recovered 11 bodies so far and search is on for 40 other missing people. But their survival chances look very thin."A search operation was launched by the Indian National Disaster Response Force, but efforts were hampered by nightfall.Five people are thought to be seriously injured after a coach carrying elderly people overturned near Norwich International Airport, Norwich, Norfolk, England. 44 others have suffered minor injuries.Emergency services are reportedly at the scene, including at least seven ambulances. Norfolk Constabulary confirmed a "major incident" had occurred; it is thought only one vehicle, the single-decker coach, was involved. A statement released by the force said several people had become trapped in the vehicle in the incident, but all had been freed.A spokesperson for Norfolk County Council said: "A major incident has been declared. At this stage there is nobody left at the scene [...] As far as we can tell at the moment there have been no fatalities." The spokesperson added those with serious injuries have been transported to Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital; others are being treated in a community centre near the site of the incident."I've seen four of five fire crews and at least seven ambulances going through to the scene of the crash, and they were still coming about an hour after the incident," reporter Cath Saunt, at the scene of the incident, said. "A couple of ambulances left the scene with blue flashing lights and people who do not need immediate treatment have been taken to a community centre."A Continental Connection flight from Newark to Buffalo crashed into a house about four to six miles from Buffalo Niagara International Airport on Thursday night, killing 50 people, officials said.Continental Airlines Flight 3407 is a daily commuter flight from Newark Liberty International Airport in Newark, New Jersey to Buffalo, New York, operated under the Continental Connection brand by Virginia-based regional airline Colgan Air.The Buffalo News has reported that the plane, a Bombardier Dash 8 turboprop with tail number N200WQ has crashed into a home located at 6038 Long Street, not far from the Clarence Center Fire Hall in the Buffalo suburb of Clarence Center approximately 10:17 p.m. EST (03:20 UTC), Thursday, February 12, 2009. Three people were inside the house.According to Becky Gibbons of New York State Police and Chris Collins County Executive in Erie County, New York, the total number of fatalities is 50, including 45 passengers, four crew members and a person on the ground, while a woman and daughter on the ground were injured, near the edge of farmland, about seven miles from Buffalo Niagara International Airport. Karen Wielinski, age 57, and her daughter, Jill, age 22 were brought to Millard Fillmore Suburban Hospital in Williamsville where they are in stable condition in the emergency room. The father, Douglas C. Wielinski, 61 died from his injuries. Two volunteer firefighters are also being treated for smoke inhalation and minor injuries. They are expected to be released later Friday morning.The crew member names have been released as of 8:20 AM EST, and are listed as: Captain Marvin Renslow, First Officer Rebecca Shaw, Flight Attendant Matilda Quintero, Flight Attendant Donna Prisco, and Captain Joseph Zuffoletto who was an off-duty crew member.One of the crash victims, Beverly Eckert, of Stamford, Connecticut and  widow of 9/11 terror attack victim, Buffalo native, Sean Rooney, was coming home for her husband's 58th birthday celebration. Her sister, Sue Bourque noted to The Buffalo News, "We know she was on that plane and now she's with him." Chris Kausner has said his sister Elise, age 24, a law student, was on board the plane. "I'm thinking about the fact that my mother has to fly home from Florida and what I'm going to tell my two sons," he said.The plane, which was carrying over 2.5 tonnes (5,000 pounds) of fuel, impacted a residence that was completely destroyed.  Amid rain and sleet, the ill-fated plane exploded into a huge orange fireball, sparking a large fire which emergency crews had to contain.  Twelve houses near the crash site were evacuated.The aircraft in question was on approach to land at the nearby Buffalo Niagara International Airport when it disappeared from radar.According to recordings from air traffic control, the pilot did not report any problem to approach control, and could not be contacted by the Buffalo tower after handoff.  "Can other planes see anything?" asked the traffic controller, but no one has responded.  The pilot's last comment was "Colgan Flight 3407," but there were no sounds of distress. The Buffalo News has reported that crew members aboard the flight from Newark Airport reported mechanical problems as they approached Buffalo. Weather conditions were reported to be a wintry mix in the area, with light snow, fog, and 17 mile per hour winds.In the 31-minute audio-recording there are conversations between the cockpit, air traffic control and other aircraft in the vicinity. Following take-off from Newark Airport, a female voice (pilot) in the 3407 plane's cockpit is heard informing air authorities that her aircraft was turning on approach to landing. The pilot stopped communicating at 2,300ft. "This aircraft was 5 miles out, all of a sudden we have no response from that aircraft," the controller declares. 21 minutes and 45 seconds into the recording, the control tower informs a JetBlue Airlines: "...apparently we have an emergency, I'll have to get back to you," reported The Daily Telegraph."It was cold, snowing and dark but these planes are designed to fly in icy conditions. However, those conditions can be very fickle and if ice builds up on a plane it can be very difficult. At this time of year, when a pilot crashes approaching an airport that they will know well, the first thing you look at is the weather,” said David Learmount, of Flight International.Continental Airlines Inc. said Colgan Air was in the process of collecting information. "Continental extends its deepest sympathy to the family members and loved ones of those involved in this accident. We are providing our full assistance to Colgan Air so that together we can provide as much support as possible for all concerned," said Larry Kellner, CEO of Continental Airlines since December 2004.The Bombardier Dash 8 a 74-seat is a twin-engined, medium range, turboprop airliner.According to the Ascend Online Fleets database, Colgan, a company of about 1,100 employees has a fleet of 15 Bombardier Dash 8's, along with 3 Hawker Beechcraft 1900D and 38 Saab 340B turboprops. Flight 3407's airplane was less than one year old and had flown for only about 1,500 hours, said Kieran Daly, of the online aviation news service Air Transport Intelligence, saying that the doomed turboprop plane is one of the safest of its type.Scandinavian Airlines (SAS) has permanently grounded its Dash 8s fleet after three crash landings during a two-month period in 2007 caused by faulty landing gear. "Confidence in the Q400 has diminished considerably and our customers are becoming increasingly doubtful about flying in this type of aircraft," said Mats Jansson, SAS president and CEO. "I have decided to immediately remove Dash 8 Q400 aircraft from service," he added. "There is 'no indication of any security related event' that brought the plane down," said FBI spokesman Richard Kolko. Conditions of freezing drizzle, known as hard rime, were the most likely cause of the tragedy.The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has announced that they would send a team to the crash site on Friday to begin the investigation. Lorenda Ward will serve as chief investigator with the assistance of NTSB Commissioner Steven Chealander and public affairs officer Keith Holloway. Ward has investigated several other plane crashes — including the 2006 New York City plane crash that claimed the life of New York Yankees pitcher Corey Lidle."We are deeply shocked and saddened by the tragic accident that occurred tonight in Clarence. Our focus right now is on supporting the first responders on the ground and their efforts to ensure the health and safety of people in the area," said Chris Lee, an Republican politician from Corning, New York, representing the 26th Congressional District of New York.The tragedy is the nation's deadliest disaster since the Comair Flight 191 crashed in Lexington, Kentucky in August 2006. Delta Air Lines Flight 5191 was a scheduled U.S. domestic passenger flight from Lexington, Kentucky, to Atlanta, Georgia. On the morning of August 27, 2006, the Bombardier Canadair Regional Jet 100ER that was being used for the flight crashed while attempting to take off from Blue Grass Airport in Fayette County, Kentucky, four miles (6 kilometers) west of the central business district of the City of Lexington. Financially, Continental is faced with volatile fuel prices amid a slowdown from the weak economy. It has posted losses of $585 million for 2008.A final report released today by the Indonesian National Transport Safety Committee found that Adam Air Flight 574 crashed because the pilots were distracted by an instrument failure. The loss of the budget carrier's Boeing 737 into the sea near Sulawesi on New Year's Day 2007 left all 102 on board missing and presumed dead.The report found that the 737, registered PK-KKW, suffered a Inertial Reference System (IRS) failure. While pilots were troubleshooting for this navigational system they first unintentionally disconnected the autopilot, then failed to monitor other instruments informing them they were approaching the sea, crashing into it and destroying the aircraft.The flight had been a scheduled domestic passenger service between Djuanda Airport at Surabaya and Sam Ratulangi Airport at Manado, and disappeared from radar screens at 35,000 feet.National Transportation Safety Committee head Tatang Kurniadi told a press conference "This accident resulted from a combination of factors including the failure of the pilots to adequately monitor the flight instruments, especially in the last two minutes of the flight. Preoccupation with a malfunction of the Inertial Reference System diverted both pilot's attention from the flight instruments and allowed the increasing descent and bank angle to unnoticed..."The Cockpit Voice recorder revealed that both pilots were concerned about navigation problems and subsequently become engrossed with trouble shooting Inertial Reference System (IRS) anomalies for at least the last 13 minutes of the flight, with minimal regard to other flight requirements. This included identification and attempts at corrective actions."He also supplied a number of statistics concerning the final moments of the flight. Whilst in a right bank with sustained elevator input pushing up the nose the aircraft reached Mach 0.926 and 3.5g. The airspeed had reached 490 KCAS by the end of the recording. Investigator Santoso Sayogo said that the high speed impact caused the plane to disintegrate.Adam Air had suffered previous navigational problems. In 2006 another B737 suffered a navigational problem and flew into a radar blackspot, leaving it lost for several hours before performing an emergency landing hundreds of miles from the intended destination. Sayogo said today that in the three months preceding the accident the airline had registered 154 defects in PK-KKW's navigational equipment.The accident has had wide-ranging effects. The crash, coupled with Adam Air Flight 172, which snapped in half during a hard landing, and Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, which overshot the runway in Yogyakarta, killing 21, prompted the European Union to add all Indonesia's airlines to the list of air carriers banned in the EU. Earlier this month another Adam Air flight departed the end of a runway during landing, injuring five and damaging the plane. This prompted the authorities to ground Adam Air for three months after a regular evaluation, after which they may be permanently shut down. The airline is also in financial difficulty. All the accidents involved Boeing 737s.The United Kingdom's Air Accidents Investigation Board (AAIB) yesterday blamed a release of ice in the fuel system of a British Airways passenger jet as the cause of a crash two years ago at London's Heathrow Airport. Flight 38 from China was attempting to land when both engines lost almost all power – a condition called "rollback".The exact phenomenon had never been previously identified, but it not only affected the British Airways jet two years ago but also a Delta Airlines jet above the United States later the same year. Both were Boeing 777 aircraft. That incident prompted the AAIB to collaborate with the US National Transportation Safety Board. BA 38 was approximately 43 seconds from touchdown when it experienced a dual engine rollback that was beyond the control of the flight crew. Captain Peter Burkill and co-pilot John Coward were later hailed as heroes for performing a successful crash landing 330 metres from the runway. The plane avoided nearby buildings and a road, leaving the landing gear deployed to act as shock absorbers. The jet slid 372 metres after the crash, but all 136 passengers evacuated alive. 36 passengers and twelve crewmembers were injured, mostly suffering whiplash and one incurring a broken leg. The report concluded there was no time to alert the cabin crew or passengers to the situation developing in the cockpit.The engine rollback was caused by ice forming in the fuel system; the ice came from water molecules existing as impurities in the fuel, and lined the fuel system. When extra fuel was pumped through to supply the engines for landing manoeuvres, the ice was dislodged. It is believed to have then settled on a component called the fuel-oil heat exchanger, a dual-purpose component that runs oil pipes through the fuel system. The idea is to cool down hot oil and keep fuel warm to prevent freezing. As the result of previous safety recommendations from both the UK and US investigators Boeing and engine company Rolls-Royce have worked to redesign the part.Every component of the aircraft complied with all relevant airworthiness standards, and the fuel also complied with the standards applying to it. Although ice problems have been known since the 1950s, sudden release problems were unheard of before the crash. The testing conducted as part of the investigation is thought to be unique and the aircraft experienced unusually low temperatures during the flight.A total of eighteen safety recommendations have been issued, of which nine came from an interim report and nine are new. Some of these apply to aircraft "crashworthiness" – the ability to withstand impact forces.Finnish air carrier Finnair has entered talks with major Indian airlines concerning a possible partnership deal to feed Finnair's international operations with domestic connecting flights, said president and CEO Jukka Hienonen.“We are in partnership talks with the leading airlines of India. We need this in the long run. This would simply make our connections locally better and it would also help in timetable coordination with the connecting flights... People would not fly to only where we fly. They would like to fly to other destinations as well, within India. So we would need a local partner to cooperate,” said Hienonen, who refused to name any of the airlines involved.Finnair launched services to India in 2006 and will soon step up to thirteen flights a week there, with daily flights from New Delhi and six-days-a-week from Mumbai. There are plans to also fly from Bangalore or Chennai within two to three years.Finnair is a member of Oneworld Alliance, which is the world's third-largest airline alliance and includes members such as British Airways, American Airlines, Qantas and Japan Airlines and other major international airlines. Hienonen explained that he wished the alliance to include an Indian airline, saying "I have also been urging the board of Oneworld that we should have an Indian partner as well. That is also in the process at the moment. So ideally, we may partner the same airline.”The airline has seen rapid sales growth since beginning services in India. Finnair believes that there is significant potential to serve business travellers due to good commercial links between the countries. Around 70 major Finnish companies including mobile phone manufacturer Nokia and engineering giant KONE have plans for large-scale expansion in India and employ as many as 11,000 Indians, while Infosys, Sasken and Wipro and other large Indian software companies are set to begin operations in Finland.Also discussed were related fleet modernisation plans. "By the first quarter of 2010, we would be phasing out all our Boeing MD-11s [the MD-11 is sometime considered a Boeing after the company bought out McDonnell Douglas] and they would be replaced by Airbus A340s and A330s... Airbus 330s are best for shorter routes. We will have five of them by the first half of next year and they will be primarily for the Indian traffic," stated Hienonen, explaining that the older airliners have greater fuel consumptions. High fuel costs have caused a number of airline shutdowns in recent years.Finnair, currently in its 85th year, is one of the world's oldest airlines still conducting operations. The company flew 8.6 million passengers in 2007, 1.2 million of whom were on the airline's Asian routes. Last year saw a two billion Euro turnover, and the firm employs 9,500 people worldwide.The Finnish police isolated the ports of Katajanokka and Länsisatama on Saturday. The ports were isolated at around 9.30 p.m. local time and the isolation was called off at around 11.30 p.m.Finnish police received reports from Estonia that a shipping container loaded with explosives could be coming from Estonia Saturday evening. They checked every truck that passed the ports with the assistance of the Border Guard Service. There are still two ships due to arrive in Helsinki tonight, but they were already checked in Tallinn.A large fire has started at the Barangaroo construction site overlooking Sydney Harbour, New South Wales, Australia. The construction company said fire broke out at about 2:10pm local time (0310 UTC) and appeared to have been caused by a welding accident in the basement of a building.All site workers were evacuated without injury, according to Fire and Rescue NSW Superintendent Ian Krimmer. Large clouds of smoke were continuing to pour out of the building, casting a thick pall of smoke over the city skyline. Some nearby buildings have also been evacuated, including the KPMG building and offices of the Macquarie Bank.Firefighters reported concern about a tower crane overhanging the building basement site. There were fears that the crane could buckle due to the heat and collapse. Firefighters were working to keep the base of the crane cool, and the stability of the structure was being monitored with lasers.The Western Distributor motorway was closed to traffic, and Sydney Harbour Bridge partly closed. There had been major disruptions in traffic and multiple roads in the Sydney CBD (Central Business District) were gridlocked. People catching buses were advised to expect long delays.A fire on Aldwych, in central London, England, has led to serious traffic problems in the area since this morning.  Many roads have been closed for some hours while firefighters attempt to extinguish the blaze.  There are no reports of any casualties.The blaze is at Marconi House, a ten-storey building currently being converted into flats and a luxury hotel, near the church of St Mary le Strand, King's College London and Somerset House.  The alert was raised at about 11 a.m. BST (10 a.m. UTC).  About 75 firefighters in 15 fire engines were sent to the scene, from depots including Homerton and Whitechapel in east London and Old Kent Road in south-east London.  Ambulances, including hazardous response teams, and police officers are also in attendance.  Local roads, including Waterloo Bridge and parts of the Strand, have been closed to traffic, causing significant disruption to travellers. At least ten bus routes are affected, and the London Underground is accepting bus tickets for travel within the affected area.The cause of the fire is unknown at present, but is located in the roof of the building.  The smoke could be seen from large parts of central London, and was still coming from the roof some hours after it started.When Wikinews returned to the area at 7.45 p.m. local time, traffic was still prevented from passing the building although the pavement on the south side of Aldwych (furthest from Marconi House) had been reopened to pedestrians.  The scene was still under the control of the London Fire Brigade (LFB), with police cars and ambulances still in attendance.  Waterloo Bridge and the Strand were still closed to vehicles, with about fifteen fire engines or LFB command vehicles parked close by and many hosepipes running across the road.  Some smoke could still be seen coming from the roof of the building, but less than before.  Some damage to the roof was also visible.A fuel storage tank at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) caught fire today.The 1-million gallon storage tank caught fire at about 8:30 a.m. local time (PDT) according to Ron Myers, a spokesman for the LAX fire department. Myers said that planes were not at risk and no flights were cancelled, delayed or diverted. No injuries were reported and no evacuations were ordered.The fire is said to have been caused by a spark from a welder performing work on the tank. Reports say the fuel container was mostly empty, but authorities are still investigating.A 67-year-old man, Thomas Ouellette, of Bonita Springs, Florida was questioned by the FBI Monday after he brought fireworks onto an airliner. Piedmont Airlines flight 4126, a Bombardier Dash 8, from Baltimore, Maryland landed safely and without complications in New York's LaGuardia Airport. No suspicions were raised until cleaning crews found the pyrotechnics on the airplane.The fireworks are currently being held as evidence by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey police, owner of LaGuardia Airport. Ouellette has been issued a summons to appear in federal court. Pyrotechnics are banned on American flights and individuals face a $10,000 civil penalty for bringing them on board.This case comes after an incident on December 25 when Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a Nigerian national, attempted to bomb an airliner with explosives concealed in his underpants.It was a milestone in aviation history: the first Airbus A380 landed at Singapore's Changi International Airport at 6:40 p.m. (GMT+8) after a 12-hour flight from Airbus' Delivery Center. The aircraft was greeted by some 400 guests, including the Prime Minister of Singapore, Mr. Lee Hsien Loong, at the soon-to-open Terminal 3 of Changi International Airport.In his speech, the Prime Minister applauded Singapore Airlines (SIA) - the recipient carrier - and cited its success as a source of pride for all Singaporeans. He also said that the landing was a milestone not only for SIA, but also for Changi International Airport, the country's main airport. All existing terminals are currently A380-ready, and the SGD1.75-billion Terminal 3 will open its doors in January next year.The A380 will make a special charity flight on October 25 from Singapore to Sydney and will begin regular service on the Singapore-Sydney route on October 28.The first A380 superjumbo, made by Airbus, was delivered today to Singapore Airlines (SIA) 18 months behind schedule.After the plane was delivered in Singapore, it was flown to Toulouse, France for the ceremony of about 500 guests.The plane is built with four Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines.The first flight will take off for a "special charity-flight" from Singapore and land in Sydney on October 25. Special services will continue from October 28."This is a major milestone for the A380 programme, and I would like to express my deepest appreciation to all parties concerned. I want to thank our teams and all those who worked hard, days, nights, and week-ends, for their dedication and commitment," said Airbus President and Chief Executive Officer, Tom Enders.File:T3 concourse day.jpgAn Air India Boeing 777 from New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport was the first international flight to land at Delhi's new Terminal 3 at Indira Gandhi International Airport.However, this was only one of nine "terminal process proving flights" that landed or departed from the brand-new steel and glass T3 on either Wednesday or Thursday. Seven of the proving flights departed or arrived on Wednesday and two on Thursday. The new terminal was inaugurated by Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on July 3. Terminal 3 is designed to handle large international aircraft like the Airbus A380, which landed as one of the terminal process proving flights on Thursday. Though Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), which operates the airport, had planned earlier to commission the new terminal for international operations on Wednesday, the commissioning was pushed to July 28 due to unfinished construction. However, the proving flights proceeded as planned, and DIAL, with 450 employees from 13 airlines, conducted a full trial of all operations on Tuesday. In addition to the Air India arrival from New York, United States, the first departure in the new Terminal was a Jet Airways  international flight to Kathmandu, Nepal. The first domestic flight that departed from T3 was an Air India flight from Jaipur, Rajasthan.On Tuesday, before the Air India 777 was slated to arrive, an official from that airline said that “All the 220 passengers and 18 crew members of the New York flight (AI-102) would clear their immigrations at the new terminal. It is going to be a real test for all the agencies at T3." DIAL also stated that "passengers traveling by these nine flights (July 14 and July 15) are being informed individually by their respective airlines. Flight information is also being displayed on standees at terminal 2. The information about flights arriving and departing from Terminal 3 will also be displayed prominently at various points on the eight lane road from Hotel Radisson to Terminal 3." The terminal process proving flights aimed to make sure that everything, including airlines, air traffic control, ground handling agencies, duty free shops, flight caterers, aviation oil companies, customs, and immigration, are all in working order.Tehran — The first Iraq-Iran passenger flight since war broke out between the two nations 25 years ago, has arrived safely in Tehran. The plane left Baghdad International Airport with 65 passengers and touched down in the Iranian capital a few hours later. It was an historic event, marking the end of a quarter-century of hostilities during which all flights from and to Iran were suspended by the former Ba'athist regime.A spokesperson for the Iranian civil aviation authority, Reza Jafarzadeh, told Agence France Presse that there were plans to resume regular commercial flights from Baghdad to Tehran on November 16, although Iran would not consider flying its own aircraft to Iraq until the security situation was resolved. Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told reporters that the "protection of Iraq's territorial integrity, independence and might is of special significance to Iran."The United States and Britain have repeatedly accused Iran of allowing militants to cross its border to help Iraq's insurgents fight the US occupation. Earlier today, Major-General Jim Dutton, a British soldier commanding a multinational force in Basra, gave a press conference in Washington during which he claimed that insurgents were getting the technology to create increasingly sophisticated bombs from across the border.Grozny, a city of the Chechen Republic, Russia, celebrated the arrival and the later departure of the first passenger aircraft, a Tu-134A-5, for more than 10 years. The renovated Severny (Northern) Airport opened prior to the 30th birthday of the Republican Prime Minister Ramzan Kadyrov, son of the former PM Akhmad Kadyrov who was killed by terrorists, though no official relation of these events has been confirmed.The formal opening of Grozny airport occurred under tightened security precautions since the Chechen rebel threat still exists in the region. The airport was used as the base of the 46th Brigade of the Russian Interior troops.The main building of the airport was heavily damaged by the years of Chechen Wars. Now it has been reconstructed in compliance with international standards.For the first time in over a half a century, regular train service hosting cargo crossed between North and South Korea.The train is 12 cars long and is carrying building materials to Kaesong, a key industrial junction for the two countries. The train will head back immediately after unloading. The service will continue at least once every week day.South Korean leaders say that cargo trains are just a start, although North Korea will not allow anything beyond cargo as of yet. "Though we start with a cargo train, it will lead to a passenger train service and will soon be linked to the continental trains," said Korean Railroad President, Lee Chul to the press.Buses, cars, and trucks are allowed across the border, but trains have not been until now. The roads which allowed those types of vehicles to enter North Korea were rebuilt after the first summit held between the two nations in 2000. The rail lines were destroyed in the 1950s during the Korean War.The agreement to allow a cargo service was reached in October when the two nations met for a historical second summit.File:GMC Safari.jpgFive people are dead and ten more are in a critical condition after a minivan packed with children rolled over on Louisiana's Interstate 10 highway yesterday.  The vehicle's driver lost control after a blowout near Baton Rouge.The vehicle's driver, who was among the dead, and a front-seat passenger were the only ones wearing seatbelts. There were thirteen children travelling in the back although there were not enough seatbelts and the van likely only had enough rear seats for ten, according to the Louisiana State Police.The front driver's side tire on the GMC Safari blew out as the vehicle moved west. The driver lost control of the swerving van, which sideswiped a delivery truck travelling alongside before bouncing across to the center median, where it flipped. It rolled around 200 feet (75 yards) across the median before landing upright in the opposite lanes. Most of the occupants were ejected and four dead children were found lying in the median. No other vehicles were involved and the trucker pulled over uninjured.Several of the victims were members of the same family from Harvey, 75 miles from the wreck. A three-year-old was amongst the dead. The survivors have been taken to two Baton Rouge hospitals and all are in a critical condition. A CNN photograph showed debris strewn around the scene. "I just saw the vehicle flip about three or four times and kids flying everywhere. It looked to be about 10 to 11 kids out of the car," said eyewitness Tammy Hall.Although drugs and alcohol are not believed to have been involved police have confirmed samples will be taken from the driver to check. The road was closed for two-three hours in both directions. None of the victims have yet been publicly identified.A small plane has crashed at a New Mexico airport killing five people. The Cessna U206F (tail number 	 N2905Q) had just taken off when it crashed at the Santa Rosa Route 66 Airport.The plane caught fire after the crash. It was a single-engined private aircraft headed for Chicago and Federal Aviation Administration records show it was registered in Gilbert.The deceased have been taken to the New Mexico Office of the Medical Investigator in Albuquerque. Their names have not been released until they are formally identified.Investigations are ongoing.On Monday, five people were injured after a Boeing 737-400, operated by Adam Air, overshot the runway today while landing at Hang Nadim Airport on the island of Batam in Indonesia.The aircraft skidded 75 metres (245 feet) into a grassy field after touching down in rainy conditions. Damage was done to the right wing, hydraulics and main landing gear. The plane came to rest with the nose in the air and leaning towards the right.Of the 176 passengers (one source says 174) and crew on board, five passengers required treatment for neck and head injuries.Adam Suherman, president of the airline, said the plane had skidded 10 metres beyond the extreme end of the runway. He also gave the time of the crash as 10:40 and noted that the plane was currently resting on soft ground.Suherman gave the registration of the aircraft as PK-KKT. This would make the aircraft the one Boeing gave the serial number 24353 and owned by CIT Group Incorporated.Adam Air spokesman Danke Drajat described the plane as having been in "good condition" at its last major inspection in December. He suggested the weather condition may be to blame for the crash, the third to strike the budjet carrier in just over a year. On New Year's Day in 2007 Flight 574 crashed into the sea, leaving 102 missing, presumed dead. The following month the fuselage of Flight 172 cracked in half during a hard landing. Both involved Boeing 737 aircraft.Pantun Banjarnahor, Hang Nadim Airport's chief of operations, said that visibility was adequate for a safe landing. The airport was closed for over two hours. It is unclear how many flights were affected.The National Transportation Safety Committee is investigating.Five men out of six accused of involvement in the September 11 attacks have been referred to trial by the Guantanamo military commission. The war crimes tribunal also dropped charges against Mohammed Qahtani, who is alleged to have been the '20th hijacker', although they were dropped "without prejudice" so the Saudi Arabian can still be re-charged.All six men are currently being held in maximum security at the United States naval base at Cuba's Guantanamo Bay. Under the 2006 Military Commissions Act those charged must be arraigned within 30 days and have their trial commenced within four months.The men are accused of plotting the attacks, in which four passenger airliners were hijacked in US airspace. One was flown into each tower of the World Trade Center, one was flown into the Pentagon and the fourth crashed in a Pennsylvania field. Almost 3,000 people were killed. 19 hijackers were involved, with one aircraft having four hijackers compared to five on the others, triggering theories concerning a 20th hijacker. It is alleged that Qahtani missed out on this role because he was unable to get past anti-immigration measures to upon arrival in Florida, where head hijacker Mohammed Atta is said to have been waiting.Those who are set to go to trial are alleged members of Al-Qaeda, who were found to be responsible for the attacks. They are Walid bin Attash, Ramzi Binalshibh, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, Mustafa Ahmed Hawsawi and alleged 9/11 mastermind Khalid Shaikh Mohammed.They have all been charged with conspiracy, murder in violation of the laws of war, attacking civilians, attacking civilian objects, intentionally causing serious bodily injury, destruction of property, terrorism and material support for terrorism while all but Hawsawi are charged with hijacking aircraft as well.Some concern has been made over alleged human rights abuses. Officials have said themselves that Qahtani was harshly treated in imprisonment and Khalid was subjected to waterboarding.Qahtani also withdrew an earlier confession saying it was obtained from him under torture. He submitted a detailed written account describing abuse he alleges against him including beatings, being forced into uncomfortable positions for long periods, threats with dogs, exposure to music at high volume, being subjected to freezing temperatures and being forced to appear naked in front of female personnel.The arraignments will take place at the high security Guantanamo war crimes tribunal, and will mark the first public appearances of the men since their capture. The trial will mark the first in front of a US war crimes tribunal since World War Two, and the first capital one at this tribunal as prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for all of the men.Five of the six defendants accused of manslaughter over the 2006 fire on board Egyptian ferry al-Salam Boccaccio 98 have been cleared of all charges. The February 3 fire and subsequent sinking killed 1,034 of around 1,400 passengers.Mamdouh Ismail, owner of the al-Salam company, his son and three company executives were all cleared of manslaughter. Ismail is a member of parliament directly appointed by the president, and both he, his son and another of the executives were tried in absentia as they have left the country. They had all been charged with manslaughter stemming from safety violations on the ship.Convicted was Salaheddin Gomaa, captain of nearby ferry Saint Catherine. He was jailed for six months after the court found he did not come to the stricken al-Salam 98's aid. It found he "did not do his duty by failing to go to the rescue of victims," and that he failed to show any compassion.The ship went down in the Red Sea near Egyptian port Safaga, where the trial was held, having departed earlier from Saudi Arabia's Dhaba port. A parliamentary report balmed the disaster's scale on the owners, as well as the government and Panama, the state where the ship was registered. The report said al-Salam had kept operating the ship "despite serious defects" with her, and that the government had "failed to manage the crisis adequately" in the following days.It was found that the 36-year-old al-Salam 98's safety documents were forged, that the ship's extuinguishers and life rafts were not fit for purpose and that there were an inadequate number of winches to lower the rafts into the sea. However, the elder Ismail had put the blame on his ferry's captain, who he claimed wrongly believed the crew could deal with the fire when it broke out. The captain was amongst the dead.Ismail's assets were frozen and a travel ban was imposed on him following the disaster, but both were lifted later that year after he paid E£300,000,000 (US$57,000,000) into a victim's compensation fund. Many victims were poor Egyptian migrant workers, and some were bringing home savings accumulated over months or years.The Misdemeanor Court's acquittal of all except Gomaa — who was fined E£10,000 (US$1,887) — met with anger from relatives, who turned out en masse to hear the verdicts. One man told al-Jazeera "The day of the accident everybody saw that the ship was in bad shape and two years later they say the boat was in good shape. It doesn't make sense. This is awful. My wife and children died and after two years everyone responsible is found to be innocent."Public prosecutor Abdel Meguid Mahmud was also unhappy with the result. In a statement he said he intends to appeal the verdict and demand a retrial. He alleges serious "violations in documented records, corruption in investigation, shortcomings in validatings and arbitrary conclusions," and cites these as his reasons for a retrial.An  Armavia Airbus 320 passenger plane flying from Armenia's capital, Yerevan, to the city of Sochi in southern Russia has crashed into the Black Sea. The jet was found 6 km from the coast and carried a total of 113 people. Among the passengers were 8 crew and 6 children. Controllers lost contact with the plane at 0215 local time (Tuesday 2215 UTC).Rescuers have found the corpses of a woman and a girl and another 12 body parts at the site of Wednesday's crash of Armenia's Airbus A-320 plane off Russia's Black Sea coast, a spokesman for the Russian Prosecutor General's Office told Interfax. Other reports say that at least 25 bodies have been found.There were 77 Armenian citizens, 26 Russian citizens, 1 Ukrainian and 1 Georgian citizen on board of the Armenian air liner, Armenian Civil Aviation Department head Artyom Movsisian told on a news conference."Most of the Russian citizens are of Armenian origin," Movsisian said. "Rescue efforts are being hampered by deteriorating weather conditions, heavy rain and rough seas," a spokesman for the Russian Emergency Situations Ministry said. "The fragments were found six km (3.7 miles) from the shore near the airport of Adler. The search operation continues," said Beltsov. The location of the crash site has been ascertained by a numerous fragments and life vests, and a large oil slick."The only thing [we] know is that when the crew asked for permission to land, the air controller in Sochi responded that bad weather meant this was not yet possible," Gayane Davtyan, head of Armenia's civilian aviation authority said. "Contact with the crew was lost at 600 meters, when the plane went to circle for a second time."The cause of the tragedy remains unclear, but the investigators are pursuing two main versions: bad weather conditions and poor maintenance.The Russian Prosecutor General's Office believes terrorism can be ruled out as a factor in the A-320 plane crash near the Russian Black Sea resort of Sochi on Wednesday morning."We don't have any information that could indicate a possible terrorist attack on board the plane," Russian Deputy Prosecutor General Nikolai Shepel told Interfax on Wednesday. An official from the regional department of the Emergency Situations Ministry in southern Russia said "apparently there were malfunctions on board, as the pilots were making another attempt to land at the Adler airport.""The plane was in an ideal technical condition, the crew was well qualified," said the airline's deputy commercial director, Andrei Aghajanov. The cause of the crash is under investigation.In the area where the plane crashed, more rain is expected in the next hours and the water temperature is currently between 8 to 10 degrees celsius.The Russian and Armenian presidents have announced on Wednesday that Friday, May 5th, would be a day of mourning in remembrance of the 113 people that died in the crash. The worst crash involving an two-engine A-320, which was first built in 1984 and remains the most popular Airbus on the market, occurred in August 2000, when a Gulf Air plane crashed off Bahrain on a flight from Cairo, killing all 143 people on board. The Airbus A320 is a short-to-medium range commercial passenger aircraft and a total of 328 people have been killed in earlier A320 accidents.About 20 boats and a Be-200 amphibious aircraft are involved in the recovery operation, emergency services said, adding that two more Be-200s would fly to the scene if necessary. A group of rescuers from the Russian emergency ministry is expected to fly to the crash site in the next few hours.Officials from France's aviation accident investigation agency, the Bureau of Enquiry and Analysis for Civil Aviation Safety (BEA), announced on Tuesday that they had recovered the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) of Air France Flight 447. It was located and brought to the surface by a Remora 6000 unmanned submarine, then taken aboard the Île de Sein, one of the vessels taking part in the recovery and salvage efforts.This came two days after an announcement on Sunday that the crash-survivable memory unit of the flight data recorder (FDR) of the aircraft had been located and brought to the surface. The chassis of the FDR was located on April 27, with the memory unit missing. It was found a short distance from the chassis. It was also brought to the surface by the Remora 6000.With the recovery of both recorders, which are reported to be "in good condition", French officials hope to determine what caused the Airbus A330-200 to crash into the Atlantic Ocean on June 1, 2009, when it departed Rio de Janeiro's Galeão International Airport before it was lost 600 miles (965 km) off the coast of Brazil en route to Paris' Charles de Gaulle Airport with 228 passengers and crew on board.The leading theory at the moment is that the crew received incorrect air speed readings from the aircraft's pitot tubes, devices which measure how fast the aircraft is traveling. Experts say the tubes may have become iced over, causing the crash. The plane's Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) sent out 24 messages over a four-minute long period stating numerous problems and warnings, including incorrect air speed warnings occurring aboard the aircraft, just prior to it going down.However, chief operating officer of the International Bureau of Aviation, Phil Seymour, speaking to CNN, believes the memory unit will not be of much use to investigators saying because of the depth it was located at,  "If you were to throw a computer into the ocean, imagine how all the parts would eventually split and you have the corrosive effects of seawater and the depths involved." Seymour believes the wreckage will help reveal what happened as more is recovered."It may be that the more wreckage they find will help them to piece it all together, which bit by bit could help them build a picture of what caused the plane to come down," he added.A BEA spokesperson had agreed with that possibility a few days earlier when speaking to the Associated Press about the recovery of the flight data recorder. "We can't say in advance that we're going to be able to read it until it's been opened," the spokesperson said. AsThe wreckage of the Airbus A330-200, was found back on April 8 at a depth of 3,800 and 4,000 meters (2,070 to 2,190 fathoms or 12,467 feet and 13,123 feet), by a team from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, using a Remus robotic submarine and its side-scan sonar. After the wreckage was found, another Remus robot submarine with cameras was sent down to the site, where it filmed bodies in the wreckage. The location of the recorders were localized within 2 square miles (5 square kilometers) of the flight's last position last year.In March, a French judge placed the European aircraft maker Airbus and Air France under investigation for possible involuntary manslaughter charges in the 2009 crash. Both are paying the cost of the search which is estimated to be $12.7 million (nine million euro). The crash is the deadliest in Air France's history.Floating wreckage has been retrieved from a Brazilian Cessna 310 that disapeared on Friday with two local pilots and four businessmen from the United Kingdom. The debris was recovered from a beach in the North-East of the country.The aircraft had been chartered by the businessmen from Aero Star to carry them as part of a trip to evaluate a potential luxury housing development. They have been identified as Nigel Hodges, 52, Alan Kempson, 46, Sean Woodhall, 43, and Ricky Every, 41. Nothing has been heard from them or their pilots since the plane lost radio contact on Friday evening and vanished.The beach where the debris was recovered is about 90 to 95 kilometres (55 to 60 miles) North of the aircraft's last known position. The items retrieved are said to be a piece of one of the seats and a fragment of the cargo stowage area.A naval boat, two C-95s from the air force and a helicopter are amongst the resources deployed to try and locate the aircraft and its missing occupants. One airforce spokeswoman said "Hopefully [they're alive], but we don't know." The property the men were planning is an "eco-development" proposed by Worldwide Destinations, which is presided by Woodhall, who is a resident of Switzerland. The company employs Every in Brazil, and Kempson and Hadges are from finance company Diamond Lifestyle Holdings. Kempson is reported to be a friend of former UK Prime Minister Sir John Major. Hodges' wife and son have flown to Brazil to be present during the rescue operation.A road accident followed by a fire on a Florida highway near Gainesville on Thursday killed five children in a church bus and two truck drivers. One semi truck and a car broke through the center guardrail before colliding with other vehicles; around 50 gallons of diesel fuel, officials said, spilled and ignited.The children were all from Marksville, Louisiana. The Avoyelles House of Mercy, a Pentecostal church, had been travelling 700 miles from Louisiana to Walt Disney World and was within an hour of its destination. One truck driver was from West Palm Beach, Florida, the other from Albuquerque, New Mexico. The deceased were aged nine, ten, thirteen, two aged fourteen, 49, and 59. At least eight more people were hospitalized.The accident sequence began, Florida Highway Patrol described, in the northbound lanes of Interstate 75 close to Alachua when the initial collision between the car and truck occurred. After crossing the center divider, the out-of-control vehicles collided with the church bus and a second semi truck in the southbound lanes. The bus overturned, with occupants ejected; a southbound fifth vehicle was unable to prevent itself running through the debris. Reports indicate this vehicle may have struck victims lying on the roadway.According to eyewitness Vinnie DeVita, "within probably 15 to 20 seconds of it all, it exploded. I mean, just a ball of flames." DeVita narrowly avoided being caught up in the accident. The Alachua Sheriff's Office tweeted the response "required all hands on deck." Authorities stated the road was damaged by the fire's ferocity. Emergency workers have indicated a homicide probe is ongoing.Another eyewitness, Nicole Towarek, described extensive tire marks and "insane" heat. Florida Department of Transportation official Troy Roberts said yesterday morning the road itself, which is straight in the vicinity, will be examined as part of investigations. He said "Guardrails can only take so much." The guardrail would be examined, Roberts said, to determine if it had performed as designed. The state had lanes closed last night as it worked to repair the damaged surface.Also investigating is the Florida Highway Patrol, which is attempting to ascertain who, if anyone, is to blame. Meanwhile the National Transportation Safety Board, commonly involved in major highway accident probes, was absent. It is presently unable to operate due to a shutdown of much of the Federal government in a budget dispute; however, its website notes that its operations center is still accepting accident notifications without specifying if this resource is operating 24/7 as it usually does.The Ford Motor Company, the second-largest car manufacturer in America, will cut 30,000 jobs and 14 plants as part of a restructuring plan to relieve Ford after a US$1.6 billion loss last year in North American sales.The plan, called "Way Forward", the brainchild of Ford's Chief Executive Officer, William Clay Ford Jr., is to end Ford's North American losses by 2008. To accomplish this 30,000 jobs which make up 20 to 25 percent of Ford's North American workforce of 122,000 people will be cut and 14 plants will be closed in order to bring Ford's production capacity in line with demand.By the end of this year, the Atlanta and St. Louis plants will be closed. Atlanta makes the Ford Taurus sedan, which is being phased out. The St. Louis plant is one of two plants that manufactures the Ford Explorer, whose sales had a 29% decline in 2005. It will also close its Wixom, Michigan plant, Batavia Transmission in Ohio the Windsor Casting plant in Ontario which was previously announced by Ford that it was to be closed after contract negotiations with the Canadian Auto Workers union. The plant in St. Thomas, Ontario plant will have one shift cut from it. The plant makes the Crown Victoria and Grand Marquis cars. On this cut of the one shift, Whitey MacDonald, chairperson of Local 1520, Canadian Auto Workers union said "There is a lot of anger here today, there is no doubt about it. Any time a plant goes to one shift, it puts them in limbo. This car has made the company millions of dollars over the years they have invested in other products and locations - we are entitled to some new investment given our track record." Positive news for the plant is that Ford is still committed to invest $200 million into the plant to upgrade the appearance of the two cars manufactured there. On the contrary, according to Automotive analyst Dennis DesRosier believes that the factory is still "likely" to close. DesRoiser said, "The St. Thomas plant is old, the product is old, it make sense it is on that list. This may be just a short-term reprieve, it may be look at permanent closure in two to three years."Two more plants will close in 2008, another two in 2012. Two more plants to be closed are to be announced later this year. Also, Ford will fire 12% of its 53 executive officers.Due to the company's current contract with the United Auto Workers union, workers at the idled plants will still be receiving their pay and benefits until Ford negotiates a new contract with the union. However, the workers may not earn what they earn today because they will not be eligible for overtime.The UAW President Ron Gettelfinger and Vice President Gerald Bantom called say the plan is "extremely disappointing." The UAW issued statement saying "The impacted hourly and salaried workers find themselves facing uncertain futures because of senior management's failure to halt Ford's sliding market share. The announcement has further left a cloud hanging over the entire work force because of pending future announcements of additional facilities to be closed at some point in the future."Ford Motor Company CEO Alan Mulally has reported that Ford will rename the Ford Five Hundred to the Taurus for the 2008 model year, when a facelifted model is expected to be launched to improve the lackluster sales of the outgoing model. Mulally says that Ford's decision to name all their cars with the letter F was a lackluster move, and makes their names easily forgettable. As a result, Mulally plans on reviving many respected Ford nameplates, the Taurus being one of them, and the Falcon possibly in the future.The Ford Taurus was originally introduced in 1986, and was a revolutionary car that rewrote the rules for creating a sedan, and pushed the other American automakers to follow suit, leading to a design revolution that completely rid Detroit of the "boxy" cars of the 70s and 80s. The Taurus survived for four generations, selling over 7,500,000 units.   The Taurus was discontinued in October 2006, after a brief run of 2007 models destined for fleet customers."How can it go away?" Alan Mulally remembered asking, "It's the best-selling car in America."While it is not expected for the name change to turn the Five Hundred into a 400,000 plus units a year blockbuster like the Taurus, it is expected to make sales more solid, and to make the car well known, since the Taurus is a well known nameplate around the country.The former premier of the Canadian province of Alberta, Jim Prentice, was killed on Thursday night along with three other people after the plane they were traveling in crashed shortly after takeoff near Kelowna, British Columbia, en route to Calgary, Alberta.The plane, a Cessna Citation, departed Kelowna at 9:32 p.m. before quickly disappearing from radar sight, according to a Transportation Safety Board official, Bill Yearwood. The National Post reported RCMP detachments in Kelowna and Lake Country were alerted to the loss of contact at 10:07 p.m. by Surrey Air Traffic Control Centre. According to tracking site FlightAware, the plane's last recorded data point showed it descending from an altitude of 4,800 feet at 2,200 feet per minute. The plane crashed 18 km (11 miles) north of Kelowna in a wooded are, where its wreckage was subsequently found by search crews. Local residents noted it was raining at the time, though without heavy storms.On the accident, Bill Yearwood stated to CTV News, "It was during climb out from Kelowna that something went wrong obviously to cause the aircraft to descend and collide with terrain."Officials and family identified the other passengers on the plane as optometrist Ken Gellatly, father-in-law to one of Prentice's daughters, and businessman Sheldon Dunphy Reid, who owned stock in the plane's operator Norjet. Both men were from Calgary. The plane's pilot was Jim Kruk, a friend of Prentice.The Prentice family stated, "Words cannot begin to express our profound shock and heartbreak at the news that our beloved husband, father and grandfather, Jim, has died in this tragic event".  The statement also mentioned Gellatly, "also a very special man."  They noted, "To lose two family members at once is unbelievably painful and we are certain you will appreciate and respect our wishes for privacy at this time and the coming weeks".Prentice, 60, led Alberta as premier and leader of the Progressive Conservative Party from September 2014 to May 2015, until his government was toppled in a provincial election. Before ascending to the position, he served under the federal Conservative Party as a cabinet minister, first for Indian and Northern Affairs, then Industry, and finally the Environment. As news broke of his death, the country's political leaders issued tributes to Prentice.In a press conference in Lethbridge, Alberta, Justin Trudeau, the country's Prime Minister, described Prentice as "a strong voice for the people of Alberta and for the people of Canada", adding Prentice's work used an "intelligent, honest and straightforward approach".  "I greatly enjoyed my interactions with Jim, time I spent working beside him, across from him in the House. And while we didn't always share the same views, he was always incredibly kind and respectful to me, and I will miss him profoundly".Stephen Harper, Trudeau's predecessor, under whose administration Prentice served, issued a statement on Twitter, "Laureen [Harper's wife] and I were shocked and saddened to learn of the death of our friend and colleague Jim Prentice [...] Jim was a family man, friend, leader, and most importantly, a proud Canadian. His legacy will live on through his loving family and decades of public service."Elizabeth May, leader of the Green Party of Canada, highlighted Prentice's term of office as environment minister and his "genuine concern" for environmental protection: "My heart goes out to Jim's wife, Karen, three daughters and grandchildren as they mourn this tragic loss", saying the news of Prentice's death left her "heartbroken".Tom Mulcair, leader of the federal NDP Party, noted that Prentice's service to his country and province was carried out with "honour and respect".  "He possessed a love for politics and deep sense of public service that was universally admired. [...] Today we all mourn this tragic loss.""He was deeply loved Alberta," said Prentice's successor Rachel Notley, who defeated Prentice in the previous election, following which Prentice resigned as leader of the Progressive Conservative party and as a member of Alberta's Legislative Assembly. "I benefited from his advice".  "For Alberta, today is a day of sorrow in the face of terrible tragedy." Notley's father died in a plane crash.Prentice's death came months after another former Canadian cabinet minister died in a plane crash, Jean Lapierre. Lapierre, of the federal Liberal Party, died after his plane crashed on March 29 in Îles-de-la-Madeleine, Quebec.Former Formula One McLaren designer Gordon Murray has unveiled a new all-electric car.The car model, which is known as the T.27, is due to be developed over the course of the next 16 months with four prototypes. The process that will be used during the course of the manufacturing of the vehicle is called iStream. The technology iStream had been invented by Gordon Murray in 1999 and means that all the parts are designed using a computer.The project has approximately received £9,000,000 (US$14,919,000) in investment. The electric car is designed for urban purposes, such as in cities or towns. The weight of the vehicle is just 600 kilograms. It has the ability to travel at speeds of up to 60 miles per hour and can go for a maximum of 100 miles between recharges.The designer thinks that motorists will some day be travelling in vehicles like this. Murray believes that the new car will be 'the most efficient electric vehicle on earth'.Former US Senator Ted Stevens, 86, and former NASA administrator Sean O'Keefe, 54, were on an airplane that crashed in southwest Alaska, the Associated Press reports. A family spokesperson later confirmed that Stevens died in the crash, following earlier conflicting reports about his status. Both O'Keefe and his teenage son survived, according to a former NASA spokesperson.In addition to the former Senator and former NASA chief, there were seven other passengers, The New York Times reports. Of those, five were reported to have died. The plane was heading to a fishing lodge near Lake Aleknagik when it crashed. Senator Stevens' body has been recovered.The Alaska National Guard was called in at 7:00 p.m. AKDT (0300 UTC) Monday, and arrived at the crash site about 7:30 a.m. AKDT (1530 UTC) Tuesday. Severe weather has made finding the crash site difficult for rescue personnel. The National Transportation Safety Board, or NTSB, said it was sending a team of investigators to the crash site, which is unusual for crashes of private aircraft.As of 10:00 a.m. AKDT (1800 UTC), three of the survivors have been airlifted from the site by the United States Coast Guard.Ted Stevens was born on November 18, 1923 in Indianapolis, Indiana. He began serving as a US Senator for Alaska in 1968, and held the postition until 2009, when he was defeated in a reelection bid by Mark Begich. He was also facing corruption charges at the time, which were later dropped after an initial conviction when it was found that prosecutors had withheld evidence from Stevens' defense attorneys. In 1978, Stevens survived a plane crash in Anchorage, although the incident claimed the life of his first wife, Ann.Sean O'Keefe was nominated as a NASA administrator in 2001 by then-president George W. Bush, and led the space organization through shaky times, such as the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster. He resigned in 2005 to become the chancellor of Louisiana State University.Trevor Wilkinson, who founded the UK performance car manufacturer TVR has died at his home in Minorca, Spain. He was 85.Wilkinson, from Blackpool, left education at 14, getting an apprenticeship at a local garage. In 1946 he bought a local wheelwright's business, which he renamed Trevcar Motors, which sold and repaired cars, as well as undertaking light engineering work.He built his first car the following year. It was a two-seater based on an Alvis Firebird chassis for his own use. He then formed TVR Engineering, the name derived from his own - TreVoR. The first TVR was unveiled in 1949. It was a two-seater with an alloy body and a multi-tubular steel chassis.The first production TVR was initially called simply the 'Mark I', but became known as the Grantura. This M-type glass fibre bodied car was to remain in production, in a modified form, until 1980, when it was replaced by the Tasmin, which had an angular wedge design.Wilkinson himself left TVR in 1962 to form another engineering business, which specialised in glass fibre construction. He moved to Minorca after retiring.The TVR Car Club website announced yesterday that he had died in Spain. The news was confirmed by a spokeswoman for Minorca's Mateu Orfila Hospital. According to the TVR Car Club's site "He was aware of the serious nature of his final illness but, according to a friend, took it in stoical fashion that was typical of the man."The United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has tightened the deadline imposed earlier for inspection of all Boeing 737 Next Generation worldwide.The mandatory inspections were imposed after it was discovered that the China Airlines 737 that exploded in Japan had a hole in it's right wing fuel tank, which had been caused by a loose bolt from the wing slat assembly.The wing slats are panels mounted to the leading edge of a wing. They are moved forward during final approach for landing to increase lift from the wing, allowing the plane to fly slower than it can when the aircraft is configured for cruise without entering a stall. The bolt in question is mounted to the main slat tracks, on which the slats slide back and forth. As they are extended for landing, they can cause the bolt to be pushed through the adjacent wing fuel tank, rupturing it in the way it is believed the China Airlines plane's tank was.Thus far, the inspections have discovered four airliners in which the bolt was loose. These discoveries give the authorities cause to believe that loose wing slat track bolts may be more widespread than originally considered, and accordingly reduced the inspection deadline from 24 days to 10 days. After that, inspections must be made every 3,000 operational hours, an unchanged schedule from the original set out at the same time as the 24-day deadline.The Emergency Airworthiness Directive that the inspections are laid out in is believed to affect a total of 2,287 aircraft sold by Boeing around the world, although the FAA only has the authority to make the inspections compulsory for the 783 aircraft currently being operated in the U.S.Although the FAA refused to release any details on which aircraft were found to have loose bolts, CNN and Agence France-Presse both reported that a fifth plane also exhibited the fault, belonging to Air Nippon and in operation in Japan. Although the fault was located elsewhere in the assembly, it is believed to have an identically high chance of causing a rupture to the fuel tank. All 22 other 737 NextGens in Japan have been checked, with no problems being identified.Meanwhile, Norwegian Air Shuttle demonstrated it's faith in the aircraft by placing a US$3.1bn (UK£1.5bn) order for 42 Boeing 737-800 passenger jets with an option to buy 42 more, having already ordered 11 in May this year.Four current and former British Airways (BA) employees have been charged with price fixing by the United Kingdom's Office of Fair Trading (OFT). They are the first employees of a major UK company to be prosecuted for this offense.BA have already been fined a record £270 million for their part in the scheme by authorities in both Britain and the United States. On at least six occasions, BA and Virgin Atlantic agreed to illegally fix fuel surcharge prices. BA have also paid US$136 million to settle a US class action by passengers affected by the crimes. Virgin was not prosecuted as the OFT granted the company immunity in exchange for being the whistle blower.As part of a plea bargain made by the airline and the US Department of Justice (DoJ), some immunity was granted against prosecution of individuals, but ten were not granted this immunity. Three former and one current executive at BA from those ten are the men charged under the Enterprise Act 2002.The current employee is head of sales Andrew Crawley, while the three others are ex-commercial director Martin George, ex-head of communications Iain Burns and former head of UK sales Alan Burnett. Burns and George both resigned in 2006, while Burnett retired in the same year.There has only ever been one comparable case, involving industrial oil hose price-fixing, but this never went to trial as the defendants pled guilty. Therefore, this may become the first trial of its kind as well as the first major prosecution.BA was also fined US$300 million recently by the DoJ for a similar deal with Korean Air.BA CEO Willie Walsh said earlier this year that "any anti-competitive behaviour is to be condemned at BA or at other companies."File:Australian SF Afghanistan Oct 2009.jpgLess than two weeks after two Australian soldiers (Diggers) died in the explosion of a roadside bomb, three more Diggers and a US soldier were killed early yesterday morning in a helicopter crash in southern Afghanistan, while seven other soldiers are being treated for injuries.Australian Defence Force Chief Angus Houston said in a statement this afternoon that two of the crash survivors are in a serious condition and will be moved with the other survivors to the US military hospital in Begram.The crash occurred at 03:39 yesterday local time (23:09 on Sunday, UTC) in the north of Kandahar province. Although the cause is still unknown, Houston said "the terrain is rugged, the helicopters are often heavily loaded, it’s at high altitude and it was three o’clock in the morning. All of these factors will no doubt be considered". Houston confirmed that enemy fire was not to blame for the crash.These new casualties in the Afghan War brings Australia's death toll to sixteen, while that of the US comes to 1128 since the war began in 2001.Despite this, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, remains firm on the issue: "We work beside our allies [...] to avoid Afghanistan once again becoming a breeding ground for terrorists who can then strike at innocent Australians both at home and abroad" and continued by saying that all Australians owe the soldiers a debt of gratitude for making the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty.Although the names of the soldiers have yet to be released, the tragedy follows last week's casualties where Australian combat engineers Darren Smith, age 26, and Jacob Moerland, age 21, were killed along side their bomb sniffer dog, Herbie in a roadside blast.Four people have died and at least four more have been seriously injured after a dump truck hit multiple vehicles and two pedestrians in Bath in South West England. The incident occurred at around 1600 UTC yesterday when the truck rolled down a hill on Lansdown Lane in the city's Upper Weston district in what witness accounts given to police suggest was an accident avoidance attempt.The four fatalities died at the scene of the crash, on a steep hill close to Weston All Saints Primary School. Three people injured were taken to Royal United Hospital in Bath; one was critically injured and transported to Bristol's Southmead Hospital by air ambulance. A number of others also received minor injuries, leading to the primary school being turned into a temporary hospital. Eyewitness accounts reported by ITV News West Country indicated the truck driver repeatedly beeped his horn in the seconds before the collision, at a time when a number of children would have been leaving the school.Police closed off the road to allow for investigative work. Speaking on behalf of Avon and Somerset Constabulary, Chief Superintendent Caroline Peters, who described the collision scene as "one of carnage", explained: "We have a collision team of investigators who are trying to assess the cause of this accident and we are working very closely with the fire service and South West Ambulance".Three Australian citizens and a New Zealander died when the chartered light aircraft in which they were travelling crashed on Misima Island off the coast of Papua New Guinea. The plane, a Cessna Citation with five people on board, is said by locals to have overshot the runway in poor weather, before crashing into trees and bursting into flames.The fifth person, a New Zealander believed to be one of the pilots, is undergoing treatment for heavy bruising.  The crash was confirmed by the Australian Foreign Minister, Stephen Smith, who said that officials of the Australian Consulate would be travelling to the crash site on Wednesday.  The presence of the 2 New Zealanders on board was confirmed by the New Zealand High Commission in Port Moresby.Jerome Peniasi, The acting Chief Executive of PNG Ports said the Australians on the plane were working with a company called Australian Reef Pilots near Misima Island. "We are aware of the accident, but we still don't have much information as communication has been difficult", he said. The Managing Director of Australian Reef Pilots, Craig Southerwood confirmed that one of the dead was a 61-year old marine pilot working for the agency.The European Union (EU) has allowed four Indonesian airlines back into their airspace. A blanket ban had been placed on Indonesian air carriers in 2007. The EU has now added every Zambian airline and all but one from Kazakhstan to their blacklist.The four airlines allowed to fly into Europe are state-owned flag carrier Garuda Indonesia, privately owned scheduled carrier Mandala Airlines and two private chartered airlines dealing mainly with western clients, Airfast Indonesia and Premiair.The decision to place the nation's fleet on the list of air carriers banned in the European Union followed a string of accidents, as well as a safety audit by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). The accidents included the Adam Air Flight 574 disaster, where an airliner vanished from radar and crashed, Adam Air Flight 172, a nonfatal accident in which a plane cracked in half after landing and Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, a runway overrun that killed 21.The ICAO had issued 600 safety recommendations to Indonesia. According to foreign minister Hassan Wirajuda, there are 69 requirements issued to the airlines by the EU, of which 62 have been met. Indonesia has also made improvements to its safety infrastructure, introducing better inspections. Earlier this year, five airlines had their operating certificates revoked for failing inspections.The EU said the decision was made as a result of "significant improvements and accomplishments of the Indonesian civil aviation authority" which "are recognised in the area of safety." Garuda plans to launch services to Europe next year.The EU list now also contains all Zambian airlines and every airline from Kazakhstan except Air Astana. Astana has had restrictions put upon its flights to Europe.European Commissioner for Transport Antonio Tajani used these additions as an opportunity to repeat a call for the list to be made global, which he had first suggested after the crash of Yeminia Flight 626 earlier this month."We cannot afford any compromise in air safety," he said. "Citizens have the right to fly safely anywhere in the world. It is high time that the international community rethinks safety policy. Those airlines which are unsafe should not be allowed to fly anywhere."The only other modification to the list was to Angolan flag carrier TAAG. Previously banned completely, they will now be allowed to fly some of their aircraft into Portugal, with operating restrictions. The move comes after the Portuguese and Angolan civil aviation bodies signed a deal to co-operate to improve safety.At least four people have died after one of three military escort helicopters accompanying Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf crashed in Kashmir.The medium-lift Super Puma helicopter was shadowing one carrying the president when the rear of the rotorcraft burst into flame, forcing an emergency crash landing. An army brigadier, two soldiers and a PTV cameraman were killed, and four more were injured, including presidential spokesman Major General Rashid Qureshi. The injured are being treated at a hospital in Muzaffarabad. The pilot walked away unharmed.It is thought to be an accident caused by a technical fault.The helicopters were visiting the scene of a devastating 2005 earthquake to mark the anniversary of the disaster. The president ultimately reached his destination.The Prime Minister of the Ivory Coast, Guillaume Soro, has escaped uninjured after a missile struck his aircraft upon landing at Bouaké Airport, Ivory Coast, killing four others, according to eyewitnesses.According to a United Nations (UN) employee who saw the attack, a total of three missiles were fired. One struck and rebounded off the fuselage and failed to explode, one flew over the top of the aircraft and exploded nearby and one burst through the fuselage and exploded inside the cabin. There were also some gunshots fired.Shortly after the attack, the Forces Nouvelles de Côte d'Ivoire (New Forces of the Ivory Coast) announced several arrests had been made in connection to the failed assassination attempt.One male New Forces administrative assistant from on board the plane who refused to be identified spoke to the media via telephone from a local hospital where he was being treated for an injury to his arm, and gave the following account of the attack: "There was an explosion and it was panic. The plane had just landed and we waited until the plane came to a stop. We tried to calm people down until the plane stopped...Those who fired must have been in the bush. I didn't see anyone. I don't know if anyone saw them." Allan Aliali, a journalist on board to cover the arrival of Soro, described seeing three dead bodies in the plane, but was unable to identify them. This was later confirmed by New Forces spokesman Sidiki Konate, who said a fourth victim died later from his injuries.A planned ceremony to mark the official return of magistrates to the north under an Ivory Cost peace deal went ahead as scheduled, after which Konate told reporters "Be assured, the most important thing for us is to advance in this peace process and nothing can stop us. This process cannot be assassinated,". Currently, there is a military buffer zone splitting the country in two and policed by the UN, but a new peace deal in March is leading to progress in dismantling it.The UN security council condemned the attack, and urged all involved in the current power conflict to respect the peace deal there. United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also gave his personal condemnation of the attack, saying that the peace deal "represents a unique opportunity for a peaceful solution to the protracted Ivorian crisis." The UN security council said it condemned and any attempt to destabilize the peace process by force" and that "The perpetrators of this criminal act must be brought to justice...(it is) critical that all parties continue to work within the framework of the March 4 peace agreement."Security was stepped up in Bouaké after the attack, with a security cordon set up around the New Forces headquarters, troops deployed at the airport and roadblocks set up at various points across the city. Meanwhile, in London and New York prices for cocoa, which the Ivory Coast is the biggest supplier of, rose to their highest levels in four years as news of the attack came through.International Crisis Group analyst Gilles Yabi said of the attack "It's too soon to know who was responsible, but clearly we're thinking about people in Soro's own movement who are not happy with the way things have turned out...The agreement was a real step forward in the peace process, but it was still fragile because the (citizen) identification process had not yet begun...and of course because of tensions in the rebel [New Forces] camp".An explosion occurred in a bus in the Epifanio de los Santos Avenue, in Makati City, Philippines on Tuesday.  The blast occurred in shortly before 2 p.m.  Four are dead with fourteen more wounded.After the explosion, the National Capital Region Police Office's Director, Nicanor Bartolome, said that he formed a special investigation team and the city has formed a crisis management committee. President Benigno Aquino III condoled the grieving families of the dead. The Metro Manila police are now on full alert following the blast. The bus was an air-conditioned model, plate number TXJ-710.After news reached the Malacañang Palace spokesman Eduardo Lacierda said that the cause of the blast was "some sort of explosive device placed in the vicinity of the middle of the bus." Many passengers had already got off before the explosion; almost half disembarked at Ayala.A survivor said that they did not notice the explosion because they were all busy watching television. The bus driver noticed an abnormal smell, namely gunpowder. He stated that mechanical failure could not possibly be the cause. The police are yet to establish what type of explosive was used.Four foreign men have today gone before a court in Hungary on suspicion of people smuggling. Their detention relates to Thursday's discovery of a lorry full of corpses in Austria. The death toll was yesterday finalised at 71.The lorry had been abandoned since Wednesday on the hard shoulder of the "Eastern Motorway", near the Hungarian border. Roadworkers became suspicious of dark liquid seeping from the vehicle, and responding police found the bodies. Initial police estimates were that 20–50 were suffocated in the back of the lorry which was near Parndorf.The arrested men are thought to include the vehicle's owner and at least two drivers. Three are Bulgarian and one is from Afghanistan. Criminal suspects in Hungary can generally be held for 72 hours before charge but prosecutors, citing the seriousness of the case, want the period extended. Extradition to Austria is possible.Of the 71 dead, 59 are men, eight are women, and four are children. The children are thought to be aged three, eight, and ten years, alongside an eighteen-month-old baby. "There was also a Syrian travel document found" police spokesman Hans Peter Doskozil told journalists "so of course our first assumption is that these people were migrants, and likely a group of Syrian migrants. We can rule out that they were Africans".The four accused were escorted into court in Kecskemet, central Hungary, by a police convoy. Reportedly the lorry traveled from Kecskemet. Hungary is presently building a border fence across the Serbian frontier, as migrants from war-torn Syria and other regions seek access to the Schengen Area of free movement, which covers most of the EU.Slovak chicken meat company Hyza, a previous owner, previously told Wikinews the lorry has changed hands several times in roughly the last year. After they sold it they say it was exported to Hungary; it now bears Hungarian plates but still features Hyza branding including pictures of meat.On the day of the discovery Hyza quickly removed a graphic from their homepage featuring cartoon chicken stowaways in a car being inspected at a customs post. The stowaways also appeared with a line through them alongside the word "imigranti" and the site www.imigranti.sk in one corner. On the other side was Hyza's logo. Imigranti.sk is also unavailable.Police today found 26 migrants in a lorry near Braunau am Inn, Austria. The driver, from Romania, refused to stop for police and was arrested following a chase. Police said three children were hospitalised for "severe dehydration". Found near the German border, the migrants were from Afghanistan, Syria, and Bangladesh.Six people, including four U.N. staff working for the anti-narcotics department in Bolivia, have been killed in a plane crash in a remote area in the west of the country.Two Bolivian military pilots are also among those killed in the accident, which happened in the Los Yungas area, northeast of the capital city, La Paz. The aircraft had been missing since Thursday and was found on Saturday morning according to a general in the Bolivian Air Force, who added the light Cessna aircraft hit a tall tree and then impacted the ground. Robert Brockmann, a U.N. spokesperson in Bolivia, said the aircraft "was completely destroyed and burned." Investigators have not yet determined what caused the accident, but Brockmann said the aircraft was in an area with overgrown trees and steep cliffs. The bodies of the pilots and U.N. personnel, who had been monitoring the transport of coca—a plant used to make cocaine—over several months, have yet to be recovered because of the remote location of the crash site. "The place is completly inaccessible in a very tall forest," the general said.Officials in France have issued a pollution alert after an unladen freighter grounded on a breakwater at Anglet, Basque yesterday. The vessel split in two and is leaking fuel oil.The Luno had 120–160 cubic metres of fuel aboard when it broke down and high winds and waves pushed it into the breakwater. Helicopters rescued the twelve crewmembers and the only injury was a broken nose. The 100-metre ship was en route to pick up its usual fertiliser cargo and initially officials feared the vessel could spill a load.The ship has split around the breakwater, one part remaining on the rocks at one side and the other pushed almost to the beach on the other. Junior transport, seas, and fishing minister Frederic Cuvillier is heading to Anglet. Anglet is near the Spanish border, with the ship registered in Spain.One eyewitness, commenting to BBC News, called the rescuers "brave considering the state of the sea". She said the ship had tried to anchor itself but broke away.A bus crashed into a ditch in northern France, killing one man and leaving at least four people seriously injured, the UK's Foreign and Commonwealth Office confirmed.The crash occurred on the A26 autoroute, between Calais and Troyes, near Reims, at approximately 0300 CET (0200 UTC) this morning. The vehicle was carrying 29 school children and twenty or 21 adults, with the man killed being 59 years old. The 22 minorly injured and the four or five seriously injured are currently receiving hospital treatment.The pupils, who attend Alvechurch Church of England Middle School in Worcestershire, England, were returning to the UK from a trip to Aosta Valley, a well-known skiing area in Italy. Those not injured have been transported to a local sports complex where the French Red Cross is providing psychological assistance.Police tests have established that the driver was not drunk and has been tested negative for drugs. It is possible that he might have fallen asleep while driving. Details of how exactly the crash occurred are unclear presently. According to BBC News reporter Hugh Schofield, the vehicle "veered into the ditch at the side of the road and it was a very serious accident." Video from the scene showed the coach, which was owned by an English company, had rolled onto its side.The Norwegian Dawn, a 965-foot-long luxury vessel, was struck by “a freak wave that caused two windows to break in two different cabins,” the owners, Norwegian Cruise Line, said in a statement. It changed course, docking in Charleston late Saturday afternoon instead of completing its planned travel to New York.The wave, estimated at 7-stories-high, flooded 62 cabins and injured 4 passengers with cuts and bruises. Company spokeswoman Susan Robison said the wave reached to deck 10.The hull was damaged but the vessel was not in any trouble, according to the Coast Guard, and the safety of the ship “was in no way compromised by this incident.” Passengers were told to don their flotation jackets anyway.The ship left New York last Sunday on a week-long round-trip cruise to and from the Bahamas.An appeals court in Eastern France has confirmed the Swedish car manufacturer Volvo is guilty over the deaths of two schoolchildren aged nine and ten and the serious injury of a third after a brakes failure caused an accident in 1999.The Volvo 850 TDI was being driven by a local teacher when it struck the children, who had been on their way to school. Driver Catherine Kohtz later asserted that the brake pedal had become stiff and the brakes themselves unresponsive as she traveled along the steep road.Expert examination of the vehicle after the crash confirmed that the braking system was flawed. Volvo had known there was a potential issue with the brakes but had not issued a recall of the affected cars for modifications.The court confirmed Volvo should pay a 200,000 euro fine. The court also confirmed that Kohtz should pay a 300 euro fine and receive a six-month suspended sentence and temporary revocation of her driving license for failure to control the Volvo.The ruling also said that two French national papers should cover the decision.French military commandos boarded a ferry boat on Wednesday morning that had been taken over by ferry company strikers from the Société nationale Corse-Méditerranée (SNCM). The strike erupted after the French government announced its intention to privatize the company, which had been losing money for decades. The strikers seem to belong to the Corsican workers' union, a trade union close to Corsican nationalists.The strikers captured the ship, called Pascal-Paoli, in Marseille. They sailed her to Bastia where she was intercepted by a ship of the Marine Nationale and boarded by special forces. The military team included members of the GIGN (the French Gendarmerie's rescue and anti-terror unit) and, according to some sources, naval special forces. The prosecutor's office at Marseille has opened a criminal enquiry for "evident crime", with the charge of piracy — a crime which, according to article L224-6 of the French Penal Code, is punished by a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. If the charges are retained, the initiators of the event will face a jury trial before an assize court. There are, however, questions as to whether this criminal qualification applies in this case, since the strikers did not resort to violence in stealing the ship.The strikers are in protest against the French government's intention to sell SNCM to the investment fund Butler Capital Partners, led by businessman Walter Butler. Mr Butler claims that he can put SNCM back into financial shape within 4 years. Opponents of the privatization plan contend that the sale price is an amount greatly inferior to what it is worth, even if only for its assets.The French government has had significant problems with money-losing state-owned companies in the past. SNCM is, however, a special case, due to the delicate political situation in Corsica. By comparison, the private company Corsica Ferries is in good financial shape. Some sympathetic protesters, however, caused damage to Corsica Ferries offices.Officials on the Indian Ocean island of Mayotte said that a North Korean vessel they searched today had no illegal cargo.The ship was searched by French Customs to enforce sanctions imposed by an October 14 resolution of the United Nations Security Council.The UN passed Resolution 1718, imposing new sanctions on North Korea, in response to a nuclear weapon test in October.The ship was searched at the small French island of Mayotte.  The BBC reports that this may be the first search of a North Korean vessel under the new sanctions regime.Update:Friday, November 17, 2006 ,  Press agency AFP reported last night that French authorities plan to continue inspecting the ship until the end of the week.This Sunday, French inventor Franky Zapata successfully crossed the English Channel on a jet-powered freeflight flying device propelled by turbines and attached to his feet, called Flyboard Air. The 22-mile (35-km) journey took 22 minutes with one refueling about halfway to Dover, England. This success came on the second attempt by the inventor to cross the Channel. This device was invented three years ago and could reportedly serve military assault or logistics purposes.The flight started at 8:17 a.m. local time (0617 UTC) in Sangatte and finished in St Margaret's at Cliffe near Dover. Zapata flew across the water at over 100 mph (161 km/h). The inventor carried a backpack with kerosene (paraffin} and was escorted by three helicopters. Zapata also made one landing on a boat mid-channel to refill the kerosene fuel in his backpack, a process Zapata described as being tricky because the boat could not be kept still in the moving waters of the Channel."Once I managed to stick my heels into the boat, I knew I had done 90% of the work," Zapata told French news channel BFM TV.Strong winds over the Channel presented difficulty during the crossing, Zapata said, adding it required much endurance to manage to stay airborne. "It's an isometric exercise for the thighs, so it burns — it's quite hard."Upon arrival, Zapata told reporters, "We made a machine three years ago... and now we've crossed the Channel, it's crazy."This was Zapata's second attempt to cross the Channel on the Flyboard Air.  On July 25, which was the 110th anniversary of the first plane flight across the Channel by pilot Louis Blériot, Zapata fell into the water after a low-speed collision with the resupply boat.The inventor previously presented the device at the Bastille Day military parade earlier this year. In that instance, he had been holding a rifle in his hands to show the invention could be utilized for military purposes.Franky Zapata also invented the original Flyboard, which is propelled by jets of water drawn up by a hose, unlike the Flyboard Air, which uses jets of air.The French postal service La Poste has reached agreement with SNCF, the national rail company, to create a joint rail-based high-speed courier service.  The planned joint venture was announced on Monday by the two state-owned businesses.La Poste's return to rail was prompted by stiff competition and rulings of the European Commission.  In the late 1990s, mail train services were largely replaced by road and air shipment.  Faced with European prohibitions on night flights, and the harmful effects of carbon emissions, La Poste changed its policy.There will be 3 TGV high-speed mail trains in the new fleet, soon expanding to 10.  Environmentally speaking, the trains will contribute a reduction in atmospheric pollution from fossil fuels.Multiple passengers were injured and five were killed when their tour bus crashed and rolled on the Highway 101 overpass near Soledad, Monterey County, California. There were 34 French tourists, an American driver and a French Canadian tour guide on board the bus when it overturned.On Tuesday afternoon about 3:30 P.M., at the Camphora Gloria Road overpass, the bus rolled, and three or four passengers flew from the bus, over the freeway guardrail to the railway tracks.Wednesday morning, Maia Carroll, communications coordinator for Monterey County, confirmed that five people had died due to the accident.First reports indicated it was a multiple vehicle accident, however the reason that the bus went out of control is still under investigation. Three people were declared dead at the scene of the accident and two others died in hospital.  "At this time, it appears to just be a solo-vehicle incident, meaning just the tour bus itself was involved," said California Highway Patrol (CHP) spokesman Brian Wiest, "It's a tragedy. It's certainly one of worst I've seen in a long time."The three patients who were the first to arrive at the Salinas Valley Memorial Hospital were all in a critical condition. Some of the injured were taken to the Lee Memorial Hospital in King City, other critically injured were being sent to the Bay area. So far eight people have been reported in critical condition. At least fifteen ambulances, and seven helicopter ambulances were dispatched to the scene.  A thirteen year old is being treated in Fesno Community Regional Medical Center. Patients are being treated at over eight hospitals in the area.The CHP closed all lanes of the highway in both directions and reported multiple fatalities.The tour bus was operated by Orion Pacific Charter Bus Co. and was traveling from San Francisco to Santa Maria. The French tourists involved in the accident arrived on April the 19th to tour California. They were returning to Los Angeles from where they were to continue to France when the accident happened.  The tour bus was bought this year and was made for 56 passengers in total.This accident occurred just four days after twenty were killed and 21 injured when a tourist bus collided with a truck in south west China on Saturday.The labor strikes in France, which began on November 13, 2007, are continuing as hundreds of thousands of civil servants hold a 24-hour work stoppage. The action by postal workers, teachers, air traffic controllers and hospital staff, have left many schools closed and airports facing delays and flight cancellations.The November 2007 strikes in France began when SNCF rail workers and Paris Métro engineers went on strike to protest reforms by President Nicolas Sarkozy, which would reduce early retirement pensions.Under current regulations, civil servants in France may retire after 37.5 years of service. Some professions, primarily in the rail industry, have an accelerated schedule, allowing rail workers to retire as early as age 50 with full benefits. The government wants to change that saying that these special pensions apply to 1.6 million workers and amount to 6% of the governments total pension payments.The rail strike has, according to opinion polls, become quite unpopular. Speaking today, Sarkozy said "I am thinking about those millions of French people who after a day's work do not have a bus, a metro or a train to get home and who are tired of being held hostage. I am thinking of those companies that risk having to lay off workers."The French finance minister Christine Lagarde estimated the strikes cost the economy of France €350 million each day. "It's a real worry for the French economy," she said. Public accounts minister Éric Wœrth spoke on France Inter radio and agreed that a prolonged strike would hurt the economy. "Not over several days. But if it lasted longer, it could obviously have consequences," he said.The civil servants that began their 24-hour stoppage today are protesting what they say has been a de facto pay-cut. The purchasing power of their wages has dropped by 6% since 2000. They are demanding pay-raises and are protesting proposed job-cuts for 2008. The government has proposed to cut some 23,000 jobs, half of which would be in education.The third work stoppage by French energy workers started last night, reducing electrical output by 9%. Newspaper distributors also went on strike, in protest of proposed restructuring. Students protested other reforms that would give universities greater autonomy. The students blocked access to buildings at campuses across the country.Toyota announced on Friday that it will recall around 17,000 Lexus vehicles in response to risks of the fuel tank in the cars leaking after a collision.The Lexus HS 250h model was subjected to the recall following a US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) investigation. Despite previously passing Toyota safety inspections, the conclusions of an NHTSA sub-contracted investigator were that; when the vehicles in question collided with an object at more than fifty-miles-per hour, more than 142 grams of fuel, the maximum allowed by US law, leaked from the crashed car.According to Toyota, further tests did not show any additional failure of the fuel tank.In response to the findings, Toyota issued a recall of all affected vehicles, since the company had no solution immediately available.  The recall includes 13,000 cars already sold, as well as another 4,000 still at dealerships.Toyota says it plans to conduct further tests to determine the cause of the leak.  A Toyota spokesman, Brian Lyons, said that the company was "still working to determine what the root cause of the condition is."  It's still unclear when exactly the recall will take place, or when dealerships will be allowed to sell this model again.  Lyons said that Toyota is "working feverishly to get this resolved as soon as possible."Toyota isn't aware of any accidents stemming from the leaking fuel tank in the affected vehicles, first introduced in the summer of 2009.The pilot of the Boeing 737 which crashed on March 7 upon landing at Yogyakarta Airport after a domestic Indonesian flight, has been forced by his airline to resign. The crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 killed twenty-one people, most being Indonesian nationals and five being Australians, following a visit by then Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer.Garuda sent the pilot, Marwoto Komar, an ultimatum requesting his resignation with which he complied. Had he failed to do so, his employment would have been terminated. The news coincides with police officials forwarding to prosecutors some documents recommending that Komar be charged with negligent manslaughter over the crash, which carries a maximum sentence of seven years imprisonment.The final report into the disaster found that Mr Komar ignored fifteen activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System informing him he was attempting to land too fast. After touching down at double the maximum safe speed, the aircraft overshot the runway and caught fire.Kamal Firdaus, legal representative of Mr Komar, said "We regret Garuda so soon giving Marwoto the option of being fired or resigning." Mr Komar was arrested early this month, but was subsequently released on bail on February 15. He is thought to be the first pilot to face prosecution for an aviation accident or incident in Indonesia.Indonesian national Marwoto Komar has been released on bail having earlier been arrested over the March 7 crash of a Boeing 737 he was piloting. Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 overshot the runway at Yogyakarta Airport whilst landing after a scheduled domestic passenger flight, leaving 21 Indonesian and Australian passengers dead, out of 140 on board.The subsequent investigation by the National Transport Safety Committee concluded with report released in November that found the aircraft had approached at far in excess of safe landing speeds, with Komar ignoring 15 activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS) as well as his co-pilot requesting an emergency go-around as the plane touched down.Muchtar Yudhi, legal representative of Mr Komar, told El Shinta radio today that authorities had accepted a request to release Komar on bail, he having been arrested nearly two weeks ago in Yogyakarta. He said Komar remains a suspect of manslaugher, but that he will continue to co-operate with police.He also said that under global aviation law "if a plane crash occurred, the pilot cannot face criminal investigation".The police say they intend to prosecute him for negligence and will now charge him when he returns to court. He is thought to be the first pilot to be prosecuted over a crash in Indonesian history, which also contains a poor aviation safety record.The Indonesian Pilot's Association has also said that the criminal prosecution should be avoided, arguing that the only people who can judge whether mistakes were made in aviation are those professionally involved and not the police. There were protests in Jakarta demanding his release and dozens of pilots across the nation also campaigned. Two survivors, Adrianus Meliala and Retno Gunowati, went to the House of Representatives (DPR) on Wednesday to challenge those opposed to legal processes against the pilot.The London-based International Federation of Air Line Pilots Associations (IFALPA) commented that they were "saddened" to hear the news. IFALPA contends that further investigations are needed into the crash, and that criminal proceedings could prevent an accurate version of events from ever being known. A statement was released that read as follows: "The Federation expects that Capt. Komar will be released ... as he has agreed to fully cooperate with the police investigation and clearly poses no danger to society. He remains a professional who was involved in an unfortunate tragedy." Alexander Downer, Australian foreign minister at the time of the crash, earlier said "...I am very glad that they have reached a point now where they have charged the captain of the aircraft." Several people involved were Australian journalists following Downer on a visit to Indonesia."Thanks to the chief of the Indonesian Police and the chief of Yogyakarta Police... I'm glad now that I can meet my family again." Komar said upon his release.Komar has earlier been under police surveillance, during which time he was receiving psychological treatment. He has had his pilot's license suspended.A new theory has emerged as in to why the pilot of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 attempted to land at a hugely excessive speed, despite 15 automated warnings he was flying too quickly and the co-pilot's call for a 'go-around' procedure to be performed. 21 people were killed in the March 7 crash of the Boeing 737-400 passenger jetliner.Stephanus Geraldus, head of the Garuda pilots association, said that problems at home and a lack of sleep may have affected Marwoto Komar's judgement. The news comes as Indonesian authorities announce they are pressing ahead with a possible prosecution.The final report into the disaster, released on Monday, found that Komar, 45, had exhibited what was described as a "fixation" to land the plane, resulting in the excessively fast approach."If you look at his long flying experience, it's impossible that he would try to land at that speed," Captain Geraldus said, adding that marrital problems with wife Norma Andriani, a former air hostess, were "common knowledge". This was backed up by Dudi Sudibyo, an analyst at Angkasa magazine (translated: 'Airspace')."I understand he was arguing with his wife until late that night," said Sudibyo, who went on to express concern at the lack of addressal of potential mental problems on the part of the pilot in the report. Sudibyo is himself a licensed pilot.Lack of sleep may also have contributed. Both Komar and Gagam Rochmana, the flight's co-pilot, reported for duty at 4:30 a.m., with the flight departing Jakarta for Yogyakarta as scheduled at 6 a.m. "What I want to know now is: why he didn't report that lack of sleep and ask to be shifted to the next flight, or maybe he felt extremely confident he could fly - overconfident," Sudibyo specualted. The report did not find any explicit evidence that they were unfit to fly, but did comment that "they did not provide the investigation with information about (their) activities during the 72 hours prior to commencing duty".Police officials have commented that a prosecution is likely with the only personnel required to complete the case against the pilot and co-pilot being expert witnesses, and that the pilots had been grounded since the accident. "We're looking to prosecute under criminal negligence causing death and serious injury," Inspector-General Adiwinoto said."We need witnesses who can prove there was negligence, and since this was an aviation matter, that could be someone from the National Safety Transportation Committee, or it could also be a medical doctor because of the deaths and injuries."We have been proceeding with this investigation all along, but we needed enough preliminary evidence, which we now do have, with the report that says, yes, there was human negligence." He also said that the airline may itself be prosecuted for failing to provide necessary training to the flight crew. This new development comes at the same time as six Garuda Boeing 737-400s are grounded for failure to comply with import regulations.The trial of Captain Marwoto Komar is set to begin this week. The first pilot to be prosecuted over an aircraft accident in Indonesia, he is being charged over the March 7, 2007 crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 at Yogyakarta International Airport, a disaster which killed 21 people.The final report by the National Transport Safety Commission found that Komar had attempted to land the aircraft, a Boeing 737, at an unsafely high speed and steep angle, resulting in the plane overshooting the runway and bursting into flames. It further said that he ignored fifteen activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System telling him he was approaching too fast, as well as a request by the co-pilot to abort the landing.According to Muhammad Assegaf, a member of Captain Komar's defense team, the trial begins on Thursday in Yogyakarta's Slemen District Court. When asked about the nature of the charges, deputy attorney general for general offenses Abdul Hakim Ritonga told reporters "It is complicated...but both aviation and criminal codes can be used," and that the charges would be of fatal negligence.Most of those killed in the disaster were Indonesians, but five Australians were also killed. They were part of a group sent ahead of Australia's then foreign minister Alexander Downer to accompany him on a visit.There is much controversy surrounding the prosecution. A group of pilots protested his initial arrest, saying he should appear before an aviation tribunal. Instead, he is set to be tried before five judges.Indonesian state-owned flag carrier Garuda Indonesia has been expanding, with the airline set to add nine new jets to its fleet and double its flights between Jakarta and Kuala Lumpur. Garuda is also considering a bid for defunct rival Linus Airways.Garuda is expecting the imminent arrival of four new Airbus jets and five new Boeings. The Airbuses, A330-200s, are earmarked to fly international routes to Seoul and Shanghai starting in July. All four have Internet and telephone access for passengers. The Boeings, B737-800 Next Generation aircraft, are due to be in service by the 2010.Also planned before the year's end is the increase in flights on the Jakarta-Kuala Lumpur route from one to two per week. "We saw our current load factor[s] have reached 75 percent and even more during school breaks like June and July," Said the company's Vice President for Network Oversight, Risnandi. "This is very promising."Garuda is now reported to be considering a bid for Linus, who stopped operating on April 27 and have recently been stripped of the rights to fly their former routes as legally required for airlines that do not operate for more than thrity days. Linus still holds some documents of worth to Garuda for transfer to their subisidiary Citilink."I heard that Garuda intends to buy Linus who already hold an aviation business license (SIUP) and an air operators certificate (AOC) for the scheduled air services," said Indonesian Director General of Civil aviation Herry Bakti S. Gumay to reporters for Bisnis Indonesia. He said that his office was in favour of a takeover by Garuda because foreign bids are limited to holding a maximum total of 49% of the shares in Linus.Linus Airways' President Directer Indra said that "we are flexible to acquisition, depending on the investor. If someone wants to buy 100% of the shares we can release our shares, but if someone wants take only a majority shareholding with us as a partner – we are also open." Indra commented that he has had an informal meeting with Garuda CEO Emirsyah Satar but says that they never discussed acquisition by Garuda and that Linus is already in talks with another 'strategic investor' with a view to resuming operations.Two airlines, Riau Airlines and Kartika Airlines, have both launched bids for the ten routes formally operated by Linus, which include four from Jakarta and three from Batam. Garuda Indonesia's Financial Direcotr Eddy Purwanto has anounced that US$650 million worth of loans from Bank Mandiri have been restructured. Garuda, who has apointed Rothschild's as their international financial advisors, will now pay US$450 million by 2015.London, UK -- Commuters in the South East today discovered that it's not only problems at Clapham Junction that can cause disruption to more travellers from more than one of the major London stations. A single gas leak near Battersea Park Junction interrupted services to and from both Waterloo and Victoria stations, the 2 main termini covering the areas "south of the river" in the metropolis.The incident occurred around lunchtime, with trains being cancelled and delayed, and even once the leak had been repaired, the knock-on effects from the earlier disruptions caused delays to peak hour commuters returning home.  The situation was not aided by differential information being made available on travel news sources, a phenomenon that has become a familiar story since the once-unified British Rail was split up into an infrastructure operator and a number of different Train Operating Companies (TOCs).George Osborne, the United Kingdom Chancellor of the Exchequer, is to announce plans today for a proposed high-speed rail link between a number of cities in the North of England as a means to bring about economic development and build a "northern powerhouse" to compete with London.Osborne says the individual cities in the north of England are strong, but "collectively not strong enough". To remedy this, he is proposing plans be made to create high-speed railways between Manchester, Leeds and Birmingham, the latter to link up with High Speed 2, the planned high-speed railway to run between London and Birmingham."We need an ambitious plan to make the cities and towns here in this northern belt radically more connected from east to west — to create the equivalent of travelling around a single global city. I want us to start thinking about whether to build a new high-speed rail connection east-west from Manchester to Leeds."The shadow chancellor, Ed Balls, said: "We said months ago that we need value for money for the taxpayer and to improve the existing plans to maximise the benefits for the whole country and strengthen the links between northern cities. [...] Nobody will believe the Tories can deliver the jobs, growth and investment we need for the north of England. Regional growth divides have widened markedly since 2010."A court in Bavaria, Germany today jailed rail worker Michael Paul for causing a train collision near Bad Aibling in February. The disaster left twelve dead and over 80 wounded.Michael Paul, 40, switched the two trains onto a collision course while distracted by playing the game Dungeon Hunter 5 on his mobile phone. Upon realising his mistake he attempted to avert the accident by contacting drivers directly, but dialled the wrong number. Official investigations ruled out technical faults."I know that I cannot undo what has happened, even if I wish I could," Paul told the court through his lawyers when his trial opened in Traunstein last month. The two commuter trains crashed head-on; the deceased were all males aged 24 to 49. Paul, who admitted negligence and expressed "huge guilt", received a three-and-a-half year sentence. "The accused is guilty of 12 counts of involuntary manslaughter and 85 counts of negligent bodily harm," said presiding judge Erich Fuchs. Paul faced a maximum of five years. Peter Dürr, representing one bereaved family, said sentencing was not his priority. "My mandate is to make sure that something like this doesn't happen again," Dürr said when the trial opened.Up to February, Germany hadn't had a fatal train crash since 2012; their worst was in 1998.On Friday morning, commuters and travelers in Germany were forced to find alternative methods of transportation as train drivers walked off the job. Between 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. Friday morning, a German court gave the authorization for a strike. The strike was permitted only for drivers of local and regional trains. Drivers of long-distance and intercity trains, ICE high-speed rail networks and freight transports were forbidden from participating due to possible impact on the German economy.Germany's public workers' union is demanding a 31 percent wage increase that would put the German train drivers' wages equal with their counterparts in other European countries. Currently, starting drivers earn €1,970 per month. The union is pushing for a pay increase of €2,500 per month for starting drivers.The Deutsche Bahn, Germany's government-owned train system, has so far refused to increase the drivers' wages. They have, however, offered to give train drivers a five percent pay increase if the drivers are willing to work two extra hours every week. The offer also stated that if the train drivers are willing to work even more hours per week, they could be eligible for a pay increase of up to 9.5 percent.The union has also demanded equal pay for drivers in former East Germany. Georg Milbradt, chief negotiator for Germany's state governments, said that giving equal wages to the drivers in former East Germany would be extremely difficult.Germany on Monday banned Iranian airline Mahan Air from flying in the European nation, with officials saying this is for security reasons.Mahan has been the subject of United States sanctions since 2011. "The airline transports weapons and fighters across the Middle East, supporting the Iranian regime's destructive ambitions around the region," according to a tweet on Monday by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. The US has been encouraging allies such as Germany to restrict Mahan's operations. The Federal Aviation Office of Germany has suspended Mahan's permit, German officials said.Rudaw reports Mahan's director, Hamid Arabnejad Khanooki, has alleged ties to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps of Iran. The airline is privately owned. German Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesperson, Steffen Seibert, said it is possible "that this airline carries out transports to Germany that affect our security concerns," and the ban followed discussions within Europe and with the US. US Ambassador to Germany Richard Grenell alleged, by way of example, Mahan had "contributed to incredible human suffering, violence, and political instability felt across the world," by supporting Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.The United States government claims Mahan flies fighters and cargo to Syria in support of al-Assad. The airline was Iran's first in private hands.  It has Iran's largest fleet, and is still operating in Europe with destinations including Spain, Greece, France, and Italy. It was founded in 1992.The move comes after the European Union sanctioned Iran earlier in the month over alleged Revolutionary Guards assassination plots against dissidents in nations including Denmark, France, and the Netherlands. With the US encouraging commercial entities to cease trading in Iran, German firms including Deutsche Bahn, Deutsche Telekom, Daimler, and Siemens have announced plans to pull out of the Middle Eastern nation.Last year US President Donald Trump withdrew the US from a nuclear nonproliferation treaty with Iran, which had been agreed under former US President Barack Obama. Other signatories to the treaty include Germany, which has been taking a lead in efforts by the remaining signatories to keep the deal operational. Reuters reported on Monday a German government source, whom they did not name, said the ban on Mahan Air is not part of any broader plan to increase sanctions on Iran.On July 1, 2007 Glasgow International Airport began to reopen after a car was driven into the airport by terrorists, with flights from Orlando and Ibiza arriving during the day. By the end of the day, the airport was reported to be operating largely as usual, but passengers continued to be advised to confirm their flights with operators before coming to the airport. Tight security precautions remain in force across UK airports today, although most flights are operating as normal.Several houses have been searched in the area of Renfrewshire in Neuk Crescent, Houston, Scotland. Five arrests have been made following the incident in Glasgow: two in Glasgow, Scotland, two on the M6 motorway in Cheshire, and one in Liverpool (England). The police are continuing house searches and inquiries throughout the country, including in Merseyside and Staffordshire, with one suspect identified to "still be at large".Sky News reports that two of the arrested men are doctors, working in British hospitals.    A suspicious car has undergone a controlled explosion outside the Royal Alexandra Hospital, to which a suspect of the attack at the airport had been taken for treatment as a result of burns. A 200 m cordon was set up around the hospital as a precautionary measure, with ambulances being turned away from the accident and emergency department. Police have stated that they believe that the suspicious vehicle was connected to the earlier attack at Glasgow International Airport, but that they do not believe it to have contained any explosives.    During a press conference Strathclyde police revealed that they believe the two men had been living in Renfrew for at least six weeks prior to the attacks of yesterday. The green Cherokee jeep is "possibly" a second hand, rather than stolen, car with registration L808 RDT. Questions were raised during the conference concerning whether the USA had, as had been reported in certain circles, published a report predicting that there may be an attack on Glasgow Airport. This was not confirmed and considered as speculation. The police issued an appeal for any details about sightings of the vehicle prior to the event.A ScotRail train travelling from Glasgow to the towns of Oban and Mallaig in Scotland accidentally diverted onto the wrong track tonight. Some passengers initially thought the train had derailed when it swerved and braked hard at Ardlui.Two sets of points at Ardlui railway station had been incorrectly set. The train hit them at 19:50 at sufficient speed to potentially damage them, although the train was able to reverse after they had been inspected. The service was stranded at the station for some time. Although much of the train snaked away from the platform, the rearmost door was still aligned with the platform, allowing passengers including our correspondent to get off and see the situation for themselves. Several passengers photographed and videoed the surreal scene on mobile phones.No other trains were struck in the incident, but the train to Glasgow in the opposite direction was also left waiting at the platform while the situation was resolved. The diverted train ultimately reversed off the points and away from the station, then realigned itself with the platform. It was able to continue with a 30 minute delay.The incident adds to troubles on the West Highland Line this weekend. On Friday a train leaving Oban at midday departed without reservation slips marking seats booked by passengers, and that train was delayed for 40 minutes at Crianlarich, where the train joins with the Mallaig service to form a single train heading to Glasgow.More serious incidents occurred in 2012, when a train heading from Oban to Glasgow struck a landslip caused by heavy rains but did not derail, and in 2010, when a train derailed, caught fire, and was left dangling over a nearby road. Trains travelling both to and from Glasgow struck trees on the line on the same day in 2011, one near Crianlarich and one near Ardlui.Grand Central Railway have today launched a new train service between London King's Cross and Sunderland in the north east of England. The first service arrived in London shortly before 1030 UTC.The company has been troubled with a variety of difficulties which have caused the launch to be cancelled on a number of occasions. More recently problems with acquiring rolling stock, the decision by the Office of Rail Regulation to allow the services was challenged by the then principal operator of East Coast Main Line services, GNER. The new service calls at Sunderland, Hartlepool, Eaglescliffe, Northallerton, Thirsk, York, and terminates at London King's Cross.Grand Central are operating an interim timetable of one return journey per day until more rolling stock becomes available, expected by the end of January, to permit the full timetable of three return journeys to begin. The company is only one of a few "open access" operators in the United Kingdom which rather than bidding for a franchise and running a level of service set by government, Grand Central applied for access rights having identified a commercial opportunity.A 13km section of road between Macclesfield and Buxton, known as the Cat and Fiddle Road, has been named as Britain's most dangerous road. The single-carriageway road has been the scene of 43 fatal or serious collisions since 2001, nearly three-quarters of them involving motorcyclists.When collisions involving motorcyclists are removed from the analysis, this 13km stretch moves from the highest risk road in the country to one of the safest. Overall, if motorcyclist collisions are removed from the league table, the A61 road between Barnsley and Wakefield is revealed as the most dangerous road in Britain.Britain's most improved road in this year's analysis by the Road Safety Foundation is the A453 road from the A38 to Tamworth in Staffordshire. This rural single carriageway has seen an 88 per cent drop in the number of fatal or serious collisions in the last six years, taking it from a medium risk road to one of the safest. According to the Foundation, this has been achieved by introducing traffic lights, speed limit reductions and village pedestrian facilities.However, EuroRAP - the European Road Assessment Programme, says that Britain is falling behind other European countries in reducing road casualties.The most dangerous roads in Scotland and Wales were also revealed.  In Scotland the most dangerous road was the 27km stretch of the A99 road between the A9 at Latheron and Wick. The A495 between Whitchurch and Welshampton was shown to be the most dangerous in Wales with 11 fatal and serious injury accidents.The environmental activist group Greenpeace has attempted to disrupt Japan's Southern Ocean "scientific" whaling fleet. After searching for the whaling fleet for nearly a month, the Greenpeace ships, MY Esperanza and MY Arctic Sunrise, are floating alongside the Japanese mothership in Australia's Antarctic territorial waters, directly south of Tasmania.The Japanese whaling fleet has an expected catch of over 900 minke whales – more than double its previous catch. The fleet - owned by Kyodo Senpaku and part-owned by Nissui, Japan's second-largest marine products firm - is also targeting endangered fin whales for what they claim is a scientific program. Fin whales are the second largest creatures on earth.Greenpeace say they have asked the whalers to stop whaling immediately and return to Japan, but have received no response from the vessels. In inflatables carrying banners which read "defend the whales" and "stop the whaling," crew from the two ships declared their intention to stop the hunt. Leader of the Greenpeace expedition, Shane Rattenbury said their eight small boats have begun to "interfere" with the whaling process. "We positioned our two ships to the stern of the Japanese mother ship in order to prevent the whale being transferred on to the ship and we were successful in stopping that process for about 45-minutes," said Mr Rattenbury, describing a capture boat ramming the Greenpeace ship in an attempt to push it clear. He said the Japanese boat fought back with water cannons and one of several Greenpeace inflatables capsized in the wash. All crew were retrieved without injury. "We're going to do everything we can over the coming weeks to interfere with the whaling process, and stop the whales being killed," he said, "our small boats will be putting themselves between the harpoon and the whale. In a radio call to the whaling vessels, from the bridge of the Arctic Sunrise, Yuko Hirono, of Greenpeace Japan called upon the whalers to stop killing whales "and leave the internationally recognised Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary." Japan's scientific whaling has been the subject of repeated criticism by the International Whaling Commission. The Japanese Institute of Cetacean Research, claim the amount of scientific data gathered by Japan's research program (JARPAII) is extensive and that Japan's whale research programs are conducted in accordance with the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling. The Institute of Cetacean Research say their research does not involve illegal whaling.Greenpeace say over the next 2 years, 40 more fin whales will be added to the annual kill, along with 50 humpback whales. "This whale hunt is unnecessary, unjustified, and unwanted," said Rattenbury. "Once the whales have been measured and weighed by the 'scientists' the butchers get to work and the whales are cut up and boxed for market. This is all about money and not science."The area in which the Japanese fleet is hunting has been designated as the Antarctic Whale Sanctuary, in an effort to allow whale populations to recover after stocks were depleted during the commercial whaling of the last century. Seventy crew and campaigners from 19 countries are on board the two Greenpeace vessels, including the UK, Netherlands, Canada, Australia, Ghana, Russia, Norway, Denmark, USA, France, Italy, Japan, Ireland, India, New Zealand, Spain, Sweden, Austria and Argentina.Japan's whaling program is expected to kill nearly one thousand whales this season.A metal guard rail slicing into a bus killed ten people today in an overnight crash in Ipoh, Malaysia. Three more were injured with one hospitalised when the double-decker Sani Express struck the rail at 1 a.m. this morning with 48 passengers on board.The vehicle was en route to the northern destination of Perlis from the central state of Selangor when it crashed in Perak on the North-South Expressway, which runs the length of the country. The victims were on the lower deck when the vehicle skidded, struck and was ripped open on the left-hand side by the rail before swerving across the road to rest against the central divider. Of the ten killed, the youngest was fourteen and the oldest 64. The victim hospitalised has four broken ribs.The bus driver had prior traffic offense convictions, although the bus had not been in any incidents with the police. Police arrested him, noting he was not drunk or on drugs, and he has been remanded in custody until Wednesday. He admits that he fell asleep just before the crash. Press photographs showed the left side of the bus had been torn open along the bottom of the lower deck for most of its length, and bodies covered with newspaper lying in front of the vehicle.Perak saw another major bus crash two years ago on the same highway. 22 people were killed in that crash, which remains the nation's worst bus accident.An overcrowded double decker bus in Guatemala crashed into a gulley Friday, killing 57 people and injuring 40 more, authorities say.The bus crashed about 30 miles from Guatemala City while carrying roughly 100 people towards San Salvador.Journalist Martin Austurias says that a makeshift morgue was created along the highway so that relatives of the passengers could identify the victims.Austurias noted that several policemen and firefighters were working to uncover bodies from the wreckage.Vinicio Gómez, the Guatemalan Interior Minister and Édgar Hernández Umaña, the deputy Interior Minister, were yesterday killed in a helicopter crash, according to government officials. The helicopter lost contact at 19:08 UTC yesterday, and as a result, this is believed to be the time that the accident occurred.A spokesperson for the Guatemalan government said that the accident was caused by bad weather. They also stated, one their official website, that the incident occurred at a point 42 miles away from La Aurora International Airport, the country's major international airport.A spokesperson for the Guatemalan government highlighted the official response to the events. "The government is distraught and regrets the death of a key minister, who had done good work in a few months in office," he said."The Mexican government is already lending its support. It has put a plane at the president's disposal to take him from Villahermosa to Guatemala tomorrow," continued Fernando Barrillas, the spokesperson.A Haitian shipwreck occurring Sunday night or Monday afternoon took the lives of at least 15 poverty stricken migrants seeking America when waves tore the handmade wooden sailboat to shreds on the coral reefs off the Turks and Caicos Islands.  Of the 200 on the overloaded vessel, about 70 are still missing and 122 have been rescued.  "The boat ran aground on a reef, Molasses Reef, off West Caicos.  We have a total of 15 dead bodies now. They are illegal immigrants," said Calvin Chase, Turks and Caicos police Sergeant.Haitian survivors reported that after they had been sailing about three days they had spotted police boats in the area and turned towards the dangerous reefs.The U.S. Coast Guard were alerted Monday to the situation and offered aircraft and ships to supplement Turks and Caicos search and rescue personnel.The injured are being treated in Caribbean hospitals.  The rescue operation was hampered by 23 mph winds and sea waves cresting up to 6 feet (1.8 m) high.The survivors will be repatriated back to Haiti.Last week over 100 Haitian migrants were rescued from an overloaded ship near the same area and repatriated to Haiti, and in May a capsized boat killed as many as nine illegal immigrants."Unfortunately many people lose their lives trying to reach the United States illegally, anywhere of 100 or more per year. They don't have enough life-saving gear or signaling gear to ensure that they are able to survive if they do have any problems at sea," said Lt Cdr Matthew Moorlag of the US Coast Guard.Haitian families will spend their savings to pay brokers up to $500 for a spot on these overcrowded boats.  The illegal immigrants often traveling with little food and water hope for employment in the United States, the Bahamas or in the Turks and Caicos Islands.In May of 2007 a similar tragedy occurred when an overcrowded people smuggling ship capsized carrying 160 aboard.  Survivors reported fellow passengers being eaten by sharks.The European Union presidency says that air traffic over Europe could return to about 50 percent of its normal level on Monday, if weather forecasts confirm that skies over the continent are clearing of volcanic ash.  European transportation ministers from countries affected by the ash from the Eyjafjallajökull volcano in Iceland began spewing into the sky last week will meet on Monday by video conference in an effort to reopen closed airspace.The volcanic ash has brought chaos to the region — canceling most trans-Atlantic and European flights and leaving thousands of airline passengers stranded for days, as well as disrupting commerce.European Transport Commissioner Siim Kallas says Europe has never experienced a transportation disruption like this and that officials need to take action to get things moving again. "This is clear also, that this is not sustainable. So we cannot go ahead and just wait until the ash cloud will disappear," he said.Kallas says Monday's meeting will try to find a technological solution to the flight disruption, but he stressed that safety considerations will come first. "It is clear that safety is our first and utmost priority, so we cannot compromise with safety. But we are working based on new evidence about test flights, how to assess the situation and how to find solutions to increase air space without compromising safety," he said.Spanish Secretary of State for E.U. Affairs Diego López Garrido says the ash cloud over Europe is moving to the northeast, which could clear half of the air space over the continent. "Probably there will be half of the European Union territory influenced by this ash cloud. And from this perspective, the forecast is that there will be half of the flights possibly operating in Europe," he said.But the United Kingdom, Germany, Ireland and the Netherlands say their airspace will remain closed for much of Monday.  However, Air travel in Southern Europe — including Spain, southern Italy, Greece, and Turkey — remains open.Meteorologists say conditions over Europe were unstable on Sunday and that shifting winds made air travel dangerous. They also note that the irregular eruptions from the Icelandic volcano, which continues to spew ash into the sky, is adding to the unpredictability of the situation.One expert, Guy Gratton, who is head of the Facility for Airborne Atmospheric Measurements at Cranfield University in the UK, took a flight on Thursday and noted "It's still quite a complex mixture of clear air and very worrying but invisible volcanic ash at all sorts of heights."Some of his colleagues made a flight on Sunday and noticed in certain locations, "quite high concentrations of ash." Gratton added, "I suspect it's going to be a few days yet before it's safe to fly." Volcanic ash consists of rock, glass and other particles that can stall aircraft engines.  KLM said it flew four planes in a normal pattern above 3,000 meters from Amsterdam to Dusseldorf on Sunday. The airline's pilots said they did not encounter residue from the ash cloud and that jetliners were not damaged. Lufthansa flew 10 empty planes from Frankfurt to Munich on Saturday without incident, and Air France flew several successful test flights. British Airways also flew a test flight.Some aviation officials have criticized the airline shutdowns, arguing that they were based solely on computer models. Air Berlin chief Joachim Hunold was quoted on Sunday by German media as saying that no one has yet sent weather balloons into the atmosphere to collect data on the volcanic ash.Analysts say airlines are losing about $200 million a day because of the European and trans-Atlantic shutdowns.The last major disruption to European aviation followed the September 11 attacks on the United States almost a decade ago. U.S. airspace was closed for three days and European airlines canceled all trans-Atlantic flights.Meanwhile, the British government is considering the possibility of sending in the Royal Navy to help ferry the stranded. Currently, officials are seeing what military and commercial vessels are possibly available to be deployed.The volcano, Eyjafjallajökull, in southeastern Iceland began erupting on Wednesday, for the second time in a month, after being dormant for nearly 200 years.Some of the United Kingdom's most heavily congested motorways are to have their hard shoulders converted into new lanes during busy periods, if a pilot scheme proves successful. The idea is to create an extra lane at a fraction of the cost of widening the roads. The hard shoulders can be converted in less than 2 years as opposed to the 10 needed to add a new lane. A similar scheme has been running in the Netherlands for over 10 years and has resulted in a decline in accidents.The pilot scheme will be in operation on an 11 mile (17 km) strip of the M42 (south-east of Birmingham) from September, and may be extended to include parts of the M5 and M6. The pilot project has cost approximately £100 million as opposed to 5 times that amount estimated cost for adding a new lane.The conversion involves building lightweight gantries across the motorways to control the use of the new 'lanes'. Sensors will detect when congestion is forming and inform a control centre. Digital signs  on the gantries will then notify drivers they may use the hard shoulder. New refuge laybys, complete with emergency telephones, will also be built at 500 m intervals for broken down vehicles to stop. CCTV cameras will be added to the gantries to help spot stopped vehicles.Whilst the hard shoulder is in use, speed limits will be reduced to 50 miles per hour (80 km/h), a reduced speed is reported by the Times to improve journey times in busy periods as it deters lane hopping.The Highways Agency, who are responsible for the new idea, said: "We get a big increase in capacity for a fifth of the cost and there is no environmental penalty because we do not have to extend the land boundaries of the motorway. It's all about making best use of the available space."However there has been criticism of the scheme, with some saying that the loss of the hard shoulder will hinder emergency services - who use the hard shoulder to reach accidents on motorways. In 2005, ambulance bosses criticised drivers using the hard shoulder when paramedics were delayed in reaching an accident on the A127 in Essex. There are fears that accidents during busy period will be completely inaccessible once the hard shoulders are used in this way.The AA Motoring Trust also expressed concerns, saying that the new scheme may confuse drivers and that a more consistent approach is needed (on other motorways the Highways agency is adding in the extra lanes).On Thursday morning, before dawn, Hawaii's Kīlauea shield volcano erupted again, sending up an ash plume to an altitude of 30,000 feet (9,100 meters).  This follows an earlier eruption Tuesday afternoon, after which authorities issued an aviation alert and to extend an ash-fall advisory for residents.  The current eruption event began May 3 and has caused thousands of people to evacuate their homes.Robert Hughes, whose Aloha Junction Bed and Breakfast, is only 1.5 miles from the volcano's crater described the day as otherwise "a nice rainy day" and reportedly some nearby residents slept through the 4:00AM local time eruption (1400 UTC).Hawaii is one of the United States and an archipelago in the Pacific Ocean. Kīlauea is located on the island of Hawaii, generally called the "Big Island." The 2018 eruptions at Kīlauea first started on May 3. Since then, about 20 fissure vents have opened, cracking concrete and giving off steam, lava and toxic gases.The Hawaiian Volcano Observatory (HVO) issued a "notice for aviation" to alert pilots of dangerous conditions. "We're observing more or less continuous emission of ash now with intermittent, more energetic ash bursts or plumes," said Steve Brantley of the HVO. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) also issued a "red alert" which means "major volcanic activity is imminent, underway or suspected with hazardous conditions both on the ground and in the air." The National Weather Service extended its advisory about ash-fall as winds spread the ash and cause elevated risk of respiratory problems for residents. By mid-morning on Thursday, the warning ran until midday (12:00 local, 2200 UTC).Monday, authorities reported fissures throwing lava and boulders as far as 500 feet (about 150 meters).  The volcanic eruption has  destroyed dozens of buildings, and necessitated the evacuation of more than 2000 people.The initial eruption was accompanied by a magnitude-6.9 earthquake and followed by many smaller quakes thereafter. Dozens of homes and other buildings, as well as roads, have been destroyed. However, the Hawaii Civil Defense Agency sought to calm public worries about a tsunami on Tuesday, stating: "according to the [HVO] there is no geologic evidence for an tsunami-generating earthquake at this time. Any such event is extremely unlikely."The lava released so far has been slow and relatively cool, left over from an earlier event in the 1950s, but there were concerns that fresh, fast-moving lava may be right behind. Although the current eruption event began May 3, technically the volcano hasn't stopped erupting since 1983.File:Ipad mini.jpgOn Thursday Hawaiian Airlines announced all their Boeing 767-300 aircraft would be fitted with iPad mini tablets made by Apple for in-flight entertainment from September 1. The new gadget would be served on 14 routes connecting Hawaii with mainland USA, Asia, and the South Pacific.Passengers in business class would be able to use the tablet for free while economy class passengers would need to pay $15 when purchasing the service before boarding (or $17 if purchased during the flight). The airline offered such price with the help of Bluebox Avionics, a company specializing in in-flight services.The airline has purchased 1,500 iPad minis to replace old in-flight entertainment devices. Each tablet would have at least 100 hours of new Hollywood movies.The new service was planned to be introduced on flights connecting Honolulu with Oakland, San Jose, Sacramento, Seattle, Phoenix, Fukuoka, Sendai, Seoul, Brisbane, Papeete, and Pago Pago; and Kahului with San Jose, Oakland, and Seattle.The carrier becomes the first US airline to offer iPads as an in-flight service. In 2010 Jetstar, a subsidiary of Qantas, became the first airline in the world to introduce such a service in a test pilot on two services from Melbourne. During the next few years Iceland Express, airBaltic, and British Airways joined in. In March Qantas began offering iPads on flights connecting Honolulu and Sydney.Commuters in Melbourne, Australia, faced chaos today as a summer heatwave and alleged industrial action by staff caused 200 trains to be cancelled. The light rail system was also disrupted by a broken down tram.Track buckled between Jolimont and Flinders Street stations on the Melbourne loop as temperatures peaked at 43.2 degrees Celsius (109.7°F), causing local train operator Connex to send track workers out to hose rails down. The delays and cancellations caused high demand on the Connex website, which crashed under the pressure. V/Line regional train services were also affected, with coaches replacing some trains and other services working with reduced line-speeds.Connex has blamed the Australian Rail Tram and Bus Industry Union for 80% of the cancellations, saying the drivers are running an "over-zealous, fault-finding protocol" leading to serviceable trains becoming unavailable. The company and the union have been having "protracted" negotiations over the method of drivers reporting train failures, according to the ABC.Public transport in Melbourne will run free of charge tomorrow as a gesture of goodwill.The heaviest snow to fall for 6 years has caused transport problems in some parts of the United Kingdom, especially in London, where it was the heaviest snow for 18 years. It was caused by cold air travelling westwards towards the British Isles from Poland and Russia. As showers moved across the North Sea towards the east coast of Britain, it fell as snow. Throughout Monday, weather fronts pushed in from the south east in Belgium and France towards the South East of Britain. The weather fronts pushed their way further north and westwards. Almost a foot (30cm) of snow has fallen in the south-east of England, halting train and bus services and making driving treacherous. Flights to and from London's Heathrow and City airports and the outer London Gatwick and Stansted airports are suffering delays and cancellations. In some affected areas, the majority of schools have been closed.The centre of London, which usually sees no snow at all most years, has around 4" (10cm) of laying snow, whilst Kent, Sussex and Surrey have up to 10" (25cm). The snow reduces further north but has still disrupted travel, with England's Highways Agency advising against car journeys unless essential. The agency had 500 gritters clearing main roads during the night and 600 motorway patrols out in the morning. Stretches of motorway and main road have been blocked by jack-knifed lorries or closed as a pre-emptive measure.The snow caused disruption to British transport websites, with National Rail Enquiries, Transport for London and South West Trains websites all brought down by heavy traffic. The Highways Agency's site was also unavailable and returned with interactive features turned off. People calling and texting during the abortive rush hour jammed the mobile telephone networks. Mobile network '3' said it had seen "a very steep jump in the number of picture message sent across the network" whilst T-Mobile UK reported 73% more calls, 21% more texts and 20% more broadband bandwidth being used than usual.The Met Office has a severe weather warning in place for England, Wales and parts of Scotland, with further snow expected across the country later in the week.Nine passengers were injured after heavy turbulence during a WestJet flight 80 Boeing 737-700 plane flight yesterday night, causing it to drop 300 metres.The plane was coming from Calgary International Airport in Calgary, Alberta, where their headquarters are located, and was to arrive in Halifax, Nova Scotia. There were very minor cases of turbulence, enough that many passengers felt it. The plane, flying at an altitude of about 12,000 metres and 39,000 feet, started getting very heavy turbulence near Sudbury, Ontario, in northern Ontario. The pilot had already spoken to the passengers through intercom about the turbulence. As soon as the seat belt light came on it was too late for many passengers and the plane, at once, started dropping. The people that were standing at the time of the incident were thrown around the cabin. A man, who later suffered from bad lacerations to his head and leg, had fallen on top of his wife.Registered nurse Kathi Nelson and licensed practical nurse Nancy Powers, both from British Columbia, were aboard the plane and treated the injured passengers until the plane landed. The injured were taken out of the plane by a large lift."The things that were in the pocket in front of me, that are normally fairly snug, went straight up and straight down again," said Powers. "People were nervous and a little bit uncomfortable with what just happened and they weren't sure whether to laugh, scream, or cry."Three passengers were taken to QEII Health Sciences Centre hospital and six others were treated at the scene after the plane landed at Halifax Stanfield International Airport at or around 7:30 p.m. All nine have been released."We provided emergency response and three ambulances were escorted to the tarmac so they were available immediately adjacent to the aircraft," said Peter Spurway, a spokesman for Robert L. Stanfield International Airport Authority, which owns Halifax Stanfield International Airport. He also said they were notified 40 minutes before of the injuries."We would only investigate if we thought that there was a good potential to advance aviation safety," Mike Cunningham of the Transportation Safety Board said today. "So if it turns out to be just an unfortunate encounter that was handled in the proper fashion by the crew, there's no need for us to investigate further than that."WestJet classified the turbulence as "moderate". Thundershowers also could have caused the problem."It's just that it's a little bumpier," said WestJet spokesman Richard Bartrem. In moderate turbulence, "the plane's going to get bounced around a little bit."The Transportation Safety Board and Transport Canada are investigating if flight crew followed proper procedures. If no evidence is found the Transportation Safety Board will back out of the investigation.A military transport helicopter carrying a crew of four and ten injured earthquake survivors has crashed in China, it was reported by state news agency Xinhua. There are no indications on what casualties if any occurred as a result.The helicopter was carrying the injured out of Li county, after having brought in disease control experts. The rotorcraft then lost contact with Air Traffic Control. A search and rescue operation has been ordered by President Hu Jintao.The day before, the death toll from the disaster was confirmed to have reached 68,977 with another 17,974 missing. Engineers are now working to drain a number of lakes formed by the earthquake, amid fears they could flood. The crash was reported to highlight ongoing difficulties responding to the quake.File:Kahramanmaraş Turkey Provinces locator.gifOn Wednesday, Muhsin Yazıcıoğlu, leader of the Great Union Party (Büyük Birlik Partisi – BBP), died in a helicopter crash that claimed six lives.The helicopter crashed in a mountainous region near the city of Kahramanmaraş, and rescue efforts were hampered by stormy weather.Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, related that 2,000 personnel had assisted in the search and rescue to locate the downed helicopter. Thick fog compounded by a snow blizzard hampered efforts.Ismail Gunes, an Ihlas News Agency cameraman, called an emergency line on his cell phone after the crash.  He reported that the others on board appeared dead, and he himself was trapped with a broken foot.Rescue workers found the crash site three days after it went down. All 6 people on board had perished.Yazicioglu had departed from a pre-election rally held at Kahramanmaraş.  Subsequent campaigning for Sunday's election was suspended in light of this incident."May his soul rest in peace. I am expressing my condolences to all his family members and the community," said the Minister of Justice, Mehmet Ali Şahin.On Sunday afternoon, a Lafayette-based Petroleum Helicopters Inc. (PHI, Inc.) helicopter bound for the offshore oil fields crashed shortly after taking off from its Amelia base, into a marshy area near Bayou Penchant about 100 miles southwest of New Orleans. The helicopter had been carrying oilfield workers and 2 pilots. Eight people were killed and the Coast Guard helicopter rushed the lone survivor, a 28-year-old medevacted man, in critical condition, to Leonard J. Chabert Medical Center and then taken to Houma's Hebert Medical Center.According to Pamela Norton, age 37, a Gretna woman, her ex-husband, Jorey A. Rivero Sr., age 35, of Westwego, was aboard the oil-services helicopter. "He got onto that chopper about noon Sunday," she said. The largest helicopter company in the world, Petroleum Helicopters Inc. (PHI, Inc. - formerly Petroleum Helicopters International) has its home base in Lafayette Regional Airport. It provides helicopter services to oil and gas businesses and also flies medical helicopters. "Eight deceased passengers were recovered by the Terrebonne Parish Sheriff's Department," Coast Guard spokeswoman Jaclyn Young said. According to Richard Ravinelli, PHI Director of Human Resources, the victims' names would not be released until all family members concerned are duly notified.According to Barbara Bryant, her son who worked for three years on oil rigs, was one of the fatalities. "He just spent 3 months offshore, just because he wanted to save up enough money for a down payment on his own house, and he's been living with me to save his money to do that. He didn't make it," she said.The New Orleans Eighth Coast Guard District Command Center received a  distress signal from the Langley, Va. Air Force Rescue Coordination Center (AFRCC), at 3:30 p.m.  Helicopter owner PHI earlier called the Coast Guard, informing  about a distress call from its helicopter. Upon  AFRCC request,  Coast Guard's Air Station New Orleans' HH-65C and crew were dispatched to the site of the crash.  Rescue workers at Bob's Bayou Black Marina in Gibson, Louisiana, an unincorporated community in Terrebonne Parish, Louisiana, arrived at boat launch to coordinate recovery efforts for the bodies in the wilderness. The Terrebonne Sheriff’s Office Water Patrol and a Coast Guard helicopter also cooperated in search of bodies in waters near Bayou Penchant, a soupy, grassy area which is only accessible by airboat.Federal investigators led by the National Transportation Safety Board are scheduled to arrive to the crash site Monday to probe the tragedy.In June, another PHI Air medical helicopter also crashed in Texas. The Sam Houston National Forest accident killed the pilot, paramedic, nurse and a patient who was being transferred from Huntsville to Houston.A civilian helicopter chartered by NATO has crashed while taking off from Kandahar International Airport in Afghanistan, killing sixteen. The Mil Mi-8 did not come under enemy fire.The helicopter had been chartered from the Russian company Vertical-T and all the victims were civilians. A NATO statement said that there was no obvious cause for the accident but hostile fire had been ruled out. Emergency responders are on the scene.Five other people were wounded in the accident. The airport serves as NATO's operating base for southern Afghanistan.The crash comes just days after another civilian helicopter chartered for military activities crashed near Sangin Airbase in Helmand. The Mil Mi-26 is believed to have been shot down; six Ukrainian civilians onboard and one Afghan girl on the ground were killed in the crash on Tuesday. The helicopter had been taking supplies to a British military base.Roads in Afghanistan are often difficult to traverse, so militaries often contract aircraft, especially from Russia, to transport troops and cargo between bases.A British helicopter with eighteen people on board ditched in the water while approaching an oil installation in the North Sea on Wednesday. According to Her Majesty's Coastguard, everyone on board the aircraft survived the crash, and have been picked up by two life-boats.The helicopter, a Super Puma registered (G-REDU) to Bond Offshore Helicopters, crashed about 125 miles miles east of the Scottish city of Aberdeen. A Nimrod jet from the RAF Kinloss, a Sea King helicopter from RAF Lossiemouth, and several choppers from nearby oil platforms searched the area after the alarm was raised at 18.40 GMT. The search effort, however, was hampered by limited visibility and low clouds in the area.Dave Webster, a squadron leader with the Royal Air Force, said that this type of accident is a very rare occurrence.The helicopter that ditched would have been equipped with survival suits to shield the passengers from the cold waters, as well as a flotation device.Two hijackers seized an Afriqiyah Airways jet this morning, diverting it away from its domestic Libyan route to Malta. The men surrendered to Maltese custody.Flight 209, an Airbus A320, was flying from Sabha to Tripoli. Men identified as Suhaha Mussa and Ahmed Alid, armed with what appeared to be a grenade and two pistols, took control of the aircraft. The airline said a proposal to land in Libya was rejected by the hijackers, who took the plane to nearby Malta owing to fuel limits. After landing, the plane's engines were not shut off for around ninety minutes.Malta International Airport was closed after the arrival. Negotiators and security forces met the plane, carrying 111 passengers and at least six crew, at the airport. The hijackers released the passengers, one of whom was an infant, and most crewmembers before surrendering.The hijacking appears to be in favour of Libya's deceased, deposed former leader Muammar al-Gaddafi. One hijacker waved a flag from the Gaddafi regime. Libyan news station Channel TV said it spoke by phone to one hijacker, quoting him as saying "We took this measure to declare and promote our new party." Channel TV reported the man said he had formed a new group called al-Fateh al-Jadid, which means "The New al-Fateh". Al-Gaddafi renamed September as al-Fateh in honour of his September 1969 coup; al-Fateh came to be a term closely associated with him.There were reports, including comments by a Libyan minister, the hijackers sought political asylum in Malta, something Maltese Prime Minister Joseph Muscat denied. Muscat, who tweeted throughout today's events, told a press conference the hostages would be questioned over several hours and then flown home by a replacement Afriqiyah Airways plane.Libyan foreign minister Taher Siala, allied to the Government of National Accord, said the two hijackers intended to form a political party allied to Gaddafi, who died during a 2011 uprising. Gaddafi used the same green flag as displayed by the hijackers from 1977 until his death. One publication in Germany claimed the release of Saif al-Gaddafi was demanded. The airline operates a twice-weekly Sabha-Tripoli route, on Fridays and Tuesdays. Friday flights depart at 10:10am, and arrive seventy minutes later. Passengers were being freed by 1:50pm in Malta; at 3:50pm the hijackers surrendered. Muscat spoke to Libyan Prime Minister Faez al-Serraj during the incident, according to Muscat's communications chief Kurt Farrugia. Negotiators reportedly included Libya's transport minister, with Maltese efforts led by commander Jeffrey Curmi of the Armed Forces.The airport has reopened. At least 44 flights were affected, with nine diverted to Sicily, Italy. There were delays to twenty departures and fifteen arrivals.Libya suffered a power vacuum since the 2011 fall of al-Gaddafi. The nation, wealthy due to oil reserves, is split amongst competing governments and parliaments, controlled by rival militants. The present internationally-recognised Government of National Accord is the result of United Nations negotiations.The situation has led to the nation's airports falling under the varying control of numerous armed groups. Libya's main airport was destroyed in 2014 when it caught fire during a battle for its control. Libyan flights are banned from direct entry to European airspace. "Every airport in Libya is poorly secured", according to BBC correspondent Rana Jawad. Malta has not seen a large-scale hijacking since November 1985, when an EgyptAir plane was diverted there. After a 24-hour standoff Maltese commandos burst on-board to rescue hostages from three hijackers. The ensuing firefight left 62 dead.For the first time in 56 years, two passenger trains crossed the border between North Korea and South Korea.Before today, no trains made the trip between the north and the south since the Korean War divided the once-unified Korea. Riding on rails built by South Korea several years ago, the train traveled from Munsan in the south to Kaesong in the north. The train was granted access to the demilitarized zone since 1951, the heavily guarded border between North and South Korea. Meanwhile, from the north a train traveled from Kumgang to Jejin. Each train carried 150 specially invited passengers."Today the heart of the Korean peninsula will start beating again," South Korean Unification Minister Lee Jae-joung said.Although largely symbolic, the rail connection is seen as an important step in thawing relations. To date, North Korea has approved only this one trial run of the trains.The 1999 and 2000 year model Honda Civic SiR tops the list of Canada's most stolen cars. Consumer popularity also assures the cars will be popular with thieves. Its the second year in a row the Honda SiR has topped the list.Rick Dubin Vice President of Investigations for the Insurance Bureau of Canada said "The Civics are easy targets." Dubin said that once stolen, the cars are most often sold to "chop shops" where thieves completely dismantle the vehicles. The automobile's individual parts are worth more than the entire car. The sheer numbers of the cars and their lack of theft deterrent systems make them thieves' preferred choices.Toncontin International Airport, serving the Honduran capital Tegucigalpa, has reopened fully to air traffic six weeks after a deadly jetliner crash. TACA Flight 390, an Airbus A320 carrying 124 people, overshot the runway in poor weather and ran across a busy street, killing five, two of whom were on the ground. The accident occurred on May 30.Since the crash the airport has refused to allow aircraft with more than 42 passengers on board to operate from the airport due to safety fears. Only domestic flights were allowed to land. Air traffic that did not conform to these rules instead landed at San Pedro Sula's Ramón Villeda Morales International Airport, which is 112 miles North of Tegucigalpa.Manuel Zelaya, President of Honduras, announced the reopening after spending three hours in a meeting with businessmen who demanded the airport return to full operations. He also said that future plans are to route all commercial traffic to a new airport under construction at a nearby US air base, which is scheduled to enter service next year.So far, American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Panama's Copa Airlines and TACA have all confirmed intent to resume flights to Toncontin International next week, by which time they will have reprogrammed their routing schedules accordingly.The airport is considered one of the most dangerous in the world and for years people have called for its replacement. The airport features an inadequately short runway, outdated navigational equipment and is surrounded by hills.The MTR Corporation, the only railway company in Hong Kong since the rail merge in 2007, has loosened their rules. The corporation proposed the new modifications, then transferred the proposal to the Legislative Council, and will be effective from September 2010.The new set of rules allow 'non-disruptive' use of profanity in private conversations, and the punishment for inflammatory use of expletives is lowered from a fine of HK$5000 to HK$2000. The new set of rules have also excluded the regulation against wandering in MTR premises, as well as the rule against attempting to eat or drink. Democratic Party member James To has expressed his concerns about a new rule that outlaws the display of promotional material. According to To, the wearing of Tiananmen Square Incident-related T-shirts or acting the Goddess of Democracy may breach the new MTR rules. He also deems two other regulations, namely the prohibition of distracting MTR staff members and photography and video-recording in the train carriages, 'unreasonable'.Unionist Li Fung-ying is also confused whether chewing gum was considered food. MTR head of operations Choi Tak-tsan replied that only what is regarded as food counts. They had not yet discussed on this matter, said Choi, and will soon. Li is also concerned about the rule which prohibits the entering of the first-class carriage without buying a ticket. Her main concern is whether the passenger will be allowed to buy the ticket rather than being fined HK$500.Wong Kwok-hing believes that the MTR corporation should call upon more effort to advertise a more 'civilised' and 'polite' way of taking the train. Jeffrey Lam thinks that the new rules do not do enough to restrict shouting. MTR replied that anyone who shouts in the train can be advised to leave the train or even prosecuted.A double-decker ferry capsized late Monday in the Brahmaputra River near Guwahati, India.  The ferry was over capacity when a storm caused it to overturn and break in half. The ferry passengers were mostly women and children.  Officials estimate there are at least 200 casualties.  Inclement weather hindered rescue attempts and as of Tuesday, 103 bodies have been recovered. No life jackets or lifeboats were aboard the ferry at the time of the event.According to officials, many of the bodies may have floated 25 miles down river to Bangladesh, due to strong currents. The river is a vital source of irrigation and transportation to the people along its coast. It is approximately 1,800 miles long, making rescue efforts difficult to pursue quickly. Rescuers are working around the clock in efforts to locate any remaining survivors.About 150 passengers swam to a nearby shore.  The remaining passengers are missing and are feared dead. Reports indicate this is one of the worst ferry accidents ever recorded in India. Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh issued a statement expressing his remorse over the death of the passengers and announcing that he would compensate the next of kin of all casualties Rs 200,000, or about $4,000 US dollars.632 Air Canada flight attendants will lose their jobs in November as the airline is eliminating flights and routes. 332 of the jobs will be lost due to the closure of flight attendant base offices in Halifax and Winnipeg. Another 300 jobs will be lost at Vancouver due to major reductions in Air Canada's Pacific-based international flights.Dramatic increases in fuel prices are widely blamed for the airline's cutbacks. The flight attendant layoffs are part of an overall plan to reduce 2000 jobs at Air Canada.Airline union CUPE learned of the flight attendant cutbacks from the airline on Wednesday. Representatives of the labour association gave critical responses to this news.A hydrofoil and a cargo ship have entered into collision this evening, at around 18:15 Italian local time (17:15 UTC) near the harbor of Messina, Sicily, Italy.The hydrofoil, named "Segesta jet", was doing a regular passenger service from Reggio Calabria to Messina, carrying 151 passengers and 6 crew members.The cargo ship is reported to be the "Susan Borchard", registered in Antigua and Barbuda.The number of people dead or injured is not currently established, but during the night the number of fatalities rose to 4.A supersonic jet engine known as a "scramjet," which could substantially reduce air travel time has been tested at Woomera, in South Australia's far north. An international team launched the Terrier-Orion rocket carrying the hypersonic scramjet—an oxygen-sucking supersonic combustion ramjet engine. The rocket took the prototype aircraft to an altitude of 314km (195 mi) before crashing ten minutes later, a spokeswoman for the Hyshot program said. A supersonic boom was felt across the Woomera test range seconds after the jet took off. The Queensland-led HyShot III experiment uses a scramjet engine developed by UK company, QinetiQ. Travelling at 8,000 km/h (~5000 mph), or ten times the speed of a conventional jet, and almost eight times the speed of sound (Mach 8), the rocket turned and powered back to Earth some 400 km (250 mi) down the range. The scientists are hoping the scramjet kicked into action during a six-second window shortly before impact.The advantage of a scramjet is that once it is accelerated to about Mach 4 by a conventional jet engine or booster rocket, it can fly at hypersonic speeds, possibly as fast as Mach 15, without carrying heavy oxygen tanks, as conventional rockets do.Team leader Professor Allan Paul says that the flight went well, but that it will take several months to analyse the collected data. He told the media it was too soon to tell if the $2 million experiment had been a success. Another HyShot team member Michael Smart said the flight followed the nominal trajectory and impacted 400 km (250 mi) from its launch pad. Dr Smart said that radar tracking data showed the experiment had gone to plan.Professor Paull said scramjet-powered passenger jets were still a long way off, but it might be possible to have a scramjet-powered vehicle within the next decade. He says the team is happy with the result so far.NASA set the speed record for a jet-powered aircraft in [November 2004] during the third and final flight of the experimental X-43A scramjet project. Two HyShot scramjet flights had previously been made—one on 30 October 2001 and another on 30 July 2002. Supersonic combustion was achieved on the second flight. HyShot IV launch is planned for 28 March.The Illinois Department of Transportation and Illinois State Police have begun a statewide campaign to reduce the number of road fatalities in Illinois this year by 100. The program began last Thursday and will continue until the end of the year.There were 1,043 road fatalities in Illinois last year, and this year officials want that figure to be at 943 or less. If successful, the state will have experienced the fewest road fatalities since 1921. Organizations and advocacy groups throughout the state are encouraging citizens to promote public awareness of unsafe driving practices, such as driving while impaired, distracted, or unbelted. In addition to saving lives, the program is also aimed at reducing the costs associated with car crashes. According to the National Safety Council, the average economic cost associated with a road fatality is $1 million.More than 400 law enforcement agencies throughout the state are being asked to enhance operations and provide weekly activity and crash reports. The Itasca Police Department, for example, has joined the initiative and will target DUI and seat belt violations, and the Ottawa Police Department will increase enforcement of driving laws by issuing citations to violators.A former employee of the Illinois State Toll Highway Authority was sentenced on Monday to one year in prison for stealing fines from the agency. Thirty-four-year-old Uganda T. Harris from Bellwood was accused of embezzling over $36,000 from the tollway authority in a period of six months. She pleaded guilty to the charges in June. She is to report to the DuPage County jail on November 30 to begin a one-year work-release program that only allows her out to work 40 hours per week. She will also serve four years of probation and will be required to pay the agency $1,000 for insurance coverage in addition to the more than $36,000 she allegedly stole. Harris had worked as a customer service representative since June 2007. An audit by the tollway authority's inspector general's office revealed that she incorrectly classified the fines she collected as coming from I-PASS users, who pay lesser fines, and pocketed the cash. The Illinois State Police later caught Harris with $1,100 in marked $20-bills they used to pay a phony fine during an undercover investigation. She claimed that she did this only rarely and to help those people in desperate need of relief from what she saw as high tollway fines.On Tuesday, Indian Railway Minister D. V. Sadananda Gowda presented his first budget for Indian Railways.The budget emphasized increased amenities for travelers, better safety, and timely completion of projects. There were no fare hikes announced as both passenger and freight fares had been increased last month. But, it was announced that fares will be revised twice a year to absorb fuel costs. Gowda criticized previous governments for announcing new projects and failing to complete them. He said projects will now be prioritized, such as decongesting major routes instead of announcing new ones. Gowda announced no major new projects, but announced 54 new trains. He also criticized the last government for driving the railways into a loss.Gowda announced a bullet train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad; new semi-high speed trains in nine sectors connecting metros; and new measures towards improving cleanliness, food, and e-ticketing were announced. He said CCTVs will be installed in major stations to monitor cleanliness, and major stations will have food courts serving local cuisines and precooked food from reputable catering brands will be served on-board. The railways have faced complaints of substandard food in the past.He announced the introduction of a new rail-flaw detection system to better investigate the causes of accidents.  The budget allocated a significant sum to the construction of bridges at unmanned crossings, a major cause of rail-track deaths. He announced a new project to introduce automatic closing doors on mainline and suburban trains, and said wi-fi will be provided in larger stations and select trains. Workstations will be available for on-board use for a fee by Business travelers. The e-ticketing system will be extended from booking tickets to booking coaches and entire trains, and also retiring rooms in stations. Electric mobility carts will be provided to elderly and handicapped passengers at all major stations.  Also, Railway Protection Force will recruit four thousand female constables and escorted carriages will be provided for women. A significant amount was announced for improving rail connectivity in north-east India.Gowda emphasized use of public-private partnerships (PPPs) to fund future projects. He also said he will ask the Cabinet to approve foreign direct investment (FDI) in Indian Railways. Some stations are to be improved using PPPs.  Manish R. Sharma, executive director of capital projects and infrastructure at PricewaterhouseCoopers, pointed out the budget didn't contain any information on how the government intends to attract private investors. Deven Choksey, managing director at K. R. Choksey securities, said the government now seemed to be more inclined towards PPPs than before. India's stock index SENSEX dropped and closed 2% below opening. Investors were observed selling shares in energy, infrastructure, and real estate sectors.The largest private Indian airline Jet Airways has posted its biggest quarterly loss in three years. The Indian air industry was recently hit by rapidly increasing fuel costs.The airline lost Rs 384 crore (€61,000,000) this quarter, compared to a Rs 28 crore profit (€4,500,000) in the same period last year. There was an increase in expenditure of 143% on fuel costs to wipe out a 45% income increase. The total cost of fuel has risen from Rs 696 crore (€110,700,000) last year to Rs 1690 crore (€268,800,000), and income rose from Rs 2,254 crore (€358,400,000) to Rs 3,258 crore (€518,150,000) in the same period.Faced with an economic slowdown and surging fuel prices, last month Jet entered an alliance with Kingfisher Airlines. The pair hope to offset their crippling costs by collaboration.The Indian aviation sector looks set to shrink amid financial turmoil, with the nation's air carriers in schemes to try and ride out the problems and domestic air traffic at a five year low.Air traffic has fallen by 19% in September, the fourth month in a row of negative growth. The news comes as a joint result of the current financial crisis and high jet fuel prices, with Indian airlines in debt to the tune of Rs1,800 crore after surpassing their credit limits with oil companies, who are themselves making losses due to government controls on the price of jet fuel.Kingfisher Red - originally known as Air Deccan, India's first budget carrier, until Kingfisher Airlines bought the company out - suffered the biggest drop in passenger numbers at 20% of their load factor. Flag carrier Air India is running at 53% of capacity after a 10% fall, and the average for airlines is now 55% as opposed to 65% this time last year.Kingfisher Airlines has decided to enter an alliance with Jet Airlines that will see them collectively control half the Indian aviation market. Both airlines are in debt over fuel payments with Jet owing Rs850 crore while Kingfisher refused to disclose the amount they needed to pay. The money is owed mainly to the Indian Oil Corporation, with the rest owed to the Hindustan Petroleum Corporation and the Bharat Petroleum Corporation. 45% of costs for Indian carriers is fuel, which is 70% more expensive than abroad due to multiple taxes.Air India's head Raghu Menon expressed concern about what the Kingfisher-Jet alliance meant for his own airline. "We were competing with both these airlines separately. Now we'll be competing with them perhaps as one entity. It'll be a challenge," he said.Kingfisher have cancelled an order for three A340 aircraft from European airframer Airbus. Airbus executive John Leahy said that Airbus had discussed the issue with Kingfisher before the choice was made and that this was the only cancellation from India. He also maintains that India will be an important area for Airbus, with the firm predicting Indian aviation growth will be at 9.7% compared to a global rate of 5.4%. Airbus predict that 1,000 new aircraft will increase the Indian fleet fivefold by 2026. Airbus have also welcomed the partnership between Jet and Kingfisher, saying it will help consolidate the carriers.Airlines are cutting capacity to reduce costs, with around 20% gone already. Average flight movements are down to 8,000 a week compared to 10,500 in the period from April to June. The aviation industry in India is expected to post a collective loss of US$2 billion.One executive at Boeing, Dinesh Keskar , predicted the downfall to be brief. “The current downturn in the sector is temporary and may not prolong for more than 6 to 9 months,” he said. Airlines, however, feel that the risk is very much immediate; Jet and Kingfisher are requesting a government bailout package worth Rs 40.7 billion. They are currently losing a combined US$1.3 billion.Indonesia has been angered by a decision of the European Union to leave all 51 of the nation's air carriers on the list of air carriers banned in the EU. State-owned flag carrier Garuda Indonesia had hoped to begin flights to Europe imminently and has ordered ten new jetliners to serve routes there and to the United States.Transport ministry spokesperson Bambang Ervan said "This seems like an unfair punishment for Indonesia. The EU is not a sovereign country and is not a member of the ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation). But we do respect the EU and its decision, and demand the same from the EU."The ban was imposed after a string of accidents, of which the three most important were Adam Air Flight 574, a 102-fatality accident in which a Boeing 737-43Q plunged into the ocean after pilots distracted by instrument failure failed to maintain control, Adam Air Flight 172, in which another B737 snapped in half after a hard landing and Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, in which a third B737 attempted landing at extreme speed and overshot the runway, killing 21.Adam Air had also almost suffered a B737 crash the previous year, 2006, after a similar navigational instrument failure to that on Flight 574 caused the airliner to become lost for several hours, eventually performing an emergency landing hundreds of kilometres from its intended destination. Indonesia grounded the carrier in March after another accident in which a B737 overshot a runway. The carrier is also in severe financial difficulties and may soon be permanently shut down.Meanwhile, the pilot of Garuda 200 has been charged over the accident, sparking intense controversy.The EU reviewed the ban this week, but ruled that those responsible "have still to demonstrate that they have completed the corrective actions" needed to lift the ban. It is a blow to Indonesia, who had promised "fast-track" help to Garuda, Mandala Airlines, Premiair and Airfast to raise their safety to levels acceptable to the EU.MV Teratai Prima, a 700-ton Indonesian ferry with 300 passengers onboard, was struck by tropical cyclone Charlotte and sank at about 4 a.m. Sunday 30 miles (50 kilometers) off Majene, western Sulawesi. Majene district police head Adj. Sr. Comr. Suyatmo said that more than 260 people are missing and feared dead.The ferry was bound for Samarinda, East Kalimantan, from Pare-Pare, South Sulawesi. Samarinda is the capital of the Indonesian province of East Kalimantan (Kalimantan Timur) on the island of Borneo. Sulawesi (formerly known as Celebes, ˈsɛlɛbiz) is one of the four larger Sunda Islands of Indonesia and is situated between Borneo and the Maluku Islands. Majene is a town in West Sulawesi and it is the seat (capital) of Majene Regency.According to Transport Minister Jusman Syafi'i Djamal, 150 people jumped off the ship before it sank. The captain, Basir, who also survived the maritime tragedy, was under investigation for ignoring weather warnings. "There's a tropical cyclone now which caused tides of 13-foot-high (4-meter-high) to six metres," Djamal said. "At least 22 people — 18 passengers and four crew members — were rescued from the sea by fishermen before the military launched a search operation at daybreak Monday," he added. The survivors were saved by fishermen who found them drifting on three life rafts, according to Taufik.File:Fotopresdn.jpgAccording to the captain, the 1999 ferry was inspected by the Transport Ministry on December 9 and was certified to be in good condition. "It seems that due to the weather conditions the chance is little, but we still hope," Djamal stated. With 17 crew members, and carrying 200 tons of cargo, the ill-fated PT Nur Budi owned and operated ferry sank so fast that the crew "had no chance to ask the passengers to wear life jackets.""President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has instructed the National Search and Rescue Agency to continue searching for survivors," Jusman announced on Monday. "The Indonesian Navy has prepared three warships while the Air Force has prepared a Boeing 737 to help with evacuation," he added.The ferry owner PT Nur Budi's spokesman blamed Indonesian port authorities for the tragedy. "The passenger capacity of the ferry is 205 people but the port administrator accepted more passengers as they thought it was possible," he said. The National Meteorological and Geophysics Agency, however, had published and raised an alert signal about high waves on Friday.It specifically stated that "Saturday 10th and Sunday 11th, Indonesian waters would have witnessed storm force waves," but despite the dire warnings KM Teratai set for the seas.Col. Jaka Santosa reported that they found not one survivor amid hours of rescue operations in the treacherous waters of Makassar Strait, the same maritime site where 102 passengers perished on board an Adam Air plane which crashed on New Year's Day in 2007.Three warships, an airplane and a helicopter with Search and Rescue (SAR) vessels on Monday searched waters off Sulawesi's west coast. According to Col. Jaka Santosa and Rear Admiral Iskandar Sitompul, the rescue operations were hindered by driving rain, strong winds and giant waves of up to 13 feet (4 meters). "Two warships and one Nomad patrol aircraft from the navy are off West Sulawesi scouring for survivors. A team of 40 marines with two rubber boats are also involved in the search this morning," Sitompul said. "Eight patrol boats from provincial search and rescue teams are already in the area, and the navy as well as the air force are also involved in today's search," Djamal added.According to Rustam Pakaya, head of the health ministry's crisis centre, six fatalities had already been confirmed on Monday. "There is a greater possibility that many more died than we expected because it happened when they were sleeping," Taufik Bulu, head of maritime safety in the port of Pare-Pare, explained.The Indonesian archipelago is composed of more than 17,000 islands and has a population of 235 million. Ferry accidents are common in the island nation of Indonesia, where the fleet is largely old and overcrowded. In July 2005 about 200 died when a ferry capsized off eastern Indonesia. In December 2006, more than 638 perished when an overloaded Indonesian ship also sank in the Java Sea (between Borneo and Java) amid a turbulent storm. Only 250 people survived. In July 2007, 70 also perished in a ferry tragedy off eastern Indonesia, while at least 42 passengers perished when fire broke out aboard a boat that was heading from Jakarta to Bangka island off Sumatra in February 2007. In May, another ferry with about 800 passengers on board caught fire. It had no firefighting equipment, forcing evacuation of passengers by the Indonesian Navy. In late September, at least nine perished after another Indonesian ferry burned and sank.Indonesia has suspended the operating license of PT Adam Skyconnection Airlines, who trade as Adam Air, over safety concerns. The airline has recently suffered safety problems and financial difficulty.Formed in 2003, Adam Air hit financial crisis on Monday when two major shareholders, investment companies who control 50% of the airline, announced they were pulling out and selling all shares back to the original owners, who still control the other half. The reasons given were a lack of improvement in safety and alleged financial mismanagement.The shares were bought after two major accidents hit the budget carrier last year. On New Year's day Adam Air Flight 574 disapeared and was found to have crashed into the ocean near Sulawesi, leaving 102 missing and presumed dead. Shortly afterwards, another company aircraft snapped in half during landing, but fatalities were prevented because the compromised airframe held together. Both were Boeing 737 (B737) aircraft. At the airline's height, it operated 22 of these, serving domestic routes across the Indonesian archipelago and daily international flights to Malaysia and Singapore.Adam Air also had a serious incident in early 2006, when all navigational systems on a B737 failed, causing the plane to inadvertently enter an accident blackspot. The aircraft was lost for several hours before performing an emergency landing hundreds of miles from its intended destination.On March 10, another Adam Air B737 overshot the runway during landing at Batam island's airport. Since then, Adam Air has been issued two deadlines in rapid succession by the authorities - one to solve safety issues, and one to prove its financial viability. They have cut routes from 52 to 12, and defaulted on all payments on their aircraft to the leasing companies, who have seized back 12 of them.Gustiono Kustianto, director of one of the two leasing companies, said the carrier's "life expectancy is less than a month," and that it owes US$14 million to leasing companies compared to $4.8 million of free capital.Aviation director general Budhi Mulyawan Suyitno said that Adam Air had been grounded due to inadequate Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) standards and poor pilot training. He said that investigations into last week's crash, which injured five people and severely damaged the aircraft, had revealed "the pilot had no idea what to do in an emergency situation." The airline will spend three months grounded, after which it will be shut down entirely if it does not show it has improved."The Transport Ministry has decided to revoke Adam Air's operational specification, effective 12am Wednesday (4am AEDT), said Suyitno. "With this, Adam Air is banned from operating its aircraft. All of its planes must be automatically grounded." He commented that a quarterly evaluation had uncovered "violations that could put passengers' safety at risk".The news coincides with a two-day ultimatum from Adam Air's insurance provider. Failure to pay the insurance premiums would also have resulted in grounding.Founder Adam Suherman - whose family owns half the airline alongside Sandra Ang - commented today that the situation with the shareholders had demoralised pilots. "That in turn would affect their performance. It is very dangerous." He also said that he was not surprised Adam Air had been grounded. Yesterday, he said that there were no plans to file for bankruptcy.His immediate reaction to the news from the insurance - which preceded the grounding by several hours - was that his airline likely could not insure the entire fleet, saying "There have been warnings from the insurance companies... Because every aircraft that is in operation must be insured, the operational activities will be temporarily suspended until there is a further decision from shareholders."Adam Air's 2007 accidents, coupled with Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, sparked an industry review that determined none of the nation's air carriers were safe. The United States subsequently warned against using Indonesian airlines, and they were all added to the list of air carriers banned in the EU.Indonesia has shut down four airlines and grounded five others with the potential of similar licence revocations for failing to meet safety standards.The largest company to lose its licence is Jatayu Gelang Sejahtera. The other companies are all small airlines operating only aircraft with a passenger capacity of fewer than thirty, and are Aviasi Upataraksa, Alfa Trans Dirgantara and Prodexim. The companies that were grounded pending either improvements or licence revokation are Germania Trisila Air, Atlas Delta Setia, Survey Udara Penas, Kura-kura Aviation and SMAC, all of which also operate only aircraft with under-30 passenger capacities. They have three months to improve, or their licences will be revoked.Jatayu had already ceased operations in August, but had intended to restart with a 150-seat Boeing 737. The licence was revoked because the state requires at least two aircraft to be commercially operated and because of the fact that it "was lacking in pilots and human resources". Also, the age of the jetliner meant that it would require a test called a 'C-Check' before it could begin commercial services, at a cost of $120,000.The action comes as the result of a number of air crashes, namely the Adam Air Flight 574 disaster in which 102 people were killed, and the Adam Air Flight 172 accident, in which a plane snapped in half during a hard landing, but managed to hold together, thus preventing any serious injuries. As a result, all 54 of Indonesia's airlines were given a safety rating, with a level-1 rating meaning no action was needed, a level-2 rating meaning the airline needed to make some improvements, and a level-3 rating requiring that the airline be shut down unless improvements were made within three months. Most airlines received a level-2 rating, while none received the top rating. Adam Air was among the airlines to receive the level-3 rating, but was upgraded to tier 2 at the same time as the groundings.Meanwhile, state-owned Garuda Indonesia is now the only airline to have a type-1 rating, despite the fatal crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 in March. According to the Indonesian Transport Ministry's Director General for Aviation Budi Mulyawan Suyitno, Garuda now satisfied 84 percent of civil aviation standards.The ratings have been based on such criteria as surveillance, ramp checks, personnel, department safety, number of accidents and number of serious incidents, according to the BBC. Meanwhile, Flight Global is reporting that, according to Directorate General of Air Communications (DGAC) director of air certification office, Yurlis Hasibuan “20 criteria including whether the airline has developed [better] safety and human resources” are checked.Jusman Syafii Djamal, minister of transport for Indonesia, has recommended that local airlines should not purchase aircraft from European manufacturers, such as Airbus. It is a direct response to the decision of the European Union (EU) to add all 51 of Indonesia's air carriers to the list of air carriers banned in the EU.The EU made the decision to ban the Indonesian air traffic due to a string of accidents in the country, including two major disasters this year - the losses of Adam Air Flight 574 and Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, which killed 102 and 21 people respectively."We do not need to buy aircraft from Europe as long as the flying ban stays unrevoked," Detik.com quoted Djamal as saying, although Xinhua translated the quote as: "As long as the ban is still in place, it is better we do not buy [aircraft] from Europe." "If aircraft are purchased and registered as Indonesian [in Europe], we are worried the planes won't be able to fly to Indonesia because Indonesian airlines' aircraft are banned from flying over Europe," he continued. Djamal is concerned that instead new European planes would have to be flown into Indonesia prior to registration, with higher costs incurred as a result.The announcement, which had already been issued to airlines two weeks ago, was made at a joint press conference with Indonesian Vice President Jusuf Kalla in Jakarta. Djamal told reporters that he felt the best option was the lifting of the ban. "The easiest way is to lift the ban, because the ban goes against the principle of open sky policy," he said.Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono has already postponed a diplomatic visit to Europe, citing the ban as his reason. Normally, the president flies on an aircraft operated by state-owned national flag carrier Garuda Indonesia.A European Commission review was held in Brussels on November 28. Although bans were lifted on Pakistani flag carrier Pakistan International Airlines and Surinam carrier Blue Wing Airlines, the sanctions on Indonesian airlines remained in force.Multiple local air carriers are considering the possibility of fleet expansions, with some evaluating Airbus jets as possible options. Airbus, in particular, charge an added cost for taking an aircraft to Indonesia for registration. "There is an additional cost that must be paid by Indonesian airlines that buy the (Airbus) plane from Europe, US$200,000 ," said Djamal. "Because of that we recommend not buying planes from Europe. As long as the EU ban is still in place, there will be additional payment."However, he went on to say that should a manufacturer be willing to pay the cost itself, he did not object to the purchase of the aircraft. He has also confirmed that no Indonesian officers will be sent to Europe to assist with the situation.45 of Indonesia's 51 air carriers as well as some airport management companies signed a safety deal with the Indonesian government yesterday. The deal will be delivered to the European Commission  ahead of a November 19 meeting in Brussels to review the placement of all 51 of Indonesia's airlines on the list of air carriers banned in the EU in June after a string of aviation accidents earlier in the year. Indonesia is already planning to give a presentation on air safety improvements at the meeting.Under the deal, the airlines have promised to increase supervision of security and safety issues, while the government pledged to increase numbers and abilities of regulation staff. The deal comes a week after EU inspectors suggested that the airlines would benefit from increased safety standards and larger numbers of more highly trained management staff. Ultimately, the deal is intended to bring Indonesia fully up to the standards set down by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO).This is a part of a serious effort by the operators and regulators to improve our aviation safety and meet international standards," Transport Minister Djusman Syafii Djamal told Radio Elshinta of Jakarta after the ceremonial signing of the document, adding hopes that the deal would cause the removal of the EU ban.The deal was arranged by the National Team for Transportation Safety and Security, which was set up to investigate Indonesia's failing transportation infrastructure, particularly the aviation sector. The six-man group was chaired by Marshal Chappy Hakim, a retired Air Force chief of staff. He told reporters that he felt "We need to work hard to prove we can meet international standards, and that starts with this declaration," The ban was orriginally placed after three accidents involving Indonesian airliners - the New Year's Day crash of Adam Air Flight 574, which killed 102 people, the subsequent accident involving Adam Air Flight 172, which cracked in half on a hard landing but held together, preventing serious injury, and the March crash of state-run Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, which claimed 23 lives. All the accidents involved aging Boeing 737 aircraft.Indonesia has also since been the subject of regulatory action by the United States Federal Aviation Administration, who warned US citizens wishing to travel to use alternatives to Indonesian air carriers.Despite originally threatening a retaliatory ban on European airlines in Indonesian airspace, Indonesia quickly admitted to a poor safety record. Indonesia has since been taking steps recently to improve it's air safety, having already started ranking airlines on safety and signing a deal with the ICAO to set up an independent regulatory body and improve Air Traffic Control operations. Earlier this year, Indonesia shut down several airlines that it viewed as not meeting safety standards. A team from the European Aviation Security Agency has inspected Indonesian airports and interviewed the managers of Garuda Indonesia, Mandala Airlines and Air Fast to gauge how far safety has improved.The ICAO will evaluate Indonesia's progress in late 2008.Captain Muhammad Marwoto Komar, the pilot who was controlling Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 when it crashed two years ago, has been jailed for two years. 21 people were killed when the Boeing 737 crashed at Adi Sucipto Airport in Yogyakarta.The court ruled that Article 479G(b) of the Criminal Code had been breached by Komar — negligence resulting in death. The aircraft had crashed due to the excessive speed that it landed at, with prosecutors originally claiming the crash was deliberate while Komar blamed an issue with the flaps. The charge of intentionally crashing was later dropped.The court found that as Komar had not notified co-pilot Gagam Salman R. or air traffic control of any issue with the aircraft despite having two minutes to do so he was negligent. Had the airport been aware of the problems on board, they could have readied Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting crews to prevent or contain the fire when the plane departed the runway. As the plane approached the runway the Ground Proximity Warning System sounded fifteen times to inform the flight crew the jet was going too fast for a safe landing.He was sentenced to two years in prison, half the term prosecutors were seeking. Lead prosecutor Mudin Aristo said that "we're considering [appealing] the verdict." M. Assegaf, Komar's lawyer, has already said that he will appeal. "The case should not have been tried under that article [479G(b)], which is used to regulate terrorists. Captain Marwoto is not a terrorist", said Assegaf. Garuda Pilots’ Association president Stephanus Gerardus and Napitupulu of the Federation of Indonesian Pilots both commented that the case should not have been in a criminal court at all but in an aviation court. Garardus commented that "Pilots will be afraid to land their planes because of the threat of imprisonment."The judges, who were split in their verdict as one felt that all charges should be dismissed, ruled that the position of such a court was unclear and that it had no jurisdiction to hand down jail sentences. They also said that Law No. 1/2009 on profession courts, which applies to such a court, was not in place at the time of the accident.Others felt that the sentence was too light. Then-Australian foreign minister Alexander Downer commented that "it seems a very light sentence frankly. I understand from the evidence that was presented that there was nothing mechanically wrong with the aircraft and that the pilot just landed the plane at far too high a speed, way over the limit of the landing of an aircraft." Five Australian diplomats and journalists travelling on flight 200 to attend a counter-terrorism conference that Downer appeared at in Indonesia were amongst the dead.Caroline Mellish, sister of Australian journalist Morgan Mellish who died on the flight, also said the sentence was light. "I don't feel like justice has been served... And hearing he only got two years made it even harder," she said. Kevin Keevil, father of AusAID's Allison Sudradjat, who also died, had a similar opinion."It does not give me any peace of mind," said Keevil. "I have a personal belief that the sentence is inadequate given what transpired on the day, especially in view of the pilot's behaviour."The verdict, which was attended by Komar's wife and teenage sons, garnered widespread public interest. For the four hours that proceedings lasted the courtroom was at capacity and many people were listening from outside.Indonesia's High Court in Yogyakarta has overturned the April conviction of a Garuda Indonesia pilot who was behind the controls in an air disaster. Captain Marwoto Komar was cleared of negligently causing the deaths of 21 when his Boeing 737 overshot the runway at Adisucipto Airport.The March 2007 crash occurred after the flight from Jakarta landed at excessive speed and a steep angle. The jet bounced down the runway before overshooting and coming to rest in a rice field, where it was destroyed by fire. Of the 140 on board, sixteen Indonesians and five Australians were killed.The court in Komar's trial had ruled that while it could not be shown for sure that the aircraft was mechanically sound with the Captain solely responsible for the dangerous landing, Komar had two minutes in which to inform air traffic control and his co-pilot Gagam Salman R. that they were experiencing an emergency. The court found that had he done so Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting equipment could have been mobilised ready for the incoming jet. The investigation by the National Transportation Safety Committee (KNKT) found no mechanical defect and stated that fifteen activations of the Ground proximity warning system had been ignored, but international law made this inadmissible as evidence.The ruling was overturned in September, but has only just been published. The High Court ruled that the prosecution had failed to "legally and convincingly" demonstrate guilt and therefore "the defendant's rights, position and status should be restored." Komar received half of the four year sentence sought by prosecutors but avoided jail as he was freed on bail while the appeal was pending. Komar's lawyer Mochtar Zuhdi said the High Court decision was final and cannot be appealed.The decision to charge Captain Komar was highly controversial; the first time Indonesia prosecuted a pilot over a crash. Indonesia Air Traffic Controllers Association chief Adrie Gunawan said that 26 controllers left the country fearing possible prosecutions if anything went wrong on their shift; they also threatened to strike. Indonesian Pilots' Association chief Manotar Napitupulu said "This shows that the justice system has finally understood that Marwoto’s case did not belong in court." Last year Wikinews interviewed Paul McCarthy, an aviation lawyer and pilot who serves as the International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations' representative to the International Civil Aviation Organisation. McCarthy said that prosecuting the man could have a chilling effect on people speaking to accident investigators, hence affecting safety. He also heavily criticised the investigation.Not everyone is pleased by the decision. Victims' families in Australia are upset and angry at the decision. The Sydney Morning Herald used a headline that stated "Ruling denies justice for Australian crash victims". "The fact he has had his conviction quashed and pilot status reinstated, it's like nothing's happened," said Caroline Mellish, whose brother Morgan was killed. Simone Kerr, who lost her sister in the disaster, said "My greatest fear is that he will be flying again. He needs to be held accountable for his actions... There is no justice in this world."Reports from Indonesia now say at least nine people were killed and over 200 rescued today, after a ferry sank in rough waters near Sumatra island.The Dumai Express 10 was sailing from Batam island to Dumai in Riau province on Sunday morning when it sank. Officials blamed bad weather for the accident, but there have been reports that the ferry was severely overloaded.Sunaryo, the director-general of sea transport, said the ferry's capacity was 273 people, and only 213 passengers were on the manifest, but one official put the number rescued at 292. Sunaryo said the large disparity between reality and the manifest was a "classic case" of breaking regulations.  Separately, another ferry, the Dumai Express 15 with 278 people on board, ran aground today after it was hit by large waves on its way from Batam to Moro island. Authorities say all passengers and crew survived.Indonesians rely heavily on ferries to transport them between the thousands of islands that make up the archipelago. Ferry accidents are common due to bad weather, poor infrastructure and a tendency to overload vessels. Around 800 people have been killed in ferry accidents in Indonesia over the past three years, including at least 232 in an accident off Sulawesi in January this year.Police in Indonesia have forwarded a 200-page brief concerning the Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 disaster to prosecutors. The move comes as an indication that the trial of pilot-in-command Captain Marwoto Komar is set to commence within weeks.The March 7, 2007 crash of a Boeing 737-400 at Yogyakarta International Airport killed 21 people. 119 others were able to escape the burning wreckage after the plane overshot the runway, going through the perimeter fence and crossing a road and an embankment to come to rest in a paddy field. Most of the deceased were Indonesians, with five from neighbouring Australia also killed.A final report was later issued after an investigation by Indonesia's National Transportation Safety Committee (NTSC) in October 2007. The report blamed pilot error for the crash, finding that the airliner had touched down at roughly twice the accepted safe landing speed, and that Komar was "fixated" on landing and "probably emotionally aroused". The Cockpit Voice Recorder indicated that he ignored fifteen activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System and a call from his co-pilot for a 'go-around' as the plane touched down. A number of other criticisms were also leveled at the airport, the airline and transport politicians for contributing factors.Komar is to be prosecuted over the crash for negligence. His earlier arrest - which he was subsequently released from pending full charges - sparked protests from Indonesian aviation groups and criticism from international groups, including IFALPA, a powerful international airline pilots' association.Evidence in his trial is set to include documentational evidence and aircraft wreckage, but it is unclear whether it will include the NTSC report. Much controversy was caused by the suggestion it may be used, since international regulations limit the use of materials intended for safety investigations as evidence to prove liability in criminal or civil cases.Kamal Firdaus, council for the pilot, explained what this means for his client: "Today the documentation has been officially accepted by the prosecutor," adding, "I suspect from this it will be two to three weeks until it is handed over to the court - that's the usual practice. Usually the first hearing is two weeks after that." Firdaus commented that it would be "difficult" for liability to be established and that, "we are ready and it will be a very interesting legal case, so let's see what will happen in the court."Komar, 45, is believed to be the first pilot prosecuted over an air accident in Indonesia despite the country's poor aviation safety record. He is being charged with three counts of negligence, but the potential sentence is unclear, as Aero-News reports that he could face life imprisonment while The Age says he can face up to seven years' imprisonment. His case is considered a landmark, with aviation groups believing his trial may set the precedent for pilots involved in future accidents.An M-28 Skytruck plane operated by police in Indonesia crashed into the sea near the island of Batam today. The fifteen on board are missing.The domestic flight from Pangkal Pinang on Bangka to Batam lost contact with Singaporean air traffic control at 10:22 Batam local time; Singapore has controlled some Indonesian airspace since the 1940s. Fisherman have located wreckage and body parts off the coast of Kabupaten Lingga in the Riau Islands which also include Batam.The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore activated its Crisis Management Centre and has supplied a Super Puma helicopter and a Fokker 50 plane for search and rescue. Two Singaporean ships are on standby awaiting Indonesian clearance. Three Indonesian naval ships and two patrol boats are also involved. Basarnas, the Indonesian search and rescue authority, says a 200 square-nautical-mile (about 700 square km) area is being searched. Items recovered thus far include seats, luggage, and documents. Basarnas head Bambang Soelistyo said survivors were possible.Villagers assisting recovery efforts for a Russian passenger jet that crashed in Indonesia have found the aircraft's missing flight data recorder. All 45 on board were killed when the Sukhoi Superjet 100 crashed during a demonstration flight earlier this month.The cockpit voice recorder was found several days after the plane hit Mount Salak, West Java on May 9. A landslide triggered by the impact had concealed the flight data recorder, but it was uncovered today after recent rains removed some of the soil it was under. "It seems to be intact," said Ketut Purwa, who is leading the recovery. It was sent to Jakarta for examination.The recorder was found in a ravine 30 metres from the tail, which was also located by villagers. It contains a log of technical data from the 40-minute demonstration, which aimed to attract Indonesian airlines to buy Superjet 100s.Tatang Kurniadi, head of the National Transportation Safety Committee, explained "The FDR emits a signal for up to a month but only if it's underwater. It doesn't work on land". In addition to the Indonesian investigation, Russian authorities have launched a criminal probe. The dead include eight Russians. Kurniadi also said work to complete an Indonesian translation of the voice recorder transcript is nearing completion.The aircraft had asked for permission to descend to 6,000 feet shortly before the crash. It then hit the 7,200-foot mountain near Jakarta. In the midst of an Asian tour, Sukhoi had placed an experienced pilot in charge of the plane.The Superjet 100 is intended to reinvigorate the Russian aviation industry, and is the nation's first new airliner since the Soviet era. With a maiden flight in 2008, it entered service last year and Sukhoi boasts 200 orders. The twin-engine jet seats around 100 and costs buyers US$31.7 million.The United Kingdom's Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) has released an interim report into the crash of British Airways Flight 38. The Boeing 777-ER crashed early this year as it tried to land at London's Heathrow Airport.The report states that the AAIB believes the crash occurred when ice crystals formed within the fuel system. However, it should be noted that the report only serves as an update into the progress of the investigation and that the final report is yet to be published and may yet reach a different conclusion into the cause of the accident.The flight from Beijing, China had been normal until final approach at Heathrow, at which point the aircraft was coming in for landing with the autopilot and autothrottle engaged. However, engine power became greatly reduced when the autothrottle requested more thrust, and the aircraft made a forced landing 1,000 feet from the runway. The aircraft suffered substantial damage as it slid across the grass to the runway threshold, where it came to rest, and was written off. There was only one serious injury and eight minor ones to the 136 passengers and 16 crew.As the jet passed over Siberia it encountered significantly reduced temperatures. The AAIB has determined that the fuel was at a temperature below 0°C for an unusually long duration. This is believed to have caused water in the fuel - which met all relevant international standards - to have frozen into crystals. These were able to form undetected as the aircraft cruised with a low fuel requirement, and it was only when extra fuel was pumped in from the tanks for the landing that the crystals became a problem.The report says that the current explanation being offered for the accident is an "apparently hitherto unknown phenomenon" and warns that other combinations of aircraft models and engines may also be vulnerable. The 777 involved was powered by Rolls-Royce Trent 800s, like 222 of the 736 777s currently operating. Data from 141,000 other flights of such aircraft has not yielded any other set of circumstances similar to the one in the crash flight.In light of these results, a worldwide alert has been issued to the 11 airlines that between them operate all the aircraft identical to the lost jet. Boeing have instructed airlines to vary altitude regularly when fuel is below 10°C and to run the engines at max power for ten seconds before attempting a landing if the fuel has been at such temperatures for over three hours. The extra power is intended to clear out any buildup of water. To prevent buildup of water during ground operation at freezing temperatures all fuel pumps should be run at full power for one minute.Air New Zealand have already confirmed they will introduce the new measures, and United States authorities are expected to make them mandatory within days. The affected aircraft are operated by US carriers American Airlines and Delta Air Lines.Emails exchanged among United States Air Force officials regarding a USD$23 billion dollar deal with aircraft manufacturer Boeing have been entered into the public record. Senator John McCain (R-AZ) entered them into the Congressional Record during a speech last week against the now-cancelled deal to lease 100 mid-air tanker aircraft from Boeing.Congressional lawmakers rejected the proposal in October, although industry experts say the deal had been killed by the Pentagon because of reports stating that the deal had favored Boeing. Senator McCain has been the deal's most vocal critic.The original negotiations with Boeing were over a no-bid contract. Such contracts are often justified by the speed they offer, eliminating a preliminary bid and selection round that may last months. However, no-bid contracts are only open to the company selected by the procuring agency. This leaves no-bid contracts open to accusations of conflicts of interest among the procurement personnel. Such accusations have previously been leveled against Vice President Dick Cheney for a no-bid contract to Halliburton, and are now being made against senior Air Force officials for choosing Boeing to replace its tanker fleet.In the released emails, Air Force officials responsible for the awarding of contracts appear biased against Boeing's main competitor, Airbus and its CEO Ralph Crosby.Airbus is owned by European Aeronautic Defense & Space Company (EADS). Airbus manufacturers a number of passenger and military aircraft and has gained market share in passenger aircraft over Boeing in recent years. The following is a sequential email exchange regarding Airbus as recorded in the Congressional Record:Special Asst. to the Secretary and Director of Air Force Communications Bill Bodie: "We don't have to turn the other cheek, you know. I'm ready to tell the truth about Airbus's boom, footprint, and financial shortcoming. But maybe we should sleep on it."Secretary of the Air Force James Roche: "No, Sir, save it and blow him away. He admits that they were not technically qualified! And, we keep their record of bribes as our trump card! Jim."Civilian Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force for Acquisition Darleen Druyun: "I read with disgust the article on Airbus tankers from the new EADS CEO of North America. What BS . . . should not have been surprised at the slime . . . his day of reckoning will come hopefully."Secretary of the Air Force James Roche: "Oy. I agree. I had hoped you would have stayed and tortured him slowly over the next few years until EADS got rid of him! Jim."An email from Burkhardt & Associates to James Roche advises the Secretary to release fiscal numbers favorable to Boeing, apparently regardless of the facts: "I'd distribute a one page memo saying the per plane cost of the lease will not be greater than x and have x be less than the last lease Boeing did for some commercial entity--or that x is y dollars less than the cost of a new tanker," it said. An additional email by Roche provides a stark contrast to his criticism of Airbus, as he talks to Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition Marvin Sambur about Boeing, saying, "I love Ya, Big Guy. Give it to the Blue Eyed Arabs of the North (the expression we used for Boeing)."GovExec.com quotes a "Senate aide" as saying: "The House language [of the spending bill] ignores an analysis of alternatives called for in last year's authorizing language and by Pentagon Acquisition Director Michael Wynne and the DSB. It precludes such an analysis and predetermines the outcome in favor of the Boeing 767 before the study is even initiated." The activist organization the Project on Government Oversight has called it "a textbook case of favoritism to a single defense contractor."Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition Marvin Sambur defended the Air Force's exclusive consideration of Boeing, saying, "This was not a competitive bid process. The Air Force was ordered by Congress to work with Boeing on the new tanker program."Boeing had previously hired Civilian Deputy Undersecretary of the Air Force for Acquisition Darleen Druyun. This caused a controversy over conflict of interest and led to felony charges against Boeing Chief Financial Officer Michael Sears for illegally hiring her. Former military personnel are often hired by defense contractors to lobby for contracts.Days after Sen. McCain's remarks, the Air Force said the tanker replacement contract would be revived as an open bid. Deputy Defense Secretary Wolfowitz published an open-article in the Congressional Record, saying: "After we have selected an appropriate alternative, we intend to require competition."With a state by-election coming up in Victoria, Australia, many minor parties and independent candidates will be looking to gain a seat in the Legislative Assembly. Liz Mumby is one of the independents."I am a medical sales professional, a wife and mother and a small business owner," says Mumby, the Division of Altona. "I don't come from a political background, I live in the real world." She argues that "we should not limit the debate to public transport issues just because the retiring member was the Minister for Public Transport." Wikinews reporter Patrick Gillett held an exclusive email interview with Mrs. Mumby.On Saturday, twenty people were killed and twenty-one injured by the fire fighting system aboard a submarine of the Russian Pacific Fleet.Further details about the incident were confirmed by Russian officials yesterday, as a formal investigation continued.The incident occurred aboard K-152 Nerpa, a newly built Akula class nuclear submarine, during sea trials in the Sea of Japan. The victims include both sailors and shipyard workers.The submarine had 208 people aboard—three times the normal crew—when the fire fighting system was triggered by an unknown cause, flooding a forward compartment with Freon gas which is used to extinguish fires by removing oxygen from the atmosphere. Seventeen of the dead are reported to be employees of the Amur Shipbuilding Enterprise, the constructor of the vessel, and three Russian Navy sailors.The vessel returned to port undamaged, with the injured being conveyed to Vladivostok by destroyer.Russia planned to lease the Nerpa to the Indian Navy in 2009, according to unconfirmed Russian and Indian press reports.The toll in yesterday's serial bombings on Mumbai's commuter trains has risen to 200 killed, with 714 people injured, according to the official estimate released by the Police. 127 victims have been identified and a further 56 remain unidentified, the estimate said. No group has so far claimed responsibility for the attacks. Indian authorities have said that the Kashmiri militant group Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) may be involved. An LeT spokesman has denied any involvement. The day after the blast, schools, colleges and offices functioned normally in Mumbai and the commuter train service targeted in the bombings was operational. Many commuters rode the trains to work, though their numbers were smaller than usual. The Bombay Stock Exchange, located in the city shrugged off the bombings, with the BSE SENSEX gaining 3 percent on opening, calming fears that economic confidence will be undermined by the blasts.The United States National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has completed its investigation into the ditching of US Airways Flight 1549 into New York's Hudson River. The fifteen-month probe began after the Airbus A320 performed a water landing when bird strikes damaged both engines in a move dubbed the "Miracle on the Hudson" by the media. Nobody was killed.The NTSB's final report, adopted after a board meeting today, concluded that a combination of safety equipment better than the mandatory minimums and good reactions by the crew were the main reasons the 150 passengers and five crew survived. The board stated that the aircraft's equipment met the standards required for "extended overwater operations", equipment that was not needed for the January 2009 flight. The aircraft was equiped with escape slides that doubled as water rafts at the front and aft emergency exits, but the aft ones were rendered unavailable. Airbus assumed when designing the aircraft that only one engine would be inoperative during an emergency ditching, and current emergency checklists assume plenty of prior warning for dual-engine failure since the aircraft would be at a high altitude. The A320 was at just 2,700 feet when the incident occurred, having just taken off when it collided with a flock of Canada geese, almost completely removing the engines' ability to generate thrust.The final report has blamed a number of factors for extensive fuselage damage caused in the impact, which cracked a rear bulkhead and caused the aircraft to flood, as well as taking the rear slides out of action. The board said standards aircraft should meet in ditchings - set by the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) - were inadequate, training in industry was not sufficient for ditchings and the high level of tasks the crew had to focus on made it difficult for the pilot to maintain his airspeed. The pilot's decision to ditch was credited as being the best possible solution to the emergency.The NTSB noted that while the rear rafts failed, 64 people climbed into the forward rafts, and said many of these people would have been immersed in the frigid river. The board claimed that this could induce "cold shock", which can lead to drowning within minutes.The report found that the good visibility, calm water, nearby ferries which provided rescues within twenty minutes and good cockpit resource management, allowing the crew to maintain control, were further factors that contributed to the survival of those on board. However, it also found that "more creative and effective methods of conveying safety information to passengers" are required after learning that most passengers had not paid attention to the in-flight safety announcement. It also noted that many passengers had difficulty putting on the life vests supplied under the seats.The report further stated that the accident was hard to predict due to the fact that bird strikes tend to occur much lower, usually below 500 feet. It considered the possibilities of fitting engine screens or redesigning engines to mitigate bird strike risk, but these proposals were rejected after consideration since they were deemed unfeasable. NTSB Chairman Deborah A.P. Hersman described the circumstances as "a great example of the professionalism of the crewmembers, air traffic controllers and emergency responders who all played a role in preserving the safety of everyone aboard." She further discussed the safety recommendations the report will contain when it is released. "I believe the safety recommendations that have come out of this investigation have an extraordinary origin - a very serious accident in which everyone survived. Even in an accident where everyone survives, there are lessons learned and areas that could use improvement.  Our report today takes these lessons learned so that, if our recommendations are implemented, every passenger and crewmember may have the opportunity to benefit from the advances in safety." A total of 35 recommendations have been made seeking improved checklists for emergencies, better certification standards for aircraft and their engines, advances in crew training, better safety equipment and improved safety briefings to passengers.One result of these findings is that the board will likely ask the FAA to require emergency equipment for water landings on all commercial aircraft. The FAA has until now held that such a move would place a disproportionately high cost on airlines.An investigation into the fatal 2009 Washington Metro train collision conducted by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) called for new safety and maintenance rules. The report, released today, blamed the crash on the faulty automatic train-control system. The report also cited the use of dated 1000-Series train cars. The 2009 crash, which killed 9 and injured 80, occurred during the evening rush between the Takoma and Fort Totten stations on the Red Line.NTSB Chairman Deborah Hersman said that the system is currently regulated by state and local agencies. She called for Federal oversight. "Now it’s really time for them to step up to the plate and for Congress to address the issue," Hersman said during the release of the findings.In 2009, Hersman told Congress that Federal safety guidelines should be set saying "the state oversight system is not effective, they don’t have any teeth." Currently the Federal government has control of interstate transit systems, not regional or local transit systems.The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) said yesterday that it would replace all of it's 1000-Series trains with newer models. After the crash, then WMATA general manager, John Catoe said that "the system is safe." WMATA's interim general manager Richard Sarles said that "We are committed to considering and following through on the findings and recommendations."An investigation is tonight underway after a light aircraft crashed into a popular mountain resort in the Philippines city of Baguio, killing two aboard, and injuring four others. The aircraft, which may have been trying to make an emergency landing, narrowly missed crashing into a tourist resort where a crowd had gathered.Witnesses said the six-seater Piper Aztec aircraft was flying very low before it clipped pine trees and impacted with the ground, bursting into flames. The crash happened just minutes after it lifted off from Loakan Airport. One person aboard the aircraft was killed instantly, and the four others were taken to hospital where another died. No-one on the ground was hurt in the accident.Police confirmed the aircraft crashed into a mountain trail and exploded. Wikinews understands air traffic controllers lost contact with the pilot shortly after takeoff, and officials say the aircraft may have suffered technical problems. Police told journalists the pilot might have been attempting to make an emergency landing in an open area but struck trees.Indonesia's National Transportation Safety Committee yesterday declared pilot error to be behind the crash of Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501. All 162 passengers and crew died when the plane crashed into the Java Sea a year ago.The Airbus A320-200 was around 40 minutes from Surabaya's Juanda International Airport to Singapore's Changi International Airport when it vanished on December 28. Wreckage and bodies were found floating two days later; National Search and Rescue Agency divers led an international recovery effort but over 50 bodies remain lost.The pilots were facing a fault with the rudder travel limiter, a part involved in rudder control. They repeatedly received warnings on their Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitoring (ECAM) system. The first three times Indonesian Pilot Iriyanto and French co-pilot Remi Emmanuel Plesel followed correct procedure only for the fault to recur. The fourth time, they tried something else — based on Flight Data Recorder readouts, investigators believe they reset power to their Flight Augmentation Computers.The computers are principally responsible for rudder control and aircraft stability. With both computers switched off, the entire fly-by-wire system of semi-automation disconnected, as did the autopilot and autothrust systems. The pilots were now left to fly entirely manually, without automation that protects the aircraft from entering unusual and dangerous positions.A miscommunication followed. Iriyanto asked Plesel, who was flying, to "pull down". Plesel pulled the controls down, which pitched the nose up; Iriyanto had wanted to descend. The flight ascended without permission through 36,000ft with a ground speed of 353knts. The aircraft would normally be travelling faster, with a nearby Emirates jet at a ground speed of 503knts at 36,000ft. The aircraft also banked as the disengagement of automation left the rudder off-centre.The AirAsia flight reached 38,000ft and entered a stall. The crew did not manage to regain control. The 155 passengers and seven crew died when the plane hit the sea. Most were Indonesians, but for three South Koreans, one Malaysian, one Brit, and French national Plesel.The fault was traced to cracked solder on a circuit board. It had repeatedly occurred in the weeks before the crash. The investigation concluded maintenance failings contributed to the disaster, but Muhammad Alwi of the Indonesian Transportation Ministry said "Repeated trouble in maintenance is a normal thing[...] If the trouble is fixed in accordance with the manual maintenance procedures, then it's alright".Investigators believe the solder crack is attributable to extreme temperature changes in the unprotected compartment near the tail that houses the component.The investigation further found the flight crew were untrained in recovering from extreme events. AirAsia boss Tony Fernandes said yesterday "there is much to be learned here for AirAsia, the manufacturer and the aviation industry... We will not leave any stone unturned to make sure the industry learns from this tragic incident".The report also dismisses weather as a contributory factor. The flight was diverting around storms in the area.Iriyanto and Plessel had over 8,000 hours experience between them. Iriyanto had a decade of experience training other pilots, and previous employers include the air force. They spent three minutes struggling to regain control as the pane fell to the sea. Some bodies were recovered around 1,000km away near Sulawesi.AFP spoke to Terence Fan, an air industry expert from Singapore Management University, who said "It's a scenario that has played out in air accidents in the past[...] Pilots are either distracted by a faulty equipment or cannot properly solve the issue and something else is brewing in the background."One such accident was the loss of Air France Flight 447 in 2009 into the Atlantic. It was investigated by the BEA of France, which also assisted the AirAsia probe. The BEA issued recommendations on how to train pilots after the Air France crash. Ex-BEA boss Jean-Paul Troadec said to AFP "Several recommendations of the (BEA) on the subject of pilot training were clearly not implemented by [AirAsia]."Indonesia saw such an accident on New Years' Day 2007 when Adam Air Flight 574 crashed into the Makasser Strait near Sulawesi. The plane suffered a failure on a navigational instrument. While pilots were troubleshooting for this navigational system they first unintentionally disconnected the autopilot, then lost control and crashed into the sea.Investigators in Tuesday's crash of the Airwork Metroliner airplane recovered the black box and cockpit voice recorder. According to witness reports, the airplane exploded in mid-air and crashed into a Taranaki farmland six kilometres east of Stratford, New Zealand. Both pilots were killed. The pilots have been named as Clive Roger Adamson (43) of Wellington, and Tony Drummond (41) of Auckland.  The aircraft was on a regular mail run from Auckland to Wellington carrying courier post and mail.Iran said today that passenger airliners operated by Iranian airlines Iran Air and Mahan Air were being denied fuel at airports in Europe and the Middle East.According to an official at the Iranian Airlines Union, Mehdi Aliyari, "[Iranian] planes have been refused fuel at airports in Britain, Germany and UAE because of the sanctions imposed by America. Refusing to provide fuel to Iranian passenger planes by these countries is a violation of international conventions."The sanctions referenced by Aliyari were introduced by the United States, and penalize companies which supply Iran with petroleum products. It's not known whether or not the sanctions affect the fueling of airliners outside of Iran, and US officials haven't clarified.According to the Financial Times, BP was responsible for the refusal to refuel Iranian aircraft. An unnamed source involved in the UAE's airline industry said that "[a] servicing company which provides fuelling at several airports around the world has refused to provide Iranian planes with fuel, including at UAE terminals."British authorities said that the government had no control over refueling operations at airports, and the German transport ministry said that the refusal to do so was not illegal under European law.Iran said that it planned to "do the same to ships and planes of those countries that cause problems for us" in retaliation.Yesterday, the Iranian military announced the wreckage of an Aseman Airlines airplane, which went missing on Sunday morning shortly before it was due to land in Yasuj, had been located at an elevation of about 13,000 feet (4,000 m) in the Zagros Mountains. All 65 people on board were presumed dead. Crews were searching for the aircraft's two black boxes to try to determine why it crashed.Ramezan Sharif, a spokesman for Iran's Revolutionary Guards, said wreckage of the ATR 72-500 twin-engine turboprop had been sighted by a military drone and helicopters had then been sent to the location. Helicopter pilot Captain Soheili said on state television the wreckage was only some 100 feet (30 m) from a peak on Mount Dena, and "large parts of the plane, which were labeled with the Aseman company logo" were visible. The Revolutionary Guards released photos in which they said bodies of victims could be seen. Regional medical center director Ghafoor Rastinrooz told the official IRNA news agency that helicopters were unable to land at the site because of "deep and dangerous crevices in the area of the crash". General Kiumars Heidari, chief of ground forces in the Iranian Army, told the Fars News Agency the dead would have to be brought down the mountain by commandos using specialized ground vehicles.The plane took off at about 0430 UTC on Sunday from the Iranian capital, Tehran, on Aseman Airlines route EP3704 to Yasuj, in the southwest of the country. It vanished from controllers' radar screens at about 8:52 local time, 0522 UTC, and there were reports from people in the area of Samirom, about 14 miles (22 km) from its destination in Isfahan Province, of seeing it attempting an emergency landing in a pasture and of hearing the crash. Hundreds of searchers organized by the Red Crescent and using drones and dogs combed the mountainous terrain but were hampered by windy, foggy conditions and heavy snow. The search had to be suspended on Sunday. It resumed at dawn on Monday but weather then forced grounding the helicopters. At one point on Monday local officials announced searchers had found the wreckage, only to have the national civil aviation agency and the Red Crescent indicate the statement had been premature. A demonstration was reported by more than 100 people outside a Dena Kooh government office, demanding resignations.The plane reportedly had a crew of six — a pilot and a co-pilot, two flight attendants, and two security guards — and 59 passengers, one of them a child. A man who recounted missing the flight told the Tabnak news site "God has been really kind to me", expressing his sadness over those who had died.The aircraft was 24 years old. Aseman Airlines, Iran's third largest air carrier and owned by the national civil service pension foundation, said it had been in storage for seven years before recently being placed in operation again. Iran's aircraft are aging and the country has been prevented from buying spare parts by international sanctions imposed in response to its nuclear program. Those sanctions were to be lifted under an agreement from 2015, and Iranian airlines, including Aseman, have ordered new planes from both Airbus and Boeing. However, since becoming US President, Donald Trump has declined to recertify the agreement. There have been a number of serious Iranian air accidents in modern times.  In 2011, at least 77 people died when an Iran Air Boeing 727 crashed during an emergency landing.The pilot in the current crash, Captain Hojjatallah Foulad, successfully landed an ATR 72 at the airport in Yasuj in 2013 after one of the engines failed.Reza Nakhjavani, head of Iran's Civil Aviation Organization, has publicly stated that he blames yesterday's jet crash on pilot error. Nobody was killed when the Tupolev Tu-154 crash-landed and caught fire on the runway.Media reports at the time said the aircraft was performing an emergency landing in Mashad owing to a passenger requiring medical attention. Nakhjavani said that he is yet to see confirmation of this passenger's existance, and accused the pilot of placing one life before over 150 others; there were a combined 170 passengers and crew aboard.The Taban Air plane then crashed in the fog and caught fire. The aircraft sustained a tailstrike followed by landing gear failure and the right wing breaking. Forty-six people were injured and the Tu-154 burned on the runway. Nakhjavani claimed the pilot's actions were illegal and he had no clearance to land, also blaming Air Taban and stating they were negligent.Hamid Behbahani, Minister of Roads and Transportation, also blamed "human error" for both the air crash and a train accident the same day that killed nine people. However, he stated that the foggy weather conditions also played a role in the plane crash. Taban's license is currently suspended.Iran uses a number of Russian and Soviet-built aircraft, particularly Tupolevs. In recent years these have had a high accident rate. Last year a Tu-154 crash killed 168 people shortly after takeoff from Tehran heading to Yerevan, Armenia. It was the worst accident in Iranian aviation history. RIA Novosti has stated that this fleet is aging and in urgent need of maintenance and repair work, while Iran blames international sanctions which they claim prevent the import of spare parts except low-quality products from Russia.Regardless of the causes of the problems Iran has experienced with its Tupolevs, the nation today banned the import of any more Tupolev Tu-154 aircraft. Meanwhile, Russia has sent a team from the Interstate Aviation Committee to assist investigations. Under the Convention on International Civil Aviation the state which manufactured an aircraft typically asists any probe into an accident involving it.The Interstate Aviation Committee was set up after the collapse of the Soviet Union to replace the single body in place accross the USSR. If Iran concludes negligent pilot error was indeed to blame then the country cannot sanction the flight crew since they are employed by Russia's Federal Aviation Service. The Russian party to the investigation issues flight is responsible for licensing pilots.A Boeing 707 cargo plane, reported by local press as belonging to the Iranian military, crashed into houses in Karaj, near Tehran, the Iranian capital, yesterday. All but one of the sixteen on-board died; no deaths were reported on the ground, with local media reporting no-one was in the houses.The aircraft came down into a residential area between Fath Airport, where it was attempting to land, and Payam International Airport. Fath Airport is owned by the Revolutionary Guards. State media reported the cockpit voice recorder was recovered. The army said the plane was bringing meat from Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan "to help the country's economy."Fars News said the crash involved pilot error. The lone survivor was a flight engineer. The entire crew were Iranians, the army said. Press TV said the crash was followed by a fire. Photographs showed the aircraft, sans wings, with the cockpit buried within a house and twisted engine parts strewn around.The Aviation Herald reported the failed landing at Fath, which has a much shorter runway than Payam, was a mistake and the jet was supposed to land at Payam. The industry publication stated the aircraft overran the runway and broke through a perimeter barrier. It cited the Air Force as stating Saha Airlines owned the plane, and claimed a reported sixteenth death. In 2018 another aircraft confused the two airports, performing an emergency go around at "very low height" according to The Aviation Herald.The Centre for Aviation's database of air carriers lists Saha as belonging to the Air Force and states it runs flights with Boeing 707s and Airbus A300s, but uses Boeing 747s for freight. Airfleets, a database detailing the aircraft operated by commercial carriers, states the aircraft uses the A300 and 747 as well as the Boeing 737. It does not, however, list any 707s. The Aviation Herald states the 707 was a freighter, despite photos showing a row of windows along each side; it lists a tail number of EP-CPP. Wikinews contacted Boeing in an effort to establish the plane's initial configuration when manufactured. Boeing did not release any specific information about the initial build, telling Wikinews the company "extends its profound condolences to the families and friends of those lost[...] as well as our best wishes for the recovery of those injured." Boeing referred to the 707 involved as a "cargo plane".Iran's air fleet is ageing, with sanctions restricting the purchase of both new planes and parts to maintain those already owned.A wheel on an Aseman Airlines Fokker 100 regional jet caught fire late on Tuesday night after landing in Isfahan, Iran following a flight from Tehran.It is unclear if the aircraft landed normally or experienced a hard landing, with accounts conflicting. It is known that after landing the crew noticed that the brake temperature in one of the wheels was unusually high as they left the runway, and requested that fire crews responded before the passengers disembarked.When emergency services arrived they discovered that the wheel was alight, and the fire was extinguished. The plane then proceeded to the ramp, and the passengers left the jet as normal. The plane subsequently departed as scheduled the following morning.Air accidents are common in Iran, which has an aging fleet that is poorly maintained both for civil and military operations. International sanctions have meant that new aircraft cannot be purchased. Earlier this week, a police helicopter crash killed three people and wounded three more. Last month Iran saw its worst air disaster in years when an airliner heading to Armenia crashed, killing the 168 on board. The same month saw another airliner overrun a runway at Mashhad and strike a wall, killing seventeen.Aer Lingus, an Irish airline, has announced that it will cut about 230 staff in the near future in compulsory job losses, bringing the total number of layoffs from the airline to 670. 440 other workers will face voluntary job losses.The company believes the job reductions will save it 97 million euros. Chief Executive Officer Christoph Mueller said the move would start "within days" and the airline would return to profitability "relatively soon."The airline, which is Ireland's second-largest, also announced today that its operating loss for last year went up by four times, to 81 million euros. The labour union IMPACT, which represents cabin crew for Aer Lingus, is to meet with the airline's management tomorrow regarding the company's move.  The union also remarked that time available to "broker a solution is extremely limited."Aer Lingus revenue dropped to 1.21 billion euros after an eleven percent drop last year, according to the airline, even though passenger numbers increased to 10.4 million. According to the Bloomberg news service, Aer Lingus' net cash reserves went down to 335 million euros.Irish airline Ryanair took a 12% slump in this morning’s trade, further intensifying concern about poor market conditions amid recessionary fears. Today, Ryanair announced a 27% drop in pre-tax profits in its third quarter net profits. Further falls are predicted for the company in its next fiscal year. "With oil prices at $90 a barrel and fear of recession in the UK and many other European economies, the current outlook for the coming fiscal year is poor. While it is impossible to accurately forecast full year fuel prices and yields this far in advance, there is now a significant chance that profits may decline next year," Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary cautioned.Ryanair said that it is not hedged against oil price increases for the next fiscal year. However, Ryanair is not the only airline to suffer from the economic downturn. Aer Lingus shares are down 3% to €2.30. Easyjet has declined 11%. However shrewd, Mr. O’Leary has plans to spend up to 200 million purchasing back shares in the company, which equates to 3% of the company share capital.Israel scrambled two fighter jets to intercept a suspicious aircraft that was failing to respond to air traffic control (ATC) and had moved into attack positions, only to discover that it was carrying International Middle East peace envoy and former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair.The aircraft was an executive private jet carrying delegates including Blair from Sinai, Egypt where they had attended the World Economic Forum to Bethlehem on Wednesday when the aircraft entered Israeli airspace and failed to respond to multiple demands from ATC to identify itself, it emerged yesterday. Amid terrorism fears, the Israeli Air Force scrambled two fighters as is standard procedure for unresponsive aircraft. These then manoeuvered themselves above and behind the aircraft, which is an aggressive position considered optimal should a shootdown be required.The fighters were then able to make direct contact with Tony Blair's flight, which then identified itself and informed the fighter pilots of who was on board. It later turned out the aircraft had suffered a technical fault that had prevented them hearing ATC's request for identification.Matthew Doyle, a spokesman for Blair who was on the flight, said "Mr. Blair was one of a number of delegates on a flight back from the World Economic Forum in Sharm e-Sheikh. We were not aware of any problem at the time, and have not been notified of any issue with the flight." He also said they only found out after reporters began asking them what had happened.The Israeli Defense Force refuses to comment on operational matters, but officials speaking anonymously have confirmed the incident occurred.Israel has announced plans to begin fitting missile defense systems to airliners within weeks. The systems will emit flares designed to confuse the guidance systems on heat-seeking missiles. Greatest priority will go to adding the equipment - already in use with the Israeli air force - on aircraft that fly to destinations deemed high-risk, such as Asia and Africa.The plans were initiated in 2002 after a failed attempt by Islamic insurgents with shoulder mounted missile launchers to shoot down an Israeli airliner during takeoff from Mombassa, Kenya. Israel immediately began seeking ways to protect its commercial aviation fleet.Testing was initiated shortly afterwards, but plans were shelved while arguments as to who would pay were ongoing - either the government or El Al and Arkia. Hezbollah has recently threatened action against Israel in response to a car bomb assassination of terrorist Imad Mughniyeh, prompting the government to agree to pay the costs. Despite no claim of responsibility, Hezbollah and its backers in Iran blame the attack on Israel.Singapore, the United States and other nations are considering similar measures. As well as flares, some proposed systems use lasers to jam heat-seeking equipment.On Wednesday, Israeli transportation minister Yisrael Katz told Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth he had decided to name a railway station "Donald John Trump Station" after the US president Donald Trump, which is to be built near the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem, a Jewish holy site."The Western Wall is the holiest site of the Jewish people and I have decided to name the train station leading to it after the president of the United States, Donald Trump, following his courageous and historic decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel", Katz told Yedioth Ahronoth.The idea of building an extra railway station near the Cardo region was recommended by a steering committee of Israel Railways, and Katz agreed for the proposal. Last year, Katz reportedly suggested the idea of extending the forthcoming high-speed rail line connecting Tel Aviv and Jerusalem's western entrance so that this line runs further to the Western Wall, in order to reduce travel time.Currently, the project is in the initial stages of development. According to the actual scheme, the new railway tunnel is about three kilometres (about two miles) long and it is to run through downtown Jerusalem. It is to run beneath the city center via Modi'in and Ben-Gurion International Airport, have two underground stations, and pass close to many holy sites including Temple Mount and Church of the Holy Sepulchre. According to Avner Ovadia, a spokesman for the Israeli transport ministry, estimated cost for the extension is about 2.5 billion shekels (about £522 million;  US$700m) and the project is expected to take four years to complete after approval.Katz calls his idea of naming a railway station after Donald Trump for his "courageous and historic decision" to recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital. Trump's decision to recoginze Jerusalem as Israel's capital was condemned internationally. Katz added visitors could see "the beating heart of the Jewish people: the Western Wall and the Temple Mount", and said the planned railway line extension was "most important national project in the transportation ministry".A transport aircraft belonging to the Italian Air Force has crashed near Pisa. All five on board the C-130 Hercules were killed.The aircraft was on a training mission when it went down onto a railway line close to a military airport. It had been approaching for landing when it swerved to one side and crashed, according to Pisa's fire brigade. An electrical fire was triggered at the railway line, but no trains were endangered.The plane left the airport at 2:10 p.m. and was returning shortly after at the time of the accident. As well as the fire service, police, ambulances and airport rescue workers attended the scene. The crash was away from the main city and no-one on the ground was injured. An investigation has been launched.An attempted hijacking of an Italian cruise ship carrying 1,500 passengers by Somali pirates was thwarted on Sunday by the vessel's security guards. Nobody was injured. The incident occurred about 290 kilometres north of Victoria, the Seychelles.According to the captain of the ship, Ciro Pinto, six pirates in a speedboat approached the ship and started shooting, but were forced to flee after security started firing pistols and spraying water from hoses at them."One white small boat with six people on board approached the port side of the ship and started shooting," Pinto said, saying that two hundred rounds were shot. He continued that "our security started shooting in the air [...] and also we started spraying some water" in an effort to stop the pirates.Witness reports say that there were many passengers on the ship's deck when the incident happened, and some of them threw chairs at the attacking pirates.The ship, which is named the Melody, is owned by the Italian MSC Cruises company. It had departed from South Africa and was en route to Italy.Piracy is rampant in the waters off the eastern coast of Africa and the Gulf of Aden. Since the start of this month, pirates have attacked approximately a dozen ships, despite the presence of about a score of naval warships patrolling the vicinity.The 'Ndrangheta, an Italian mafia syndicate, has been accused by a former member of the gang of sinking dozens of ships loaded with toxic waste, much of it radioactive. He says a journalist and cameraman were killed to keep them from revealing the activity.Turncoat Francesco Fonti has identified a wreck located a few months ago by environmental workers as MV Kunsky or Cunsky and says he sunk it himself in 1992, complete with 100 barrels of radioactive waste. The gang received £100,000 ($162,720) for the job.The wreck was scoured last week by a robot, but could not be identified.  It lies 480 feet below sea level, and is about 330 to 360 feet long.  Its description and location have been found to match an old account Fonti gave authorities three years ago, and environmental detection equipment has been dispatched to the ship, images of which do show barrels in the area.Fonti claims he blew it up with explosives from Holland and it was used to dispose of Norwegian nuclear waste. The damage seen by the team working at the site does appear consistent with this version of events. Prosecutors say it appears the issue is displaying "all the appearances of being a confirmation". Fonti says waste was disposed of for businesses across Europe.Nicola Pace, an Italian prosecutor, said there was evidence of "deliberate sinking of 42 ships with cargoes of waste, including radioactive waste" but there has never been concrete proof. Investigators will seek more shipwrecks if the mystery vessel does indeed have a toxic cargo. Over thirty vessels are believed to be in Italian waters.Both Fonti and environmental group Legambiente have also claimed vessels were sent to Somalia and other developing countries with toxic cargoes, which were either sunk with the ship or buried on land. Legambiente alleges that local rebel groups were given weapons in exchange for receiving the waste ships. Fonti claims that Italian TV journalist Ilaria Alpi's 1994 murder alongside her cameraman was because she had seen toxic waste arrive in Bosaso, Somalia.Six Italian armed guards face murder charges after shooting dead two Indian fishermen they mistakenly identified as pirates. The accused remain aboard MV Enrica Lexie, the oil tanker they were protecting.Exact details are disputed; Italian authorities insist the vessels were in international waters at the time. Indian officials say the shooting took place in Indian territorial waters.Following the incident near Alappuzha, in the state of Kerala, two coast guard boats and an aircraft intercepted the laden ship, which was en-route to Egypt from Singapore. Nineteen of the 34 crew are Indian. The ship is under surveillance and anchored near the port of Kochi after being escorted there by the navy and coast guard.Local police commissioner M.K. Ajithkumar has sent a letter to the captain of MV Enrica Lexie, ordering the handing over of the accused along with the ship's logbook. Ministers and Interpol have received copies of the letter. A fellow police officer, P Chandrasekharan, said: "We will treat it like any other murder case". Officers have visited the ship, which Ajithkumar says will have to remain where it is during the investigation.Italian authorities in India are attempting dialogue on behalf of the crew, but "Till further orders from the ministry we will not engage in any talks," said advocate VJ Mathews, who is working with the Italians. The letter to the captain also went to the Italian foreign ministry, and the Italian ambassador has been summoned over the incident. Indian defence minister A.K. Antony called events "very serious" and "unfortunate", promising action would be taken.Chandrashekhar described the event thus: "The fishermen did not fire at the ship. They couldn't have been mistaken for pirates. The Indian trawler was 100m from the ship. The trawler wanted the ship to pass." Nine other crew were sleeping on the fishing boat. The state has approved 500,000 rupees (US$10,125; £6,450) for each dead man's family.The Italians say they fired warning shots before targeting the trawler they misidentified as a pirate boat. Two bullets have been recovered from the smaller vessel, which one local official said had no weapons aboard.To challenge the possibility of WiMAX connection on high speed rails, Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) and Taiwan High Speed Rail Corporation (THSRC) started an experiment on Mobile WiMAX technology for the THSR. It's the first-ever WiMAX experiment on high speed rails in the world. Industrial companies including Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Broadband Platform Inc., Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, Corning Incorporated, and ZyXEL are confirmed to provide solutions in this first-ever experiment."THSR is a must-have transportation way for the public besides of inter-city buses and railways in Taiwan." stated THSRC. "There are three critical difficulties that this experiment should be overcome: 'Speed of the THSR', 'Base station construction inside the rails', and the most important one - 'Internet connection on tunnels'." stated ITRI."If this [difficult] experiment can be succeeded, Taiwan will become the first nation to provide the Internet connection on high speed rails in the world." said by Moses Yen, Director of Exhibition Department of Taiwan External Trade Development Council.After admitting to price fixing on cargo services between Japan and the United States, Japan Airlines (JAL) has been fined US$110 million by the United States Department of Justice.Prosecutors allege JAL earned $2 billion illegally between 2000 and 2006, although it is possible the scheme was operating as early as 1995. British Airways, Korean Air and Qantas all previously admitted being involved and paid fines. The cartel, which created artificially high prices by eliminating competition between its members, was exposed by whistleblower Lufthansa, who alerted authorities in exchange for immunity to prosecution. Three other airlines are also involved.JAL is the biggest carrier in Japan and the biggest carrier of cargo between Japan and the US.Japan will not take any further action against the carrier. The investigation was performed by two US groups, the FBI and the Department of Justice.Japan Airlines (JAL), Asia's largest airline, is expected to file for bankruptcy protection on Tuesday, bringing an end to months of speculation about the airline's financial future, riddled by debt.The bankruptcy filing, should it go ahead, is to be followed by a restructuring program, backed by the government, intended to trim down the airline, firing a third of its employees, and removing some routes from its schedule.JAL stock has fallen by over ninety percent in the last few days, due to the financial uncertainty of the airline. Shares for JAL were trading as low as US$0.05 earlier today at the Tokyo stock exchange. The carrier's estimated value is now $150 million, about the price of a single Boeing 787 jet.Japan's Transportation Safety Board has blamed a combination of poor design and a maintenance error for a fire and explosions that destroyed a passenger jet.The China Airlines Boeing 737-800 had landed at Naha Airport in 2007 and had just parked and shut its engines down when a fire broke out on the right hand engine, quickly moving to the wing and the tarmac beneath. Ground staff alerted the crew and an evacuation commenced.In just three minutes and 27 seconds all the 157 passengers had evacuated, but the flight crew remained. The first officer was midway through evacuating and the captain still in the cockpit when the first explosion occurred, blasting the first officer to the ground. The captain escaped immediately afterwards and no-one was injured. It was approximately five minutes before the first airport fire engine began to spray foam on the fuselage, by which time two more explosions had occurred. The structure collapsed shortly afterwards while other fire crews arrived from both the airport and the city.The final report has confirmed that during mandatory scheduled maintenance conducted per Boeing's recommendations about a month and a half prior to the jet's destruction, a washer had come off a bolt in the wing. As a result, the bolt had fallen off. When the jet arrived at Naha, it used its slats to assist the landing.However, the bolt had worked its way into the track that one of these slats moved on, and as the slat was retracted after the landing the bolt became trapped between the slat and a fuel tank, which it punched through. Fuel then leaked out and dribbled onto the hot engine, starting the fire that then consumed the aircraft. The fire only started when the engine was shut down, as before then the fuel had been blown away by the force produced.The report criticised the design of the bolt, as it "was unable to prevent the assembly from falling off if the washer is not installed." It further commented that neither Boeing nor China Airlines had considered the fact that the bolt's location was difficult to access when planning the maintenance to the aircraft. The fact that maintenance workers had not reported the difficulty of the work was also found to have contributed to the washer's absence going undetected. As part of the job, the nut on the end of the bolt was replaced, but the engineer couldn't see the bolt's head and didn't check the washer.As a result of the accident the aviation authorities of Boeing's and China Airlines' home countries — the United States and Taiwan respectively — have been sent recommendations to review procedures to ensure the accident cannot be repeated.The Japanese whaling fleet is reportedly heading into the seas around Antarctica, drawing widespread condemnation from campaigners.  Japan's fleet of six ships left the port of Shimonoseki, western Japan with a quota of 940 minke whales and 10 fin whales.  Calls for the Australian government to intervene have been rejected by the environment minister, Senator Ian Campbell. Japan's whaling program, which is claimed to be for scientific purposes, is expected to kill nearly one thousand whales this season."Japan's attempt to dress up its commercial whaling as science is an insult to modern science," said International Fund for Animal Welfare (IFAW) Director of Wildlife and Habitat. "It's time for the Japanese Government to respect the rest of the world - It's time to stop whaling."  A Greenpeace statement dismisses the assertion of the Japanese government that whales are contributing to the collapse of fish stocks.Senator Rachel Siewrt, spokesperson on marine matters for the Green Party said, "Mr Campbell can't answer a simple question on whether or not the Government plans to take any one of a number of legal and diplomatic actions open to it."Legal action open to the Australian government includes invoking provisional measures under the auspices of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea.  These measures would — in effect — be an injunction preventing whaling from being started within the 14 days following.In December, the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society will engage the Japanese whaling fleet in the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary. The Sea Shepherds say the Japanese whale kill is illegal. They will be acting in accordance with the United Nations World Charter for Nature in their intervention. The groups objective is to "hunt down the Japanese whaling fleet and harass, block, obstruct, and intervene against their illegal whaling operations."According to Sea Shepherd: "The Japanese are violating the Southern Ocean Sanctuary. They are violating the International Whaling Commission moratorium on commercial whaling. They are targeting endangered fin and humpback whales that are protected under the Convention on the Trade in Endangered Species of Flora and Fauna. They are also in violation of the Australian laws protecting the Australian Antarctic Territorial waters."International Fund for Animal Welfare condemns what it calls a "mass killing program — a defiance of international criticism and a global ban on commercial whaling — as commercial whaling disguised as science." IFAW urges the Australian Government to take Japan to the international courts to bring this program to an immediate halt.Japan plans to kill over 900 minke whales and ten fin whales during the next six months as part of its whaling program, JAPRA II, marking a sharp escalation in Japan's whaling activities. "It is a dark day for some of the world's most magnificent creatures. Let's be under no illusion—this is commercial whaling in disguise. The Australian Government must respond swiftly by taking legal action to stop the boats in their tracks," said IFAW Marine Campaigner Darren Kindleysides.Leading international law expert, Professor Don Rothwell, has advised IFAW that the Japanese Government is breaching international laws with JARPA II. He has advised that the Australian Government has very strong grounds to take Japan to in the International Law of the Sea to stop "scientific" whaling. Japan is targeting whales that are listed as endangered.He argues that Japan's plans to double its whale take are an abuse of its legal right. "The number of whales that Japan purports to take is not commensurate with the number of whales that would be necessary to engage in scientific research," he said. "There's also increasing evidence that non-lethal means can be used to take data from whales to obtain information about whaling stocks."A seven-car commuter train carrying 580 passengers jumped off the tracks, plowed through a car, and collided with a nine-story apartment building in Amagasaki, Japan on Monday at 9:18 am local time (00:18 UTC). The crash was about 410km west of Tokyo near Osaka in the  Hyogo prefecture.Casualties have risen to 101 deaths and at least 440 injuries. The train had 600 people on board at the time, including crew. Rescue workers swarmed the scene where two of the rail cars were flattened against walls of the apartment building.It appears that excessive speed was a factor in the wreck. Investigators are focusing on the 23-year-old driver who overshot the last station on the line before the wreck, and had received a warning in the past for a similar incident.The accident is the worst rail disaster since 1963, when a three-train crash killed 161. The rail is part of the West Japan Railway Co of Fukuchiyama Line. The rail president Takeshi Kakiuchi publicly apologized, telling reporters, "Our most important task now is to rescue the passengers from the accident and we are doing our best."Japan has one of the world's most complex and widely used rail systems.A cargo ship owned by a Japanese company has escaped an attack by pirates off the coast of Somalia. The ship outran two pirate boats that opened fire on her yesterday.The ship, owned by Mitsui O.S.K. Lines and flagged in the Cayman Islands, came under attack at around 4 p.m. Somali time (UTC+3) as gunfire came from two small pirate boats. The vessel, with a crew of eighteen from the Philippines, suffered light damage to its front and windows were broken.The Jasmine Ace was en-route from Sharjah, United Arab Emirates to Mombasa, Kenya. The 126.75m car carrier had loaded with 377 used cars in Sharjah on March 17.The ship sped up to try and outrun the high-speed boats, and began to zig-zag as an evasive manoeuvre. The pirates chased for forty minutes but finally gave up. Nobody was injured in the attack.Piracy is rife in Somalia. Japan sent two destroyers earlier this month to combat piracy in the region, joining an international task force. Indian cargo ship MSV Al Rafiquei was hijacked on Saturday and the ship and the sixteen Indians on board were released on Sunday. Pirates seized the crew's mobiles as well as five barrels of petrol and twenty of diesel. The crew were also assaulted by their captors.A Japanese whaling ship, the Keiko Maru, will be docking in Hobart on December 24 to transfer a sick crew member to hospital. The crew member is suffering from appendicitis.Greenpeace has called on the Australian government to prevent the ship from refuelling. The government stated it is opposed to commercial whaling, but that taking such action would be "counter-productive". Greenpeace CEO Steve Shallhorn said that it is an opportunity for Australia to demonstrate its opposition. "The Australian Government does have control over port authorities and we believe it does have the possibility to refuse to allow the ship to be refuelled," he said.Federal Environment Minister Ian Campbell supports the intention of Greenpeace activists, but believes that such a protest would not be helpful. "In some respects it can be counter-productive although I share the passion, I share their objective, we share of the objective of trying to stop whaling," he said.Japan claims that its whaling activities in the Southern Ocean are for scientific purposes, and reject suggestions that the catch is commercial. "Anti-whaling proponents have tried to label the research catch as commercial whaling in disguise, but this is a tactic to discredit the research effort," says the Question and Answer section of the Japan Whaling Association website.The National Transportation Safety Board of the United States, Minneapolis-Saint Paul International Airport police and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are all probing an incident in which a Northwest Airlines jet flew 150 miles past its destination.The Airbus A320 was traveling from San Diego International Airport, San Diego, California with 147 passengers when it ceased to respond to radio communications as it flew through an area of sky controlled from Denver at 5:56 p.m. yesterday. It was passed on to Minneapolis as non-responsive and subsequently overflew the airport without changing altitude from its 37,000 foot cruising height.Various controllers tried to contact the plane, some sending text messages, and the Federal Aviation Administration asked Northwest to get their dispatcher to hail the aircraft, but to no avail. Communications were reestablished 16 minutes after the plane passed the airport at 8:14 p.m. when controllers asked two other Northwest planes to try talking to the unresponsive jet.Authorities had been so concerned of a possible hijacking that fighter jets were put on standby in Madison, Wisconsin and the crew were ordered to perform a set of maneuvers to prove they were in control of their aircraft before turning round and flying the 150 mile return trip to their intended destination at Minneapolis, where they landed at around 9 p.m.The FBI and airport police both interviewed the flight crew after landing and were told the crew lost awareness of their location during "a heated discussion over airline policy," according to the safety board, which is going to conduct its own interviews. The board has also recovered the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder, and both have been sent to Washington DC to be examined.Authorities have indicated that they will also look into the possibility the crew had fallen asleep. Although rare, it is not unknown; last year a go! airliner flew 26 miles past its target airport in Hawaii before the crew woke up and made contact with controllers.File:IPad-02.jpgJetstar Airways, a Qantas owned Australian low-cost airline, has announced plans to trial Apple iPads as an in-flight entertainment option. This trial would make Jetstar one of the first airlines in the world to offer the iPad.Starting later this month, Jetstar plans to begin a two-week trial, during which passengers will have the option to rent iPads for AU$10 on domestic flights longer than an hour. Thirty iPads would be available on each test plane. These devices would be preloaded with games, e-books, music and video content. Internet access however will be disabled as per Jetstar's policy on internet connected devices, said spokeswoman Andrea Wait. The iPads offered by Jetstar, will be specially customized by Bluebox Avionics. Bluebox Avionics, at present, is the only company to offer iPads as part of an in-flight entertainment system. Jetstar will be the first to offer the Bluebox Avionics iPad based systems, though, Bluebox Avionics has said the system will be available to other airlines soon.Shortly following the initial release of the iPad, Jetstar chief information officer Stephen Tame speculated that the iPad "may lead in the future the end of airline in-flight entertainment systems". Depending on the results of the trial, iPads may replace existing Jetstar in-flight entertainment systems.Jetstar chief executive Bruce Buchanan said he expected the iPads to be very popular during the trial. If the trial is successful, the airline would “be looking to roll out the devices across our entire domestic and international network later in the year", said Buchanan.According to reports, a terminal at John F. Kennedy International Airport located in New York, New York was evacuated after authorities found a suspicious package outside the main American Airlines terminal.Reports say that the package was found outside the terminal on a street curb just before 10:30 a.m. (eastern time), and turned out to be men's cologne."There was a suspicious package that was found at 10:20 a.m. curbside at Terminal 9, which is American Airlines. It turned out to be a package containing cologne," said Steve Coleman, a spokesman for American Airlines.At approximately 11:35 a.m. (eastern time) authorities began to let passengers back into the terminal, giving it the all clear.No flights were affected by the incident.The United States had raised the presence of police and bomb sniffing dogs at airports across the U.S. after a terrorist attack in Glasgow, Scotland.Criticism was targeted to Government efforts in the affair of the Jian Seng in the Australian Senate March 28 and 29 over the handling of the ghostship, the tanker Jian Seng, which was found abandoned and unlit inthe Gulf of Carpentaria.Senator Joe Ludwig (Labor,Queensland) asked of the Minister for Justice and Customs SenatorChris Ellison in Question Time whether he stood by his claim thathe made yesterday that the discovery of the Jian Seng demonstrated that theAustralian Government had in place "aerial and maritime surveillance tointercept a vessel in these circumstances, and that was done", and asked why ittook the Government two weeks to intercept the vessel after it enteredAustralian waters. Senator Ellison responded that at the vessel's firstsighting on March 8 "it was not doing anything illegal", and criticised theOpposition's claim that the ship was drifting for seventeen days, sayingthat "it was not stated as having drifted for the whole of the 17 days". Ludwigwent on to note that it was not Customs that spotted the ship but a "passingAustralian barge", but Ellison had defended this, stating that Ludwig "thinksthat commercial vessels have absolutely no role in looking out for Australia"and that Ellison will "rely on reports to our hotline and go out and inspectvessels".Later, Senator Kerry O'Brien (Labor,Tasmania) criticised the Government's implementation of coastal defense,and highlighted the dangers of ignoring the ship for seventeen days, sayingthat "it posed and possibly still poses unknown environmental and quarantinerisks" and that the Jian Seng "has been refused admission to Weipaharbour...It could have been carrying literally anything. It could have beencarrying chemicals. It could have been carrying guns".Senator David Johnston (Liberal,Western Australia) went on to debate that there are no shipping lanes inthe area where the Jian Seng was found, and that devoting resources to aharmless ship would leave gaps in the coastal defenses elsewhere.A judge at the Nova Scotia Supreme Court yesterday ruled victims of Air Canada Flight 624 can sue Transport Canada over the crash, which injured more than twenty.The action alleges Transport Canada was liable for a failure to enforce regulations under the Aeronautics Act. The authority is accused of failure to install an instrument landing system on the airport's main runway. According to Ray Wagner, lawyer for the plaintiffs, the authority's responsibility for safety gear — including navigational systems at the airport — was behind Justice Denise Boudreau's ruling certifying the class action against all defendants. Transport Canada is the airport's former owner-operator.Last year's crash saw the domestic flight from Toronto, carrying 133 passengers and five crew, hit the ground short of Runway 05 at Halifax International Airport. The jet ran 225 metres over the ground, hitting antennas, before sliding more than 500 metres along the runway. The aircraft was written off.Suing passengers allege they waited exposed in blizzard conditions for 50 minutes before being moved to a cold hangar. The airport's terminal suffered an unexpected loss of power shortly after the crash.The other defendants did not oppose yesterday's ruling certifying the case against them. They are Air Canada, the airport's authority, owner and operator of Canada's civil airspace navigation service NavCanada, and aircraft manufacturer Airbus.In April last year, days after the accident, Air Canada sent victims cheques for C$5,000 each. Wagner at the time called it "a gratuity" that "certainly doesn't cover anywhere close to the losses," saying injuries included "deep psychological injuries."Kata Air Transport (Sudan) Antonov An-32 crashed at 19.15 GMT on approach to Chisinau International Airport in Moldova, presumably killing all eight (8) aboard. The aircraft departed the airfield for Khartoum, Sudan at approximately 1902 GMT, but the flightcrew elected to return to the airport citing faulty equipment onboard. The aircraft reportedly exploded during landing when its wing hit navigation objects located next to the runway. As of 0500 GMT today, seven of the eight bodies of those onboard had been recovered. According to the central controller’s office at the airport, the plane crew consisted of four Moldovan nationals and four citizens of Ukraine.The airplane was flying from Chisinau to Antalya and Sudan. Preliminary investigation shows the accident was caused by malfunctions in the engine. The crew decided to return to the airport soon after the takeoff due to malfunctions in the engine. The airplane crashed during the land approach. The An-32 belonged to one of Sudanese airlines and was registered in Sudan. The prosecutor’s office of Moldova has opened the criminal case. A special investigative commission has been created. The An-32 transport plane started development in 1977, and came into mass production in 1984. It is based on the An-26, one major difference being that more powerful engines allow for even flight with only one in service.  The navigating equipment onboard allows pilots to carry out flight in complex meteorological conditions, day and night. The An-32 can transport up to 42 parachuters. These planes were delivered to India and Afghanistan.Officials say that a Kenya Airways Boeing 737-800 with 8 crew members, 106 passengers and a flight engineer on board, has crashed in Cameroon. Flight KQ 507 was traveling from Abidjan to Nairobi. It made a stopover in Douala, Cameroon where more passengers got on the plane, before it continued on its flight.It is not known if there are any survivors, but Kenya Airways says that there were passengers from at least 23 different countries on the plane (list below).Reports say that 3 referees heading to an African Confederation Cup game were also on the plane along with Anthony Mitchell a British journalist who is based in Nairobi, and Amol Chauhan the director of Parle Products."Flight 507 was coming from Abidjan via Douala. The aircraft unfortunately has not arrived. The last message was received in Douala after takeoff and thereafter the tower was unable to contact the plane," CEO of Kenya Airways, Titus Naikuni said earlier in a statement.Reports say that the plane sent a distress signal at 2:00 a.m., just after it took off from Cameroon, but it is not known what triggered the distress signal. The plane was supposed to land at 6:15 a.m. local time. It left Abidjan at 11:05 p.m. local time in Nairobi."The distress call came from a machine, not a pilot. The latest information that a distress signal was picked up on the west coast of Africa and a search and rescue mission initiated by Cameroonian authorities was initiated at 1105 (0805GMT) this morning, that is Nairobi time. So far no report has been received from this mission," added Naikuni. The Cameroonian military is using helicopters to search the area around the Cameroonian capital Yaoundé, near the town of Douala, Niete and Lolodorf. Ambulances in Lolodorf are ready to treat anyone they might find during the search. The plane is believed to be in an "area [of] very dense forest," said Alfred Mutua, a spokesman for Kenya's government. The United States is also assisting in searching for the plane.Jim Proulx, a company spokesman for Boeing, said that the distress signal would have been activated "in the event of a rapid change in velocity." Proulx also expressed his sympathies saying, "we express our profound concern for the passengers and crew on board on the Kenya Airways flight that went missing."According to Kenya Airways, bad weather is causing delays in efforts to locate the plane and any possible wreckage. "We are trying to get to the area of the crash, but the weather is really bad. We are getting help from the army," said Naikuni. Nothing was found during a search of the area by air on Saturday, but rescue workers are planning to resume the search Sunday morning. Because of the bad weather and heavy rains, the search has only been concentrated in the air.Witnesses from towns near where the signal is being reported say that they heard a "large boom" and then saw a "flash of fire."According to a Kenya Airways news release, a crisis management center in Embakasi, a location close to the airport, was setup to monitor the situation and additional details will be provided when received. Relatives of those on board the plane are being asked to stay at that location and wait for further details.Despite the search, the TurkishPress.com, which quotes AFP, an unnamed official says that they have located the wreckage."The plane has crashed. We have located the plane ... and we cannot talk about it," said the unnamed official with the Kenyan Civil Aviation Authority. Despite the AFP's report, Naikuni says he cannot confirm that the plane has crashed or if anything was found. "Until we see the plane -- until then, it's missing." Naikuni also added that the distress signal could have been triggered by something other than a crash.The last Kenya Airways flight to crash was on January 30, 2000.  Flight 431 was traveling from Abidjan to Lagos when it crashed into the Atlantic Ocean during bad weather. 179 people were on board and 10 survived.A court in Mombasa, Kenya has sentenced a group of seven Somali pirates to five years each in jail, according to a statement by the European Union. Anti-piracy mission EU Navfor said the septet were arrested by Spanish navy sailors after attacking Malta-registered cargo vessel Anny Petrakis.Presiding over the conviction and sentencing, Timothy Ole Tanchut told the men he "...[had] concrete proof that you attacked a vessel in the high seas and I order you to serve five years in prison," ruling that they will be deported to Somalia after serving their sentences. They have been in custody since May 7 last year when a Spanish crew captured them coming to the aid of the Anny Petrakis. The arrests followed warning shots fired by a naval helicopter.This is the third pirate gang jailed in the last two years, bringing the total serving sentences in Kenya to around 15; around 100 suspects await trial in custody. Trials have been difficult to arrange owing to issues around finding locations; Kenya has international agreements with the EU, the United States and Denmark, as well as a separate treaty with EU-state the United Kingdom. These allow Kenya to try pirates like these ones handed over by Spain in exchange for support of the nation's judicial system. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the European Union, Australia and Canada have all chipped in with donations to fund the court.A helicopter crash at the edge of Nairobi, Kenya has killed six. Amongst the dead is internal security minister George Saitoti, a candidate in next year's presidential election.Saitoti, 66, played a major role in Kenya opting to send troops into Somalia last year in a bid to combat al-Shabaab. His deputy Joshua Orwa Ojonde is also dead, alongside both pilots and two bodyguards. The aircraft had not long departed Wilson Airport when it went down into a Kibuku District forest. One witness saw the helicopter "flying very low. It came down suddenly and we heard a loud explosion, and then it burst into flames." Another said it "hovered up there and looked like it was turning back" before crashing. The accident occurred at around 8:30 this morning, local time.Current President Mwai Kibaki decried "a devastating loss to our country." He called Saitoti "a hardworking and determined public servant who dedicated his time to the service of the Kenyan people". Prime Minister Raila Odinga, speaking at the scene, promised "a thorough probe" into the accident. He described a "great tragedy that has befallen our country".Saitoti, who personally told the public of the invasion of Somalia two days after sending in thousands of soldiers, had been faced with numerous bombings and kidnaps. He routinely made assurances on national TV in the aftermath of attacks, and recently vowed "terrorists" would not have an impact on government.With qualifications in accountancy and mathematics acquired in the US, Saitoti was a former Kenyan finance minister. A prominent figure in national politics, he also served as vice president under Daniel Arap Moi in 1989–1997 and 1999–2002.There is no immediate word on possible causes for the accident. Police have sealed off the scene and begun an investigation.At least nine people have died in northern Italy after a landslide caused the derailment of a passenger train. A further 25 people were injured, according to emergency services.The incident occurred earlier this morning near the border with Austria, in a mountainous region near Merano, a city around 300 kilometres north of Venice."There are nine confirmed victims, while 28 people have been injured, seven of them seriously," reported the governor of the Bolzano-Bozen province, Luis Durnwalder, to the Reuters news service. Initially, eleven people were reported dead, due to what the governor described as a "counting error". However, he noted that "there could still be someone buried in the mud", so the death count is not yet final.According to the ANSA news agency, the train had about forty passengers on board when it derailed. Sky TV, meanwhile, quoted officials as saying that three people are reported to be missing. The authorities say the landslide was due to a broken irrigation pipe, which caused rocks to fall onto the tracks below. Authorities say they are looking into why the pipe burst.The trains front car hit two trees upon derailment, local media says, which prevented it from dropping off into a river below. The carriage, however, was hanging over the river, and firefighters had to use cables to stop it from falling any more. A crane was also dispatched the scene to help clean up debris, ANSA reported."The train is hanging off the rails about five meters from the river. It is now only a few trees that are holding up the train and preventing it falling into the river," said a witness, Alex Rowbotham, to the BBC."[...] The landslide occurred at the very passage of the train. It hit the train," said Thomas Widmann, a transport official for the city of Bolanzo.The crash was the deadliest in Europe since February, when eighteen people died after two commuter trains ran into each other near Brussels, Belgium. Italy saw its worse rail crash two decades ago, when 29 people died following the derailment of a freight train carrying petroleum gas, resulting in several explosions.The last piece of Sydney's orbital motorway system - the Lane Cove Tunnel opened to traffic at 2PM AEST today. The 3.6 km long tunnel took three years, 9,000 workers and AUD1.1 billion to complete.The tunnel was opened by four people who built it as well as the NSW Roads Minister Eric Roozendaal. Premier Iemma did not attend, opting to stay at home with his family after yesterday's election win.Over the next month, motorists will be able to use the tunnel toll-free before a toll of $2.55 per car is introduced. It is expected around 80,000 vehicles per day will use the tunnel during it's toll-free period.Designers of the tunnel claim it will reduce travel times by as much as 17 minutes.The NSW Roads and Traffic Authority (RTA) has warned motorists that delays may be encountered as drivers get used to the new tunnel and associated changes. Last month the RTA launched a $1.1 million advertising campaign to advise motorists of the changes associated with the Lane Cove Tunnel including a virtual test drive on its website.The tunnel completes Sydney's orbital motorway system, a 110 kilometre stretch of motorways circling the city. The Lane Cove Tunnel connects the Hills Motorway (M2) to the Gore Hill Freeway bypassing Epping Road.Associated with the tunnel are changes to Epping Road (reducing lanes and providing bus lanes), widening of the Gore Hill Freeway and the Falcon Street Gateway.The Falcon Street Gateway is a pair of north facing on/off ramps onto the  Warringah Freeway which are tolled at $1.27 for cars.Both the Lane Cove Tunnel and Falcon Street Gateway feature fully electronic tolling and have no cash toll booths.On May 6, 2006, Lillian Asplund, the last American survivor of the Titanic, died in her home in Shrewsbury, Massachusetts. She was 99 years old."She went to sleep peacefully," said vice president of the Nordgren Memorial Chapel Ronald E. Johnson, which is located in Worcester, Massachusetts.Barbara Joyce West Dainton and Elizabeth Gladys "Millvina" Dean are the two remaining survivors living in England, however they were too young to have a memory of the Titanic sinking."I could see the icebergs for a great distance around. It was cold and the little ones were cuddling close to one another and trying to keep from under the feet of the many excited people … My little girl, Lillie, accompanied me, and my husband said 'Go ahead, we will get into one of the other boats.' He smiled as he said it," said Asplund's mother shortly after arriving in Massachusetts after the disaster. Throughout her life, Ms. Lillian Asplund avoided talking about her survival.The mother of Asplund, Selma and her three-year-old brother Felix were also on the ship and both survived. Her father and three other brothers were lost at sea.  Selma died in 1964 on the 52nd anniversary of the disaster. She was 91 years old. Lilian's brother Felix died on March 1, 1983 at the age of 73.The Titanic sank on April 15, 1912 when the ship struck an iceberg tearing a hole in the side of the hull. At the time, it was the biggest ship ever built. The Titanic Museum’s collection in Indian Orchard, Massachusetts, was the first permanent exhibition of rare Titanic artifacts and documents donated by survivors.The National Transportation Safety Committee of Indonesia on Monday announced the cockpit voice recorder from Lion Air Flight 610 has been recovered from the Java Sea. All 189 on the aircraft died when the flight came down last October.The device was located and recovered "broken into two pieces" from under eight metres (about 25 feet) of mud, according to investigators. The new Boeing 737 Max was not airworthy, investigators have said, and should not have taken off. It was commencing a journey from Jakarta to Pangkal Pinang and hit the ocean at speed shortly after asking air traffic control to return. It disintegrated upon impact.The location of the device, and the location of the flight data recorder recovered in November, were around 50 m (165 ft) apart. Authorities said they found human remains nearby the second recorder.Lion Air has been funding extended searches for both the recorder and outstanding human remains. The aircraft had been operating for days with a malfunctioning airspeed indicator; its angle of attack sensor had recently been replaced. Preliminary investigations suggest a new feature on the 737 Max, which had not suffered a crash before, was forcing the nose down in an erroneous attempt to prevent an aerodynamic stall, while the pilots tried and failed to correct this.Qatari non-profit organization Gulf Organization for Research and Development (GORD) launched a low emissions car at the 2012 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 18) in Doha. The car was designed and developed in Qatar.Revealed during a press conference at the Qatar National Convention Centre, the car in addition to an internal combustion engine, includes an automotive thermoelectric generator designed to capture waste heat to produce hydrogen. GORD expects the heat waste collecting system to be compatible with any gasoline or compressed natural gas car.GORD chairman Dr Al-Horr summarised the key concepts of the invention in a statement saying, "Our car produces electricity at no cost by capturing thermal waste energy, reducing costs and eliminating the need for an external source of electricity. Also, bulky compressed-hydrogen cylinders are a thing of the past, as our concept accomplishes the production of hydrogen by using water through fuel cells integrated within the car."Most of the energy in Qatari vehicle comes from the the car's gasoline tank, supplemented by a thin film photo-voltaic panel on the roof. Normally in a combustion engine, chemical energy stored in a fuel, such as gasoline, is converted into heat energy through combustion. This heat energy is then converted into mechanical energy, manifested as an increase in pressure in the combustion chamber due to the kinetic energy of the combustion gases. The kinetic energy of these combustion gases are then converted into work; because of the inefficiencies in converting chemical energy into useful work, internal combustion engines have a theoretical maximum effiecincy of 37% (with what is achievable in day to day applications being about half of this). Of the chemical energy in the consumed fuel used by an internal combustion engine 40% is dissipated as waste heat. However, the Qatari vehicle uses a thermoelectric generator to convert this waste heat into electricity. Such generators are used in space vehicles, and produce electricity when thermoelectric materials are subjected to a temperature gradient, the greater the gradient the greater the amount of electrcity produced. In the GORD vehicle the electricity produced is used to electrolyse potable water to produce hydrogen which can be introduced into the vehicle's existing fuel system.The researchers showed that the heat waste collection engine caused a decrease in the car's emissions, including a decrease of carbon monoxide and nitrous oxide emissions by more than 50%, the fuel efficiency increasing by 20%. On its website, GORD said that the heat waste collector engine is universal, "Any car can be adapted to accommodate the system as it doesn't alter any electro-mechanical systems".The High Court in Edinburgh has today accepted Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al Megrahi's request to drop his second appeal against his conviction for the Lockerbie bombing. Al-Megrahi was found guilty of planting a bomb on Pan Am Flight 103, which detonated as the aircraft flew over Lockerbie, Scotland in 1988 killing all 259 people on board and eleven more on the ground.Megrahi has always protested his innocence. Although his appeal was dismissed in 2002, a review found evidence of a possible miscarriage of justice and granted Megrahi a second appeal. He is terminally ill with prostate cancer and may soon be released on compassionate grounds. Today's hearing was attended by the Reverend John Mosey, whose daughter was killed and who believes in Megrahi's innocence.The conviction remains controversial, with the majority of victims' families in the UK feeling Megrahi is innocent while those in the US believe him to be guilty according to the Daily Telegraph. Doctor Jim Swire, a member of UK Families Flight 103, has threatened to sue the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service over what he feels is a deliberate blocking of justice. Meanwhile, in an earlier interview with Wikinews on the twentieth anniversary of the bombing last year, the then-head of the US group Victims of Pan Am Flight 103, Kara Weipz, told Wikinews that "There is no difference between the truth as we see it and the official version of events. The facts are the facts, Mr. Megrahi is guilty."Wikinews has obtained a statement from Mrs. Weipz's replacement Frank Duggan. In it Duggan maintains that Megrahi should die behind bars in Scotland, casts doubt on the likelihood of a transfer to Libya and attacks the Scottish media's coverage of the case. Dr. Swire has also been contacted with a request to comment."The murderer appealed again, and now seeks, without apparent reason, to withdraw that appeal. The court had little discretion, and absent some grandstanding from the bomber’s attorneys, it is certainly not what the Scottish media is making it out to be. It is NOT the key to Mr. Megrahi's release pursuant to the Prisoner Transfer Agreement, since Article 5 of that agreement states that there cannot be any pending legal action against him. There is, as everyone should know, another appeal pending, which was originally filed before Megrahahi's, objecting to the lenience of the sentence for the murder of 270 innocent souls. In addition, Justice Minister Kenny MacAskill must still rule on the request for transfer, a request made by [Libyan President] Muammar Gadhafi, who has admitted his nation’s guilt in the most egregious case of state-sponsored terrorism in UK history. It is simply inconceivable to us that the Scottish government would respect the wishes of this man. "The American victim’s families cannot understand why Megrahi would withdraw his appeal, unless his attorneys thought that they were not persuading Minister MacAskill that the bomber was indeed on his deathbed. That is a more likely scenario since they had been saying he had one foot in the grave for the past year. If the rumors of his impending release, fueled by the Herald, Guardian, Scotsman and other “newspapers” were meant to test public opinion about his release, either by Prisoner Transfer or Compassionate Release, then the trial balloon was successful. There has been worldwide outrage and opprobrium that this man might get to go home to a hero’s welcome in Libya. "The only other reason we can imagine is that his attorneys were not aware of the other pending appeal, and are perhaps taking advice from that legal scholar, Prof. Robert Black, who still maintains that there was insufficient evidence in the first trial and appeal. Black has been wrong about every step of this case from the beginning, yet he and Dr. James Swire are given full opportunity to express their views of the evidence in the UK “newspapers.”"The convicted bomber should not be transferred under any subsequent agreement since the arrangements for the trial in the Netherlands promised that if convicted, the defendant would serve his prison term in Scotland. As to the application for release on compassionate grounds, this has caused the most uproar around the world. News media, not so many in Scotland I regret to say, wonder just how much compassion was shown by Megrahi and Libya when they planted a bomb designed to murder hundreds of innocent, unsuspecting lives."Megrahi is now set to complete his sentence in HMP Greenock, where he is to serve a minimum of 27 years, barring any further developments.Twenty-four hours after a series of bomb blasts rocked London, the city's transport system is returning to normal, although a series of security alerts have caused some disruption.All the major train stations are now open, with the only service alteration being at King's Cross, where GNER is operating a revised service. Suburban services in and out of King's Cross are normal.On the London Underground, services are running on most lines with only some delays. Four lines are still seriously affected though:Piccadilly line: No service from Hyde Park Corner to Arnos Grove. Buses are running from Arnos Grove to Finchley Central to connect with Northern line services.Circle and Hammersmith & City lines: closedMetropolitan line: no trains running between Baker Street and AldgateDistrict line: no service from High Street Kensington to Edgware RoadThe King's Cross St Pancras station is also closed.On the roads, the London Congestion Charge has been suspended, although Transport for London is advising against driving in central London today.Several roads remain closed as of 9.20am BST - the A11 (Aldgate Highstreet) and the A1211 at the A10 in Bishop's Gate are both shut to traffic. The A4200 (Eversholt Street) is closed between the junctions with the A501 (Euston Road) and the A40 (Vernon Place).The A3212 (Millbank) is closed between the A3203 (Westminster) and the A202 (Vauxhall Bridge Road).Finally, the B452 (Argyle Road / Drayton Green Road) is closed between Sutherland Road and Manor Road.Outside of London, the motorway network is running well.One Wikinews reporter in Central London noted how many more cyclists there were, especially in Hyde Park.After a press conference in London from the Metropolitan Police and Transport for London, more details are emerging about the attacks in London on Thursday.Data from the Underground system's power and control systems have revealed that all three bombs went off within 50 seconds of each other, at 8.50am, with the managing director of Transport for London, Tim O'Toole saying the bombs went "bang bang bang, very close together".The first bomb to detonate was on the Liverpool Street train soon after it left for Aldgate on the Circle line, seconds before the others. The blast tripped out the power system, visible in the control room. The first call the police received that morning reported "a bang" at Aldgate East, coming within a minute of the blast.The Edgware Road train, leaving for Paddington and also on the Circle, exploded opposite a train coming from the other direction, making people think at first that it was a derailment. The first call to the Police spoke not of an explosion, but of a person falling under the wheels of the train. The confirmation of a bomb did not come until 9.17am, but by that time the emergency services were already on scene.Transport for London's new TrackerNet software is fully opertational on the Circle line, which allows for precise tracking of trains, but is not yet fully installed on the Piccadilly line. The first indication of the Piccadilly line bomb was when the tunnel telephone system wires were cut by the blast, an event logged by other software. The cutting of the lines then tripped out the track current. The tunnel itself suffered only slight damage and is safe, but the train - which was packed with commuters heading for Russell Square - is very badly damaged.London Underground declared a 'code Amber' within minutes, moving trains to platforms and opening all doors. A 'code Red' - full evacuation - was set at around 9.15am. O'Toole described the decision to evacuate as being "very grave, not taken lightly". When questioned as to whether everything possible had been done on the day to save lives, the managing director of Transport for London was "very proud" of the choices made that morning.As investigations continue, all bodies have been removed from the sub-surface Circle line trains, but the carriages themselves are still in situ while a painstaking forensic investigation takes place.Currently, work is on-going to retrieve bodies and forensic evidence from the carriage of the train in the deep tunnel of the Piccadilly line near King's Cross. Teams of rescue workers looking for human remains are working alongside forensics experts in a "meticulous" search to find evidence.Conditions are described as being very difficult, with high temperatures and lots of dust. Work was halted over Friday night when conditions became too bad, and resumed this morning. Efforts have been made to improve the ventilation.Work will continue throughout tonight and possibly into Sunday. The exact number of bodies still in the wrecked carriage is unknown.Access from King's Cross is impossible, so workers are taking the longer route from Russell Square station to get to the front of the train.Police have revealed that the bombs were 'high explosives' - not homemade. However they are declining to be specific about their composition as the information could be useful when they interrogate suspects.Police will not confirm or deny if any parts of a timer have been found, but have said that "any device will now be in a million pieces". Police believe the use of timers more likely than suicide bombings as the blasts were so closely timed, but are not ruling out anything.A westbound London Underground train has derailed between Mile End and Bethnal Green on the Central Line shortly after 9am BST during the morning rush-hour leaving hundreds of passengers stranded who had to walk along the tracks to leave at the nearest station.Transport for London have said that 20 people received medical attention with five taken to hospital with minor injuries including breathing difficulties. A lot of dust is said to have been disturbed during the incident.A London Underground spokesman said that "We are investigating a report that at around 9am this morning a Central Line train derailed in a tunnel between Mile End and Bethnal Green. LU is looking into reports that there was an obstruction on the track."Passengers initially feared that a bomb had exploded but a TfL employee on the train was able to calm the situation by suggesting that he thought it was a derailment. This was later confirmed by the train driver.Chris Christofi who was on the train described what had happened to the BBC: "We felt a massive jolt underneath the train which caused the train to move up and down and sideways. There were some windows that seemed to blow in and explode and there was some soot that came into the carriage. There was a lot of people crying and upset, a lot of people falling over. We thought there'd been a bomb."  In a statement, British Transport Police Chief Superintendent Ellie Bird said that "there is nothing to suggest that this a terrorist-related incident".Central Line services remain suspended between Leytonstone and Liverpool Street causing severe delays on the rest of the line.A computer glitch in the Los Angeles International Airport computer systems caused passengers in four different terminals to be forced to wait for their flights, causing a massive backlog of over 20,000 international passengers.Los Angeles International Airport, often referred to by its airport code LAX, is the primary airport serving Los Angeles, California, United States. LAX is the busiest airport in California, and the third-busiest airport by passenger traffic in the United States.According to airport staff, a system containing Customs and law enforcement information about international passengers failed at about 2:00 p.m. PDT (UTC-8).Airport officials diverted flights arriving from Ontario, Canada to another airport until the system was back up.Stranded planes were connected to ground power, and incoming passengers that had already landed had access to food, water and restrooms.Irish low fares airline, Ryanair, this week celebrated its 20th birthday. Having reached the milestone, the airline promptly used the opportunity, as always, to sell seats; launching a massive 200,000 seat sale at 99p/99c a seat.The airline was founded in 1985 by the Irish businessman, Dr Tony Ryan. It began its existence flying a small 15 seat aircraft between Waterford and London Gatwick with the small aim of breaking the duopoly on London-Ireland flights, held at that time by British Airways and Aer Lingus. Today however, the airline now flies to over 200 European destinations with its fleet of 84 Boeing 737's and is awaiting the arrival of a future 225 aircraft from Boeing.The company today carries as much as 3m passengers a month (depending on the season) and has revealed it made a profit of €245m (USD$307,916,000) in the past year. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary has stated that the airline will carry over 70m passengers annually within five years. The notoriously eccentric Mullingar man went on to tell the press "The very fact that a Mickey Mouse Irish airline can start in a field in Waterford 20 years ago and in 20 years overtake the world's self-styled, self proclaimed favourite airline is testament to the almost unstoppable demand for low airfare travel around Europe."To demonstrate the huge drop in airfares over the last year, the company claimed while the price of a Ryanair seat had dropped from £99.99 in 1985 to 99p today, the price of a pint of beer had trebled and the average house price in England had increased by 500%.The pilots' union of German airline Lufthansa have begun, and then suspended, a four-day strike over pay and job security. Operations at subsidiary airlines Lufthansa Cargo and Germanwings were also affected by the strike, but operations have returned to normal.The strike began at midnight on Monday (18:00 Sunday EST) after negotiations between the airline and union, Vereinigung Cockpit, over the weekend failed to resolve the threat. According to the union, the strike was over reduced flying time for the pilots, triggered by Lufthansa's recent acquisition of several smaller airlines, which the union says is causing traffic to be diverted from union-operated routes. Additionally, the union was seeking a pay increase of 6.4% and guarantees that German labor conditions would apply to Lufthansa crews from abroad, which would reduce the incentive for outsourcing to foreign crews. In a statement issued by Lufthansa, however, the airline said that the union also demanded a greater say in the operation of the airline, which Lufthansa was unwilling to agree to.On Monday, less than 24 hours after it began, the union suspended the strike, agreeing to resume negotiations.  A spokesman for the union said Lufthansa and the union had reached an agreement after a hearing at a Frankfurt court, where Lufthansa had filed an injunction against the union, calling the strike "disproportionate."  The strike is to be officially lifted at midnight Monday, although it's unclear when operations will return to normal.  While not ruling out future action, the union agreed not to strike again until at least March 9.The strike has impacted around 10,000 passengers worldwide in the one day it was in place, with about half of Lufthansa's flights being cancelled.  The airline attempted to accommodate the disruptions by arranging alternative travel for passengers; train travel for domestic travelers, and booking travel on other airlines for international passengers.A huge fire that started in the cargo area has engulfed part of Turkey's Atatürk International Airport in Istanbul. All flights to and from the airport have been diverted and major fire-fighting efforts are in progress. Hundreds of people have evacuated the area, which is about 1 kilometre away from the passenger terminal.A witness told Turkish news channel NTV that the blaze broke out in the cargo area of Terminal A, presumably due to an electrical spark, at around 12:30 UTC. The area in which the fire is raging is near the location of the fuel depots. Unconfirmed reports suggest that there were about 250 cargo-handlers present there but most of them seem to have escaped unharmed.Thirty metre high plumes of smoke are rising into the air and the billows can be seen from all over Istanbul, which indicates the severity of the inferno. Several fire engines and ambulances are rushing to the scene even as aircraft overhead try to douse the fire in an attempt to prevent it from spreading to a hotel nearby. The airport, incidentally, is located very close to a military hangar.This month is set to be one of the coldest ever recorded in the United Kingdom, as snow leads to millions of people's travel plans disrupted. One person at London Heathrow Airport said the grounding of aircraft, and disruption to rail services, had created "the Christmas from hell." On one of the busiest weekends for travellers of the year, Heathrow and Gatwick Airports closed their runways and roads countrywide became impassable.One person has already died this weekend after the ambulance he was being treated in crashed in Eastbourne, East Sussex. Meterologists warn that the conditions are unlikely to recede soon, adding that this month is set to be one of the coldest on record. Britain is not alone in Europe; airports in Germany, Italy, France and the Netherlands are similarly affected.Wikinews today reports from the village of Flackwell Heath, Buckinghamshire, England, where villagers were buying essentials from the local supermarket, and roads were covered in six inches of snow. Wikinews journalist Paul Wace reported that councillors pledged to grit major routes, but the main road through the village was covered in a slushy mix of snow and grit, making travel extremely difficult.The BBC and CNN has reported that a train derailment Saturday morning at about 4:15 a.m. local time (Friday 2245 UTC) has resulted in at least 100 casualties in the state of Andhra Pradesh in Southern India. Heavy rains, which killed over one hundred people in India this week, apparently washed out a section of track. A rescue operation is ongoing as some train carriages overturned into the flood waters and some people are apparently trapped. The BBC reports that many of the passengers were traveling to celebrate Diwali, the festival of lights, which occurs Tuesday.India operated rail systems carry more than 13 million passengers a day, but has a poor history of safety. The BBC says that about 300 rail accidents are reported each year, resulting in significant casualties.Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, a Boeing 777, was shot down by a surface-to-air missile on Thursday according to US officials, over disputed eastern Ukraine by an unidentified party.The flight, which departed Amsterdam Airport Schiphol in The Netherlands at 10:15 UTC en route to Kuala Lumpur International Airport in Malaysia, disappeared from radar at 13:15 UTC near Hrabove, a village in the Donetsk Oblast of Ukraine. 283 passengers and 15 crew were aboard the aircraft, all 298 in total perished. The area the plane was flying over is a conflict zone currently between Ukrainian forces and pro-Russian separatist forces.  United States officials confirmed the aircraft has been shot down, according to data from a surveillance satellite which showed the last trajectory and impact of the missile. The missile is believed to be a Buk M1 surface-to-air missile which are believed to be in the hands of rebels according to reports from the area. So far no party has claimed responsibility for the attack. Ukrainian officials denied the missile which shot down the airliner belonged to Ukraine. Pavlo Klimkin, Ukraine's foreign minister, said to The Guardian, "We are absolutely sure and we checked yesterday that no missiles have been taken from the Ukrainian army". The Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) published on YouTube an alleged wiretap of separatist commanders and Russian intelligence officers discussing the shoot-down and acknowledging the aircraft shot down was civilian.Meanwhile, Russia's defense ministry has denied involvement, posting a statement on their website which read, "In view of various types of speculation concerning operations of the Russian armed forces in the areas bordering Ukraine, we affirm that the anti-aircraft means of the Russian armed forces did not operate in that region July 17".Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko said, "This was not an 'incident', this was not a 'catastrophe', this was a terrorist act". Malyasian prime minister Najib Razak, said, "If it transpires that the flight was shot down, we insist that the perpetrators must swiftly be brought to justice."All civilian aircraft have been barred from flying over eastern Ukraine.  The US's Federal Aviation Adminstration issued a Notice to Airmen (NOTAM) prohibiting flight operations by United States carriers over eastern Ukraine. However, questions remain as to why the aircraft was flying over the contested area. Eurocontrol noted airspace was closed up to 32,000 feet. Flight 17 was flying at 33,000 feet just above the restricted airspace. Malaysia Airlines issued a statement saying "The usual flight route was earlier declared safe by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). [The] International Air Transportation Association (IATA) has stated that the airspace the aircraft was traversing was not subject to restrictions."Proton, a car company in Malaysia has announced that it plans to begin building a car specifically for Muslims.They will work with other car makers in Iran and Turkey to build an "Islamic" car, which would the first car of its kind and will be unlike any other car on the world's market."What they (Iran) want to do is to call that an Islamic car. We will identify a car that we can develop and produce it in Malaysia, Iran or Turkey. For Proton, we are more than happy because we have products that we can share," said Syed Zainal Abidin Syed Mohamed Tahir, the chief executive of Proton. The idea was originally proposed by Iran.Features are to include a compartment for the person's headscarf and Qur'an as well as a compass that will constantly point in the direction of Mecca, Saudi Arabia.Currently, Volkswagen which is headquartered in Germany, is in negotiations to partner with Proton and American automaker General Motors Corporation. Proton has been posting financial losses, with over US$160 million lost in 2007 alone.An Indian man has been arrested after threatening to hijack the domestic flight on which he was traveling on Sunday February 1. The flight was traveling between New Delhi and Goa in India. The IndiGo Airlines Airbus A320 was coming in to land at the time.Jitendra Kumar has been charged with criminal intimidation and endangering life and personal safety. Another man and a woman were also detained but not charged. The jet moved to a quiet area of Gandhi International Airport where armed security forces surrounded it, arresting Kumar, who was unarmed.The jet was carrying 160 people when Kumar, who stood up and refused to sit down when asked by flight attendants. He instead threatened to blow the aircraft up. It was suspected he may be drunk, but he was instead found to have low blood pressure. The other two were arrested as they had been seen speaking to Kumar earlier.All passengers disembarked safely after about three hours. If convicted, Kumar faces up to seven years in prison. Indian airports and security remain on high alert after terrorist attacks in Mumbai saw gunmen kill 164 people on November 26.At around 14:00 UTC today, a man climbed over the perimeter fence and made his way onto the North runway, 27R, at London's Heathrow Airport, the United Kingdom's largest airport. The man, who was carrying a rucksack, then attempted to run in front of a plane on the runway, however it is believed that he was tackled to the ground by armed police before reaching the wide runway.He was then surrounded by police and around 20 emergency vehicles and explosive experts were called in to perform a controlled explosion on a rucksack. A Metropolitan Police spokeswoman told the press that "A man was arrested and is currently in custody." There have been no reported injuries, and nothing besides personal belongings were found in the rucksack. Greenpeace and Plane Stupid have denied involvement with this latest security breach. It comes a day before the Queen is scheduled to open the new Heathrow Terminal 5 building, amid heightened security, which was said to be undergoing testing today, although it is not thought that this event was part of the official testing. Slight delays were experienced as a result of the North runway being closed during the event, however it has now re-opened and the South runway remained open throughout the event.The following statement was read by a BAA spokesperson on behalf of BAA Limited, which runs Heathrow:On February 25, Greenpeace activists protesting against the planned third runway managed to access the runway and climb on top of a British Airways Airbus A320 which had just arrived from Manchester Airport. They unveiled a banner in protest of a new runway and were later arrested.A nineteen-year-old man was caught driving at 191 kilometres an hour (kph) in an 80 kph zone in Traralgon, Victoria, Australia. The teenager told police of the La Trobe Traffic Management Unit (TMU) that he was "late to drop his girlfriend off at home".TMU officers pulled over the driver's Ford XR6 at 11:00pm on Saturday, Australian Eastern Daylight Saving time."Police observed the Ford XR6 travelling east along the Princess Highway Traralgon at 11:00pm last night at 191kph in an 80kph zone. The young man who had his 16 year old girlfriend in the car with him had his licence for only 14 months", police said.The vehicle was impounded for 48 hours while his license will be suspended for twelve months.Reports yesterday indicated a 63-year-old man has been charged in connection with the collapse of a pedestrian bridge onto the M20 motorway in Kent, England last year.The unidentified man has been summonsed to appear at Maidstone Magistrates' Court on February 17. As well as dangerous driving and causing serious injury by dangerous driving he also faces three counts of criminal damage covering the bridge and damaged vehicles. The nonfatal accident left an elderly motorcyclist with broken ribs after he came off his bike avoiding the 170 tonnes of falling debris.Two lorries were partially crushed by the collapse, which was triggered when a digger on the back of a lorry struck the concrete bridge. Kent Police continue to investigate; Highways England have said they will await that probe's results before deciding if they will launch their own.The August 27 collapse caused millions of pounds of damage, and closed a major route for more than 24 hours. Police sent several vehicles to the scene and 25 firefighters attended. An air ambulance also responded.Workers with cranes toiled overnight to clear the road, which provides access to London as well as the Channel Tunnel and Port of Dover. The road was again closed one week later to collect the fallen bridge sections, which were sent to Highways England depots for investigators.The collapse occurred on one of the busiest days of the year for the local road network.According to a Canadian Press report published Thursday and a CNN report Friday, 40-year-old Vince Weiguang Li of Edmonton, Alberta has been arrested for allegedly stabbing and decapitating a fellow passenger on a Greyhound bus in Manitoba, Canada on Wednesday night.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) has not confirmed a beheading, which witnesses have described to the press, saying only that the suspect allegedly stabbed the victim around 8:30 p.m. CT on a Greyhound bus traveling east on the Trans-Canada Highway about 20 kilometers west of Portage la Prairie, Manitoba. Canadian Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day described the attack as "horrific" according to Agence France-Presse and "probably one-of-a-kind in Canadian history" according to the Canadian Press.While the RCMP has not released the victim's name, the Canadian Press and CNN have reported that the deceased is Tim McLean, 22, who had been traveling from Edmonton to Winnipeg, where he lived. Two witnesses described the attack to CBC News: Garnet Caton, who was sitting in the seat in front of the victim, and Cody Olmstead, who smoked a cigarette with the victim just minutes shortly before the attack."He must have stabbed him 50 times or 60 times," Caton told CBC News.Olmstead described the attack: "Like, just everywhere, arms, legs, neck, chest, guts, wherever he could swing it, he got it."Caton and Olmstead said that the other passengers fled. When the bus driver, a passing trucker and Caton returned to check on the victim, Caton noticed the victim's head was gone. Caton said that the attacker then chased them off the bus. CBC News reported that the suspect tried to drive the bus away from the scene, but the driver disabled the engine. Witnesses have said that the attacker then paraded the removed head from a bus window."While we were watching the door, he calmly walks up to the front with the head in his hand and the knife and just calmly stares at us and drops the head right in front of us," Caton told the CBC."The guy came to the front of the door with buddy's head in his hands, decapitated. He dropped the head and went back and started cutting the body back up," Olmstead described to the Canadian Press. RCMP arrested the suspect at about 1:30 a.m. local time after a three-hour standoff. As of about 3:00 p.m. Thursday, the Canadian Press reported that the RCMP has not yet questioned the subject and had laid no charges, though he was due Friday morning in the Provincial Court of Manitoba in Portage la Prairie, according to a statement posted on the RCMP web site.Greyhound spokeswoman Abby Wambaugh told the Associated Press that 37 passengers were aboard the bus.A man has died after being impacted by a train on a railway line in Moray, Scotland. The man, who is currently remaining publicly unidentified, was hit by the train, which was travelling between the city of Inverness and the town of Montrose, at approximately 0920 GMT on Saturday. The man was pronounced dead at the scene of the collision. The British Transport Police have denied claims that the man had been killed as the result of an incident at a level crossing.The death is not being treated as suspicious. The British Transport Police have commenced an investigation to determine what happened; members of the force could be sighted on the railway line in search of evidence. A report is anticipated to be handed over to the Procurator Fiscal later.A spokesperson for the British Transport Police stated: "At 9.21am on Saturday, British Transport Police attended the Brodie automatic half-barrier level crossing at Forres to a report of a person having been struck by a train. Paramedics and officers from Grampian Police and British Transport Police attended the scene, where a male person was found and declared dead."Authorities have said that an anonymous phone call warning of a potential terrorist threat aboard an aircraft may have been a hoax call. Swedish police detained a passenger aboard a Boeing 777 on suspicion of preparing an attack on the aircraft, but he was later released. A police spokesperson said: "The man who was the suspect for the bomb case was released by the district attorney. They couldn't find any crime done, therefore [they] decided to release the man and he's free to go where he wants." A statement released by Swedish prosecutors confirmed that "the prosecutor on duty decided not to keep the man suspected of having explosives on the airplane in detention. The suspicions against this man are not sufficiently solid to keep him in detention and so he is free to leave Sweden. No further information can be given for [the] moment".The Pakistan International Airlines jetliner, which was carrying 273 people according to an airport spokesperson, was flying Flight 782, which travels from Toronto to Karachi, when it was diverted to Stockholm-Arlanda Airport in Stockholm after Canadian officials were informed that a passenger had explosives on his person. Passengers were reportedly informed that they had to divert for technical reasons, but were only told on the ground why they had to land in Stockholm. "The pilot only informed us that he's landing there due to security reasons. All passengers and crew members are well," a spokesperson for the airport said. Upon landing, the aircraft was evacuated, and the suspect was arrested by a SWAT team. Passengers were taken away from the aircraft, which was encircled by armed police, by buses. 35-year-old Irfan Ahmed, a passenger on the flight said: "We really got scared, especially when we saw a large number of commandos wearing masks coming in."England's Greater Manchester Police yesterday appealed to the public for information to track down a man who stole a woman's purse after she was fatally injured by a lorry. Police were alerted to the collision between the truck and the 82-year-old woman, in the town of Leigh, at approximately 1145 UTC on Wednesday. The woman died at the scene, in what one nearby resident called "a horrible thing to have happened". Witnesses subsequently told police a man stole the victim's purse in the aftermath of the crash."This is one of the most disgusting crimes I have ever investigated and I find it hard to believe someone could stoop so low to commit such a horrific offence," said detective Sergeant Neil Lawless. "This man has taken what he sees as an easy opportunity by stealing a purse from a dying woman.  I am sure the community will be equally disgusted and I appeal to anyone who may have seen this man take the purse and walk off on Leigh Road. There are a number of rumours circulating on social media at the moment but I would like to reassure residents we are doing all we can to find out who is responsible." Meanwhile, website Wigan Today has claimed witnesses and an unnamed Greater Manchester Police source informed it some nearby pedestrians took pictures of her body following the crash, although the official police statement does not directly address these claims.Sergeant Lawless has asked members of the public to contact police with any information that may be relevant to the investigation. Greater Manchester Police describe the thief as white, of medium build, aged between 30 and 40, and six feet in height. The police force say he "had a dark brown beard, [and] wore a light grey hooded top with the hood pulled over his head, light blue jeans and black boot style training shoes."A train crash in India at around 0200 local time Monday (2030 UTC on Sunday) has killed at least 40 people and injured at least another 100. The crash occurred in the town of Sainthia, which is located in eastern India.  Initial reports say that one passenger train collided with another that was waiting at a station, but the exact cause is not known.The lowest estimate of the death toll is around 40 dead, and Indian media has reported that there are as many as 100 dead and 150 people injured. The incident has prompted a major rescue operation, and senior government officials are en route to the site of the incident.The region's Superintendent of Police, Humayun Kabir, said that "[c]asualties have taken place. I cannot give any number now. Rescue work has begun."  A local railroad official said that "[t]he people who have lost their lives were travelling in unreserved coaches.  We do not have their names and any vital information about them to inform their relatives." The state-run Indian railway system has a poor safety record, with several hundred incidents a year taking place, and this crash is the third major one in the past decade.A man and his wife, aged 87 and 84, have died after a car hit them in North Ayrshire in Scotland. The couple, who have yet to be publicly identified, were walking across Greenock Road in the town of Largs when they were hit by a red Toyota at approximately 9:15am BST (0815 UTC) yesterday.An air ambulance reportedly attended the scene of the crash. The woman was taken to Southern General Hospital in Glasgow. She died several hours later. Her husband died at the crash site. The Toyota driver, a 34-year-old woman, was uninjured but as a precaution was taken to Inverclyde Royal Hospital.Greenock Road was closed between Nelson Street and Brisbane Road following the incident but reopened around 4:00pm BST (1500 UTC) yesterday. A report about the incident is to be sent to the procurator fiscal. Police have appealed for potential witnesses to the accident to contact them.The United States's largest car manufacturer General Motors today named Mary Barra as its new chief executive.Barra, 51, will be the first woman to lead a firm in the American auto industry. She has been with General Motors for 33 years, and is currently the global head of product development.She said in a statement: "With an amazing portfolio of cars and trucks and the strongest financial performance in our recent history, this is an exciting time at today’s GM. I’m honored to lead the best team in the business and to keep our momentum at full speed."She replaces Daniel Akerson, who was appointed by the government as both chief executive and chairman in 2009 during the company's bankruptcy. Akerson plans to stand down on January 15 following his wife's advanced cancer diagnosis.In a message to employees, he said: "I will leave with great satisfaction in what we have accomplished, great optimism over what is ahead and great pride that we are restoring General Motors as America’s standard bearer in the global auto industry."Akerson will also relinquish his chairman role, to be replaced by current director Theodore Solso. The company also announced head of finance Daniel Ammann as its new president.The appointment comes just days after the US government sold the last of its shares in the company, losing around $9 billion on its initial bailout in 2008 that saw 61% of the firm coming under public ownership.General Motors recovered from their bankruptcy a year after the appointment of Akerson, and re-entered the stock market in November 2010. It remains the largest car manufacturer in the United States, posting sales figures of $152 billion in 2012. It currently produces fifteen brands of vehicle in 37 countries.Barra holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Kettering University in Flint, Michigan, and was recently listed by Forbes as the 35th most powerful woman in the world.According to Pentagon officials, nearly 70 United States Air Force personnel and high ranking officials have been relieved from command and or duty after an incident on August 30 when a U.S. B-52H bomber plane flew from Minot Air Force Base located in North Dakota to Louisiana with six armed AGM-129 ACM nuclear missiles attached to its wings.Twelve unarmed missiles were supposed to be taken to Barksdale Air Force Base to be taken out of commission. Instead, live missiles were placed on the planes wings, along with six of the "dummy missiles," before it took off from Minot AFB.  The air force says that this was a "serious error" on the part of the military, and is launching a formal and ongoing investigation. So far, the investigation states that the missiles loaded onto the plane were supposed to be inspected by looking through a portal on each missile, where a code would determine whether or not the missile was armed or a dummy. The inspector who loaded the missiles onto the plane only looked under the wing where the armed missiles were located and the plane's navigator also failed to perform a proper inspection.The numbers on an out-dated piece of paper were also not checked prior to the missiles being loaded on the plane despite the fact that the air force already had a system which is supposed to track the missiles."[The incident is an] erosion of adherence to weapons-handling standards. In the countless times our dedicated airmen have transferred weapons in our nation's arsenal, nothing like this has ever occurred. This was an unacceptable error that resulted in an unprecedented string of procedural failures," said Air Force Deputy Chief of Staff, Major General Richard Newton who also said that the plane's crew did not know that the missiles were on board the plane.U.S. air force officials state that there was no threat of a nuclear explosion had the plane crashed, but that a radiation leak was possible.Officials said that they want to make sure they "hold ourselves accountable to the American people and want to ensure proper corrective action has been taken."At least four colonels and at least one lieutenant were suspended from duty. At least 66 other personnel were also relieved including Colonel Bruce Emig, the commander of the B-52 5th Bomb Wing team and two other members. Officials say that criminal charges have not yet been filed against anyone involved in the incident, but did not rule them out.On Thursday, London's Mayor Boris Johnson announced the shortlist of bidders to supply up to ten further trams to Transport for London (TfL) for use on the city's Tramlink network in Croydon. The trams will be used to supply additional capacity on the network between Elmers End, central Croydon and Therapia Lane — one of the most congested parts of the route.TfL, who purchased the Tramlink network from Tramtrack Croydon Ltd. in 2008, announced the plans late January, after submitting the tender to the Official Journal of the European Union (OJEU) on January 29. According to the notice, the additional trams will operate approximately 75,000km per year, will be needed for "at least 10, but not more than 20 years" and can be either new build or existing vehicles that can be modified — at a reasonable cost — to run on the Tramlink infrastructure.The tram fleet is currently made up of 24 Bombardier CR4000 trams, which were constructed for the opening of the 28km network  between 1998 and 2000. 22 of these trams are currently needed to operate the three tram routes each day, and the new service is expected to require at least an additional five trams daily, bringing about the need for a boost to the fleet levels.The shortlist to supply the trams consists of City of Edinburgh/CAF, Stadler (Stadler Pankow GmBH) and Pesa (Pojazdy Szynowe PESA Bydgoszcz S.A.Holding, and the the three consortia will now be invited to submit proposals to supply the additional trams. The Invitation to Tender will run for four weeks.It is not currently known whether the bids made by Stadler and Pesa will be for new-build or second-hand vehicles, however the bid from Edinburgh/CAF is to use a number of the currently-dormant trams that were constructed for that city's own tram network. The system has had several set backs since construction began, with the network now set to open in stages with a number of tram lines (but not the trams to operate them) being cancelled, leading to a large surplus of vehicles that could be hired out in the short term. The trams are amongst some of the longest and heaviest in Europe, though, and will require a large amount of modification to enable them to be able to operate on Croydon's network if the bid is successful.Shortly after the announcement, whilst inspecting one of the network's current trams at East Croydon tram stop, Boris Johnson said: "I have no greater responsibility as Mayor than to ensure people can move around this city with ease, comfort and reliability."Trams in Croydon have proved a major success and this is reflected in journey numbers which have soared by 45 per cent since the network opened in 2000."I look forward to the extra vehicles developing this vital, much-appreciated, and indeed attractive, form of transport further."Funding for the new trams is expected to largely come from TfL, however the London Borough of Croydon has also confirmed a £3m contribution to the project. This will also include the refurbishment of tram stop surrounds.Croydon Council Leader Mike Fisher said: "This is looking like a great deal for Croydon and shows the benefits of an ambitious local authority and committed Mayor working together, pooling resources and expertise."There is real support to get additional trams for Croydon to keep pace with growing demand for Tramlink services and also to secure major improvements for pedestrians and transport users around and between East and West Croydon stations."TfL anticipates that, providing a successful bid is made, the new trams would be delivered to the network's depot at Therapia Lane in late 2011, with an entry into service from early 2012.A medical helicopter crashed into a fence just outside a house in Tucson, Arizona on Wednesday afternoon, killing all three crew members on board. The crash occurred at 1:42 p.m. Arizona time (21:42 UTC) at the intersection of Glenn Street and Park Avenue. Eyewitness Ricardo Carrasco said that he saw the rotors stop working and the helicopter start plummeting towards the ground, with the pilot attempting to steer it away from the house.According to the Federal Aviation Administration, the helicopter was a Eurocopter AS350B3 flown in the LifeNet Arizona fleet. It was operated by the Colorado-based Air Methods Corporation, which specializes in flying emergency medical helicopters."This is a sad day for all of us at Air Methods and we extend our heartfelt sympathy to the family and friends of our employees who perished while on duty," Air Methods Corporation CEO Aaron Todd said after the crash.Two other fatal aviation accidents were reported in the United States on Wednesday. In Alaska, a United States Air Force C-17 Globemaster transport plane crashed while preparing for an air show, killing all four crew members. Earlier, Delaware, Ohio city councilman and airport commissioner James Moore died when his rented light plane crashed and caught fire close to the city's airport.Rail services between Melbourne and Adelaide in Australia are expected to be disrupted until early next week following a fatal crash between a truck and freight train in Lismore, Victoria 170 Km (105 miles) South-West of Melbourne.The B-Double truck hit the side of a 1,375 metre long freight train at a level crossing at 7:13 a.m. AEST on Thursday in heavy fog, derailing two locomotives and 44 goods wagons. Victorian police said that the truck had been wedged beneath the wreckage of the train.The driver of the truck, thought to be a 34-year-old man from Wedderburn in Victoria's North-West died in the crash. The train driver and an observer escaped uninjured. Police said it could take a number of days to retrieve the truck driver's body. "It could possibly take days to retrieve the body" a Victorian police spokesperson said.Great Southern Railways, which operates "The Overland" passenger train service between Melbourne and Adelaide said it expected rail services to be disrupted up until early next week. The company will transfer passengers to bus services or allow them to claim a full refund.The crash will also disrupt freight services between Melbourne and Adelaide.Local residents and the Victorian opposition are blaming the crash on the level crossing itself, which has no booms, lights or bells.Rob Dennis, a local resident said the level crossing is the cause of the crash, as it is not fitted with boom gates or flashing lights."And it's a blind turn for anything in a large vehicle," he said. Terry Mulder, the opposition's transport spokesperson said the Bracks Government should have spent part of the $750 million allocated to fast rail projects to upgrading level crossings in Victoria."The State Labor Government has wasted $750 million on fast rail projects," Mr Mulder said.Mr Mulder said that Victoria has 2,274 level crossings, 1,468 which have no warning systems in place.The 15-year-old Australian boy charged on Sunday night related to the alleged theft of a Tram, faces another nine charges over prior incidents, bringing the total to 18 charges. The new allegations relate to theft of a bus, attempted theft of a train, and another incident with a tram.On Monday he was also charged over an incident, in which a tram was allegedly stolen from Southbank on Friday.The boy was arrested yesterday at his Sunshine home and bailed to appear in Melbourne Children's Court in June, over the nine new charges.On Monday, Yarra Trams spokesperson Colin Tyrus told The Age that there had been "a mystery collision in the depot on April 10"."After what happened on Sunday we obviously reported all of that to the police and we are continuing to assist them with their inquiries," Mr Tyrus said.Police allege he drove a vehicle in the Southbank yard and hit another tram, on April 10, causing $2000 damage.And on April 9, it is alleged, he jumped a fence at a Footscray bus depot, found some keys and drove a bus around the yard. Later, it is believed he tried unsuccessfully to start a diesel train at a rail yard in North Melbourne, and then absconded carrying the keys.At least five people have died and sixteen were injured in a train derailment in Tabasco, Mexico  yesterday, according to the director of Tabasco civil protection. The cargo train is often used by migrants.The derailment occurred at approximately 3:00 a.m local time (8:00 a.m UTC), with eight of the twelve cars overturning. The state government reported that at least 250 Honduras citizens were traveling on the train, which had a scrap metal cargo. The train company and rescue workers continue to search the wreckage and treat survivors, but the remote and marshy site hinders efforts. Two cranes have been dispatched to assist. Mario Bustillos Borge, the Red Cross chief in Tabasco, noted that current information on the numbers deceased and injured was hard to confirm due to the complex nature of the rescue. "There are some very high estimates, and others that are more conservative," he said. The first car and the engine, which did not overturn, were used to transport the injured to a local hospital in Veracruz.The train, dubbed 'The Beast' by locals, was headed north from the Guatemalan border at the time of the accident. Migrants regularly try to hitch a ride to the US by climbing onto its roof or in between cars. Preliminary reports suggest that the tracks had shifted following heavy rains.Islamic militants have vowed to fight pirates holding the Saudi Arabian oil tanker Sirius Star off the Somalian coast. The militants are angered over the seizure of a 'Muslim' ship.The tanker is anchored near Haradheere, a town controlled by the Islamists. The Sirius Star, owned by Saudi state firm Vela International Marine, has a crew of 25 from the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Croatia, Poland, and Britain. A ransom of $25 million is being sought, a quarter of the value of the vessel's cargo of oil."Hijacking a Muslim ship is a major crime," said militant spokesman Sheikh Abdi Rihin Isse Adow. "We strongly oppose piracy actions in our waters." Spokesman Abdirahim Isse Adow said: "We have arranged our fighters. The first step is to cut off pirates inland from those on the Saudi ship by restricting their supplies and cutting their communications."They could have a fight on their hands, as the pirates have also been bringing in fighters in preparation for possible military attacks from various foreign navies that have arrived in the area to combat the growing threat from pirates. "I hope the owner of the tanker is wise enough and won’t allow any military option because that would be disastrous for everybody. We are here to defend the tanker if attacked," said pirate Abdiyare Moalim.91 ships have been attacked by pirates in the Gulf of Arden since the year began, but the Sirius Star is both the largest and furthest from shore to be taken, captured some 420 nautical miles (833 kilometers) from Somalia's coast. Shipping companies have rerouted around the area.The news is not entirely bad, however, as a Greek tanker full of refined oil was released today, complete with cargo intact and crew of 19 unharmed. The MV Genius, now headed out of the area, was captured September 26, the same day as the MV Faina was taken. The Faina remains held with a cargo of military hardware including tanks.A United States Navy F/A-18 Hornet crashed into a civilian area of Virginia Beach, Virginia yesterday at approximately 12:05 pm EST (1605 UTC). Both pilots of the jet ejected from the aircraft.The jet's flight originated from Naval Air Station Oceana in Virginia Beach. It is reported that the jet crashed shortly after takeoff. The crew are members of the Strike Fighter Squadron 106 based in Oceana. The jet crashed into the Mayfair Mews Apartments apartment complex. Heavy smoke was seen in the area. Seven people were treated at a local hospital, including five people on the ground and the two pilots. No deaths were reported.  Emergency personnel are looking for any other victims, and said three apartment residents had not been accounted for.Several buildings caught fire. Officials say the crash damaged or destroyed about 40 apartments.Nearby Interstate 264 was closed off by police in both directions for several hours. By 3:00 pm EST (1900 UTC) I-264 was fully reopened.A passenger train carrying at least 250 people, many of whom were children, derailed in Serbia-Montenegro and drove into a ravine Tuesday afternoon.Close to 200 have been injured and the death toll has risen to 44. Most of the passengers were schoolchildren returning from a ski trip."The accident occurred because of a failure of the train's braking system," said Interior Minister Jusuf Kalomperovic.At about 4 p.m. the four-car train derailed near Bioče, a small village nearly 15 kilometers northeast of Podgorica as it was emerging from a tunnel above the Moraca River."The train simply went wild, out of control," said one injured passenger. "I was fine because I was in a back compartment, those in the front got the worst of it.""It was horrible, I saw many dead and wounded around me," said another passenger from Hungary, Karman Chofu."I had fallen asleep when a loud noise woke me," said Stanislava Bukovic, 60, another injured passenger.Miodrag Djurovic, the head of the main Podgorica hospital, stated that another five passengers had died overnight. Djurovic also said at least 198 people, 90 of them children, have been treated at the hospital. "The children's hospital admitted 90 children, 34 of them are still there, six have undergone surgery," Djurovic said.Earlier Deputy Prime Minister Miroslav Ivanisevic told the media that the death toll stood at 30 and the amount injured at 135, but said those figures could rise as rescuers continue to reach victims. Ivanisevic described the wreck "as the worst rail accident in the history of Montenegro," Ivanisevic also said.President Filip Vujanovic and Prime Minister, Milo Djukanovic also rushed to the site. "A terrible tragedy happened at Bioče and everything is being done to reduce the number of casualties as much as possible," Vujanovic told reporters.Because of the accident, Montenegro's transport minister, Andrija Lompar, and National Railways chief Ranko Medenica resigned.The driver of the train has been arrested because of suspicion of negligence.The train was heading from the northeastern town of Bijelo Polje to the Montenegrin coastal city of Bar.At least 44 bodies have been recovered from a lake in India lake after a boat carrying tourists capsized in the water. The accident occurred in Periyar National Park located in the city of Kerala. The bodies of a mother, her child and one other individual were among the latest victims pulled from the water.On Wednesday, a boat carrying 75 people, mainly women and children, was returning from a fair that marked the end of the Durga Puja, an annual Hindu festival celebrating the worship of the Hindu goddess Durga. Fifteen people, including the boat driver and two staff members, were able to swim to safety after the boat capsized, but officials believe there are no other survivors. Reports say the person driving the boat turned sharply to one side before it capsized.Wikinews obtained exclusive pictures of the boat before and after the accident. Images show the boat significantly leaning to one side shortly before the accident occurred. A later image shows the boat almost entirely submerged as rescue workers frantically work to rescue the trapped passengers.According to the Indian Express, the boat was being operated by workers who were not trained in rescue tactics had the boat been suddenly damaged. The paper also claims that of the two person crew, a driver and a lascar named Victor Samuel, neither were assigned direct control of the boat. The paper also says the boat was not licensed to operate in the area it was traveling. The paper cites a 1921 law, which says the driver must watch over the engine while another crew member, a 'srank', drives the vessel, but no one in that position was aboard the vessel when it capsized. Samuel said that he only obtained his lascar license one year ago, contradicting earlier reports that suggested he had more than 15 years of experience driving similar boats.Officials are continuing to investigate the incident. So far, no criminal charges have been filed. The boat was made of mostly fiberglass, had two decks and was owned an operated by the Kerala Tourism Development Corporation, a government-owned company. According to reports, Samuel was only licensed to operate wooden boats and had no experience driving ones made of fiberglass. Samuel and the two staff members have been suspended pending the results of the investigation.Yesterday the body of Joanne Coombs, 40, was found in the same location as her daughter Natasha Coombs, 17, who was found dead on a railway line near Manningtree Station in Essex, England on August 10.Police stated that the mother's body was found after freight train operators reported a possible fault of the tracks when using them. A crew from a second freight train was instructed to investigate the report and found the body. It is thought that the death may have resulted from being hit by the first train which reported the fault, but the incident is not being treated as suspicious."On Tuesday evening the driver of the 1900 BST Liverpool Street to Norwich train service reported a possible track fault. The line was checked by the driver of the following freight train. He found the body of a woman near Manningtree station," said British Transport Police (BTP) inspector Ed Purchase.Neither of the deaths are being treated as suspicious, but police are not sure if Natasha's death was a suicide. Reports say that she had ended a relationship with 18 year-old Josh Brennan, her ex-boyfriend. An autopsy later confirmed that the cause of Natasha's death was consistent with being hit by a train.A formal identification of Mrs. Coombs has not yet taken place and an investigation is currently being conducted by the BTP.Investigators in Nepal have blamed the crash of a DeHavilland DHC-6 Twin Otter near Mount Everest in October last year on pilot error. Eighteen of the nineteen on board were killed when Yeti Airlines Flight 103 struck a rock at the side of the runway at Lukla Airport and caught fire.The only survivor of the crash was the aircraft's captain. Twelve Germans, four Nepalis and two Australians were killed. The flight had departed from Katmandu and was attempting to land at Lukla, which is at an elevation of 9,200 feet (2,800 meters), and has a sheer drop at the runway's end.The report says the pilots had underestimated deteriorating weather conditions during approach, and had attempted landing after entering a thick patch of fog. Investigators examined the crash site and interviewed eyewitnesses before producing the report, which has been submitted to the government.All passengers and crew from the stricken Canadian cruise ship MS Explorer are safe. Since broadcasting a call for help at approximately 05:24 UTC, a number of vessels in the area have raced to rescue her 156 passengers and crew. Four vessels led by the cruise ship the Endeavour were the first to arrive and pick up the evacuees from lifeboats and RIBs, later being transferred to the Norwegian ship, MS Nordnorge.In less than one hour all passengers and crew, said to be cold but in good health, were safely transferred to the Nordnorge, and that vessel is now heading towards King George Island, three or four hours steaming away. Speaking on the BBC's News 24, the captain of the Nordnorge said that he was heading for the Chilean research station, from where it is expected that all can be flown back to the South American mainland.Off the South Shetland Islands the ship struck an underwater object (believed to be a submerged iceberg ) the Explorer developed a fist sized crack and began taking on water. Initially said to be listing to starboard at 25° the Argentine Coast Guard reports that the list has since increased to 45° and the vessel is expected to sink soon. Concerns now turn to possible environmental concerns and damage. The rescue effort was an international affair involving the coast guards of Argentina, USA, Chile and the UK. The UK's Maritime and Coastguard Agency received notification from the US Coast Guard between 5.30-6.00 asking for the Explorer's emergency data plans.At least six fatalities have resulted this afternoon from a bin lorry crashing in the centre of Glasgow, Scotland.The accident occurred at about 1430 UTC today, when the vehicle hit multiple pedestrians on Queen Street, then crashed into Millennium Hotel alongside George Square, located in the city centre. BBC Scotland reporter Laura Bicker reported witness accounts the vehicle "careered out of control" and the driver "slumped over the wheel" when the crash occurred.It is not yet clear how many people have been killed or injured, although Police Scotland have reported "a number of fatalities and people injured", with "all casualties, including the driver of the bin lorry", alternately being taken to Southern General Hospital, Western Infirmary and Glasgow Royal Infirmary. They later said on Twitter at least six people have died and eight people are receiving hospital treatment. Police Superintendent Stewart Carle said at least seven people suffered serious injury, although the total number of those injured may be greater than this. Sky News has reported six fatalities and a larger number of people injured.Superintendent Carle further explained that police will investigate what the force has described as a "major incident" for the rest of the day and overnight, although they do not suspect there was any "sinister" activity behind it. They told the council to leave Christmas lights on to help the investigation; the council had offered to switch them off as a mark of respect. A winter wonderland attraction has been operating in the area this month. Anyone with photos or video is asked to email the police at georgesquareincident@scotland.pnn.police.uk.Social media is abuzz with Scots and their loved ones checking each other are safe, and offering condolences. "Absolutely gutted for the families of the people killed today, to think[...] I could've been killed too is a shock," said one woman, who passed the scene shortly before the crash. She added she had "seen people in body bags" and was reluctant to go to get her train in Queen Street Station "incase I see more bodies". "Genuinely don't care about Xmas shopping now[, I] was getting so stressed over silly things when other people are losing their family... will be thinking of them at Xmas" she said, later telling well-wishers "Thanks so much guys send your good vibes to their families though they're the ones that really need it".Another local woman said she is "stunned" and she had "stood in that exact spot yesterday afternoon. Taking pictures of the lights". She says the city now faces "Another sad Christmas." She was referring to a police helicopter that crashed into a Glasgow pub on November 29 last year. Three on board and seven on the ground were killed.Somali pirates have released the MV Sirius Star, the biggest ship ever hijacked, after a ransom payment was made. Five pirates drowned while leaving the 330 metre oil tanker.The vessel was hijacked 500 miles from the Kenyan coast on November 15 with two million barrels of crude oil, worth $100 million. It was then anchored off the coast of Somalia at Haradhere, a coastal town used by pirates.It was released yesterday after a ransom of $3 million was paid by owner Saudi Aramco, significantly less than the $25 million originally demanded. After the money was parachuted in the pirates left the vessel, with all 25 crew unharmed. However, one pirate boat carrying eight pirates and some of the money capsized on its way to shore due to rough weather, and five of the occupants drowned.The Sirius Star, which had been taking oil from Saudi Arabia to the United States, headed to Kenya after release. It anchored in deep waters, and a smaller boat took the crew to shore at Mombasa. The pirate faction involved, one of at least five in the Gulf of Aden, is called the Central Regional Coastguard (CRC). The CRC is also holding Ukranian arms ship MV Faina, with a cargo of 33 T-72 tanks, two cargo ships from Turkey and tugs from Indonesia and Nigeria. Negotiations for the release of all these ships are said to be near to completion.Also released Friday was the Hong Kong-registered MV Delight, an Iranian-chartered vessel carrying 36,000 tons of wheat and a crew of 25. It is unclear if any ransom was paid for the ship, seized in November. The crew are in good health and the cargo ship is headed to a port in Iran.NXEC Trains Ltd, a subsidiary of National Express Group, has been awarded the contract to run the InterCity East Coast franchise and operate intercity rail services on the East Coast Main Line, a high-speed route connecting London with the north-east of England and Scotland. The company, which is to brand the service as National Express East Coast, will take over the franchise from the current operator Great North Eastern Railway (GNER) from December 9, 2007.GNER's contract was initially due to run until 2015 but was terminated early by the Department for Transport after its parent company, Sea Containers Ltd, found itself in financial difficulties which meant it was unable to pay the £1.3 billion it had promised in its bid to run the service.A number of other bids were made for the franchise. These were from Arriva, FirstGroup, and a partnership of Stagecoach, Virgin, and GNER.Richard Bowker, chief executive of National Express Group, said, "We are absolutely delighted that we have won the UK’s premier intercity railway.  We have won with a bid which is ambitious, deliverable and structured to generate shareholder value."National Express East Coast has begun operating intercity rail services on the East Coast Main Line connecting London with the north-east of England and Scotland after it was awarded the franchise earlier this year. GNER, the previous operator, had their contract terminated early when parent company Sea Containers Ltd encountered financial difficulties.GNER could not afford to pay the £1.3 billion premium it had promised the government, and whilst National Express have promised £1.4 billion, the larger contributions are scheduled for towards the end of the franchise when revenues should be better as increases in capacity and the estimated growth in rail travel take effect.The new operator, part of the National Express Group, has committed to making an number of improvements to the service as part of the franchise contract. One of the first changes for passengers travelling today will be that the on-board wireless internet service is now free for all passengers. Elsewhere on the UK railway network, today also saw TransPennine Express begin services from Manchester to Edinburgh and Glasgow after a change in the Cross Country franchise saw the services leaving Virgin Trains.On June 7, Mike Svonavec, the owner of the land in Somerset County, Pennsylvania where United Airlines Flight 93 crashed on September 11, 2001 has a US$10 million price tag for his property which is sought by the group, Families of Flight 93 and the United States National Park Service, (NPS) for building a memorial dedicated to those on the plane. Svonavec also placed a box on the crash site temporary memorial, where visitors can leave a "donation" to pay for his asking price for the land as well as the cost of  providing security at the site.The NPS has covered the donation box with a trash bag and told Svonavec in a letter to remove it by the end of Friday June 8, but Svonavec said that he will not remove the box."I have no intentions of removing the box from my property. My only plans are to try to cooperate with the Park Service with regard to the sale of the property," said Svonavec.Svonavec accused the NPS of trying to take over his property after they placed the bag over the box."It's just unbelievable to my mind that that's the direction they would take, taking control of the property like a guest would at your house," added Svonavec."The bottom line is we feel the National Park Service can't effectively carry out our mission without exercising the exclusive use and control of the site as provided for in our agreement with the property owners," said Joanne Hanley who is the Superintendent of the memorial.Although NPS tour guides are telling tourists and others who visit the memorial, they are shocked to learn that the money they donate is going to Svonavec and not the memorial. "They're alarmed that they may have given their money to something that they didn't want to give their money to," said one of the 43 guides who volunteer at the memorial, Donna Glessner.The land is currently under contract with the NPS and the memorial is allowed to be on the land according to an act of the United States Congress who in 2002 authorized the memorial to be placed on the land.Currently, the U.S. National Park Service only owns approximately 60 acres of the land. PBS Coals Inc. owns 864 acres of the land and Svonavec owns 273 acres. The entire field is nearly 2,000 acres.Air Canada stated that a passenger found a sewing needle in a sandwich Monday on a flight from Victoria, British Columbia to Toronto, Ontario.Air Canada spokesman Peter Fitzpatrick stated they are working with the unidentified caterers "to ensure heightened security measures have been put in place." He also stated authorities are undertaking an investigation. Last month, the FBI and Dutch authorities investigated needles in six sandwiches on Delta Air Lines flights. Four of those were discovered by passengers; one passenger was injured but dismissed medical treatment.  Robert van Kapel of the Dutch police said it is not yet known if the two incidents are linked or if there is a copycat.Vela International Marine, the Saudi Arabian company that owns the MV Sirius Star oil tanker which was captured by pirates on November 15, has begun negotiations with the Somali pirates.The Saudi Foreign Minister Saud al Faisal said that talks had begun, but he did not say whether a ransom would be paid. Vela International Marine, which is owned by state-owned Saudi Aramco, would only say it is "working toward [the crew's] safe and speedy return.""We do not like to negotiate with pirates, terrorists or hijackers," said Saud al Faisal in Rome, after speaking with Franco Frattini, the Foreign Minister of Italy.Dubai-based television network Al Jazeera broadcast an audiotape of a man who said he was with the pirates. He identified himself as Farah Abd Jameh."Negotiators are located on board the ship and on land. Once they have agreed on the ransom, it will be taken in cash to the oil tanker. We assure the safety of the ship that carries the ransom. We will mechanically count the money and we have machines that can detect fake money," the man said. He did not mention any specific amounts for the ransom.The British Foreign Office released a statement Wednesday which identified two of the crew as chief engineer Peter French and second officer James Grady. The rest of the 25-man crew are from Croatia (1), Poland (2), Philippines (19) and Saudi Arabia (1). They are all reported to be safe.Foreign Secretary David Miliband said that the Royal Navy was coordinating a European response.Dominique Montecer, the director of operations at GEOS Group, a corporate risk management firm, cast doubt on a military response."Everything is possible but it would take extraordinary means and organization, and the risk of an ecological disaster is very high. They are sitting on a bomb," Montecer said."It's certainly a very complex environment to work in — a Liberian-flagged vessel, owned by a Saudi company, in Somali waters, with so many different nationalities on board," said Lt. Nate Christensen of the United States Navy when asked about the possibility of taking back the Sirius Star by force."Shipping companies are already making decisions not to go through the Gulf of Aden, and making the decision to take the much longer route around the south of Africa," said Peter Hinchcliffe, marine director of the International Chamber of Shipping. "And with the increase in intensity of attacks, that is something that is going to be much more frequent. It's adding let's say an average of two weeks to the passage time."Since the capture of the Sirius Star, pirates in the Gulf of Aden have taken at least three other ships. These include a Chinese ship carrying wheat, a Greek bulk carrier, and a Thai fishing vessel.The International Maritime Bureau reports that Somali pirates currently hold 14 ships along with an estimated 250 crew members. Since January, there have been over 30 hijackings in the area, while another 60 ships have been attacked.Among the ships still held is the Ukrainian cargo ship MV Faina, which has a cargo of 33 Russian T-72 battle tanks, as well as other weapons. The Faina was hijacked on September 25.Meanwhile, the Indian Navy has reported that it encountered and destroyed what it called a pirate "mother ship" on Tuesday. India dispatched frigate INS Tabar last month to protect its merchant shipping in the Gulf of Aden. The pirate vessel reportedly threatened the Indian frigate after it was hailed.Several NATO members, as well as Russia, India and Malaysia have all sent warships to the region to protect merchant shipping in the area. The Combined Task Force 150, formed as a multinational coalition in the War on Terrorism, was restructured in 2006 to aid in anti-piracy efforts.An aeroplane crash in the Asian country of Nepal has resulted in the death of all nineteen of the vehicle's occupants. The aircraft was travelling around the region of Mount Everest, carrying sightseers.The crash occurred shortly after contact with the aircraft was lost, which was around 0730 NPT today. Bimlesh Lal Karna, Tribhuvan International Airport rescue section leader, informed Agence France-Presse: "All 19 people have died. The Buddha Air-103 was returning from a mountain flight when it crashed into Kotdada Hill".On person onboard the plane, police said, survived the crash on a hill near Kathmandu, but died later in a hospital. Among the victims were ten Indian, two US, and one Japanese passenger; the other three passengers and the three crew were Nepali.According to police, an investigation of the cause of the crash has been started. A black box recorder was found at the scene in the hours after the accident. When the crash occurred, weather conditions in the region were poor, with fog and heavy rain.The plane had been on of the country's 'mountain flights', which transport tourists over the Everest region, allowing them to observe various peaks from the airplane windows.The twelve people arrested after a US flight had to make an emergency landing in Amsterdam yesterday will be released, Dutch prosecutors say. "From the statement of suspects and witnesses, no evidence could be brought forward that these men were about to commit an act of violence," said a prosecution statement. It also added that no bombs were found by police on the aircraft.The Northwest Airlines flight, which was destined for Mumbai in India, was escorted back to Amsterdam’s Schiphol Airport due to a security alert. The plane, which had 149 passengers on board, was accompanied by two F-16 fighter jets after passengers became concerned about a group of Asian men who were fidgeting with plastic bags and mobile phones. On landing, the twelve passengers were taken off the plane and interrogated by police.Since August 10, when police in the UK claimed they had foiled a suspected plot to blow up several transatlantic planes, there have been several similar incidents.Two passenger trains collided head-on in the area of Sloterdijk in Amsterdam, the capital of the Netherlands, local authorities have confirmed. One 68-year-old woman died as a result of injuries sustained in the accident. At least 117 were also reportedly injured in the crash.One of the two trains involved in the crash was en route from Den Helder to Nijmegen while the second was going between Uitgeest and the Dutch capital. Neither train derailed. Reports suggest the two trains, one a regional stop system vehicle and the other an inter-city rail service, were not seriously damaged in the incident yesterday at 1830 CEST (1630 UTC).The exact number of people injured varies by source; BBC News Online has reported approximately 125 on Saturday and 117 Sunday, while the London Stock Exchange reported a figure of 121 experiencing minor, severe or very severe injuries yesterday. Passengers were assisted out of the train carriages, with those injured transported to hospital.Speaking on behalf of police, Ed Kraszewski informed Netherlands news network AT5 of 51 individuals being "seriously or very seriously injured" and another seventy suffering minor injuries. Kraszewski commented on how the spaciousness of one of the train's carriages possibly contributed to the passengers' injuries and spoke of the assumption that "many people were thrown around the train by the crash; against walls, seats and other people", adding that neck injuries and broken bones were among the kinds of injury experienced.How the two trains ended up travelling towards each other is uncertain at this stage. An investigation into the accident's cause has commenced.Rail services have been disrupted as a result of the incident, with trains travelling between Amsterdam Centraal and Schiphol Airport being suspended.An employee of Network Rail, the company that owns and maintains the British railway infrastructure, has been arrested in connection with the Grayrigg derailment in Cumbria, in the north of England, which left one passenger dead in February of this year.The Virgin Pendolino service from London to Glasgow derailed at 20:15 GMT on February 23 as it passed over a set of points which an interim report by the Rail Accident Investigation Branch found were missing components and were in a poor condition. A spokesman for the British Transport Police said that the 46-year-old man from Preston was arrested on Wednesday and has been released on police bail until October 31.Network Rail were unable to comment on the arrest.Aviation authorities in Ireland have said that a temporary ban on flights coming in and out of the country will be implemented tomorrow, due to potential risks from volcanic ash from an Icelandic volcano. The restrictions would apply from 07.00 to 13.00 local time (06.00 to 12.00 UTC).The Irish Aviation Authority (IAA) commented: "[IAA] informed Irish-based airlines that it is concerned that Irish airports may be impacted by the drift south of the volcanic ash cloud caused by the north easterly winds".Later, the authority added: "The decision is based on the safety risks to crews and passengers as a result of the drift south of the volcanic ash cloud caused by the northeasterly winds." IAA noted that flights over the UK and mainland Europe wouldn't be affected by the restrictions.IAA Chief Executive Eamon Brennan also commented on the ban: "We are quite optimistic that it will dissipate and we are quite optimistic for Dublin and for Shannon tomorrow afternoon but we will make a reassessment for that in the morning." Last month, many flights to and from Europe were cancelled for almost a week, over fears that the volcano ash could cause jet engines to fail.Work to extend the East London railway line  reached a significant milestone today as a new bridge was lowered into position over a street in Shoreditch, London. The line, previously part of the London Undeground, is being extended to become part of the London Overground network.The 350 tonne, 35 metre long tied arch bridge required the use of Britain's largest mobile crane to get it into position.Transport for London project manager Barrie Noble said, "I've been in this business a good many years and have led a fair few extraordinary projects, but lifting this bridge in really will be something to behold.""I can't say how proud I am of the team behind it, both the TfL engineers and the contractors we are using."The bridge was manufactured in Chepstow, Wales and assembled on-site. A section of Shoreditch High Street will remain closed over the weekend as the bridge is secured in place. The East London line closed in December 2007 and is due to reopen in stages from 2010.A New Jersey state appeals court ruled Tuesday that fifteen Spanish citizens can sue over claims of health issues related to asbestos exposure while working aboard United States Navy and Coast Guard ships docked at United States-Spanish military installations. The defendant, Ohio-based company Owens Illinois, Inc., had sought a trial in a Spanish court, an opinion which was shared by the Superior Court that had heard the case earlier. The three-judge panel appellate court overturned the decision of the Superior Court in a 3-0 ruling.The Spanish citizens worked aboard U.S. ships between 1950 and 1998, and claim that they were exposed to asbestos dust and fibers from piping insulation produced by Owens-Illinois. The piping insulation was originally manufactured in Sayreville, Middlesex County, and Berlin, Camden County, New Jersey. The workers say they suffer from diseases related to asbestos such as asbestosis. Owens-Illinois has headquarters in Toledo, Ohio and is a Delaware corporation.The New Jersey appellate panel ruled that the Superior Court judge did not consider where the plaintiffs wanted their case heard, and also held that the U.S. ships are considered U.S. territory and thus the workers' claimed health issues did not begin on Spanish land. Attorneys for Owens-Illinois argued that U.S. ships, when docked, are subject to the law of Spain, and so the case should be heard in Spanish courts.The court's opinion, written by Judge Anthony Parrillo, explained the ruling: "In sum, we conclude that defendant has failed to carry its burden to demonstrate that Spain is an available adequate forum to adjudicate the parties' dispute and therefore the motion to dismiss on forum non conveniens grounds should have been denied without consideration of public- and private-interest factors." The decision reversed the ruling of the Superior Court and remanded the suit back to that court for trial."I find it difficult to understand how an appellate division court can countenance keeping the cases in New Jersey when there is absolutely no relation to New Jersey. There is barely any relationship to the United States of America. They've made their decision," said counsel for Owens-Illinois, John Garde, in a statement in The Star-Ledger. No decision has yet been made on whether the company will appeal the ruling.Mitchell S. Cohen, attorney for the Spanish workers, said that the Superior Court judge should have considered that the New Jersey court was the only location where the lawsuit could have been tried before dismissing the case. "Spanish law will not allow, under the facts of these cases, to file a claim in Spain," said Cohen to the Associated Press. Cohen said that Spanish law states that a case cannot be filed in Spain because the alleged injuries occurred on U.S. territory.This is not the only asbestos-related lawsuit in which Owens-Illinois is cited as a defendant. The company is also a defendant (among other defendants) in asbestos cases filed in Ohio and other states. In an April 30 press release the company reported that asbestos-related payments had decreased slightly, stating: "Asbestos-related cash payments during the first quarter of 2008 were$40.2 million, down slightly from $41.0 million during the first quarter of2007." According to the press release, the company had 14,000 pending asbestos-related lawsuits as of March 31, 2008. In its balance sheet for the first quarter of 2008, the company reported US$835 million in asbestos-related liabilities.In a May 2 earnings call with financial analysts, Owens-Illinois Chief Financial Officer Edward C. White addressed asbestos-related expenses. "Only a small portion of our first quarter asbestos payments related to the company's proactive legal strategy to reduce risk and accelerate asbestos resolution on favorable terms. Nevertheless, this strategy continues and additional expected spending is reflected both on the current liability portion of our balance sheet as well as in our full-year cash flow projection,"  said White. "We exited the business 50 years ago and have been dealing with the legal issues for almost 30 years. For OI, this remains a limited declining liability, which we will continue to manage in a conscientious and responsible manner."Asbestosis is a disease resulting from asbestos exposure which causes lung scarring and can lead to lung cancer. Exposure to asbestos can also lead to a more serious condition known as mesothelioma. Mesothelioma is a cancer which develops in the sac surrounding the lungs and chest cavity, abdominal cavity, or the sac surrounding the heart. Patients with malignant mesothelioma generally do not have positive outcomes, and once diagnosed typically have six months to a year to live.The new Antonov An-148 jet made its first commercial flight from Saint Petersburg, Russia to Moscow on Thursday.Starting with one of the busiest regional routes in Russia new Antonovs are to connect the other major destinations throughout Europe.The new aircraft was designed in the Ukraine by the famous Antonov design bureau and is manufactured in Voronezh, Russia. The twinjet features a high-wing design, glass cockpit and 68 passengers cabin with a 3.5 thousand km range at the average 800 km/h cruising speed.The first serial airplane has recently joined the fleet of Rossiya (the "Russia") airline under lease contract with Ilyushin Finance Company.New South Wales Police have begun their holiday Operation Safe Arrival holiday road safety campaign overnight. The campaign runs from 12:01AM December 23, 2005 until 11:59PM January 2, 2006.In an attempt to keep the number of deaths on NSW roads at a minimum police will target speeding, seatbelt, helmet and drunk driving offences. According to the New South Wales Roads and Traffic Authority, 495 people have died on NSW roads between January 1 and December 11. This figure will surely climb over the holiday period.The RTA has also begun double demerit points for speeding, seatbelt and helmet offences. The double demerit points will run for the same 11 day period as Operation Safe Arrival. The minimum penalty for any double demerit offence is 6 points. Provisional drivers need to be particularly mindful of these as P1 license holders (those who have had a license 12 months or less) can only incur 3 points. P2 license holders (those who have held a license for 12 to 36 months) have 6 and unrestricted license holders have 12.According to the RTA, 23,624 drivers in the 2003/4 holiday season were issued with fines carrying double demerits and 2,150 motorists had their licenses suspended due to speeding or exceeding their demerit point limit.The RTA introduced double demerits in 1997 in an attempt to force drivers to be more mindful of speeding, wearing seatbelts and motorcycle helmets. Double demerit points are now introduced over each major holiday period when a large proportion of road-related deaths occur.Other jurisdictions in Australia which have double demerit points over holiday periods are South Australia, Western Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory.About 300 new or amended laws took effect at midnight of New Year's Day last Friday in Illinois, ranging from government ethics reform to driving laws. One law that is likely to affect residents' lives the most is a ban on reading or sending text messages through a hand-held device. Drivers who wish to text must put their vehicle on park or neutral while stopped in traffic or on the shoulder. The law also prohibits reading email or surfing the Internet, although using GPS capabilities is still allowed. Breaking this law is considered a primary offense, which means that law enforcement officers may pull violators over for it, similar to a seat belt violation.  Motorists also are prohibited from talking on their phones in a construction or school zone unless they are using earphones. Truck drivers outside the six-county Chicago area now have a speed limit of 65 mph, increased from 55 mph. In addition, injuring somebody while driving uninsured has become a misdemeanor, punishable with up to a year in jail or a $2,500 fine.  Former governor Rod Blagojevich's removal from office has led to new legislation to reform state government as well. Changes to the state's Freedom of Information Act requires government agencies to respond more quickly to requests for information. The Illinois Attorney General also gets broad powers to oversee enforcement of this law. In addition, lobbyists will have to pay a $1,000 annual registration fee, up from $150–$350. They will also have to report frequently on their activities and expenditures.New York's Metropolitan Transportation Authority is proposing to make service cuts to close its expected US$343 million (€234m, GBP £211m) budget deficit.  The plan includes the elimination of multiple bus lines in The Bronx, Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn, the elimination of the W (Astoria, Queens to Lower Manhattan) and the Z (Jamaica, Queens to Lower Manhattan via Brooklyn) train services.  Also included in the plan are cuts of nighttime bus and train service."We're not going to rely on anyone else to do anything for us. We're going to rely on ourselves." MTA board member Mitchell Pally said, commenting on the New York state's budget plan cutting $143 million of tax revenue from the agency.  MTA Chairman Jay Walder has said in the past that he would not raise fares ahead of schedule.Gene Russianoff of the Straphangers Campaign, a commuter advocacy group, said that the agency should take money from its current construction and maintenance fund, and put it into maintaining these services.A seven-month pregnant New York City resident was killed after being run over by a bus. 33-year-old Donnette Sanz, a traffic agent for the city police department was crossing a Bronx intersection at East 188th Street and Webster Avenue when a van pushed her into the path of an oncoming school bus that then pinned her to the road."We was riding along, coming down the hill," John Dargan, a passenger in the van, told the Daily News. "He said, 'Oh, my Lord, I don't have no brakes.' It happened so quick."Approximately 30 people helped lift the bus off of the woman. "I ran out of my house to join 10 people trying to lift up the bus," said Cheryl Brown, 47. "At first, we couldn't get it up, so then another 10 people ran over to help, and we got the bus up and the lady out."  After being freed from beneath the bus, Sanz was then transported to St. Barnabas Hospital where her baby was delivered by caesarean section.Sanz survived the birth, but died an hour later. The 1.5kg boy, named Sean Michael, was initially classified as being in critical condition, but later showed signs of improvement."The light turned red, and I couldn't stop. I tried to miss her," said the van's driver, 72-year-old Walter Walker, to the New York Post. Walker was arrested on charges of criminally negligent homicide and driving without a license. He pleaded not guilty. Police said the brakes on Walter's van were in such poor condition that the vehicle was unsafe. Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said that Walker already had 20 suspensions on his driver's license.Mayor Michael Bloomberg offered condolences to Sanz's husband, Rafael. "It's a terrible poignancy that Donnette's son's birthday will now coincide with the day his mother died," Bloomberg said in a statement.Sanz's colleagues have set up a memorial at the intersection where she was killed.At least fourteen people have died after a chartered bus crashed in The Bronx, New York. According to authorities, the tour bus accident also injured eighteen other people, amongst which five were critically injured.The vehicle was travelling from Mohegan Sun in Connecticut to the village of Uncasville, also located in Connecticut. When the crash occurred on Interstate 95 at approximately 0535 EST (1035 UTC) on Sunday, there were at least thirty-one passengers present.40-year-old Ophadell Williams, the driver of the bus, reported to the police that the vehicle came into contact with a semi-trailer truck, which was veering across the interstate. He said that he attempted to move out of the way of this vehicle, causing the bus itself to swerve, overturn and scrape the side of a railing for one hundred yards before impacting with a highway sign's upholding bar.Captain James Ellson, of the fire service, described the scene as "a pile of humans, either still in their seats or on the floor, wrapped in the metal". Jose Hernandez, one of the survivors of the bus crash, said that "[w]e tried to help people, but there was twisted metal in the way".The semi-trailer truck driver failed to stop after the accident. Police are currently attempting to detect this driver. Raymond Kelly, the current New York City Police Commissioner, stated that the truck was moving on a lane to the bus' nearside, although whether the vehicles came into contact with each other or not is yet to be confirmed. Both vehicles were travelling at "a significant rate of speed", according to Kelly.According to the New York Police Department (NYPD), New York City's Staten Island Ferry has crashed into a passenger terminal, causing over 60 injuries. The New York Fire Department (NYFD) reports to the press that they are on the scene and are giving emergency treatment.No life-threatening injuries have been reported, although a few of the passengers were transported by the NYFD to local city hospitals. The accident is still under investigation by the NYPD. In all, 252 passengers were aboard the ship, along with eighteen various crew members.According to some of the passengers that were on the ship, the boat sped up right before hitting the dock, when it should have actually been slowing down so that it could let passengers on from the station. An early report of the investigation is that the captain of the ship mistakenly lost engine control.The Staten Island Ferry is a major form of transportation between the two New York city boroughs of Manhattan and Staten Island. Five different ships carry approximately 60,000 passengers each day across the New York Harbor.The ship, the Andrew J. Barberi, was also involved in another crash in 2003, where it crashed into the same dock and killed eleven people.The New Zealand government today has announced that they will not provide financial assistance to the Overlander train service between Auckland and Wellington, which is set to stop service on September 30, if no assistance is forthcoming. ONTRACK will retain the North Island main trunk line, while looking for tourism operators to start a tourist rail service.Trevor Mallard, acting Finance Minister, said: "In making this decision... Cabinet recognised that there was no prospect of the current Overlander service becoming commercially viable. It was not a fuel-efficient operation and at an average passenger rate of 50 passengers each way per day, it was used by relatively few people."It is cheaper and faster to travel either by bus or plane rather than the 12-hour train journey. "The fares already overlap with airfares, and the reality is that the service is just not well-used. It can not compete with low-priced air travel and coaches. Cabinet considered the regional implications of ceasing the Overlander service and accepted that the current bus services run by the InterCity Group met the needs of those communities," Mallard said.There has been numerous petitions from the public and from the Green Party of New Zealand to continue the Overlander train service, including one petition signed by 16,000 people presented at the Parliament Buildings on September 14, 2006. "While there have been a number of propositions about retaining the Overlander service, all of the propositions would require government funding in one form or another," said Mallard.Mallard said that the government will only support rail services if it significantly benefitted the community.The Government estimates that financial assistance to the Overlander train service would cost NZ$1.75 million a year."Finally, the government does recognise and value the importance of a viable and efficient rail network in New Zealand's transport infrastructure. This was a critical factor in the government's decision to buy the rail network back from Tranz Rail. The government has also committed $200 million to upgrade the national rail network between 2004/05 and 2007/08. A further $600 million has been provided to upgrade the Auckland rail network between 2005/06 and 2009/10."The International Federation of Air Line Pilots' Associations (IFALPA) has awarded two New Zealand pilots with the Polaris Award for their bravery in landing their plane during an attempted hijacking and then confronting the alleged hijacker.Pilot Dion McMillan and co-pilot Ross Haverfield were given the awards at an IFALPA conference in Auckland today. They were flying over New Zealand's South Island in February 2008 when the incident took place. A woman armed with a knife said she had two bombs in her luggage and told them to fly to Australia.McMillan issued a mayday call advising air traffic control of the situation and the pilots performed an emergency landing at Christchurch International Airport. McMillan and Haverfield then waited until the passengers had disembarked before confronting the woman, who had already stabbed one passenger.A fight broke out in which Haverfield was stabbed in the foot and McMillan's hand was stabbed so badly he was off work for several months. Asha Ali Abdille, a 33-year-old Somali woman living in New Zealand, was subsequently arrested. Her trial is pending and will begin in September.McMillan accepted Haverfield's award on his behalf, the co-pilot not attending the black tie dinner at Auckland's SkyCity Convention Centre, which was put on as part of an IFALPA convention lasting a week. He could say very little about the event due to the pending court action, but he did say of his hand "The movement's good but there's still not much feeling left."A New Zealand woman who lay down between railway tracks  and had a freight train run over her is "incredibly lucky", sustaining only  minor injuries, according to Sue Foley, spokeswoman for the railway company, Toll Holdings.The driver saw the woman lying in between the tracks while the train was travelling at about 20 km/h. Despite the slow speed of the train, the driver was unable to stop the train before it ran over the woman. "By the time he stopped the train and walked back down the line, she popped out from under the third wagon," said Mike Lawton, acting sergeant for Feilding police.The woman was flown to Palmerston North Hospital after complaining about sore elbows and shoulders and receiving minor injuries.The driver of the train has been offered counselling while he has been taken off driving duties.Police and the train operator would not comment on why the woman was lying between the tracks.A fuel tanker explosion in Nigeria has left at least 30 dead. The disaster occurred near a busy bus station in Port Harcourt.Port Harcourt is located in an oil rich area, and is the central point of the Nigerian oil industry, which has a value of billions of US Dollars. It is consequently a regular target for extremists, but a police spokesman said terrorism is not believed to be a factor.According to CNN, the same spokesman said a car's driver lost control whilst being chased by police, striking the tanker and triggering the explosion. However, AFP reports that the tanker itself was being chased for carrying stolen petrol, and said the vehicle overturned after hitting a barricade on a partially constructed section of road in a bid to escape. The Associated Press (AP) makes no mention of a police chase, and says the lorry overturned after suffering a blowout.The crash occurred at a major junction in Eleme district. Fuel was spilled over cars and shop entrances before igniting. Local shop owner Matthew Eliagwu described the disaster to AP: "I heard a loud bang and I came out of my shop. I saw fire running down towards my shop, but I escaped. It was impossible to help anyone, because I had to run for my life."At least 15 vehicles are known to have been destroyed, ten of which were buses, as well as 20 shops. Most victims are believed to be street vendors in the vicinity of the tanker at the time. It took hours for firefighters to bring the flames under control. At present no figures are available for numbers of injuries, but at least 30 are dead.AFP reports that although no arrests have yet been confirmed, local residents placed the tanker's driver amongst the survivors and said he was receiving treatment in a local hospital.Nigeria is the world's eighth-largest exporter of crude oil, although violence has caused this to be reduced by over a quarter. The Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta has claimed responsibility for a series of recent attacks, including one aimed at four ships in the Bonny Channel - the nation's largest oil and gas terminal - and an explosion and fire yesterday on a seagoing oil tanker berthed in Port Harcourt's sea terminal.Fuel tanker and pipeline explosions are common in Nigeria, often triggered by looters. Just eleven days ago, on January 1, another fuel tanker rolled over and caught fire in Port Harcourt, destroying dozens of shops and houses, although there were no fatalities. In March 2007 an overturned tanker in Kaduna State exploded whilst being targeted by looters, killing 93.Accidents are common as the country's roads are inadequately maintained, as are many of the vehicles that use them. Death tolls are often high because vendors crowd many major roadways.Nine people died in New Zealand after a small tourist plane crashed on Saturday afternoon on the West Coast of the South Island, killing all on board.  The aircraft, a Fletcher FU24 owned by a local sky diving company, crashed and caught fire at 13:15 local time soon after taking off from the Fox Glacier Airport to carry out tandem skydiving over the Fox Glacier.  The cause of the accident is not yet known, but the plane banked, dipped, smashed nose-first into the ground, and burst into flames. There were four overseas tourists on the plane, from Australia, England, Germany, and Ireland.  The five New Zealanders were the pilot and four divemasters.  Police spokeswoman Detective Sergeant Jackie Adams said that the victims were so badly burned that members of the police disaster team had to be called in to assist.  She was trying to track a group of tourists who were to have gone on the flight, but wanted to go together as a group so let those who died go ahead of them. The plane crash was the worst in New Zealand for nearly 17 years. The regional coroner Richard McElrea was travelling to the crash scene to begin inquiries, and the Transport Accident Investigation Commission has dispatched a team of six investigators. The probes may take a year to complete. There was a similar crash near Fox Glacier when a helicopter crashed killing seven people in October 1994, and a crash near the nearby Franz Josef Glacier in October 1993 which killed 9 people. Because of the earthquake in Christchurch the bodies had to be sent to the Auckland morgue rather than the nearer Christchurch morgue.All seven on board a Russian Antonov An-12 have been killed after the plane crashed near the Siberian city of Chelyabinsk. The Moskovia Airlines plane had left the city's airport empty and was destined for Perm in the Ural Mountains.An emergency ministry spokeswoman, Natalya Andryanova, said on state TV "The pilot told ground control that there was smoke in the cockpit and he decided to return to the airport. The plane crashed as he was coming in for landing." The plane is reported to have gone down in forest about a dozen miles from the city at about 6 p.m. According to regional emergency official Vyacheslav Latunkin, the plane hit a power line.The An-12 is a large, four-engined cargo turboprop that can carry 20 tons and was designed in the 1950s. Large numbers were sold for use in both the military and civilian markets, and around 100 are still in service. Dmitry Medvedev  expressed his condolences and ordered Transport Minister Igor Levitin to launch an inquiry. Interfax reports that a criminal investigation has also been launched into possible regulatory breaches.Local resident Vladimir Zonov said wreckage was spread across 300 metres. He also said the plane crashed into a wheat field and not forest as otherwise reported.Russian air safety is among the worst in the world, as is that of many former Soviet countries. Industry analysts blame poor pilot training, cost-reduction at the cost of safety and inadequate control by the government.Nine oil workers have been killed after their helicopter crashed in Siberia, Russia."According to provisional information, there were 16 people on board, including three crew members. At least nine people died," a spokesman for Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry told reporters. The crash occurred in Yamalo-Nenets, an oil-rich region in Northern Siberia.A Federal Air Transport Agency told Interfax that only thirteen were onboard the aircraft, which was operated by UT Air, but agreed with the death toll of nine. He also said that three people received minor injuries and a fourth was seriously injured. All the passengers worked on a local drilling platform.The aircraft was headed from Noyabrsk to the Varginskoye oilfield. It caught fire after crashing. According to the ministry, the crash site was "70 kilometers from the border between the Khanty Mansi Autonomous Area and Yamal".Two more Mi-8s were flown in with emergency workers.At least nine people have died after a ferry with over 960 passengers on board sank off the southeast coast of the Philippines on Sunday. Thirty more are still unaccounted for.According to coast guards, 931 people were rescued from the SuperFerry 9, which had departed from General Santos City and was headed for the peninsula of Zamboanga. The vessel began to list at 02.30 local time  (18.30 UTC), and issued a distress call an hour later. The captain reportedly tried to correct the list, but ordered the ship's rafts to be released when it became clear it was impossible to get the vessel straightened back out again.The cause of the incident is not yet certain.  Maritime accidents occur frequently in the Philippines, mainly due to poor maintenance of ships, relaxed safety enforcement, overcrowding of ships, and inclement weather.Last year, 802 passengers including crew were killed when the MV Princess of the Stars ferry sank during a typhoon.Nine airports were closed early this morning, and six more were closed at 12:00 local time (1000 UTC). At 15:30 local time, the remaining four airports were closed, including Spain's second largest airport at Barcelona. According to Eurocontrol, an agency that is responsible for aviation safety in Europe, said additional airports in Portugal and France were expected to be closed as well.The closures are forecast to affect nearly 40,000 people, and over 400 flights are to be canceled.  Limited traffic into the affected airports will be allowed to resume at 02:00 local time (00:00 UTC) Sunday morning. Authorities warned, however, that the cloud had the potential to affect air travel into next week.The cloud of ash causing the latest closure is 1,200 miles (2,000 kilometers) long, the result of recently intensifying eruptions from the volcano. Ash is rising up to 30,000 feet into the air, although Eurocontrol said the risk of ash contamination was particularly high up to 20,000 feet.An official at Eurocontrol said: "We hope that this incident won't be quite as devastating as last time. However, that depends on the spread of the ash cloud because there is a very extensive area over the north Atlantic if the winds change, there will be very significant closures in Europe today."A Kam Air plane from Afghanistan, traveling in China's Xinjiang region was not hijacked and did not receive a bomb threat, according to Afghan officials. Earlier the Chinese news agency Xinhua reported a plane to be hijacked. Later reports then stated the plane received a bomb threat and was diverted back to Afghanistan, landing in Kandahar. The early reports say the plane was diverted back to Afghanistan after being denied an emergency landing in Ürümqi.The plane was traveling to China and had been ordered to turn around after the proper paperwork was not in place. Subsequently it was denied a landing in Ürümqi. Upon its return, the plane landed in Kabul after it encountered high winds. It is not known how many people were on board the plane, but no injuries are reported.A NATO official denied there was an emergency landing  due to a threat and says the Chinese media reports are untrue."We are aware of the reports. We have no evidence that this is true. We would know immediately," said the unnamed official.The Xinjiang region was the scene of a violent uprising by its Uyghur population last month.File:Aeroflot-Nord VP-BKO Boeing 737-500.jpgInvestigators have announced that there is no evidence of an engine fire in the wreckage of Aeroflot-Nord Flight 821, which crashed on September 14 in Perm, killing the 88 on board. This contradicts earlier eyewitness statements which say one engine was aflame when the Boeing 737 crashed.Russia's Interstate Aviation Committee (MAK) says the CFM International CFM56 engines kept operating up until impact. They also confirm the plane did not break up in the air. Instead, the investigation focus has shifted to some unusual movements that Air Traffic Control records indicate were made by the pilot.As announced earlier this week, the plane began to ascend instead of descend as it was cleared to do during final approach. After executing a missed approach procedure, the 737-500 then turned in the wrong direction before crashing.Efforts are continuing to analyse the Cockpit Voice Recorder and Flight Data Recorder, which were heavily damaged by a post-crash fire. It is hoped they will provide an insight as in to what the crew were up to during the flight's final moments.At least 151 passengers and an unknown number of crew on board a Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (LAB) Boeing 727-200 have escaped after the aircraft crash landed in swampland in Bolivia.Local airline LAB had been operating the chartered passenger flight from La Paz to Cobija on behalf of Transporte Aereo Militar (TAM) when poor weather conditions caused the jet to be diverted. LAB has recently been handling excess passengers for TAM as an unusually severe rainy season has washed away many roads across the nation.A flight engineer said that during the flight the engines failed due to a mechanical problem. The plane came down in a swampy forest clearing approximately 2 miles (3.3km) from a runway at the new destination of Trinidad, 370 miles from the intended destination. Several passengers were injured in the accident, and all on board were taken to hospitals for checks. One pilot received a clavicle fracture.The plane was severely damaged, with the New York Times reporting that photographs of the scene showed at least one wing of the aircraft to have separated from the fuselage.Survivors confirmed this. Paolo Bravo, a Bolivian senator on board the plane, said to local radio network Erbol "We noticed the engines went out, and there was this calm... Then they told us, 'Crash positions! crash positions!' and it was just another two or three seconds before we hit... The plane fell, the wings broke off, but the fuselage was OK."Experts from the Auxiliary Aerial Navigation Service and an airport commented that it is possible that the soft mus in the area absorbed some of the impact forces, allowing the plane to be salvaged and returned to service. LAB's operations chief Gustavo Viscarra made a statement saying "The crew members did not suffer any problem and there is no blood... The airplane has minimum damages, there is no structural damage, there was not any fire nor smoke. It was a forced landing planned by the pilot and it was not caused by our enterprise's negligence nor lack of maintenance of our airplanes."Passenger numbers are unclear, with LAB reporting 151 and some media sources saying 155.An investigation has been launched. It has been established that an undisclosed technical problem prevented the plane from departing for an hour.Legal and financial difficulties have seen LAB suspend operations for almost a year, but the carrier has recently begun a limited return to charter services.A Basler BT-67, chartered from Canadian air carrier Kenn Borek Air for the National Science Foundation (NSF), a United States government agency, has crashed whilst attempting take-off during a support assignment in Antarctica. None of the ten people on board were injured, but the modified Douglas DC-3 was substantially damaged in the accident.The accident occurred on the morning of December 20 local time, about 550 miles from McMurdo Station, a US-run Antarctic base. The aircraft was carrying a crew of four, and six researchers. The flight was part of the Polar Earth Observatory Network project, which is part-funded by the NSF. The project sets up GPS equipment and seismic sensors in various locations across Antarctica, in order to monitor changes in the ice sheets that cover the continent. It is thought that this will aid understanding of global warming.Although the NSF refused to publicise any details of the crash, one anonymous passenger has come forward about the accident, releasing his account in the form of an online report. According to the passenger, one side of the plane failed to lift off, and the aircraft's wing subsequently dug into the ice."My seat came unbolted from the floor with me still strapped into the seatbelt," the passenger said. "When we finally came to a halt, we were all in big pile in the corner of the plane with all of the equipment. We got shaken up pretty bad, but there were no major injuries other than some minor cuts and bruises... The wings, props, and tail all got bent up pretty bad. The landing gear, skis, and hydraulic system all were ripped from the plane and strewn about the ice."Following the accident, all those on board spent about twenty hours before they were flown back to McMurdo Station on board two Twin Otter aircraft sent from the base on a rescue mission. A full investigation has been launched into the crash by the Department of the Interior's Aircraft Management Division (AMD), who have signed a memorandum of agreement with NSF to conduct any necessary investigations on their behalf. The AMD have subsequently contacted the United States National Transportation Safety Board, who will participate in conjunction with the Transportation Safety Board of Canada.Major city roads across North America are suffering from an early surge in potholes due to the dramatic freezes and thaws this month, some several feet across and inches deep. The potholes are caused by water seeping into cracks during warm weather, and pushing concrete apart when it freezes. Traffic erodes chunks of concrete from the cracks to form holes that continuously grow larger.While car repair shops are experiencing a boom in business, city budgets are being hit with the costs of patching potholes. Thierry Larivée, an infrastructure spokesman in Montréal, Canada, says about 20 pothole patrols are working throughout the city. They are expected to continue work until at least Friday.Craig Bryson, spokesman for the Road Commission for Oakland County in Michigan, United States, reports problems on unpaved roads as well. "The warmer weather is also playing havoc with gravel roads; the top layer of dirt thaws, but remains frozen about 10 inches below the surface. Surface water has no place to go. This creates a rutted, soupy road, especially in low-lying areas."Environment Canada meteorologist René Héroux attributes the unseasonable thaw to warm winds from the southwest. Environment Canada predicts a new cold front on Thursday.Northrop Grumman and Airbus parent company European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company EADS N.V. (EADS) have unexpectedly defeated Boeing for a US$40 billion (GB£20.1 billion) contract to supply the United States Air Force (USAF) with 179 new aerial refueling tankers at a rate of 15 a year.It is the biggest contract of its kind since the Joint Strike Fighter program. That contract was fought for between Boeing and Lockheed Martin, Lockheed ultimately winning the contest.JSA Research defence analysist Paul Nesbit said that Maintenance, Repair and Overhaul (MRO) operations across the aircraft's fifty-year service life could push the value of the contract as high as US$100 billion. Northrop Grumman CEO Ron Sugar said in an interview "Everyone told us we were crazy, that we had no chance. But we took a big swing and in this case, we hit a home run."USAF officials said that the contract had been awarded based on competence, track record and competitive pricing, with UBS analyst David Strauss saying "The key decision was the amount of fuel the bigger plane could carry. In the armed services, you can never have too much gas in the air." USAF also denied that creating jobs in the US was a factor; job supply had been the reason Boeing were expected to win, with the airframer promising 44,000 new positions at 300 suppliers in 40 states.The Northrop Grumman KC-45 tankers - more often known as KC-30s - are based on the Airbus A330 MRTT. The first four aircraft will be assembled at the main Airbus factory in Toulouse, France but by 2010-11 production of the remainder will be carried out at a facility in Mobile, Alabama. This is thought likely to create 1,500 to 2,000 jobs and support 25,000 others. 60% of the parts will be supplied by domestic manufacturers. EADS had previously announced plans to shift much production to the US due to the current weakness of the dollar.General Arthur Lichte, head of USAF's Mobility Command, said it is hoped the first aircraft can be tested in 2010 and in operation three years afterwards. USAF's chief of staff  General Duncan McNab stated "The tanker is the number-one procurement priority for us right now. It is the first step in our critical commitment to recapitalize our aging fleet to move, supply, and position assets anywhere."There is still a possibility of Boeing challenging the decision; Boeing themselves were successfuly challenged by Lockheed and Sikorsky in 2006 over a US$10 billion contract to supply search and rescue helicopters to the Pentagon. A statement by Boeing given by Boeing spokesman William Barksdale said “Obviously we are very disappointed... Once we have reviewed the details behind the award, we will make a decision concerning our possible options.” Washington senator Patty Murray, who hails from the same state where Boeing bases their commercial airliner operations, said in a critical statement "We are shocked that the Air Force tapped a European company and its foreign workers to provide a tanker to our American military. At a time when our economy is hurting, this decision to outsource our tankers is a blow to the American aerospace industry, American workers and America's military." Washington representative Norm Dicks said he too was "shocked", releasing a statement saying "This decision is even more disappointing because the Air Force had previously favored the Boeing 767 tanker and we were prepared to move forward with the production of 100 tankers in 2003, before the process was halted due to the Boeing scandal. I regret that it has taken so long to respond to what was—and is—an urgent need to replace these older aircraft. And even more regrettable is the decision to award the contract to Airbus, which has consistently used unfair European government subsidies to take jobs away from American aircraft workers." Kansas senator Sam Brownback said "It's stunning to me that we would outsource the production of these airplanes to Europe instead of building them in America. I'll be calling upon the Secretary of Defense for a full debriefing and expect there will be a protest of the award by Boeing." Todd Tiahrt, a Kansas representative, said "We should have an American tanker built by an American company with American workers. I cannot believe we would create French jobs in place of Kansas jobs."A group of Washington politicians released a joint statement saying "We will be asking tough questions about the decision to outsource this contract... At a time when our economy is hurting, this is a blow not only to our state, but more than 40 states across the country who would help build this national plane." Alabama Governor Bob Riley said "To say this is a great day for Alabama is a monumental understatement. This will go down in history as one of our greatest days." Ralph Crosby, EADS's North America CEO and ex Northrop executive commented the business has "committed our full resources to support this vital program for our prime contractor, Northrop Grumman, the Air Force, and the war fighters that this system will serve for decades to come. We already have begun the work necessary to expand our U.S. industrial footprint in support of this important program." EADS chief executive Louis Gallois commented “This major selection is a win-win for our customers, for allied industrial cooperation and for EADS. It signals a quantum-leap forward in our commitment to the US defence customer, reflects and supports our global strategy to increase EADS’s industrial presence in key markets and our goal to balance the company’s defence and commercial portfolios.” General Arthur Lichte said “This will be an American tanker, flown by American airmen with an American flag on its tail and, every day, it will be saving American lives. Boeing had initially agreed to lease 100 tankers, but in 2003 a scandal erupted when it emerged that Boeing executive Michael M. Sears arranged a job for USAF official Darleen Druyun while negotiations were still underway. Both served jail sentences for corruption charges and a competition was opened up to award a new contract.Phase two of Nottingham, England's Express Transit system (NET) received a boost last Thursday, when it was announced that the Government had approved both of the proposed additional lines to extend the network further into the Nottinghamshire area. Construction of the two lines, which will take the system to Chilwell and Clifton, could begin before the end of the year.The plans were originally turned down on cost grounds, but following successful negotiations between Nottingham City Council and the two companies bidding to construct the line enough savings have been found to allow the scheme to receive the green light. Around 20% is now believed to have been saved from the cost of the project, though no exact figures of either the original cost or savings made have been announced by the council, and according to a transport boss the project has had no changes made to it to accommodate these.Under the private finance initiative (PFI) deal, which is how the funding for phase 2 will be secured, private firms bid to win the contract to build and run the tram network, before then later leasing it back to the council who pay for its use on an ongoing basis. The two consortia bidding to build and operate the network are Tramlink Nottingham and Arrow Connect, the preferred bidder of which will appointed in the near future.However, despite the news of the approval for the lines by the Government, the final hurdle has not yet been jumped, and they could still never make it off the drawing board. The announcement only means that Nottingham City Council — who are the sole promoters of the scheme following the withdrawal of the Tory-led County Council — can continue the process and, if the final business case is given full approval, will then be able to award the concessionaire contract to the successful bidder.The NET system was opened in March 2004, and the original line, Line One, runs for a distance of 14km between Hucknall and Nottingham City Centre, with a short spur also serving Phoenix Park — near to the M1 motorway. Once completed, Lines Two and Three, operating to Clifton via Wilford and Chilwell via the Queen's Medical Centre and Beeston, will continue on from the current terminus at Station Street, over a new bridge across Nottingham railway station, and diverge to their separate termini shortly afterwards. The lines will add a further 17.4km to the network.After making the announcement on Thursday, Transport Minister Norman Baker said: “Line One of the Nottingham tram has proved to be a great success in encouraging people on to public transport. These proposed extensions provide the opportunity to continue this success, and give people in the south of Nottingham quicker, more convenient access to the city centre, as well as helping to regenerate sections of the city."Following the spending review last year, we challenged Nottingham City Council to look again at the cost of the Nottingham light rail extension, to be funded through the private finance initiative, to ensure we get maximum value for every pound we spend."The Department has been working closely with the local authority involved to ensure this project is affordable. I am delighted that the Council has risen to the challenge and has identified savings from its original estimated costs."By finding savings, I can confirm that we are today allowing this project to move another step forward within our funding approval process.” Nottingham City Council’s Chief Executive Jane Todd also commented: “This is a very positive development. We have worked hard with government to ensure that NET phase two is delivered as cost effectively as possible. A preferred bidder will now be appointed in the very near future who will work with the council to finalise contracts which will hopefully be signed later in the summer. NET Phase Two is crucial for the future of Nottingham's economy and to attract new jobs to the City”.If final approval is given for the lines, construction work will begin before the end of the year, with a view to the extended system opening in 2014.The American National Transportation Safety Board has announced that it will make new airline safety recommendations. This comes a result of its investigation into the Comair Flight 5191 disaster, in which a Bombardier Canadair Regional Jet (CRJ) CRJ-100ER crashed whilst attempting take-off from the wrong runway at Blue Grass Airport, Lexington, killing 49 people and leaving just one survivor. The plane was unable to take off because that runway was too short.The NTSB has now announced that, on July 26, the date on which the NTSB is to determine the probable cause of the accident, they will issue safety recommendations regarding methods of preventing a recurrence of the disaster.One of the recommendations will concern developing and implementing a cockpit-based system that will inform pilots when they are in the wrong location. Another will involve rescheduling the workloads of Air Traffic Controllers to ensure they receive more sleep, a request they had previously made in April.Regarding location warning systems, the FAA has pointed out that they have been working on methods of preventing runway incursions (in which a person, ground vehicle or another aircraft is on the runway when or where it should not be), to which the National Transportation Safety Board chairman Mark Rosenker responded "The FAA is doing a great job testing these systems. The question we have is, when will you finally implement that technology?" FAA Associate Administrator Margaret Gilligan responded by saying that they were currently looking at just such a system, adding "We do have airlines that have committed to put that technology on the flight deck once it's approved". The system referred to involves runway signal lights and is currently being tested at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.The NTSB will also look at runway and taxiway markings and the ways they can confuse pilots, as this issue has been identified as a contributing factor in the accident. Rosenker said the NTSB was "very interested" in this area. 140 airports have unclear or confusing markings in the US, but it is not certain if Blue Grass Airport is one of them. However, the Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA) made a submission to the NTSB stating that they had found that the markings at Blue Grass Airport did not match those on the charts the pilots were using. ALPA went on to recommend greater standardisation of airport runway markings.Blue Grass Airport responded yesterday by saying that there was nothing wrong with their runway markings, with spokesman Brian Ellestad saying "We have had numerous inspections before and after (the Comair crash) and have had no issues... FAA reiterates that we meet all requirements for signage, markings, lighting, runways and taxiways."The United States National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) has issued an update in its investigation of a serious runway incursion in Pennsylvania in September. A regional jet with sixty people on board aborted takeoff and swerved to avoid a light plane, missing it by an estimated ten feet.The event occurred at Allentown's Lehigh Valley International Airport. A Canadair CRJ-700, operated by Mesa Airlines as Flight 7138, received clearance for takeoff but aborted the maneuver at 120 knots (138 mph), skidding around a Cessna 172R that had just landed and was still taxiing on the runway.  The crew of the Mesa Air regional jet estimated the distance between the two aircraft as 10 feet when they passed.The Mesa Air crew decided to abandon the flight. They returned the aircraft for inspection, but no damage was found. The incident occurred at night.The NTSB also released a photo of the tire marks left by the jet after the incident, showing that a violent swerve occurred. A detailed timeline has been released, as shown below:7:29:28 - Cessna contacts Allentown tower while about 8 miles east of the airport.7:33:30 - Cessna, in landing pattern for runway, is cleared to land on runway 6.7:34:50 - Mesa Air regional jet contacts tower and reports ready for takeoff and holding short of runway 6.  Controllerinstructs pilot to hold short of runway 6 for landing traffic. 7:36:15 - Cessna crosses threshold of runway 6 and lands.7:36:27 - Mesa Air instructed by tower controller to taxi into position on runway 6 and hold.7:36:36 - Tower controller asks pilot of Cessna where he intends to park. Following pilot response, controller provides taxi directions, instructing pilot to exit runway at taxiway A4.7:37:11 - Mesa Air cleared for takeoff. 7:37:18 to 7:37:32 - Controller turns attention to an inbound aircraft and issues landing instructions.7:37:34 - Cessna pilot informs tower controller that he had missed the A4 taxiway and asks for permission to exit at taxiway B.7:37:42 - Controller replies, "...no delay, turn immediately," which Cessna pilot acknowledges.7:38:16 - Mesa Air radios tower controller: "We got it, tower - we're going to need to go back to the gate." Following the incident, both aircraft taxied to parking.The NTSB has interviewed both pilots from the jet's four-person crew, the Cessna's pilot, the air traffic controllers on duty and the Federal Aviation Administration control tower managers. The investigation continues.The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), the agency responsible for investigating transportation accidents in the United States, released updates on three major investigations on June 14.The NTSB, well known publicly for its involvement in the investigation of aviation incidents which involve harm or loss of human life, is also an agency that oversees the transportation of refined petroleum and gas products, chemicals and minerals. The agency determined the cause of a natural gas pipeline explosion that killed six. It also detailed the cause of an accidental release of 204,000 gallons of anhydrous ammonia from a pipeline in an environmentally sensitive area, and released preliminary information involving two commercial aircraft coming within 30-50 feet of each other on a runway.In a speech in Wisconsin, US President Barack Obama announced a USD50 billion plan to restore 150,000 miles of roads, lay 4,000 miles of railroad tracks and rebuild 150 miles of airport runways within six years. The speech was given at an annual Labor Day festival in Milwaukee to union workers on Monday afternoon."All of this will not only create jobs immediately, it's also going to make our economy hum over the long haul," Obama said during the speech. The president also said that "we are going to rebuild 150,000 miles of our roads — that's enough to circle the world six times... We're going to lay and maintain 4,000 miles of our railways — enough to stretch coast-to-coast" and that he was "going to keep fighting, every single day, every single hour, every single minute to turn this economy around".Most of the new railways that Obama talked about will be high-speed rail lines, and the president also said that his administration would "restore 150 miles of runways and advance a next-generation air traffic control system to reduce travel time and delays for American travelers — something I think folks across the political spectrum could agree on." In the Obama Administration's plan, a new infrastructure bank will be created.Obama stressed that the new bill will not add to the federal budget deficit, with Obama saying that "this is a plan that will be fully paid for. It will not add to the deficit over time — we're going to work with Congress to see to that." An Obama administration official also said that the plan will be funded by closing tax loopholes for oil and gas corporations.Though Obama said that "these are projects and efforts that have bipartisan support that we know could possibly get support in the Congress and the Senate", Republicans expressed reservations about the new plan, with Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell calling it "a last-minute, cobbled-together stimulus bill".The presumptive Democratic Presidential nominee and Illinois state senator Barack Obama conveyed his sympathies and condolonces to the people of the Philippines through President Gloria Arroyo, after the country was struck over the weekend by Typhoon Fengshen.Obama also extended his regrets for not being able to meet Mrs. Arroyo who is on a 10-day official visit in the United States and met up with President George W. Bush at the White House.The senator from Illinois stressed the strong bond between the Philippines and the United States, taking note of the two countries partnership during the Cold War era and during the Second World War. Obama also pointed out that the Philippines is also an important ally in the on-going war on terror.He also expressed his desire on meeting Arroyo in the future and working closely with the people of the Philippines.He also urged the Bush administration to provide more aid to the Philippines in the wake of the retrieval of victims of Typhoon Fengshen who drowned or were lost at sea.Obama urged the "US government to provide emergency support to alleviate the suffering caused by the catastrophic natural disaster." Typhoon Fengshen lashed through the islands of the Philippines last June 21 to 22 causing mud floods, landslides and the capsizing of a passenger ferry, the MV Priness of the Stars, killing more than 700 passengers on board off the coast of Romblon island.The National Disaster Coordinating Agency of the Philippines reported that five days after the ferry tragedy, only 48 passengers survived and rescuers were able to retrieve 67 bodies.Transportation and Communications Secretary Leandro Mendoza also reported that 138 fishing vessels were reported missing as a result of Typhoon Fengshen.A cargo vessel, the MV Lake Paoay carrying 5,000 metric tons of coal from the mines in Semirara island was also lost off the coast of Iloilo province.Officials said on Thursday, after analyzing data from the Germanwings Flight 9525 cockpit voice recorder, that the airbus crashed into the French Alps because its co-pilot deliberately crashed it.On the cockpit voice recorder, the captain can be heard trying to get back into the cockpit.  Transponder data indicates the autopilot was told to descend form 38,000 feet to 100 feet.  The last part of the recording contains screaming during the sudden decent.Investigators are still searching for the plane's flight data recorder.The co-pilot started training in 2008, and was diagnosed in 2009 with serious depression according to BBC News. Later he completed his training and passed all his tests to pilot, according to Lufthansa chief executive Carsten Spohr.In light of this incident, several airlines announced a ban on leaving any one person alone in the cockpit.The flight path and altitude chart can be seen in the images below.Lebanon's transportation minster said that the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed into the Mediterranean Sea on Monday didn't follow the directions suggested by the air traffic control tower after departing from Beirut in a thunderstorm. He said that the aircraft turned opposite the heading indicated by controllers.All ninety people aboard Flight ET409, which was headed to Addis Ababa, the capital of Ethiopia, were feared dead. The jet reportedly went down in fire at around 02.30 local time, disappearing from radar screens after leaving the airport."They asked him to correct his path but he did a very fast and strange turn before disappearing completely from the radar," commented Transportation Minister Ghazi Aridi. He added: "Nobody is saying the pilot is to blame for not heeding orders. There could have been many reasons for what happened. [...] Only the black box can tell."Defence Minister Elias Murr also commented that the plane didn't follow instructions upon takeoff. "A command tower recording shows the tower told the pilot to turn to avoid the storm, but the plane went in the opposite direction. We do not know what happened or whether it was beyond the pilot's control."Ethiopian Airlines' CEO, Girma Wake, however, countered Aridi's comments, saying that it is too soon to draw any conclusions. "Rushing remarks, I don't think that helps anybody," he said in the Ethiopian capital.Lebanese officials, meanwhile, have ruled out foul play as being the cause of the aircraft's crashing. The Associated Press quoted Ethiopian Airlines as saying that the pilot in control of the downed plane had twenty years of experience, although it did not disclose his name.According to an unnamed aviation analyst, Lebanon controllers were directing the Ethiopian flight for the first two to three minutes of the flight due to the thunderstorms, and noted that this was standard procedure during inclement weather.US-based airline pilot Patrick Smith remarked that the plane could have crashed for many reasons. "Had the plane encountered extreme turbulence, or had it suffered a powerful lightning strike that knocked out instruments while penetrating strong turbulence, then structural failure or loss of control, followed by an in-flight breakup, are possible causes."In the United Kingdom, an anti-pollution operation is under way after the stricken ship MSC Napoli started to leak dangerous heavy fuel oil.The heavy fuel oil that is leaking from the beached Italian ship is extremely dangerous for the environment. Fear of pollution increased after the ship was further damaged during storms last Thursday. MSC Napoli was beached by Devon coastguards after it suffered heavy structual damage in the gale force storms of Thursday, 18 January 2007, that wreaked havoc across Northern Europe. The ship, which contains 160 containers of hazardous chemical substances, is listing at 35 degrees.The entire 26-man crew was rescued by navy helicopters Thursday after severe gales. Cracks were found on both sides of the ship, but the current oil leak was not expected.Around 2,400 containers were carried by the 62,000 tonne ship, some of which contain potentially dangerous hazardous chemicals.The Coastguards have reported that up to 200 of the containers carrying materials such as perfume and battery acid are loose from the ship and they are looking for missing containers. South African stainless steel producer Columbus Stainless confirmed on Friday that there was at least 1,000 tonnes of nickel on board MSC Napoli.A hole in the ship flooded the engine room and there’s now fears that the ship will break up. Saturday MSC Napoli was towed to Portland when a ”structural failure” forced the salvage team to beach it. As the storms have continued MSC Napoli has been further damaged.The authorities have warned people about the pollution, which already has reached the beaches at Devon, but many want to see it on their own. Police have closed Branscombe Beach as more than 20 containers have broken up scattering their contents along the beach.Sky News reported Sunday that the costs of the accident might be very high as thousands of pounds worth of BMW motorbikes, car parts, empty oak barrels and perfume might get lost in flooding containers.200,000 litres of oil leaked into waters off the coast of Brisbane from the Pacific Adventurer when their fuel tanks were damaged in rough seas on Wednesday.  The figure is about ten times higher than the original estimate of twenty thousand litres of oil.  The devastating diesel oil spill has spread along 60 kilometres (37 miles) of the Queensland coast.  In addition, 31 containers with 620 tonnes of ammonium nitrate fertiliser flew overboard during the violent storm.Questions are being asked why the Hong Kong cargo ship was out in seas with nine meter waves caused by Cyclone Hamish, a Category 5 tropical cyclone, as well as why the fertiliser containers were not properly secured. One of the overboard containers ruptured the hull of the Pacific Adventurer, causing between 30 to 100 tonnes of oil to spew from the severely damaged ship.  If the ammonium nitrate mixes with the heavy oil, an explosion could occur. None of the containers have been recovered. Some of these may float, but it is believed that they may have sunk which then may cause algal blooms.Disaster zones have been declared at Bribie and Moreton Islands, and along the Sunshine coast. The vessel's owner, Swire Shipping, reported that a second leak began on Friday, when the ship began listing after docking at Hamilton for repairs.  "As full soundings of the vessel's tanks were being taken at the port to determine how much oil had leaked from the vessel, a small quantity of fuel oil escaped from the Pacific Adventurer," it stated.  The ship was brought upright, and a recovery vessel was used to suck up the oil from the water.  The leak produced a 500m-long oil slick down the Brisbane River.  Booms were placed around this oil spill so that a skimmer could clean up the second spill.Swire Shipping could face clean up costs of AU$100,000 a day as well as fines up to AU$1.5million (US$977,000; £703,000) if found guilty of environmental breaches or negligence.Sunshine Coast beaches are slowly starting to be reopened.  The beach of Mooloolaba was still closed following reports of burning sensations from swimmers.  12 beaches remain closed; however, 13 have been reopened.Over 300 state government and council workers are using buckets, rakes and spades in the clean up effort.  Sunshine Coast Mayor Bob Abbott says the majority will be gone by Sunday afternoon.  The full environmental impact on wildlife is not yet known.  One turtle and seven pelicans have been found covered in oil.There are concerns that the drinking water of Moreton Island is at risk, as the island uses water from the underground water table near the oil spill site."Every bucketload of contaminated sand has to be removed from the island by barge, and each bucketload from a front-end loader weighs about one tonne. It's just an impossible task,” said Mr Trevor Hassard of the Tangalooma Dolphin Education Centre.The commercial fishing industry has suffered from the incident. Trawlers won't resume operations until Sunday evening, and any catches will be tested for human consumption.A fierce storm on Sunday resulted in massive 18-foot waves, which split a Russian oil tanker in two and sank two Russian freighters nearby. The tanker spilled at least 560,000 gallons of fuel into a strait which leads to the Black Sea, and officials say it may take years to clean up. The tankers sank in the Strait of Kerch, which links the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov in the northeast. The two ships were carrying a total of around 7,150 tons of sulfur, according to Sergei Petrov, Russia's Ministry of Emergency Situations regional spokesperson.The tanker was carrying nearly 1.3 million gallons of fuel oil, and was stranded several miles from shore. Emergency workers were prevented from collecting the spilled oil immediately due to stormy weather; the head of the state environmental safety watchdog Rosprorodnadzor, Oleg Mitvol, said "there is serious concern that the spill will continue". Workers eventually managed to begin work on cleaning up the spill, an effort which may be long-term. Tar-like sands laden with oil and seaweed were piled on the shore, while oil-covered birds in slick-covered water tried to flap their wings. Regional coast guard officer Anatoly Yanhuck said once weather improves they will begin pumping oil from the tanker, then tow the ship to port.Two fuel-loaded barges and Turkish freighter Ziya Kos also ran aground in the area, but there was no further environmental damage, said Petrov. Ten ships altogether were sunk or run aground in the area of the Black Sea near the Straight of Kerch and the Straight itself; a Russian freighter carrying metal was also reported as having sunk near the port of Sevastopol on Ukraine's Crimean Peninsula. One of the sulfur-carrying freighters reported three crew members as drowned, and five more as missing, while two members of the sunk freighter carrying metal were reported as drowned and another remains missing.  The oil tanker's 13 crew members were all rescued safely, and all members of the second freighter were also reported as safe. Captains had been warned Saturday morning of the stormy conditions, regional prosecutor Maxim Stepanenko told Russia's Vesti 24. The oil tanker was not built to withstand fierce storms, having been designed to transport oil on rivers during Soviet times, he said. Chemist with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's Ocean Service office of response and restoration, Jim Farr said the sulfur spill from the two freighters wouldn't create a "hazardous situation", a statement backed up by Alexei Zhukovin, expert with the Emergency Situations Ministry's branch in Southern Russia.  Although on land sulfur is used as a fungicide, in a marine setting it wouldn't act as one, said Farr; instead a sulfur spill can be compared to dumping sand on a reef and smothering it, or placing a blanket on a bed of grass. Long-term effects are more difficult to speculate on, however, without better knowledge of the area and its currents. Oleg Mitvol said that although the sulfur spill doesn't present an environmental danger, the two freighters might also leak fuel oil from their tanks, adding to the pollution.Russia, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Georgia, and Ukraine all border on the Black Sea.A person has died after being involved in a collision between a bus and a bicycle in Hampshire in the south of England, United Kingdom. The woman, who has not been publicly identified, was cycling in the seaside resort of Southsea when a number 700 Stagecoach single-decker bus, which was travelling from Brighton to Southsea, collided with her bicycle at approximately 1315 BST (1215 UTC) on Saturday. A helicopter transported the woman to Southampton General Hospital, where she died at approximately 1630 BST (1530 UTC) on the same day.None of the occupants of the bus were injured. The 53-year-old bus driver has now been arrested on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving. Hampshire Constabulary is requesting any witnesses to the accident to contact them. PC Phil Hunt also mentioned: "We are also trying to trace the passengers, who left the scene before we could speak to them."The road traffic accident occurred in an area where Portsmouth City Council had been intending to place a new cycle route, but the plans to do so were cancelled last week. The plans, which would have cost £250,000 (US$382,373, €296,481, A$441,126), were said to have been cancelled due to financial difficulties.Portsmouth Cycle Forum vice chair Jon Spencer has stated: "Sadly, we've had to wait less than a week for a brutal illustration of why we need this cycle route." The vice chair of the local cycling group continued: "The road at Clarence Pier is very narrow, very crowded by parked cars and very busy. It is the most popular part of the seafront but at the moment it is a no-go area for cyclists. The city council are obviously happy for this to remain the case."John Holland, the chair of the Forum, wrote on PompeyBUG, a local cycling Internet forum: "Portsmouth Cycle Forum is very sad to learn of the death in a road accident of a woman cyclist at Clarence Esplanade on Saturday 17 July. Our thoughts lie with her family and friends to whom send our deepest condolences. The cyclist was involved in collision with a bus in the vicinity of Pier Road and Clarence Esplanade, close to Clarence Pier. "This terrible accident is yet another reminder that large vehicles, busy traffic and cyclists are not a happy mix. Whilst it will be some time before the details are made public, we urge the Portsmouth City Council to press ahead with making this section of our seafront much safer and calmer for all. Almost exactly one year ago, a cyclist was seriously injured Clarence Esplanade when a car reversed blindly from a parking bay into the road. "Portsmouth City Council is on the verge of postponing Phase 2 of the Southsea Seafront Cycle Route. Had this been in place yesterday then this awful incident might have been avoided. We urge councillors to think again. A safe and segregated cycle route can be built – one which doesn’t loose any car parking, one which doesn’t stop people looking out to sea from their cars, one which doesn’t involve cycling on the promenade. We will be pushing hard for this – we don’t want any more injuries and fatalities on our seafront roads."A 55-year-old unidentified male died Saturday after his silver Peugeot motor vehicle collided with a red and white articulated truck and tanker on the A15 road.According to the Humberside Police, the road traffic accident happened on the A15 near the small village of Hibaldstow, North Lincolnshire at approximately 0739 UTC on Saturday. Although the sole occupant of the Peugeot was fatally injured, the occupant of the lorry was uninjured.A spokesperson stated: "Officers would like to speak to anyone who witnessed the collision or the vehicles prior to the collision." An investigation has begun to try to establish whether the icy and snowy weather conditions were a factor in this collision. The police have commented that it is too early to know whether the weather conditions were a factor in this crash.A passenger jet in the African country of Rwanda crashed into a VIP lounge at an airport on Thursday, officials have said, killing one person. The aircraft involved was a CRJ-100 with Rwandair, leased from the Kenyan Jetlink airline.The director general of Rwanda's Civil Aviation Authority, Richard Masozera, told media that the pilot of the aircraft reported a problem two minutes after takeoff and requested to land. The flight had been due to take its fourteen passengers to Uganda."He landed safely on the runway and was guided by the marshals into the parking area. For some unexplained reason, the plane, from the parking spot, took off again at full power and [...] took a right turn, unexplained, into the technical building," Masozera said. He added that emergency services reacted quickly to the incident, but one of the people on board the plane was hurt and died of injures.The acting chief executive of the airline, Jack Elk, suggested that the jet might have "auto-accelerated" and crashed into the building. "The captain could not control it. The plane did not get airborne again, it taxied into the building," he said, noting that the black boxes from the plane's cockpit would be analysed by the authorities. "The captain was taken to the hospital with a broken leg. He has not been able to give us any information so far."Rwandair CEO Gerald Zirimuabagabo commented that the jet had had technical difficulties in the recent past.  On Wednesday, it reportedly made an emergency landing in Nairobi, Kenya over concerns that its generator may have malfunctioned.  However, Zirimuabagabo didn't say if the technical fault was corrected by mechanics.The CEO added that an investigation into the incident was launched, and Rwandair's two remaining Jetlink-leased aircraft would be suspended, reducing the airline's fleet to only one operating jet.A man has died and another man and a woman are injured after a road traffic accident in Somerset, England, United Kingdom. At approximately 02:00 British Summer Time (01:00 UTC) yesterday, a BMW 328 that was carrying the three along the A370 road in East Brent — close to the location of Burnham-on-Sea — struck a telegraph pole before becoming stationary in a hedge and subsequently caught fire.The 19-year-old male driver died at the location of this one-vehicle collision. The male passenger and female passenger, both of which were also teenage, were transported to Weston General Hospital. The road — which electricity cables had fallen onto — was closed down for approximately nine hours, with the fire service and police present.It is thought that the A-road has now been re-opened. The police have commenced an investigation to attempt to establish the chain of events.A French truck driver was killed and 34 rail passengers injured on Tuesday when a TGV (Train à Grande Vitesse) train impacted a lorry in Eastern France near Switzerland, according to officials.The TGV, which was travelling from Paris to Geneva, rammed into the truck which had become stuck on a level crossing, at around 9:30 a.m. CET (UTC+1) near the eastern town of Tossiat. The lorry driver died on the scene and the train driver was seriously injured in the crash. Officials have said that the accident involved a lorry that was carrying a cement mixing unit and that it had become stuck on the level crossing for an unknown reason, and was trapped in by the barriers when they went down. However, police officials have said that the driver had managed to leave the cabin of his truck, and that he was most likely moving to leave the level crossing by foot when the train impacted.Travelling at around 100 kilometres (65 miles) per hour, the TGV was derailed, causing the SNCF (the French National Rail Service) to deviate all trains on the Paris–Geneva service via Lyon for the next 48 hours.  The train's remaining 160 passengers were safely evacuated.Almost exactly one year ago, on March 7, Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 crashed during landing at Adisucipto International Airport, near Yogyakarta, after a scheduled domestic Indonesian passenger flight. 21 people - 16 Indonesians and five Australians - were killed when the Boeing 737-400 overshot the runway, crossed a road, struck an embankment and burst into flames in a rice paddy. Overall, the plane had traveled 252m beyond the extreme end of the runway.The final report, released in October, blamed pilot error for the disaster. The report stated that the aircraft had approached at a speed far exceeding that at which the wing flaps could properly operate, and attempted to execute a landing at 408 kph (254 mph), which is 160 kph (100 mph) above the safe speed. It also found that captain Marwoto Komar had ignored fifteen activations of the Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS) informing Mr Komar that the aircraft was flying at a speed beyond that at which it could safely land, but he failed to abort.It also commented that he missed one further opportunity for emergency evasive action when the airliner struck the runway and bounced into the air, at which point co-pilot Gagam Rochmana requested a 'go-around' procedure be initiated, but was also ignored. It further criticised Mr Komar for singing during final approach, a direct violation of the Garuda Basic Operations Manual, which calls for activation of the Sterile Cockpit Rule at 10,000 feet and below.Mr Rochmana was also criticised for his failure to take control away from Mr Komar when it became apparent that the aircraft was being operated in an unsafe manner. However, the report did note that Garuda Indonesia had failed to give him any simulator training replicating a situation whereby the co-pilot would take over control duties from the pilot in charge due to unsafe handling of the plane; in fact, training was found to be inadequate for both members of the cockpit crew.Further criticisms were also leveled at airport and governmental authorities for failures in their respective roles to provide safety features and to enforce regulations.However, the Indonesian authorities have recently generated intense controversy by deciding to prosecute Mr Komar for his role in the disaster. The move has been pushed for by some, but met with opposition by others.Alexander Downer, Australian foreign minister at the time of the crash, immediately said "...I am very glad that they have reached a point now where they have charged the captain of the aircraft." The unusually high number of Australians amongst the 140 passengers on board was attributable to a visit by Mr Downer. One of those was Morgan Mellish of the Australian Financial Review, who died in the crash. His sister, Caroline Mellish, had specifically called for prosecution to be avoided, saying "I think having 21 deaths on your conscience is probably enough. I don't think prosecuting the man is going to make any difference."There were fierce calls for prosecution of both pilots immediately after the report's release, with Downer himself pressuring the Indonesian authorities, citing the "very credible report" and saying "I've asked our ambassador today (October 24) to make it absolutely clear to the Indonesians that we want people prosecuted for this accident. I want to see people who have negligently allowed Australians … to be killed, I want to see those people brought to justice."Australian Opposition Leader Kevin Rudd also made clear a desire for prosecutions, saying he had telephoned secretary-general of Indonesia's foreign affairs department and former ambassador to Australia Imron Cotan, telling him that he wanted those responsible "prosecuted to the absolute full". "This is a serious matter, many Australians visit Indonesia, Garuda is an often used airline and there is a basic national interest at stake here as well," he said.National Transport Safety Committee chairman Tatang Kurniadi said at the time that no information from the report could be used in any criminal or civil liability investigations. "I would like to go back to the objective of this, the report was made by NTSC for safety purposes only, not for blaming, he said. "If any institution wants to ... follow up that accident, that's their own decision. The report contained the results from the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder, but according to international regulations on aviation these black boxes are not allowed to be used for... liability purposes. We will not give police or any institution (information) other than for safety purposes only - it's in international regulations and we want to follow those regulations." He also confirmed that investigators cannot speak to the police, with the only permitted testimony under the legislation being to testify at a court hearing, and pointed out that the document does not actually appoint any blame.The international legislation he was referring to is probably the Convention on International Civil Aviation, which stipulates that accident reports and related material, specifically transcripts of interviews, communications with crew and cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder (collectively known as black boxes) readouts, must not be used for any purpose other than determining the cause of an accident or incident. The only possible exception to this is where potential benefit would outweigh the "adverse domestic and international impact" on the investigation in question or any other either in progress or in the future. This legislation is in place to provide protection to witnesses on the basis that without it they may be less likely to cooperate with investigational procedures.The law caused was actively opposed by some. Aridono Sukman, the police member in charge of the criminal investigation, said that the contents of the black box were vital evidence. Officials commented that some relatives had expressed their frustration over the legal challenges involved in the prosecution effort.Early in February Mr Komar was arrested; he has subsequently been charged with manslaughter charges which carry a maximum sentence of five years' imprisonment. The London-based International Federation of Air Line Pilots Associations (IFALPA) issued a press release condemning this move, saying that further investigations are needed into the crash, and that criminal proceedings could prevent an accurate version of events from ever being known. Specifically, the release said that "IFALPA believes that the circumstances of the accident as set forth in the final report of the Indonesian investigation authority leaves many serious questions concerning the crew actions prior to the accident. Central to these concerns are the underlying reasons for the reported behavior of Captain Marwoto Komar. Experienced pilots have considerable difficulty in attempting to explain what is reported in the context of normal airline operations. The Federation believes that the explanations proffered by the report do not square with the collective experience of our members." The release went on to state the opinion that prosecution may bring total foreclosure to the case and could only be counterproductive. It also said "He remains a professional who was involved in an unfortunate tragedy."One possible explanation had previously been suggested by the head of the Garuda pilots association, Stephanus Geraldus. He said that marital problems between Mr Komar and his wife Norma Andriani were "common knowledge" and was backed up by an industry analyst and pilot who said he believed the couple had been arguing late into the night, and expressed concern that the report had not addressed psychological issues. Mr Geraldus also said sleep deprivation could have contributed, with the flight crew reporting for duty at 4:30 am and the flight departing an hour and a half later.The report had hinted at problems, saying The pilot was probably emotionally aroused because his conscious awareness moved from the relaxed mode “singing” to the heightened stressfulness of the desire to reach the runway by making an excessively steep and fast, unstabilised approach,” and "His attention was fixated or channelised on landing the aircraft on the runway and he either did not hear, or disregarded the GPWS alerts, and warnings, and calls from the copilot to go around." It is also known that Mr Komar had been under police surveillance, during which time he was receiving psychological treatment. The Indonesian Pilot's Association has also said that the criminal prosecution should be avoided, arguing that the only people who can judge whether mistakes were made in aviation are those professionally involved and not the police. There were protests in Jakarta demanding his release and dozens of pilots across the nation also campaigned. Meanwhile, two survivors, Adrianus Meliala and Retno Gunowati, went to the House of Representatives (DPR) to challenge those opposed to legal processes against the pilot.Mr Komar was released on police bail on February 15, and is currently awaiting trial. He was forced to resign late in February with being fired his only alternative, and his licence has been suspended. He is believed to be the only man ever prosecuted in Indonesian history over an airliner crash.The issues thrown up by this ongoing case have now been exclusively commented on for Wikinews by Paul McCarthy. Mr McCarthy is IFALPA's representative to the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO). He is both a pilot - as are all of IFALPA's roughly 100,000 members - and a lawyer, and is an acknowledged expert on issues concerning the criminal liability of pilots. Mr McCarthy's comments, obtained by email via IFALPA media representative Gideon Ewers are available below.Thai low-cost air carrier One-Two-Go Airlines has announced that it will be grounding all 16 of its aircraft immediately until September 15. The news comes as legal action against the airline and associated companies begins over the September crash of Flight 269, which killed 90 people, mostly foreigners.Udom Tantiprasongchai, founder of the airline, has said conditions were hard for airlines with fuel prices having doubled within a year. He says 70% of operating costs are taken up with fuel, and the airline has already raised fuel surcharges again by 100 baht to 850 baht per leg."In this kind of environment, anyone can go (bankrupt) anytime," said Urdom, who declined to comment on the impact the present financial situation has had on his airline, saying only that they "are financially sustainable." He also said that the airline could return to service with ease if prices dropped, noting that, "if the situation improved with fuel prices being lowered and the profitability outlook was better, we could be airborne again."The airline began operations in 2003; it is a subsidiary of Orient Thai Airlines. Orient Thai, which will continue to operate as normal, recently opened Thailand's first freight-only airline, Orient Thai Cargo, with a pair of Boeing 747-200Fs bought from Japan Airlines.Urdon said that a major part of the problem is that eight of the company's aircraft are MD-11s, which consume large volumes of fuel. He also said that a collapse of a damage limitation scheme with rivals Nok Airlines and Thai AirAsia had affected his decision. Both rival carriers were also struggling financially. One-Two-Go has already cut many routes.The news comes as the first families of victims of Flight OG269 launch legal action against the airline, as well as parent airline Orient Thai and lessor Grandmax Group. Already confirmed to be involved in the action are Richard and Margaret Collins as well as Steve and Jean Jones, parents of Alex Collins, 22, and Bethan Jones, also 22, an unmarried Welsh couple who, a few days into a round-the-world trip, were among the 123 passengers on board. Alex was reported missing but quickly confirmed to have died, while Bethan died ten days after the accident with her family at her bedside, bringing the final death toll to 90."We believe the air crash was completely avoidable and those responsible should be held to account. While we accept that nothing can bring Alex and Bethan and the other people who lost their lives back, we are keen to make sure we prevent this from happening again," said the families in a joint statement. "We will be forcing One-Two-Go Airlines to prove in court that they are not a low cost, low safety airline," said James Healy-Pratt, head of aviation at Stewarts Law in London. He also said that the action will be brought before courts in the United States.Teamsters Local 952 and the Orange County Transportation Authority made peace this morning as coach operators voted 696 to 35 in favour of ratifying a tentative agreement, thus settling a labour dispute that had simmered since May and ending a week-old work stoppage.Oscar Diös is a Swedish businessman looking to invest in a new project within the aviation community. He's already bought the venture's first airliner, a Boeing 747-200.However, his intention is not to start an airline, and the jet is not intended for flight. Instead, he plans to convert the airliner into a unique business which he calls the 'Jumbo Hostel'. The 450-seat widebodied jetliner will have 25 rooms sleeping a total of 85 people, including some in a luxury suite in the cockpit, and will sit at the entrance to Stockholm-Arlanda Airport.Built in 1976, the aircraft was an "old wreck" when acquired, according to Oscar. The aircraft was being offered for sale at Stolkholm-Arlanda after previous owner Transjet became bankrupt. The airframe has then been completely gutted and is being fitted with a new, modernised interior. Each room contains three bunk beds. A cafe and a walkway across the left wing are also featured.The airliner will sit on a concrete platform at the airport's entrance, with its landing gear secured in steel cradles. It is intended to offer a good view of the day-to-day operation of the airport.The hostel, which is to open in December, is aimed at families with children, aviation enthusiasts, low-budget travelers and people catching early morning flights who wish to leave it as late as possible before rising to get to check-in - unlike its competitors, the Jumbo Hostel is ten minutes walk from the check-in desks. Wikinews conducted an email interview with Oscar Diös to talk about the hostel. The full exclusive interview is available below.An Afriqiyah Airways-owned aeroplane, originating from South Africa, has crashed on approach to Tripoli International Airport in Libya at around 06:00 Eastern European time (0400 UTC). Initial reports indicated everyone on board died, which officials say is 93 passengers and 11 crew, but later developments say an eight-year-old boy was the sole survivor; however, this is unconfirmed.The plane left Johannesburg in South Africa with the aim of transferring at Tripoli before heading to the final destination, United Kingdom's London Gatwick Airport. Officials have ruled out terrorism as a cause of the crash, which is still undetermined.  A security official said the plane "exploded on landing and totally disintegrated."In a statement, Afriqiyah Airways said, "We extend our deepest sympathy to the families and friends of the victims[;] the search and rescue mission has now been completed."The crew on the plane were all of Libyan nationality, officials claim, while the passengers included Libyans, South Africans, Dutch and Britons. In response to reports of British citizens being on board the crashed plane, the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office said, "We are urgently investigating. A consular team from the British Embassy are on their way to the airport. Consular staff in Tripoli are urgently seeking further details."More than 30 people have been killed and 140 people injured when a truck carrying dynamite exploded in Mexico shortly after being involved in a road traffic accident near Sacramento, Coahuila.The lorry collided with another vehicle on a busy Northern Mexico highway, and the wreckage quickly drew a large crowd of onlookers. Shortly after the spectators arrived, the vehicles burst into flames, causing the dynamite to explode, engulfing nearby cars.The explosives had originally been intended for delivery in Coquimatlan, Colima, for use in coal mining. The truck had just left an Orica explosives facility where the dynamite had been manufactured.The explosion left a crater ten feet by 40 feet, and was powerful enough to blast out the windows of a passenger bus a quarter of a mile away. There are conflicting reports of death and injury counts, with the Associated Press giving the toll as 34 dead and 150 injured, and BBC News Online as 37 dead and 'dozens' injured.Most of those injured were onlookers and emergency response personnel. The scene was attended by police, the military and other emergency services workers.The fate of the driver is unclear, but some unconfirmed early reports say he fled the scene of the accident. The death toll is believed to include three local reporters who were covering the crash.It is feared that over 700 people have died after a ferry in the Philippines capsized after being hit by Typhoon Fengshen. So far, 38 people from the ferry have been found alive. Some people were washed onto the shore. One of the survivors, Reynato Lanoria, a janitor on the ferry, said that about 100 people jumped into the ocean.     The ferry left Manila en route to Cebu on Friday, and according to the owners, Sulpicio Lines, contact was lost at about 12:30 local time Saturday.A rescue ship was sent to rescue the survivors, although this only happened 24 hours after contact was lost with the boat.One of the survivors described the incident. "There were many of us who jumped overboard, but we were separated because of the big waves," he said.He continued, "The others were also able to board the life rafts, but it was useless because the strong winds flipped them over."File:Columnas de humo del accidente aéreo de Madrid-Barajas (2008).jpgA passenger plane leaving from Madrid - Barajas Airport has crashed during take-off. 153 fatalities and 19 injuries have been reported amongst those who were on the aircraft. Flight JK5022, operated by Spanair, was destined for Gran Canaria in the Canary Islands, when it skidded off the end of the runway in good weather at 14:45 local time. An engine of the aircraft is reported to have caught fire during the attempted takeoff. A spokesman for S.A.M.U.R. stated that there were only 26 survivors. The plane at the time was carrying 173 people. 7 survivors later died en route to hospital.The cause is unknown, but reports indicate that the left engine of the MD-82 was on fire during take-off. The United States agency National Transportation Safety Board said it was sending a team to help with the investigation and reported that "the aircraft broke apart and a post-crash fire ensued." "Helicopters are continually heading to the scene, dropping lots of water... The smoke has really died down now, things seem to be more under control," said Stephanie McGovern from the BBC, commenting on the incident. Manuel Moleno, who witnessed the crash, said that "I've seen around 50 ambulances. They're still coming and going, so there may still be more casualties.""SAS is doing everything possible to help passengers and next-of-kin and to assist Spanish authorities at this difficult time," read a statement from SAS Group, the Stockholm-based company that owns Spanair. "SAS will provide further information as soon as it becomes available.""Boeing sends its deep condolences to the families and friends of those lost in the crash of Spanair flight 5022, and its wishes for the quick recovery of the injured," said manufacturer Boeing which merged with McDonnell Douglas in 1997. "We stand ready to provide technical assistance."Mike Svonavec, the owner of the land in Somerset County, Pennsylvania where United Airlines Flight 93 crashed on September 11, 2001 has set a US$10 million price tag for his property, which is sought by the group, Families of Flight 93 and the United States National Park Service for building a memorial dedicated to those on the plane. Svonavec says that the price is fair market value for the 273 acre property and the organization would not be charged for the exact site of the crash. The organization has offered to buy the land for no more than $500,000 at least three times.Currently, the U.S. National Park Service only owns approximately 60 acres of the land. PBS Coals Inc. owns 864 acres of the land and Svonavec owns 273 acres. The entire field is nearly 2,000 acres.The permanent memorial is estimated to cost $58 million and is scheduled to be constructed starting in 2008 or 2009. On the ten-year anniversary of 9/11, a ribbon will be cut at the site.Svonavec has also placed a box on the crash site temporary memorial, where visitors can leave a "donation" to pay for his asking price for the land as well as the cost of  providing security at the site. Funding was provided for the cost of security, but in February the funds were already used up and Svonavec says he can no longer afford to keep the land maintained and secure. Reports say that the security company that is currently in charge of security charges $10,000 per month. "That land has been paid for with 40 lives...the donation box is an insult to that cost. I think Svonavec believes his land, because it has the blood of my cousin and 39 other people, it's worth more," said Patrick White, Vice President, Families of Flight 93.Images of Pakistan International Airlines sacrificing a goat went viral on Monday as the beleaguered state-run airline resumed ATR flights. All ten ATRs in its fleet were grounded last week in the aftermath of a crash near Havelian earlier this month. PIA ground staff ritually slaughtered the black goat beside an ATR-42, the same type of aircraft lost in the disaster. The move is thought to ward off bad luck in Pakistan. The ATR-42 was the company's first ATR back in service following the crash. PIA said on December 15 they had chartered a Lockheed C-130 Hercules from the air force to resume cancelled services.PIA Flight 661, an ATR-42 just under ten years old, crashed into mountainous terrain in the Abbottabad region of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa two weeks ago. The crash killed all 47 on board and left burning wreckage strewn for several kilometres.PIA still operate five ATR-42s and five ATR-72s. The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) announced inspections on December 11. The airline expected disruption to flights to smaller airports. Flight 661 was heading to Islamabad, having taken off from Chitral on a domestic flight. The plane reported engine trouble and lost control before the crash.PIA sacrificed the goat at Islamabad's Benazir Bhutto International Airport, ahead of a successful test flight to Multan. PIA stated ground staff acted on their own volition and were not influenced by managers.Another PIA ATR experienced troubles ahead of takeoff on December 11 and aborted the flight. The airline denied local media claims an engine caught fire. Pakistani media has claimed Flight 661 was operating with some known technical faults. The Aviation Herald reports receiving information to the contrary, and the airline also denies this.The CAA has left decisions on returning aircraft to service at the discretion of PIA and ATR. A CAA letter to PIA expressed concern over engine failures at the airline, and accused PIA of "shortcomings in maintenance [and] quality assurance."The latest crash is the tenth time a PIA aircraft has been written off since 2000. Only one other such accident was fatal, the loss of PIA Flight 688 in 2006. Flight 668, a Fokker F-27, crashed on takeoff. The disaster killed 45. That accident also involved an engine failure and a loss of control.The ATR-42 can carry up to 48 passengers. It is a twin-engine turboprop capable of using unpaved runways. PIA said the C-130 would be used for flights to Gilgit. With one ATR-42 declared airworthy as of December 15 PIA also said flights to Chitral could be expected to resume soon. A flight on December 15 using the C-130 was postponed by one day.Chairman Azam Saigol quit on December 12 for what he said were personal reasons. He had been drafted in to replace Nasser Jaffer following controversy generated when crews staged strikes to protest planned privatisation. The airline loses around 12-to-15 billion rupees annually, with taxpayers making up the shortfall.Saigol has been on PIA's board since 2013. The company said it needed a chair since changing organisational structure under provisions in the Companies Ordinance of 1984. He became chairman in May and is a prominent industrialist nationally, heading up major organisations. Saigol had been working for free, PIA said on December 12 ahead of his resignation.The government has offered his job to several candidates, all of whom have turned it down.Another issue for the airline comes in the form of a recently-submitted notice in the Senate. Filed by the People's Party of Pakistan, it describes an 'illegal' sale of a PIA Airbus A-310 to a German firm. Senator Saleem Mandviwalla said the jet had a valid certificate of airworthiness and originally went to Malta to be used in a film. Mandviwalla said the plane ended up in the hands of a German museum and was sold without the PIA board's consent. Federal Minister Muhammad Zubair said the aircraft was sold for for 290,000 euros despite being worth millions. Mandviwalla has called for a criminal investigation.In the continuing Safety Investigation Board's investigation into Flight 661's crash, a team of French and Canadian experts from ATR reached Islamabad on December 12 and took forensic samples from the wreck site. The team, assisting the safety board, was also there to plan wreckage removal.The crash site is remote, with conventional vehicular access ending several kilometres away. Rescuers had to walk the remainder.PIA state the aircraft was maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, including engine changes. The airline also say the crashed plane's engines were inspected, as standard, ahead of its final flight. An airline spokesperson asked journalists to refrain from speculating on the accident's cause.Bodies have been identified using DNA analysis, with at least sixteen returned to families. Identification was undertaken by the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS).The dead included six members of the same family, leaving behind a fourteen-year-old girl. Haseena Gul is entitled to tens of millions of rupees (equivalent to hundreds of thousands of euros) in compensation and numerous people have come forward claiming to be her relatives; she had remained with a friend in Chitral to study while her family travelled to Islamabad.Gul is currently receiving treatment from PIMS for psychological problems. "They will not let me study in Chitral," she appealed to the government. "Please have me shifted to Islamabad where I can study and fulfil my parents' dream."Also on board was Junaid Jamshed, a celebrated popstar who abandoned music in favour of preaching after joining Tableeghi Jamaat. Jamshed ran a nationally successful fashion business. His wife joined him on the flight. Other passengers included Osama Warraich, who was a senior civil servant in Chitral, and two infants.On Monday, Flight 898 to Kuala Lumpur diverted to Karachi. A replacement aircraft reached its destination over four hours late. PIA denied media claims the original plane suffered bursts in its hydraulics, but did not clarify what had happened. Also on Monday Flight 764 from from Jeddah to Faisalabad arrived ten hours late. All 130 passengers had their luggage left behind; PIA said it could take up to two days before they were reunited with their belongings.Early this morning, an express passenger train (carrying about 700 passengers) derailed in Pakistan, leaving at least 56 dead and 150 more injured. At least ten of the carriages that comprised the service between Karachi and Lahore left the track and fell down an embankment, ripping them apart.The disaster occurred some 250 miles north of Karachi at 2:00 a.m. PST (UTC+5). Pakistan Railways says it appears the derailment, which sent carriages hurtling into a waterlogged field adjacent to the track, was caused by extreme cold, which in turn caused a welded joint in the track to contract and split. Brigadier Nazhar Jamil, head of an army rescue team presently on-site, said he believed another possible cause was excessive speed in combination with inadequate maintenance.State-run PTV said that Asad Saeed, General Manager of Pakistan Railways, had told them "A welded track joint broke. Tracks shrink in winter. There are many forces on the track and sometimes this joint breaks." He went on to rule out terrorist involvement and point out that the tracks are old and the government is midway through a programme to replace them. He said other services were not affected.The violence of the crash ripped carriages apart, leaving wreckage strewn across the surrounding area. A segment of one of the rails was torn up, and the engine came to rest approximately a mile away from the initial site of the derailment. Sources vary on how many carriages were involved. The Times says ten carriages derailed and does not state the total number in the train, while Sky News reports that twelve of the train's sixteen carriages derailed and Xinhua gives the numbers as fifteen cars of a seventeen-car train. Reports on passenger numbers also vary, with the train carrying between 700 and 900 passengers, mostly returning from the Islamic holiday of Eid ul-Adha.Jamil told reporters that many lives were saved by local residents, who rushed many of the wounded to hospital using rickshaws, scooters and donkey-drawn carts. Army engineers had to free the last survivors from the wreckage using two rail-mounted cranes and cutting equipment. One of the last to be rescued was a three-year-old girl, who's foot was seriously injured.Police and soldiers carried the wounded to waiting ambulances, which rushed them to three nearby hospitals.President Pervez Musharraf has ordered an immediate inquiry, which will be conducted by Pakistan Railways. The inquiry will examine whether any responsibility must be taken by any of those involved, as well as ways of preventing another similar disaster from taking place.Fatal train accidents occur with some regularity in Pakistan, a problem frequently exacerbated by overcrowding. This is the worst accident since the Ghotki rail crash in 2005. Over 120 people were then killed as the Karachi Express—the same service as in this accident—hit a train that had broken down from behind; the wreckage from both these trains was then struck by a third passenger express. The driver of the Karachi Express had misread a signal.Suspected Somali pirates have hijacked the MV Al Khaliq, a Panama-flagged ship, off the eastern coast of Africa on Thursday. International maritime officials said the ship was seized about 330 kilometers west of the Seychelles islands.  Officials reported that the ship is carrying 26 crew members — 24 Indians and two Burmese.  The Al Khaliq is the fourth ship Somali pirates have hijacked this month, and the third in the past week."The MV Al Khaliq, a Panamanian-flagged bulk carrier, has been hijacked early this morning off Somalia," said a spokeswoman for the NATO's antipiracy mission in the UK. "There were 26 crew on board, 24 of whom are Indian and two Burmese."The mission confirmed that the ship had been hijacked. "Within the last hour, an EU NAVFOR maritime patrol aircraft has confirmed the hijack of MV Al Khaliq, [with] six pirates on board and two attack skiffs in tow," it said. "The mother skiff [of the pirates] has already been taken on board with a crane."The European Union's anti-piracy mission reported that crew members radioed for help before losing contact. An EU aircraft that flew over the scene reported seeing six pirates on board and the Al Khaliq towing two pirate skiffs. NATO's nearest defence ship was located about eight hours away from the Al Khaliq when it was overtaken by the pirates.The EU and NATO also said that pirates released open fire on another ship, the Italian-flagged MV Jolly Rosso, off the coast of Kenya on the same day. That ship, however, managed to escape by increasing its throttles to eighteen knots, a spokeswoman for the antipiracy mission said."The ship took appropriate evasive action, managed to evade the attack and is proceeding on her voyage. There were no casualties," read a statement by the mission.Somali pirates have hijacked dozens of ships over the last two years, taking in tens of millions of dollars in ransom money. The pirates are believed to be holding seven ships in all. A new report on the pirates suggests that current international strategies to stop the hijackings are not effective.The report, put out by the Norwegian Institute for Urban and Regional Research, said the international naval patrols off Somalia's coast are expensive, and that the pirates can evade the patrols or escape to shore. It also noted that efforts to combat piracy by strengthening Somalia's Western-backed government are limited, because the pirates come from specific regions and clans, far away from the capital.The researchers, however, said that there are centers of power close to the pirate bases, and that these can be allies in fighting piracy. The researchers say that to effectively combat piracy, the international community needs to support these local structures.Two explorers have set off from Knightsbridge, London Wednesday morning (0900 GMT) in a propeller-powered dune buggy heading for the Sahara. Giles Cardozo, age 29, from Dorset, with chief pilot and expedition leader Neil Laughton, age 45, an ex-SAS officer, will fly and drive the amazing two-seater vehicle more than 6,000-km (3,750-miles) to fabled Timbuktu on February 20. "I just can't wait to see their faces when we fly in and start playing football with them. I don't think they will be able to believe somebody in a flying car has just visited them," 'extreme golfer' Mr Laughton said before the departure. Timbuktu (Timbuctoo; Koyra Chiini: Tumbutu; French: Tombouctou) is an isolated city in Tombouctou Region, in the West African nation of Mali. They will traverse Europe and Africa about 42 days to arrive at the city in Mali, West Africa before returning home via Senegal. The home-made 450-kilogram Skycar has been designed by Cardozo in just 18 months. It is the world's first road legal bio fuelled flying car. It is a four cylinders modified Rage Motorsport off-road racing buggy which was approved by the government last month. It runs on bioethanol and is powered by a modified 140bhp Yamaha R1 superbike engine with a lightweight automatic continuously variable transmission from a snowmobile.The team invested about £250,000 ($380,000) to make the 1000cc engine Skycar desert-proof. In its maiden voyage, the flying car will be escorted by up to 13 people convoy including an eight-wheel truck, two Toyota Land Cruiser 4x4s and several motorbikes. It has left London's Sheraton Park Tower hotel, heading through the capital to Dunsfold airfield in Surrey. The team had initially planned to take the air route across the English Channel, but the 35km flight was vetoed by aviation authorities. Skycar is required by law to obtain a license from Britain's Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), including a permit from the British Microlight Aircraft Association (BMAA). Skycar spokeswoman, Charlie Bell, however clarified that the team was "in liaison with the CAA and they are looking to finalize the permit," adding that it is in order for the rest of the trip.The Skycar will thereafter fly over the high-altitude Pyrenees near Andorra, and would cross over the 14-km (nine-mile) Strait of Gibraltar. The prepared journey also includes the route through Mauritania, Atlas Mountains in Morocco and into Mali. It will further cross the harsh environment of Sahara’s remote “Rub' al Khali" (empty quarter), for up to two weeks amid real fears of terrorist attacks.The expedition will not have an easy task, especially since the Skycar will be tested to the limits amid punishing operating environments and weather conditions. "Clearly the reliability of the car is crucial," said Mr Laughton. "We're going to have to cope with wind chill temperatures as low as -30 deg C and blistering heat of up to 50 deg C. But it's been fully tested at a secret location and it 100 per cent works," he added.The Parajet Skycar is a prototype flying car. It was developed by British paramotor manufacturer Parajet. The flying car utilizes a paramotor and a parafoil attached to a modified dune buggy to achieve sustained level flight. Should the engine fail, the vehicle can glide back to the ground. Should the canopy rip, an emergency reserve parachute would be deployed. It requires three minutes to convert it from a car to an aircraft. The prototype runs on biodiesel and is fully road-legal.In 2004 British engineer Giles Cardozo, a paramotor manufacturer, has invented a fan-powered flying car to prove the Skycar is real and works. “I started making a paramotor on wheels that you sit on and take off and it suddenly occurred to me, ‘Why not just have a car that does everything?’” Cardozo said. His Wiltshire-based company Parajet built the paramotor that the adventurer Bear Grylls did fly near Everest in 2008. In 1998, Grylls, aged 23, became the youngest British to ascend Mount Everest. In May 2007, Grylls and Cardozo departed from Pheriche, about 32 kilometres south of Mount Everest.Cardozo has claimed he may finally have made it. “I’ve been dreaming about making flying cars since I was a boy, thinking about all the ways it could be done and seeing how all the other people in the world have done it wrong. No one’s ever made one that really does work that you can go out and buy. But here’s the ultimate solution: it’s cheap, it’s safe, it works, all the technology’s already there. So I pushed ahead and thought, ‘We’ve got to do it’,” he said.If the Skycar becomes successful, Cardozo’s company plans a limited production with a selling price of  £35,000 to £40,000 for a standard model and £60,000 for a high-performance sports version. “It will be a serious aircraft but also a proper road machine, with acceleration to match your average sports car,” says Cardozo. “I’m not going to sell millions of them but even if we sell 20 we’ll be laughing,” he added.The explorers, with the aid of sponsors, supporters and benefactor Sir Ranulph Twisleton-Wykeham-Fiennes, 3rd Baronet OBE (known as 'Ranulph (Ran) Fiennes'), have aimed to raise more than £100,000 for some charities including an African orphanage.Services were slowly restored after an unscheduled strike by SNCF drivers closed one of Paris's six main railway stations.Gare Saint-Lazare was closed from 10 am local time on Tuesday morning.Members of the Sud Rail labour union later voted to return to work, and the station re-opened at 7 pm the same day.Gare Saint-Lazare is Europe's third busiest station, and its lines serve Paris suburbs, as well as inter-city routes to Normandy in northern France.A 40-foot section of scenic Highway 1 about 12 miles south of Carmel, California crumbled into the Pacific Ocean on Wednesday, preventing access to the popular tourist area of  Big Sur from the north.The collapse of the southbound lane of the two-lane highway, also known as the Pacific Coast Highway, follows several days of rain. The soil under the northbound lane is also in danger of giving way. Drivers heading north were blocked at the Bixby Creek Bridge; the rest of the  road has been closed to traffic indefinitely. A long closure is expected to hurt the tourist business upon which Big Sur and and the tiny surrounding communities depend.The  California Highway Patrol (CHP) said no one was injured.The section that collapsed is on a curve south of the Rocky Creek Bridge,  where the highway clings to  the scenic Santa Lucia Mountains, and near the Bixby Creek Bridge,  one of the "iconic" arch bridges that make this stretch of the highway with its dramatic vistas such a well-known scenic drive.The cause of the collapse was not apparent as the road surface looked new, and no seeping water was visible. "It's basically just nature," a CHP officer  said.With Highway 1 closed, drivers wishing to access Big Sur from the north could go inland on Highway 101  and pass through  the Salinas Valley. To return to the coast drivers must pass over a steep, winding mountainous road. This route adds at least an hour to the journey.Portions of a DC-10 jet registered to the Miami, Florida-based Arrow Cargo company fell from the sky over a residential area in the city of Manaus, Brazil on Thursday.Parts of one of the turbines of the aircraft caused some damage to a car and a few houses, but no injuries were reported. The airplane was traveling to its destination of Bogota, Colombia. According to the Brazilian Defense Ministry, the parts that detached are the rear exhaust diffuser and a section of the exhaust. The involved plane, registered N526MD, was built in 1978."I opened the window after I heard this huge boom and I see this thing up in flames, right in front of my doorway," said Aparecida Silva, a local resident, to Globo TV. "I had no idea what it was, I thought it was some weird, ugly thing or a UFO or something." ((Translated from Portuguese))Portuguese language: ‍Estava no melhor do sono, ouvi uma pancada, abri a janela e vi algo pegando fogo. Aí eu não sabia o que era e disse: é um bicho feio, um extraterrestre ou algo assim.Rai Marinho, a representative for the Arrow Cargo in Manaus, said that the jet, which was carrying an engineer and three crew members, had engine difficulties soon after taking off. It was able to keep flying, but was obliged to divert to Medellin due to inclement weather, where it landed without incident. The representative added that his company would pay residents for the damage.A United States federal air marshal shot dead on Wednesday an American Airlines passenger named Rigoberto Alpizar on American Airlines Flight 924, a Boeing 757, at Miami International Airport, in Miami, Florida, USA.  The 44-year-old passenger ran out of the door of the airplane after he reboarded the plane, following a customs check in Miami.  He was intercepted by the marshals before reaching the jetway and told to get on the ground. According to Air Marshal Service spokesman Dave Adams, the passenger did so, but then reached for a bag, at which point a marshal fired two or three shots and killed the passenger. The passengers recall that they heard up to six shots. The marshals say Alpizar claimed that he was carrying a bomb before being killed.  No other witness has publicly concurred with that account, although one passenger recalled Alpizar saying, "I've got to get off, I've got to get off."  No bomb was found when authorities searched the airplane.The shots were fired in the boarding bridge — the corridor that connects the aircraft to the terminal.  Reports also indicate SWAT teams surrounded the plane. According to CNN, a federal official indicated that this is the first time an air marshal has fired a weapon near an airplane.Alpizar was a Costa Rican native who became a U.S. citizen and lived in Maitland, an Orlando suburb.  The 44-year-old passenger was returning from Quito, Ecuador to Orlando, Florida.  The plane was en-route to Orlando from Medellin, Colombia.MSNBC reports that another passenger, Mary Gardner, told a local TV station, WTVJ-TV, that the man started "running crazily through the aisle", as a woman travelling with him ran after yelling that her husband suffered from bipolar disorder and had not taken his medication.Federal Air Marshals are deployed on flights to deal with security threats on board U.S. air carriers. Following the revamping of domestic security after the World Trade Center attacks, the service was directed to increase its deployment from about fifty to several thousand marshals. In response, the marshal training program was modified and abbreviated, from the original fourteen weeks to five weeks for candidates without prior law enforcement experience and one week for trainees with such experience.A passenger was killed Monday evening after a fire started in a washroom aboard a train near Leighton Buzzard, in Bedfordshire, England. Emergency services were called to the London Midland train, where they found the body of a female passenger who had suffered burns.British Transport Police confirmed one female individual was killed in the blaze. A spokesperson said: "The deceased woman has injuries consistent with burns, no other person is believed to have been involved in the incident. Officers from the fire and ambulance services are on the scene."The fire has caused serious disruption to trains on the West Coast Main Line. A spokesperson for Network Rail said they were attempting to reopen two of the four tracks on the line as London Midland scrambled to organise a replacement bus service.London Midland said no-one else was injured in the incident. "The fire appeared to have been in the toilet," a spokesperson said. "A passenger reported the fire to a conductor. All the other passengers got off safely."U.S. security officials have cleared a Delta Airlines passenger jet diverted to New Mexico to take off again because "no suspicious items" had been found. The aircraft was reportedly initially diverted after the crew found a note with the word "bomb" written on it in the lavatory, but security officials have declined to comment on the nature of the "potential security threat".Delta Airlines 1706 — a domestic U.S. flight between Detroit and San Diego — diverted to Albuquerque International Sunport in Albuquerque, where the Boeing 737-800 aircraft was taken to a remote area of the airport. Passengers were interviewed by FBI agents, and dogs searched all the luggage on board. No one has yet been arrested, but the note has been determined to be hoax.One passenger said the captain spoke over the intercom, saying: "We're getting ready to divert. It's probably a hoax, but we've got to take this very seriously." After being cleared of any threat, the aircraft was expected to continue to San Diego.The flight had departed from Belgium, and safely landed at 11:49 A.M. Eastern Time."The captain of Continental Flight 61, which was en route from Brussels to Newark, died in flight, apparently of natural causes," said a spokeswoman for the airline in an email.According to the airline, there was an additional relief pilot on board who took over control of the plane after the initial pilot died.247 people were on board. There are no reports of any injuries.A passenger ship, the Voyager enroute between Spain's Balearic Islands to the Italian island of Sardinia, radioed a distress call earlier today after getting into difficulties in heavy seas. A huge wave shattered a bridge window, damaging control systems inside.The Bahamian-registered ship is carrying 776 passengers and crew, 480 of them Spanish. Some sustained minor injuries when the ship sailed into the storm at 8am UTC today. French and Spanish tugs have been dispatched to assist the vessel, and the British gas tanker Gimi has diverted to offer help and is relaying radio signals from the stricken ship. Voyager "is in a difficult situation but is not drifting", according to the French coastguard, with only a single propeller still providing force.The ship was sailing from Tunis to Barcelona when she encountered the storm. The crew have restored power to two of her four engines and she is now diverting to Tunis, and is expected to reach port on Tuesday.On Sunday night in Prague, Czech Republic, 183 people on a Jet2 flight arriving from Manchester, United Kingdom were evacuated after, reportedly, discovery in the aircraft's toilets of a picture of a bomb.The Czech foreign ministry's spokesperson said a painting of a bomb had been found in the plane's toilet by a flight attendant. According to the spokesperson, a search of the plane turned up no bombs.A passenger said they were informed of a "threatening note" in the aircraft's bathroom, and kept for roughly four hours at the airport.From passenger accounts, every single passenger on the plane was interviewed, and the CCTV checked. One of the passengers said that, despite all of this, they saw no arrests in connection with this incident.A spokeswoman for Jet2 said they were sorry about any inconvenience the evacuation caused, but consider people's safety on-board the most important thing.The Panamanian-flagged cruise ship MV Ushuaia, operated by Antarpply Expeditions of Argentina, ran aground near Cape Anna at the entrance to Wilhelmina Bay. Having been stuck on rocks in the Antarctic Peninsula, it suffered a puncture in two diesel fuel tanks, and was leaking fuel and taking on a "minimal amount of water." It had two cracks, but is not in danger of sinking. The passengers were rescued by Achiles, a Chilean Navy ship, which took them to Chile's Base Presidente Eduardo Frei Montalva in Antarctica. The station has a 1300 metre-long airstrip which can facilitate airlifts for the passengers. They will be taken by a Hercules C-130 plane to the Port of Ushuaia, from which they can be flown back to South America.Argentine Admiral Daniel Martin Alberto said that the 89 passengers onboard were all in good health. Argentina and Chile are both sending a rescue mission to the stricken ship, with 40 crew members. The Antarctic Dream, at seven nautical miles away, was reported to have changed course to collect and transfer passengers to Tierra del Fuego. However, the Chilean Navy got to Ushuaia first.The Australian Antarctic Division announced that "as well as the New Zealander, there were 11 Australians, 12 Americans, 14 Dutch, nine Germans, seven Britons, six Chinese, six Spaniards, five Swiss, three Italians, two Irish, two French, two Canadians, a Cypriot and a Belgian. The crew consisted of 28 Argentinians, eight Chileans, three Uruguayans, and one Spaniard."Meanwhile, Jon Bowermaster, a writer aboard the National Geographic Explorer, described the situation: "We had hurricane winds yesterday — 103 miles per hour (166 kilometres per hour) and gusting — which may have contributed to the grounding."Although there is no major leak, containment efforts are being made by Chilean navy ship Lautaro to stem the fuel leak, which has spread for half a mile around the stranded ship. Salvaging the ship, however, was proving more of a problem.A European Union peacekeeping helicopter crashed near Banja Luka in Bosnia and Herzegovina yesterday, killing the four servicemen on board. Two were German and two were Spanish.The helicopter belonged to Spain and was deployed as part of the EUFOR peacekeeping mission, which Spain and Germany have 250 and 130 soldiers engaged in respectively. It was a German-built Messerschmitt-Bolkow-Blohm BO-105. Spain's defence ministry named the deceased Spaniards as Lieutenant Santiago Hormigo Ledesma and Sergeant Joaquin Lopez Moreno. The Germans have not been named.The cause of the accident is unknown, but the crash was witnessed by a second military helicopter in the area at the time. They reported seeing smoke from the helicopter but little else because the mountainous and forested terrain impeded their view. It is also known that the aircraft departed Sarajevo on a routine flight and crashed half an hour later after issueing a distress call. An investigation is ongoing.The bodies were recovered today. The Spaniards were flown home on a C-130 military transport plane, after a short ceremony in which a Spanish general placed medals upon the coffins in the presence of the Spanish ambassador and EUFOR officials.A EUFOR spokesman said the bodies of the Germans will probably be flown home on Monday.The final farewell train in the first series of Shinkansen super-express, called zero-kei (0 Series), ran through western Japan Sunday afternoon from Shin-Osaka to Hakata. 0 Series has served in Japan since 1964, undergoing some model changes, and was retired from regular runs at the end of the last month. Extra farewell runs were scheduled for three days, with all seats allowed to be reserved, and this was the final run. On Sunday in Shin-Osaka station, a farewell ceremony for Shinkansen 0 Series began at 14:30, where those who contributed to its debut were invited. Around 14:45, the train slowly appeared to enter Track 20. The head and tail cars changed roles, and the train got ready by 14:48 as HIKARI 347 bound for Hakata. And, at 14:56, blowing a long horn, the 0-Series train left for the final trip. Japanese news media report that approximately 2,800 people gathered to see off the final departure, so did many in the stations the train stopped by. Lastly, the train arrived at Hakata as scheduled at 18:01, welcomed by about 1,600 fans. Shinkansen network was launched on 1 October 1964, just before Tokyo Olympic Games, with a route connecting the capital Tokyo and Osaka City (now operated by JR-Central). The route for 0-Series trains was gradually extended to the west, which in 1975 reached Hakata area of Fukuoka City (now by JR-West). Shinkansen 0 Series has a characteristic round face with a part like a shallow bowl, and was nicknamed "dango-bana" or "dangoppana"  (literally, "dumpling nose"). At the time of its debut, 0 Series ran at a maximum speed of 210 km/h, which was the world's highest. HIKARI, meaning beam or light, was the name of trains for the faster service. Even while more modern and faster series were rising, 0 Series continued to serve for some years, but in 1999 it ceased from JR-Central services, and in March 2000 from regular HIKARI runs of JR-West.According to the media, remaining 0-Series Shinkansen cars are destined to be scrapped. Some other cars, which were withdrawn earlier, are preserved in museums including one in Osaka and National Railway Museum in the U.K.Ten people are dead and up to 200 injured after three trains crashed in Glendale, a suburb of Los Angeles. Two passenger trains and a freight train carrying gravel collided at 6:05 a.m. local time during the morning rush hour. Both passenger trains were double-decker Metrolink trains, one northbound from Union Station, the other southbound. One train overturned, and the other caught fire.The northbound train normally carries 30 to 50 passengers. The southbound train normally has 200 to 250 people on board.Over 300 firefighters are attending the scene.The chief of police of Glendale reported at a press conference that a man trying to commit suicide drove his car onto the train tracks, but apparently changed his mind and left the vehicle before the impact, leaving the vehicle on the tracks. The suspect was taken into custody by police officers who arrived at the scene of the accident and has, according to the police, already admitted driving the vehicle onto the tracks.The Coast Guard reported yesterday that a cargo ship laden with cement sank overnight in the Philippines, killing the vessel's chief engineer. A passing ship rescued the 19 others, while a coast guard rescue boat itself required rescue in strong waves in the region after getting into difficulties before losing contact.MV Maria Lourdes, a 639-ton vessel, had been transporting 22,000 bags of cement from Iligan City in Lanao del Norte and was headed towards a town in Occidental Mindoro when the starboard main engine failed. While running on only the port main engine, strong waves battered the ship until shortly after 7:00 p.m. Tuesday night, when she went down at Antique. Chief engineer Alex Tambasin was drowned.The Coast Guard received word on the emergency at 7:03 p.m. from Candano Shipping Lines. Vessel 3504 was dispatched to aid the stricken ship, but the boat was also troubled by strong waves and eventually contact was lost. A passing ship rescued the survivors from the Maria Lourdes instead.Vessel 3504's crew were located on Sibay Island by the Philippine Air Force. The seven-man crew had abandoned the boat to rough seas and sought refuge on the island. They were rescued by helicopter on Wednesday morning.Several new developments have occurred surrounding the loss of Philippine ferry MV Princess of the Stars, which capsized and sank on June 21 during a severe storm. The loss near Sibuyan island during Typhoon Fengshen, known locally as Frank, killed more than 800 of those on board.Ship owner Sulpicio Lines has sued Del Monte Philippines for failing to declare a cargo of the dangerous pesticide endosulfan that was on board. Sulpicio yesterday sued the Board of Marine Inquiry (BMO) for allegedly making comments contributing to negative publicity surrounding the line and asked a court to stop the body continuing its investigation, saying it no longer had any authority. Today, that request was denied.Another outcome of today's proceedings is a deadline for Sulpicio to recover the ship. The company has ninety days to ensure the recovery operation is complete.Yesterday, an eight-page complaint was filed against Del Monte at Manila City's regional trial court. It alleges that Del Monte violated the line's terms by failing to inform Sulpicio that the shipment included edosulfan. The line notes that any toxic cargo should have been declared. Suplicio is seeking PHP5.5 million from the company for alleged negligence."Due to Del Monte’s deceit and non-disclosure, plaintiff was led to believe that the subject shipment of Endosulfan was a regular cargo. Had defendant Del Monte disclosed the toxic nature of the cargo, plaintiff would not have loaded the same on board a passenger-cargo vessel, be it MV Princess of the Paradise or MV Princess of the Stars," said a statement by Suplicio.The exact total sought as damages is P549,661.11, which accounts for the correct rate for shipping if the toxic cargo had been declared, plus double rates as punitive measures. On top of those damages sought is P3 million to cover specialist recovery required for the chemical, P1 million in moral damges for lost corporate goodwill and damage to Sulpicio's reputation, P500,000 in moral damages for Sulpicio marketing vice president and shareholder Jordan L. Go, P200,000 in exemplary damages and P300,000 in legal costs.The discovery that the ship was carrying the endosulfan shipment, which totaled 10 metric tons, led to a ban on fishing in the nearby town of San Fernando and an emergency cessation of search and rescue activities, which were mostly being conducted by divers. The pesticide is banned in many countries and is subject to various regulations in the Philippines. Water samples from the wreck site show that thus far the pesticide has not leaked.A specialist joint team is set to arrive soon from the European Union and the United Nations Environmental Programme to assist with opearations relating to the pesticide, which is a neurotoxin.The Philippine Coast Guard yesterday awarded some 42 staff divers and six civilian volunteer divers for their work at the Princess of the Stars. They were particularly praised for being keen to return to work. They are awaiting the results of tests for exposure to endosulfan.Endosulfan is one of the items set for retrieval in a new deadline set by the government task force overseeing the disaster. Sulpicio must also recover the remaining bodies and the unused fuel on board within 90 days.Sulpicio had initially offered to have the job done in 164 days, but Transportation Undersecretary Elena Bautista rejected this proposal, saying "Out of humanitarian reasons, I told them not to prolong the agony of the victims' relatives all the way to Christmas." Sulpicio was given until Wednesday to name the salvage contractor who would be responsible for recovering the ship, after which they were to submit their retrieval plans to the International Maritime Organisation.Sulpicio was also given the option of simply towing the ship closer to shore to do the recovery instead of refloating it, which they have opted for. In Bautista's words: "Based on the Sulpicio report this morning, their plan now is to just tow the vessel to the shore, get the hazardous materials out, get the fuel out, and get the people out and I think that would be more cost-effective and most practical because that can be done, maybe within a month, as compared to refloating, which would probably take three months."Sulpicio is currently considering three different potential salvors, which remain unnamed. They have been told that the company needs to have expertise suitable enough to ensure marine life is not harmed and hazardous materials are not spilled. There is a possibility that the planned towing will damage nearby coral. It is already confirmed by the coastguard that oil onboard cannot leak. Most of the 250,000 litres of bunker fuel are in the service tank, which is considered safe. Only the small amount of oil in the base tank may leak but oil spill containment booms are already in place should this occur.The government has said that, had Sulpicio not made provisions to get the salvage done, then they would have performed the operation themselves. Had this occurred, Sulpicio would have been charged for it, with the bill estimated at P100 million.One aspect of another legal case was resolved today. Sulpicio had questioned the authority of the BMI to conduct investigations, instead saying only the Maritime Industry Authority (MARINA) had the right to do so, and pointing to a separate inquiry started by MARINA. However, a hearing today found that the BMI and MARINA serve different roles. The BMI's role is solely to determine the cause of marine accidents. MARINA's purpose is more concerned with regulations, and is mainly investigating the role of Sulpicio themselves. "We are looking at why we should not cancel the company’s franchise," explained MARINA Administrator Vicente Suazo Jr.Both investigations are ongoing.PIA Flight 661 crashed into a mountainous region near Havelian, Pakistan today. None of those on board are thought to have survived.The Pakistan International Airlines domestic flight from Chitral was nearing its destination in Islamabad. PIA said the ATR-42 carried 42 passengers, five crewmembers, and one additional staff member. Dozens of bodies, many badly burned, have been recovered from the fiery wreckage.Local policeman Kurshid Tanoli said emergency vehicles can only reach Batolani, the nearest village. Personnel must then walk half an hour to the scene, he said.Debris is strewn for several kilometres across the Abbottabad region of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. Bodies are being recovered to Ayub Medical Teaching Hospital. The airline said the flight carried two Austrians and one Chinese national.Among those on board was Junaid Jamshed, a celebrated popstar who abandoned music in favour of preaching after joining Tableeghi Jamaat. Jamshed ran a nationally successful fashion business. His wife joined him on the flight. Osama Warraich, a senior civil servant in Chitral, was also on board.Passengers also included two infants.The aircraft, AP-BHO, was just under ten years old. PIA reported the aircraft encountered engine trouble at around 16:15 local time. After beginning a descent and declaring mayday, the plane lost control and turned left before crashing. The cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder  are in the Civil Aviation Authority's possession.Pakistani media has claimed the flight was operating with some known technical faults. The Aviation Herald reports receiving information to the contrary.Investigators with Iran's Civil Aviation Organization (CAO) have concluded that pilot error was to blame for last month's crash of Aria Air Flight 1525. The Ilyushin Il-62 ran off the runway at Mashad and struck a wall while landing, killing 17 people and wounding 30.The CAO Flight Standards Department's deputy director Faramarz Sarvi stated that the aircraft had been traveling at excessive speed. Sarvi added that lack of crew cooperation was also suspected, but denied reports that the pilots had been arguing when the accident occurred. However, the Aviation Herald claims that the cockpit voice recorder showed they had been."Because of the high-speed, the pilot apparently lost control of the plane upon landing, causing it to veer off the runway," said Sarvi. He further stated that the crew did not answer warnings from the tower to slow down and that there was no equipment failure. Both aircraft and crew had passed safety checks prior to the plane taking off.Sarvi stated that around 4,200 hours of investigations were conducted.A Sukhoi Su-25 military jet has exploded in midair near Vladivostok, Russia, killing the pilot. The Russian Air Force said the plane was 140km (90 miles) from the port city on the Pacific coast.The plane, a single seat twinjet used to support ground forces, was on a training mission when the explosion occurred. Russia has grounded all their Su-25s while the crash is investigated by order of the air force's commander. The investigation will be conducted by a special commission of the Ministry of Defence.Colonel Alexander Drobyshevsky, spokesman for the Air Force, said "Today, on March 20 at 3:33 Moscow time (0:33 GMT), a Su-25 aircraft crashed during a training flight near the Chernigovka airbase, 143 kilometers from Vladivostok." The crash site is in mountainous terain, and the Far Eastern Union of Air Force and Air Defense's investigational commission has flown in and is on-site.Uncomfirmed reports suggest that immediately prior to the crash the pilot reported an engine fire, followed by a loss of contact. Interfax reports that an anonymous source involved with the investigation said "The head of flight control reported that he saw a flash under the fuselage of the strike plane. More than likely one of the weapons exploded."Drobyshevsky offered an alternative explanation. "According to preliminary reports, the plane developed technical problems during live firing exercises," he said.Marwoto Komar, pilot of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200, a Boeing 737-400 which overshot the runway in Yogyakarta, Indonesia on March 7, killing 21, has spoken to the media for the first time about the accident. Five of the deceased were Australian."I am deeply, deeply mourning for the victims and for the Australians," Mr Komar told News Limited . A recent report found his actions to be chiefly responsible for the disaster, finding that he had ignored fifteen automated warnings that he was going too fast, and describing him as fixated with landing. As a result, he is likely to face criminal charges.Mr Komar broke down outside his Jakarta residence as he told reporters “I didn't plan for this to happen. The point is that I want people to know I am deeply in mourning and also that I understand what the families feel. I just did my job as normal, as usual, flying as a pilot.”Mr Komar is currently undergoing psychological treatment for mental problems caused by the crash. His flying license has been suspended. "Every day I am here at home, I have never run away. I have explained everything to the KNKT (Indonesian National Transportation Safety Committee) and to the police," he said.Mr Komar said he couldn't comment on technical aspects of the crash, or of the criticisms of his conduct, as the matter is still under police investigation. He is likely to face negligence charges which carry a prison sentence if convicted.Three other Garuda employees are currently being questioned in Jakarta by police as part of the investigation. They've been told that they are being interrogated as "witnesses".Meanwhile, Emirsyah Satar, managing director of the airline, has announced an intention to resume flights to Europe next year, assuming success in a current bid to get the airline off the list of air carriers banned in the EU, where all Indonesian airlines were placed earlier this year. He suggested Amsterdam as the most likely destination.The pilot and co-pilot of Tuninter Flight 1153, which crashed into the Mediterranean Sea in 2005, killing sixteen people, have each received ten-year jail sentences for the ditching of the flight. They were found to have prayed instead of trying to direct the plane to safety when the engines failed. Tuninter Flight 1153, from Bari, Italy, to Djerba, Tunisia, crashed into Italian waters on August 6, 2005.The flight ran into trouble because the ATR 72 twin-engined turboprop had mistakenly been fitted with the fuel gauge for an ATR 42, which has a lower fuel capacity. The incorrect reading on the gauge was relied upon, and led to the aircraft suffering fuel starvation and eventually running out of fuel. The right engine failed at 23,000 feet, and the left at 7,000 feet.Captain Shafik Al Gharbi and co-pilot Ali Kebaier Lassoued were described as having panicked and started praying aloud, rather than following emergency procedures to bring the plane safely to a runway. After gliding for sixteen minutes, the pilots decided to attempt a crash-landing in the Mediterranean, and the aircraft crashed into the sea about 23 nautical miles to the Northwest of Palermo.The court in Palermo also sentenced five other employees of Tuninter to sentences of between eight and nine years' imprisonment. None of the accused were in court to hear the verdict, and none will serve time in jail before the appeals process is completed.According to a spokesman for NATO, an attempted hijacking of a Norwegian tanker in the Gulf of Aden by Somali pirates has been thwarted by NATO forces.The MV Front Ardennes came under attack by pirates in a small skiff at about 6:00 PM on Saturday. Helicopters and a warship were dispatched to rescue the vessel, and the pirates were apprehended seven hours after the initial hijacking. Officials said that pirates tried to flee in the dark, but were caught by a Canadian vessel.Seven of the pirate gunmen were temporarily detained, but were later released. NATO spokesman Lieutenant Commander Alexandre Santos Fernandes stated that since there was no Canadian law that could have prosecuted the pirates, they had to be released.Piracy is rife off the eastern coast of Africa; on Saturday, Somali pirates seized a Belgian ship, the Pompei, with its ten crew members, as it was headed south for the Seychelles islands. Over sixty ships, in total have been hijacked by pirates since the start of last year. Currently, pirates are thought to be holding about three hundred crew members from seventeen ships.On Saturday, May 19, a ship chartered by the United Nations' (UN) World Food Programme (WFP), came under attack off the coast of Somalia after making a delivery in Merca.Two speedboats with armed guards were sent out to intercept the attack. One of these men was killed. The ship which was headed to Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, did not fall into the hands of the pirates.Since the attack, WFP has suspended deliveries by ship. Shipping is the main and fastest way of getting food relief into Somalia. This comes just days after WFP announced that it was stepping up food deliveries."This attack underscores the growing problem of piracy off Somalia which, if unresolved, will sever the main artery of food assistance to the country – and to the people who rely on it for their survival," said Josette Sheeran, executive director of the WFP in a news release."Unless action is taken now, not only will our supply lines be cut, but also those of other aid agencies working in various parts of Somalia.""WFP is very saddened and alarmed by the death of the guard, who showed great courage while the ship came under attack. We send our sincere condolences to his family," she continued. "We urge key nations to do their utmost to address this plague of piracy, which is now threatening our ability to feed one million Somalis.""We are not taking any risks after being victims four times. We planned to go to Somali this week but following Saturday's incident our ship will not sail," said Karim Kudrat who owns MV Rozen, which was hijacked in February and released forty days later upon payment of ransom. The United States Navy's Maritime Liaison Office (MARLO) in Bahrain has issued a warning, advising all ships to stay at least 200 nautical miles (NM) off the coast of Somalia.This month alone, four ships have been hijacked by pirates and three of them are still being held. Two of the ships, South Korean fishing trawlers, were boarded some 210 NM off the coast, which is outside of Somalia's Exclusive Economic Zone. Scores of crewmembers remain hostages. The sailors are said to be from China, India, Vietnam and South Korea."Attacks have sprung up again because we believe there is no government in place to control the militants ... when the Islamists were in power there were no attacks," Cyrus Moday, a senior analyst at the International Maritime Bureau told Reuters.An anonymous maritime security expert told BBC News: "We have evidence that the pirates have a main contact in Puntland and it's up to the interim government in Somalia to track and arrest the contact for taking part in an illegal syndicate." “In the hope of enriching themselves, these pirates are very cruelly playing with the lives of the most vulnerable women and children who had to leave their homes because of fighting. We appeal to the Somali authorities to act to stop these pirates before they cause more misery both to the crews of hijacked ships and to the people who rely on WFP food for their survival,” Peter Goossens, director of WFP Somalia, said.Alleged pirates sometimes call themselves coast guards, claiming to protect Somali waters from polluters and illegal fishing.According to a maritime regulator, pirates have attacked two UN-contracted ships in the Malacca Strait.Reports say that no personnel on the ships were harmed, but the pirates took money and building materials belonging to the UN's World Food Programme.Noel Choong, of the International Maritime Bureau’s piracy centre in Malaysia, said the two ships were sailing from Sumatra to Aceh when the pirates struck. "The attacks took place not far apart from each other. There is a possibility that they were carried out by the same pirates," Mr Choong revealed.The attacks have boosted fears that piracy is escalating in the area. "We hope the two attacks are isolated incidents and not a start of more attacks," Mr Choong added. The Malacca Strait is one of the busiest sea lanes in the world, and for centuries, piracy has been a notorious threat in the Strait.In 2005, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore and Thailand announced they would start air patrols in a bid to tackle the threat from piracy.Pirates have seized control of the Sirius Star, a Saudi-owned oil tanker off the coast of Kenya and are steering her towards Somalia, reports the US Navy. The ship was captured roughly 830 kilometers south-east of Mombasa and is reportedly heading towards the Somali port of Eyl.The oil tanker was carrying over 2 million barrels of oil at the time of her capture, and was on her way to the United States via Cape Town. Reuters claimed that news of the attack raised crude oil prices around the world.Vela International Marine, the ship's owner, has said the Sirius Star is fully loaded. The oil could be worth up to US$100 million. The US Navy reports that all 25 crew from the United Kingdom, Croatia, the Philippines, Poland, and Saudi Arabia are 'safe'.The area off the East coast of Africa has seen a significant amount of piracy. In 2007, one-third of the world's piracy incidents occurred in this region.Hijacking off the coast of Somalia has become increasingly common over the last decade.  Over the last year multiple countries have expressed concern or committed their navies to dealing with Somali pirates. Most recently, South Korea has announced intentions to send one of its destroyers after five South Koreans were kidnapped in a Japanese cargo ship hijacking. The Sirius Star is the largest ship captured by pirates in the area to date. This also sets a record for the farthest from the shore that pirates have struck.The Somalian government called on Saturday for the international community to help stem the wave of recent seafaring pirate attacks off their coast in the Indian Ocean.The London-based International Maritime Bureau (IMB) reported yesterday that a Thai merchant vessel and its crew of 26 have been hijacked by Somalian pirates off their coastline. The predominantly Thai crew were kidnapped at gunpoint, and a ransom has been demanded for their release. The merchant ship was en-route from Brazil to Yemen with a cargo of sugar.A letter to Somalia from the United Nations security council admonished the government. Somalia has largely disintegrated into fiefdoms since the former dictator Siad Barre was ousted in 1991. Last weekend, a U.S.-owned cruise ship was attacked with rocket propelled grenades. It is the fourth ship to be attacked in the space of a week. According to the IMB, there have been 23 other pirating attacks in coastal waters off the east African nation since March 15.The International Maritime Bureau, an agency of the International Chamber of Commerce, has stated that 30 sailors were murdered by pirates during 2004. The Bureau's 2004 Annual Report on Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships shows that the number killed has increased from the 21 who died in 2003, according to data collected by the IMB Piracy Reporting Centre in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.However, the total number of attacks has decreased--325 recorded attacks, down from 445 in 2003. Indonesian waters are the most violent, with 93 incidents; one-quarter of the global total of attacks. Tugs and barges are common targets, with crew members often being kidnapped.Nigeria has the most dangerous waters of any African country. In 2004, there were 28 attacks (down from 39), the third highest number of incidents in the world.A plane carrying sixteen people has vanished over Papua, Indonesia. The Twin Otter propeller-driven aircraft has a crew of three and thirteen passengers, two of whom are babies.The plane, which belonged to Merpati Nusantara Airlines, was travelling from Sentani Airport, Jayapura, Papua to Oksibil, a town near the Papua New Guinean border. The journey normally takes fifty minutes and only three hours and thirty minutes worth of fuel was on board. It is believed the aircraft has crashed.Both transportation authorities and the military have launched bids to locate the missing plane, with at least two aircraft taking off to search for the aircraft. However, poor weather conditions have forced these aircraft to return to land.The plane was over a mountainous area covered with dense forest when air traffic control lost contact. "We're focusing our search on the border between [the] Kerom and Pegunungan Bintang districts... it's a mountainous, jungly region," said air force commander Suwandi Miharja, who is in charge of the search. Aircraft lost in this region have sometimes never been located after suspected crashes.Six people have died as the result of an aircraft crash in Cork, Republic of Ireland. Flight No MN7100 involved a Manx2 aircraft travelling from Belfast in Northern Ireland, United Kingdom at 0812 UTC with ten passengers and two crew members onboard the flight.The plane crashed at Cork Airport after a third attempt to land the aircraft there at approximately 1000 UTC, which resulted in the vehicle impacting with Runway 17, turning upside down and catching fire, approximately 1000 feet along the runway. At the time of this incident, the weather was largely foggy, with little visibility. Eight fire engines soon arrived at the scene. The accident resulted in six fatalities, two of them Irish citizens, three of them British and one of them Spanish. One of those killed was Brendan McAleese, the cousin of the husband of Irish president Mary McAleese. The remaining six of the twelve occupants were injured, according to a spokesperson for the Cork County Council. All of those that were injured were transported to Cork University Hospital. Four are reported to be in a severe condition at present. The remaining two individuals are said to be "comfortable".A statement released from the Irish Aviation Authority (IAA) said: "The aircraft made an approach to Runway 17 in low visibility conditions and went around and did not land and attempted a second landing on Runway 35. The aircraft then went around a second time and came back for an approach to Runway 17. On the second approach to Runway 17 the aircraft crashed, rescue and fire crew are in attendance. There is a fire and debris has been scattered onto the runway and over a wide area." The IAA also announced the launch of an investigation.Brian Cowen, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Ireland, commented that his "thoughts are with all of those affected by this morning's crash, including the families and friends of those who have died. I also want to send my best wishes and those of the government, to all of those who survived the crash and are being treated in hospital at present."At least five people have been killed, and several others injured, after a Cessna 310 crashed into a neighborhood in Sanford, Florida, in the United States. Two people on the plane and three others on the ground were reported to be killed in the crash.The plane was attempting to make an emergency landing at the Orlando-Sanford International Airport when it crashed into two houses, causing a massive fire. The aircraft is registered to Competitor Liaison Bureau Inc. of Daytona Beach, and is linked to NASCAR's late chairman. The plane was traveling from Daytona Beach to Lakeland in Florida when the pilot declared smoke in the cockpit, and attempted an emergency landing.The 310 is a twin-engine plane that is often used for air taxi services, and for personal use. It seats six people, including the pilot.A small Cessna passenger plane crashed shortly after takeoff in Peru near the Nazca Lines yesterday leaving all six occupants dead according to local authorities. The victims of the crash were three men and one woman from Britain and the Peruvian pilot and co-pilot. The plane is believed to belong to Nazca Airlines.According to the Associated Press the Nazca police chief claims the cause of the accident seems to be engine failure. According to the Telegraph police said the plane was trying to make an emergency landing in a field when it crashed. As of the last report the police were still trying to recover the bodies of the dead. The Associated Press has also reported that the British refused to comment without permission from London. The Nazca Lines, a UNESCO World Heritage Site consisting of ancient animal depictions, are a popular destination to fly over, but there have been worries about insufficient supervision of the aging planes which make the trip. There have been previous crashes in the area with one taking place in February when a Cessna 206 crashed killing all seven occupants; that flight was also operated by Nazca Airlines. A crash in April 2008 killed five French tourists, but the pilot survived.A small twin-engined Cessna 402 crashed into a lake in the Bahamas shortly after take off Tuesday, killing all eight Bahamian occupants.The Cessna crashed into Lake Killarney, located near the Lynden Pindling International Airport, after a fire broke out in one of its engines, according to assistant commissioner Hulan Hanna of the Royal Bahamas Police Force.It is reported that several bodies were recovered from the lake and a person was pulled out alive, but later died of a broken neck. It is reported that the plane, which departed the airport at about 12:30 p.m. local time, was travelling to San Salvador in the southern Bahamas. According to police, an investigation is in progress to specify the cause of the crash.At least ten people on board have died in a plane crash on a mountain near Huambo, Angola. There are no survivors, and some sources place the death toll at 11 and others 12. It is thought that two of the deceased were Portuguese businessmen. Angola is a former colony of Portugal.The Beechcraft King Air B200 twin-propeller aircraft registered D2-FFK had departed capital city Luanda at 1 a.m. EST on a 450 km (280 mile) domestic flight to Huambo. It belonged to Aeronautica, the trading name of Gira Globo, an Angolan charter company. The crash occurred at around 0800 local time.It is reported that prior to the crash the plane had attempted to land at two different local airports. A team from the Angolan Armed Forces based near the scene responded to the accident.Celso Rosas, head of the national aviation centre, said adverse weather conditions may have played a role in the crash. Rain and fog were reported at the time. A full investigation has been ordered by André Luís Brandão, Angola's transport minister. This is to be headed by his deputy, Hélder Presa.The Portuguese were identified as Vasco Mendes and Nuno Marques. Early reports suggest that Valentim Amoes, chairman of Gira Globo, is also amongst the dead.Inadequate maintenance is the main cause of the nation's poor aviation safety record. Last year, flag carrier TAAG Angola was added to the list of air carriers banned in the EU, and just hours after the news suffered a crash that killed six.A plane arriving in Sudan's capital, Khartoum, burst into flames after veering off the runway during a thunderstorm. Around 100 passengers and crew are feared dead.The jetliner is said to have careened off of the runway in the process of landing. The Sudanese head of police, Mohammad Najib, cited a crash landing due to bad weather as the cause of the accident. Najib said that the plane split in two and burst into flames.The plane was carrying approximately 203 passengers and 14 crew from Amman, Jordan. Sudanese officials have said it was a Sudan Airways flight (SD 109) from the Jordanian capital Amman via Damascus, Syria. It had previously been diverted to Port Sudan due to heavy rain in Khartoum.According to the United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), a single-engine passenger aeroplane has crashed in Butte, Montana, killing seventeen people.The plane, a turboprop Pilatus PC-12, had departed from Oroville, California. Authorities said that the pilot had filed a flight plan to Bozeman, Montana, but cancelled it and diverted to Butte instead. The pilot attempted to land, but crashed into a cemetery about 150 metres (500 feet) from the aeroport, bursting into flames. Nobody on the ground died. The weather was reported to have been cloudy at the time.Pat Ryan, a reporter for the Montana Standard newspaper, said that the authorities had sealed off the scene of the accident. "I did speak to one eyewitness who said he saw the plane approaching from the west and nosedive into the Holy Cross cemetery just short of the Burbon Lee airport here in Butte," he said. "I was on the scene speaking to eyewitnesses who basically described the plane coming in trying to make it to the runway and obviously not getting there."A spokesman for the FAA said that the preliminary death toll was 17, and that several of the victims were children. "We think that it was probably a ski trip for the kids," he said.An American Airlines plane, Flight 136 carrying 230 passengers was traveling from Los Angeles, California to London, England when it was diverted to John F. Kennedy International Airport due to a suspicious passenger.The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) states that "the flight crew alerted security to a suspicious person on board" and the plane was then diverted to JFK Airport while it was still en route to London. The plane made an emergency landing at 4:00 a.m. (eastern time).The man was traveling alone, and was taken into custody after the plane landed safely. Reports also say that the unnamed individual was riding an employee bus, then boarded the plane, but does not have proper identification which says he works for the airline."It may very well turn out that this is nothing more than a misunderstanding with an employee who used an employee bus to get on a plane for a private flight," said Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff.The man boarded the plane without proceeding through security screenings, but Chertoff states that the Middle Eastern man had purchased a round trip ticket for the flight."The individual in question was, in fact, an employee who was traveling in a private capacity," added Chertoff.Andrea McCauley, a spokeswoman for the TSA says the flight has been canceled, and all passengers were being checked, along with the plane, but authorities did not find anything suspicious. Passengers were told that the plane had run out of fuel and are being reassigned to different flights.An Australian twin-engined Piper Chieftain carrying five passengers safely landed in the waters of Darwin's harbour today. The pilot of the aeroplane, Steve Bolle, experienced some engine trouble shortly after departing from Darwin International Airport. Darwin is the capital of Australia's Northern Territory, situated on the Timor Sea.It is not yet known what caused the incident.The aircraft's flight plan took it over water, giving the pilot few opportunities to land the plane on ground. Bolle decided to land in the water, as opposed to the beach, as the firmness of the ground on the latter was not known.The plane ditched in shallow water in the harbour, and Bolle and his five passengers were able to safely wade to shore.The Piper Chieftain was en route to Maningrida, located half a thousand kilometres east of Darwin, according to the aeroplane's owner, the Australian information technology company CSG."We would like to congratulate the pilot following all emergency landing and evacuation procedures and his very professional handling of the situation," CSG said in a statement.A few weeks ago, the pilot of an Airbus passenger jet departing from La Guardia in New York City also successfully ditched in water after bird strikes disabled both of the aeroplane's engines.Two planes carrying parachutists collided this morning in western Slovakia, near the Czech Republic. Of around 40 on board, seven are confirmed dead.The crash site near Červený Kameň is hard to access; rescuers are using helicopters. Investigators believe some passengers survived by jumping from one of the aircraft, which are believed to be twin-engined LET L-410s. An eyewitness told Dennik he saw people leaping from one aircraft as it went down.The parachutists were practising over the White Carpathians, the mountains that form the Slovak-Czech border, for an upcoming airshow in Slavnica this weekend. Health Minister Viliam Čislák and Interior Minister Robert Kaliňák visited the site.The aircraft collided at around 8:30a.m. at a height of around 5,000ft (1,500m). Photos of the scene show scattered wreckage, some of it aflame.On Thursday in Canada, the Society Promoting Environmental Conservation (SPEC) and the Western Canada Wilderness Committee delivered petitions with over 10,000 signatorys to the Premier of British Columbia's office. The petitions ask that the government cancel the Gateway Program's highway expansions components and invest more in transit instead.The Gateway Program is a transportation infrastructure project that includes over 260 km of new highway lanes.Over a dozen activists rallied outside the office in downtown Vancouver including two dressed as polar bears. The premier's office initially declined to accept the invitations. After the activists attempted to enter the nearby convention centre where the premier was speaking, staff working with the Premier agreed to accept the petitions."Translink is currently exhausting its capital reserves just to keep existing service going," said Karen Wristen, Executive Director of SPEC. "At this rate, they will be broke in two years. We simply can't afford both freeway expansion and transit development: we have to solve the transit crisis first.""It will be virtually impossible to reach BC's commitments to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs) if Gateway is allowed to proceed. Gateway is not just an irresponsible plan, it's immoral," said Ben West, the Wilderness Committee's Healthy Communities Campaigner.The government calculates that greenhouse gas emissions will increase by over 170,000 tonnes per year from the Gateway program.Premier Gordon Campbell has not yet responded directly to the petition. In recent interviews he has defended the Gateway Program."I understand that some people will disagree with it," Premier Campbell said of Gateway on April 6 to The Georgia Straight. "But it's many, many things that are happening at once to make the region more livable, to reduce our impact and our greenhouse-gas impact, and to invest in public transit. And I think that when you take all those things together—as we move to California tailpipe emissions and those other initiatives—I think you will see actually a reduction in greenhouse gases."A 39-year old woman, Lakeysha Beard, talked for more than half a day while on an Amtrak train going from Oakland, California to Portland, Oregon. The loud cellphone conversation lasted sixteen hours last Monday, after which police stopped the train for twenty minutes at Salem, Oregon to arrest the woman.According to the British newspaper Daily Mail, Amtrak has no policy forbidding passengers from talking on the phone on a moving train.In the train's  car, a few passengers asked the woman to put the phone away or to stop a few times during the conversation prior to notifying the train staff. Staff members were unable to convince the woman to end the conversation and stopped the train to arrest the woman and halt the disruption.As British newspaper Metro mentioned, this cellphone conversation doesn't beat the record 51-hour phone call by Sunil Prabhakar of New Delhi in 2009.Sydney, Australia etiquette expert Alex Travers, remarking on a train incident in March, said there is a lack of respect for public transportation from younger generations. The U.S. woman in the current incident, Lakeysha Beard, is 39 years old. Travers said, "I'm afraid we are all in a very bad place as far as we feel about our public transport. People think poorly of it, so therefore they are getting on it with a poor attitude." She called youths "me-oriented" and said that they "do what they want to do" without thinking about others on the vehicle.The Metropolitan Police Service has confirmed that a police officer and a police community support officer were stabbed in the west of London, England. The officers were stabbed at a bus stop in the Ealing Broadway region of the city about 1505 UTC while examining bus tickets. The man stabbed the two in an attempt to evade arrest. The pair were subsequently transported to hospital by ambulance. The police community support officer was seriously injured, having been stabbed in the arms. However, he was not thought to have suffered life-threatening injuries. The police officer was stabbed in the neck. His injuries were considered life-threatening.The alleged attacker, a 30-year-old male, was arrested at the scene of the attack. According to reports, he was wanted by the police for recall to prison. When it became clear that he was going to be arrested, he drew a knife and stabbed the two.Koon Midam, a witness to this incident, commented: "The man was asked to show a valid ticket and went into a violent rage. Very quickly the problem escalated as he drew his knife and made a few quick slashes. It was more of a shock for the first few moments and then there were the cries, the Pc dropping to the floor and the man lashing out again."Another male witness described the events. "I could see two policemen sprinting to the back of a police car to retrieve a green first aid kit," he said. "They rushed back to assist a policeman who had blood on him. I then noticed another policeman who was walking slowly and then collapsed on the pavement. His arm fell to his side. As I drove away I also noticed a number of policemen pinning a man to the ground. He was shouting. What disturbed me most of all was the amount of blood on the pavement, it was clear that someone was very seriously injured."Boris Johnson, Mayor of London, has uploaded a message to the social networking website Twitter regarding this incident. In the tweet, Johnson states: "Shocked by the stabbing of a police officer & a PCSO in Ealing. No place for this on the streets of London".Police Constable Kerry Smith, 24, has been charged with two counts of causing death by dangerous driving over a crash last year in Luton, UK. PC Smith was based in the town at the time and works for Bedfordshire Police.Smith is accused in the June 4 deaths of Reda Lecheheb and Sidali Melal on Leagrave Road. Both were pedestrians. The crash was investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). The IPCC said yesterday that Smith will appear before St Albans Magistrates' Court on February 9.Police on Tuesday warned new owners of drones to obey the law after Gatwick Airport, the second-largest airport in Britain, faced days of closure on account of drone sightings. About 150,000 travellers have had their plans affected. Two suspects were arrested but later released without charge.Airport authorities closed the facility's single runway on December 19.  The airport briefly reopened two days later, on Friday, but was shut down again after renewed drone activity.  In total the airport, which serves London, was not able to operate normally for about 36 hours.Over the three days, people reported seeing drones fly over the airport 67 times but, according to Sussex Police Detective Chief Superintendent Jason Tingley as of Monday, there was no video of any drone activity and "always a possibility that there may not have been any genuine drone activity in the first place", though the police generally referred to the sightings as credible and were examining a downed drone found not far from the airport."Before anyone uses a drone it is vital that they make themselves aware of their responsibilities and the rules to make sure these devices are operated in a safe and responsible way" said Deputy Chief Constable Serena Kennedy, a national lead on drone policing. The law on drone misuse was tightened in July and presently provides for fines and up to five years in prison. She continued "Police officers will use all available powers to investigate reports of drones being misused and seek the appropriate penalty".The law prevents drone use above 400ft and within a kilometre of airports. UK rules planned for late next year mandate registration of any drone above 250g (about 9oz) and the taking of an online safety exam before piloting them.Airport authorities grounded all planes in the airport, and diverted the planes meant to arrive at Gatwick to other airports in England or even other countries, such as London Heathrow, Luton, Birmingham, Amsterdam in the Netherlands, Manchester, Dublin in Ireland, Glasgow in Scotland, and Paris in France.Gatwick Airport authorities instructed travellers to check how their flights had been affected before coming to the airport. The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) has said since this is an "extraordinary circumstance", travellers may not be owed money by the airline they were travelling with.The British army was called in during the incident. Police said there was no reason to think the incident was terrorism, but was probably a deliberate attempt to disrupt the airport.Couple Paul Gait and Elaine Kirk were arrested on Friday and named in several newspapers, before being cleared by police and released without charge. They said on Monday they feel "completely violated" by the incident and its press coverage. In light of a landmark legal ruling earlier this year, libel lawyer Mark Stephens of media law specialists Howard Kennedy said they were likely in line for a payout of £75,000 to £125,000 if they chose to take any publishers to court. Hacked Off, a campaign group seeking media reform, was also critical of the media outlets that named the couple. Trevor Kavanagh, former politics editor at The Sun, defended that paper's decision to release their names, on the basis press attention had hastened the police's identification of a "cast-iron, watertight alibi" proving their innocence. TV personality Piers Morgan apologised for claiming Gait and Kirk were "terrorists".Planes can sustain significant damage from collisions with drones. The Guardian recently outlined a few possible ways to stop drones from entering restricted areas, such as blocking the radio signals. This was used in English prisons in an attempt to stop drugs from being smuggled in via drones. However, in an airport, this could also stop important signals getting through. Training eagles to take down drones has also been attempted by the Dutch police. Another possible method is firing nets at the drones.According to The Guardian, most drones can fly for roughly half an hour. The drone sightings at Gatwick continued for hours. The Guardian speculated there might have been multiple drones involved or an operator changing out the battery packs to allow the drone or drones to relaunch quickly. However, the packs take time to recharge, so it would take a large number of packs and effort to operate drones for so long, constantly.According to The Guardian, despite this short flying time, most drones' range is mainly limited by signal strength. Some drones are able to fly up to five miles away from the controller. With a big enough budget, drone range is nearly unlimited.Gatwick airport's CEO said that he is sorry about the disruption, but must keep the travellers' safety as the most important thing. He claimed he was working with the police and government to resolve this problem. He said the incident highlighted a weak area in British aviation and drones should not be able to do this much damage.Prime Minister Theresa May said she "feels for all those passengers" affected. Britain's transport secretary said that this was an "entirely new kind of threat".Gatwick Airport offered a £50,000 reward for information leading to an arrest and conviction in the ongoing investigation. Crimestoppers chair Lord Ashcroft added another £10,000 to the sum.Drone incidents are increasing in the UK, with the CAA reporting for the year until December 4, 120 incursions of drones into airspace close to other aircraft. This represents a roughly 30% increase from the previous year. 2014, by contrast, had less than ten such occasions. According to Farming UK on Monday, in an incident earlier this year a Tornado jet belonging to the Royal Air Force came within 22m (about 70ft) of an agricultural drone whilst flying at low altitude at over 500mph. The drone was at a 100m (about 330ft) altitude and the incident came to CAA attention after being reported by the farmer.Also reported earlier this month, in August a Boeing 737 approaching Stansted Airport, which also serves London, came within 15m (about 50ft) of hitting a drone at a 10,000ft altitude. Gatwick, meanwhile, is not the only English airport to face disruption over the Christmas travel period. On Sunday Birmingham Airport closed for two hours due to malfunctioning air traffic control equipment.A bus carrying 50 Polish people (47 pilgrims and a three person crew) crashed today near Grenoble in France. According to police, there are 26 dead and 24 injured.The Poles, many of them elderly, had been attending a pilgrimage at the nearby Notre-Dame de la Salette sanctuary. Emergency workers say the bus suffered a problem with its brakes while on a steep descent. It left the roadway and fell in a river below, where it burst into flames.Traces of the radioactive substance, Polonium-210 have been found on two British Airways planes. The airline was alerted late Tuesday evening by the UK government that three of its planes were of interest in the investigation into the death of ex-KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko from radiation poisoning.Two planes are located at the Heathrow Airport in the UK, and one at the Russian Domodedovo International Airport in Moscow.The two Heathrow planes were forensically examined Wednesday and the presence of traces of a radioactive substance were confirmed. A British team consisting of what are thought to be police experts is leaving for Russia to test the third plane, according to the BBC.The public health risk that passengers on the planes under investigation have been poisoned is very low. Up to 33,000 passengers are being urged to contact BA, NHS or their doctor if they have travelled on the 221 European flights which travelled all over Europe, including Russia as far back as "the end of October". Willie Walsh, chief executive of BA, said: "I am advised that the health risk is actually very low." 3,000 staff will also be checked out.The Home Secretary John Reid is expected to make a statement to Parliament concerning the ongoing investigation into the death of Alexander Litvinenko on Thursday.All three planes are Boeing 767s used for short haul flight which were taken out of service when the government contacted BA on Tuesday night.Traces of Polonium-210 have been found at other places that Mr Litvinenko visited in London, Britain.Pat Troop, chief executive of Health Protection Agency, said: "What we have heard is that it's either traces or very low levels and what we have learnt so far in our investigation... is that where we have got these areas of low level radiation it doesn't seem to pose a significant health threat."Porsche and Volkswagen family owners agreed on Wednesday to merge the companies, creating one large “integrated car-manufacturing group”."In the final structure, 10 brands shall stand below an integrative leading company alongside each other, whereby the independence of all brands and explicitly also of Porsche shall be ensured," said the Porsche Automobil Holding SE company.A task force has been set into place to discuss details of the merger over the next month.  This task force embraces managers and representatives from the works council of both companies as well as the state of Lower Saxony.  Porsche based in Stuttgart, Germany was previously controlled by the Porsche and Piëch families voting stock.Porsche had previously tried to raise its 51% shares in Volkswagen to 75% in a take-over bid. A special German law grants Lower Saxony enough power to veto decisions with its 20% share in the VW company."I'm certain that we can and will advance our partnership in the difficult current year 2009, [and] have the stuff to develop the powerhouse of the international automobile industry" said Martin Winterkorn chairman of the Volkswagen Group (Volkswagen AG) and Scania AB.The merger would help Porsche with its €9 billion debt which it incurred partially due to the ailing economy as well as its attempt at a takeover bid.On Friday, German automobile manufacturer Porsche reported that its August-April sales saw a drop of 28%, to 53,635 vehicles, after demand for luxury vehicles plunged as a result of the ongoing global financial crisis.The firm also reported the revenue in the first three quarters of its fiscal year, which was at 4.64 billion euros after having fallen 15%. The overall decrease in revenues was due, in large part, to the decrease in sales of the company's 911 model, which accounts for a significant portion of sales. The 911 unit sales were lower by 18% for the year."In the first nine months of the ongoing fiscal year, the Porsche subgroup could not avoid the downward trend that has overtaken the worldwide automobile industry," the automaker said."This is certainly no surprise, but the fact that there is no reference to earnings any more in the outlook could be seen as a negative sign," said an analyst for Sal. Oppenheim, Christian Breitsprecher, noting that the forecast "remains very unspecific".Two stud bolts of the Sikorsky helicopter that crashed recently off the coast of Canada broke causing first a loss in oil pressure followed by a deadly crash landing on Thursday March 12, 2009 killing 17 of 18 people on board."I can safely say now that the stud broke in flight and the loss of oil pressure was a result of that," Mike Cunningham, the Transportation Safety Board  (TSB) of Canada's lead investigator said, "So far, we cannot find any other anomaly that would account for that loss of oil pressure. There is further analysis and work to be done on exactly how and why that stud broke."Upon examination of the wreckage and seats, it was determined the helicopter landed at an acceleration of about 20g. On impact windows and doors flew off.  It is not known at this time whether the victims drowned or were killed in this violent impact."It was [...] belly first in an upright position with a tail low attitude. That's what the damage is telling us," Allan Chaulk, a TSB investigator, "We are just scratching the surface of analyzing the data we've so far collected." The United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) did issue a directive to replace the titanium studs to steel studs before any Sikorsky S92 helicopters can resume flights. So far about 30% of helicopters worldwide still need to make the update.  Sikorsky had issued an Alert Service Bulletin to helicopter operators in January to replace the studs by 1,250 flight hours or within the year. A S-92A flight in Australia prompted the alert when it lost oil pressure and needed to make an emergency landing.During the examination of the wreckage, TSB investigators are uncertain why two of three aircraft flotation devices did not activate to keep the aircraft from sinking. The cockpit voice and flight data recorders were operational between cruising altitude of 9,000 feet and the descent to 800 feet, and then an unexplainable electrical malfunction caused them to cease operating.A preliminary report has been released into the disastrous crash of Spanair Flight 5022 in Madrid, Spain on August 20, which killed 154. The report confirms an earlier leaked finding that the wing flaps failed and no warning sounded to alert the pilots.The MD-82 was headed from Barajas airport to the Canary Islands. Video footage from airport security cameras shows the airliner travelling across an unusually long distance of runway before take-off. It failed to maintain altitude and quickly dropped back down at the runway's end, before bursting into a fireball. Just eighteen people survived the accident.The report confirms that the aircraft failed to get beyond forty feet off the ground before entering a stall and crashing. The tail of the jet struck the ground first, and the Spanish Civil Aviation Accident Investigation Commission (CIAIAC)'s report also notes that the aircraft was carrying 10,130 litres (2,673 gallons) of fuel.The wing flaps were "fully retracted" at "0 degrees" according to the 12-page report, which also notes that the cockpit voice recorder indicates a complete failure of the take-off warning system (TOWS) - which is supposed to alert pilots attempting to take off in a plane that is not properly configured - to sound prior to the failed ascent. Spanair checks the TOWS each day and after every change in flight crew, but neither of these occurred between the accident flight and the flight before.It is not known when the CIAIAC's final report will be ready, but estimates vary from a few months to two years. The latest report notes "The investigation continues. It will be necessary to carry out tests and an exhaustive examination of the recovered parts of the plane." A separate judicial investigation also continues.Police earlier released a statement reporting that a private helicopter carrying several people had vanished following the Champions League football semi-final between Liverpool and Chelsea at Anfield stadium.The helicopter left Liverpool's John Lennon Airport on Tuesday night at around 11pm, and was heading for a private landing site near Peterborough, Cambridgeshire when it vanished.  It is believed to have left radar screens at around 12.30am.A police spokeswoman said: "Details are sketchy at the moment.  The helicopter, we believe, had about four or five people on board and was a twin-engine Twin Squirrel.  It left John Lennon Airport in Liverpool at about 11pm and was on its way to a private address near Peterborough.  It appears to have disappeared off the radar. At the moment we are trying to find out more. The best case scenario is that it has made an emergency landing somewhere."The wreckage of the helicopter was found in woodlands near Wansford, in Cambridgeshire.  The pilot has been named as Stephen Holdich, co-owner of operating company Atlas Helicopters.Also on board were Jonathan Waller and Phillip Carter, as well as other people yet to be named.  It is believed one of the others on board was Mr Carter's teenage son, Andrew.  It has been released that the people found on board are deceased.  In 1996 Chelsea vice chairman Matthew Harding was killed when his helicopter, also a Twin Squirrel, crashed while returning from a match against Bolton Wanderers.Australian Transport Safety Bureau announced that an oxygen cylinder which was located near the area of the explosion on Qantas flight QF30 from London, England to Melbourne, Australia was unaccounted for but said that it was too early to say that an oxygen cylinder could be the cause of the mid-air explosion. It did say it had ruled out explosives as a cause stating that they "found no indication of explosives".The Civil Aviation Safety Authority has ordered Qantas to check all oxygen cylinders and the brackets which hold them on its Boeing 747s, but hasn't ruled out that the order will be extended to all of the Qantas fleet.A man tried to ignite his shoes during a flight from Washington, DC to Las Vegas, Nevada on Wednesday. Air Marshals subdued the Qatari diplomat on board the airplane before it landed safely at Denver International Airport in Colorado. The airplane was United Airlines Flight 663, a Boeing 757 with 157 passengers and 6 crew members on board.A search concluded that there were no explosives on the plane. NBC News reports that there was smoke coming from a restroom which led to an air marshal subduing the suspect. The diplomat was reportedly smoking a cigarette in the plane's lavatory. He also reportedly stated, jokingly, that he wanted to light his shoe on fire. It is unlikely that he will face charges due to his diplomatic immunity.After the incident was reported by the pilot, military jets scrambled and escorted the airplane safely to Denver. The TSA and law enforcement agencies took the suspect into custody and are currently investigating the incident. This incident occurs just as many countries are trying to lift their airplane restrictions caused by a Nigerian man who tried to detonate explosives in his underwear.A 14-year-old boy has been killed in an accident involving a quad bike in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. The boy has been identified as Paddy McErlean, who crashed near his house in the town of Maghera.What is believed to have happened is that Paddy was travelling on an all-terrain vehicle with a 16-year-old boy along a rural road at around 2200 GMT on Thursday when the vehicle smashed into a post, the boys were then thrown from the road. The 16-year-old boy is critically injured and as of yet has not been identified.Ann Scott, who is the head teacher in St. Patrick's College, which is the high school that Paddy attended, said: "This tragic accident really has brought a profound sense of loss to the school. The loss of Paddy, who was only 14, has just shocked everybody at the college. He really contributed a lot to the school, he was full of life, he was such a lovely young lad, very popular with the staff and pupils and we will really miss him so terribly."Despite the intervention in parts of Crimea, Ukraine by forces connected to Russia in the past few days, the rail border between the countries remains open today. Neither Ukrzaliznytsia, the Ukrainian national railway, nor Russian Railways have any announcements on their website regarding any changes in service.According to Ukrainian Independent Information Agency, people entering the Ukraine from Russia are receiving extra scrutiny at at the border.  At platform checkpoints for passport control, "additional steps are being organized in relation to regional transport police to deal the possibility of localization of possible conflicts." ((uk))Ukrainian language: ‍На перонах залізничних станцій, в межах пунктів пропуску (контролю) встановлюються додаткові режимні заходи, організовано взаємодію з лінійним відділом міліції на транспорті щодо можливості локалізації вірогідних конфліктних ситуацій.  If the guards suspect people are entering for the purpose of destabilizing the country, the police reserve the right to deny them entry to the country.The Baltic News Agency ((ru))Russian language: ‍Балтийское информационное агентство reports that Russians traveling via train between the two countries have been turned away at the border including a man traveling from Yekaterinburg to Simferopol, a Russian Naval Infantry reservist ((ru))Russian language: ‍офицером запаса морской пехоты РФ.The 2014 Winter Paralympics are scheduled to start Friday in Sochi, Russia and some attendees, including Wikinews reporters, are scheduled to arrive at the Games via trains between Russia and the Ukraine.According to reports, a train carrying containers of a gas, has been involved in a major incident near the Italian city of Viareggio at around midnight (local time). State television said the train derailed followed by an explosion.According to the latest reports from Protezione Civile, at least 14 people have been killed, with another 50 injured. Up to 35 of those have suffered serious burns. Three children were among those killed. WAtoday, stated that a street near the station in Viareggio, a coastal city of 50,000, was enveloped in flames. There are also reports of structural damage to buildings close to the incident, with two thought to have collapsed."The train was diverted and two of the carriages appear to have derailed," said journalist Nick Pisa to Sky News. "Along that side of the railway line there are houses and they caught the full effect of the blast." The train carried liquefied petroleum gas in tank rail cars, owned by the Austrian subsidiary of GATX Corporation.Penny Firth speaking to BBC News was quoted as saying "The explosion was terrifying. The whole sky turned orange and there was a huge mass of dense smoke, we could feel the heat intensify. It is just awful... the smell is horrible," The causes of the incident are under investigation, with an official inquiry already begun, although Italian rail unions, are already blaming outdated rolling stock, according to BBC News.After the world's first-ever 12 month trial of random drug testing for automobile drivers, the Victorian government yesterday introduced legislation into parliament for the testing to become permanent starting July 1, 2006. The government tests targeted for the presence of cannabis and amphetamines by use of a saliva swab. During the trial period, the presence of ecstacy was not tested, because at the time the trial period began, there was uncertainty over the accuracy of saliva tests for the drug.The legislation comes in response to the discovery that one in 46 drivers tested were found positive for cannabis and/or amphetamines. Victorian Assistant Commissioner of Traffic, Noel Ashby said, "It is one in 46 drivers that we're testing are prepared to take a risk and endanger the lives of other people and that's really what we're about, we're trying to prevent people endangering the lives of others".Of 13,176 tests carried out during the trial, 199 drivers tested positive for amphetamines only, 19 for cannabis alone and 69 for both amphetamines and cannabis. Each driver who tested positive was fined at least AU$307 and lost three demerit points.Police also conducted tests for ecstacy, despite being unable to prosecute those driving under the influence of ecstacy alone. During the trial, 25 drivers tested positive to ecstacy alone and more than 200 tested positive for both ecstasy and amphetamines.Victorian Police Minister, Tim Holding said existing penalties – which are softer than for drink-driving offences – were inadequate and would be toughened to ensure they reflected the seriousness of the offence.At present, a first drug-driving offence incurs a $307 fine and three demerit points; subsequent offences a $1227 fine and up to a six-month loss of licence.In comparison, a drink-driving offence attracts a fine of up to $1200 plus disqualification from driving for at least six months and up to 10 demerit points. Repeat drink-drivers face the possibilty of being penalised with a fine of up to $2500 or up to three months' imprisonment, plus a minimum one-year loss of licence and use of an alcohol interlock device for at least six months.Under the random roadside drug-testing system, drivers who test positive are forced off the road for 24 hours. A second swab is then taken and sent for testing to identify the drug before penalties are issued.Ken Ogden from the RACV said he would like to see every booze bus in Victoria be able to also operate as a drugs bus.Steve Fossett and his co-pilot Mark Rebholz successfully flew a custom-built replica biplane across the Atlantic from St. John's, Newfoundland, Canada and landed on Sunday at a golf course in Clifden, in the west of Ireland. The trip took approximately 17 hours, 45 minutes longer than the original flight back in June 1919, which was flown by British pilots John Alcock and Arthur Whitten-Brown, who on their original trip, crash landed in a swamp. The trip was completely flown in a replica Vickers Vimy, a type of World War One bomber. This particular plane was also used to recreate a flight from Britain to Australia in 1994, and from England to South Africa in 1999.The fuselage of the Sikorsky S92 helicopter that crashed in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday has been found at a depth 120 to 150 meters and is being retrieved. 17 of the 18 people who were on board the helicopter died after it crashed.Personal belongings, upper and lower segments of the main entrance door, the aft cargo door, and one emergency exit door have been recovered.  “We totally dissect everything we can and certainly that is going to be an area that will be examined," said Mike Cunningham, lead investigator with the Transportation Safety Board (TSB). "It looks like the fuselage is relatively intact." An underwater remotely operated vehicle (ROV) is aiding in the investigation.“The structure of the aircraft, the body of the aircraft seems to be in relatively solid state. The tail section has broken off and it is lying by the side of the aircraft which is not a problem.  We are still evaluating how it’s going to be brought to the surface but we believe it should be done relatively easily, possibly in a couple of days,” said Charles Laurence, TSB’s lead investigator of operations. The remaining victims may still be strapped within their five-point harnesses.The mayday to Transport Canada aviation database reported oil pressure in the main gearbox which caused the problem.  The gearbox links the engines and transmission and is located on the top of the fuselage and under the main rotor head.Robert Decker remains in critical at the St. John's Health Sciences Centre but has stabilised.  It is reported that he suffered a broken bone, hypothermia and had aspirated sea water.The recovered body is that of Allison Maher from Aquaforte, Newfoundland, aged 26. Throughout the search and rescue there were no locator signals received from survival suits of any of those missing.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) have released the names of twelve of those who are are still missing. It is a partial list, as some relatives were "not prepared at this point of time to release the names of their loved ones, and we respect that," said Supt. Reg Reeves. They are:Peter Breen, from St. John's, N.L. age 55;Gary Corbett, from Conception Bay South, N.L. age 46;Wade Drake, from Fortune, N.L. age 42;Wade Duggan, from Witless Bay, N.L. age 32;Colin Henley, from St. John's, N.L. age 38;Ken MacRae, from Greenwood, N.S. age 47;Derrick Mullowney, from Bay Bulls, N.L. age 51;Burch Nash, from  Fortune, N.L. age 44;Paul Pike, from  Bay Roberts, N.L. age 49;Allison Maher,from  Aquaforte, N.L., age 26Tim Lanouette, from  Comox, B.C., helicopter first officer age 48; andThomas Anwyll, from  Langley, B.C. Crew member age 46.Roadworks have triggered a massive explosion and fire on a fuel pipeline running through Ijegun, a suburb on the outskirts of Nigerian capital Lagos. Although the Nigerian Emergency Management Agency puts the current death toll at ten, the Nigerian Red Cross says at least 100 people have died.The oil pipeline was fractured after a construction vehicle struck it and erupted into a fireball, with fuel running down the street. At least twelve homes caught fire, and students ran from a nearby school that was also threatened. According to witnesses, students are among the dead.Firefighters have extinguished the blaze and work is now underway to try and reunite people separated during the fire and account for those present at the time.Disasters such as this happen regularly in Nigeria, but they are usually attributable to organised criminals breaking into pipes for their content or terrorist attacks, whereas this event appears to have been an accident.Belgian official Etienne Schouppe has announced that the final report into the wreck of a Kalitta Air Boeing 747 cargo plane crash at Brussels Airport will blame a bird strike.Kalitta 747 N704CK, bound for Bahrain, was taking off from Brussels and was four seconds past V1 speed when a bird strike occurred in engine #3. Two seconds after the bird strike the decision was taken to abort takeoff, but the jet was unable to stop in the distance left to it. V1 is the maximum speed at which takeoff can be safely aborted.The plane exited the runway and broke into three main pieces. None of the five crew members was injured.The investigation also confirmed that there was no structural failure prior to impact. The remnants of a kestrel were found in the engine. Flight K4-207 was carrying mail for DHL at the time, and severely damaged the Instrument Landing System during the crash, taking the equipment out of action for repairs. Both the runway and a nearby railway line were closed.Earlier this month, Kalitta announced cost-cutting measures in response to the current financial crisis. A quarter of the 800 workers are to be laid off, and eight or nine of the airline's fleet of 21 747s are to be taken out of service.A final report released today has found pilot error to be the cause of the crash of Garuda Indonesia Flight 200 in Indonesia on March 7, 2007. 21 people were killed when the Boeing 737 airliner, carrying 140 people, overshot the runway at Adisucipto International Airport, near Yogyakarta. It crossed a road and then struck an embankment, bursting into flames, before stopping in a rice field, some 252m from the end of the runway.The pilot is found to have been singing as he began the final descent, in direct contradiction to the Garuda Basic Operations Manual, which calls for activation of the Sterile Cockpit Rule at 10,000 feet and below.The pilot was probably emotionally aroused because his conscious awareness moved from the relaxed mode “singing” to the heightened stressfulness of the desire to reach the runway by making an excessively steep and fast, unstabilised approach,” the report continued. However, it does say that he was fully aware that something was wrong during the approach, as he is recorded as having said “Oh, there is something not right.”The report found that that the aircraft was flown by the pilot in command at a speed far exceeding that at which the wing flaps were able to operate properly. The report continues to criticise the pilot further, saying that a cockpit alert by the Ground Proximity Warning System informing the pilot he was flying too fast sounded no less than 15 times, but the pilot failed to abort the landing. He also ignored the co-pilot telling him to execute a 'go-around procedure' after the aircraft struck the runway at speed and bounced back into the air.The co-pilot is himself found to be at error by the report, which points out that he should have taken over the controls from the pilot when it became clear the aircraft was being flown in a dangerous manner. However, the report did note that Garuda Indonesia had failed to give him any simulator training replicating a situation whereby the co-pilot would take over control duties from the pilot in charge due to unsafe handling of the plane; in fact, training was found to be inadequate for both members of the cockpit crew.In the report's own words: "During the approach, the Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS) alerts and warnings sounded 15 times, and the copilot called for the pilot in command to go around. "The aircraft was flown at an excessive air speed and steep flight path angle during the approach and landing, resulting in an unstabilised approach. "The pilot in command did not follow company procedures that required him to fly a stabilised approach, and he did not abort the landing and go around when the approach was not stabilised. "His attention was fixated or channelised on landing the aircraft on the runway and he either did not hear, or disregarded the GPWS alerts, and warnings, and calls from the copilot to go around." Authorities were also found to be at fault, with the Indonesian Director General of Civil Aviation criticised for failing to identify inadequacies in pilot training procedures. he was also criticised for the fact that the aircraft had managed to go virtually un-inspected, with only two safety checks in a decade.The report adds that the Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting facilities at the airport were also lacking on the day of the accident, for struggling to access the crash site and for not having the appropriate fire suppressant upon their eventual arrival. The report says these delays likely had an impact on the survivability factors on board the plane in the moments after crashing, when the aircraft was in flames. It ultimately took more than two hours before the fire was put out. Another criticism leveled at the airport was that it failed to comply with international runway safety regulations.The report has triggered a call from Caroline Mellish, sister of Australian Financial Review Morgan Mellish, one of five Australians killed in the accident, for greater co-operation between different Indonesian authorities. "I think not working together as different departments in a government shows a lack of any sort of system," She said from Jakarta, to which she had travelled for the release of the final report."If they can't work together in different departments, I don't know how they are going to run a country and make any difference investigating this sort of accident and ensuring the recommendations do get carried forward to ensure that no more accident happen."However, she did have some sympathy to spare for the pilot who was in control of the plane that day when the possibility of his prosecution was raised: "I think having 21 deaths on your conscience is probably enough. I don't think prosecuting the man is going to make any difference."National Transport Safety Committee chairman Tatang Kurniadi said that no information from the report would be used in any criminal or civil liability investigations. "I would like to go back to the objective of this, the report was made by NTSC for safety purposes only, not for blaming, he said. "If any institution wants to ... follow up that accident, that's their own decision."The report contained the results from the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder, but according to international regulations on aviation these black boxes are not allowed to be used for... liability purposes."We will not give police or any institution (information) other than for safety purposes only - it's in international regulations and we want to follow those regulations.A final report by the United Kingdom's Aviation Accident Investigation Branch (AAIB) has found that a LOT Polish Airlines airliner became lost over London airspace due to pilot error. After a navigational system failed due to a mistake entering the jet's position the plane struggled to return to London Heathrow under Air Traffic Control's guidance as the Polish pilots struggled to understand English.LOT Flight 282, a Boeing 737, was carrying 89 passengers bound for Warsaw, but ran into trouble immediately after takeoff because the co-pilot entered an Easterly longitude instead of a Westerly one. The error occurred because Heathrow is just to the West of the nearby Prime Meridian Line.The navigational equipment was unable to function properly and shut down as a result, forcing the pilots to rely on ATC instructions. The pilot-in-command handled radio communications while the co-pilot flew the aircraft. However, the aircraft wandered lost around the surrounding airspace for the next 27 minutes because the pilots had such a poor grasp of English.The pilots, who still had some standby instruments functioning, were unable to follow the instructions and several times the aircraft was turned in the exact opposite direction to that commanded by ATC. A full transcript of communications between the plane and the controllers shows at one point ATC was forced to ask "At what heading do you think you are flying at the moment?"The jet also forced another aircraft to take evasive action after triggering a Short Term Conflict Alert. At the end of the emergency, the crew finally made visual contact with the runway at Heathrow and landed safely.The pilots had no idea what caused the instrument failure and suggested it may be mobile phone interference but testing revealed no anomalies with the aircraft systems. The report found that "A fairly simple error...went undetected and led to a serious incident."It went on to say that "An incident like this demonstrates how reliant pilots have become on the Flight Management System." The FMS is a central semi-automated control system that handles navigation and positioning, amongst other duties.The report also says that the close proximity of all London's airports to the Meridian Line "can lead crews to make such co-ordinate entry errors of this nature," and that as LOT rarely uses airports to the West of the line they will usually only deal with Easterly co-ordinates. Criticism is also levelled at ATC, who the report says should have been quicker to realise the serious nature of the problems on board the aircraft. The entity running the control tower says they intend to use this incident for training purposes.One out of every four United States bridges needs repairs and updating according to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO). The total estimated cost of repairs is US$140 billion, and will continue to rise if not dealt with immediately, according to the report published by AASHTO.The necessity for bridge repairs has been just one of the infrastructure needs for which federal assistance has been requested by some state officials. Governor Ed Rendell of Pennsylvania said that, "we need federal intervention, and federal intervention at a big level."Additionally, Rendell stated that, "no matter how hard a state applies its efforts and its resources to this problem, it's never going to make enough of a dent without significantly and radically increased federal help.""States are doing their best to improve them, but construction costs are skyrocketing ... forcing states to delay needed repairs," said Pete K. Rahn, head of the Missouri Department of Transportation and AASHTO president to Associated Press. "Without a national commitment to increasing bridge investment, we will see a continuing spiral towards deterioration and, ultimately, bridge closures in order to protect the traveling public."AASHTO's report, titled "Bridging the Gap: Restoring and Rebuilding the Nation's Bridges", stated that nearly every one in five bridges is 50-years-old or older. Furthermore, of the 600,000 U.S. bridges, nearly 152,000 (about one in four) need significant repair. "Almost one in four bridges, while safe to travel, is either structurally deficient, in need of repair." The report notes that the average age of American bridges is 43 years.The report was released just days prior to the one-year anniversary of the August 1, 2007 I-35W bridge collapse, which resulted in the death of 13 people.According to the newly formed BNO News Agency, an unnamed man tried to hang himself on an American Airlines flight which took off from Cibao International Airport in the Dominican Republic and was traveling to John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York City located in the state of New York.American Airlines flight 834 was en-route to New York when the pilot reported  that there was a medical emergency on board the plane. BNO says that a man had attempted to hang himself while the plane was in mid-flight. When the plane landed, the man was taken off the plane by emergency services who were on standby at JFK Airport.Despite the report, American Airlines previously refused to comment on the incident because of the passengers privacy, but an unnamed official said that they had heard about the incident, "but [believed] it is not true." The airline later stated to BNO that "the passenger did not try to commit suicide, however the passenger did have a medical condition that prompted our crew to call the tower and request assistance." Even though the airline insists there was no suicide attempt, BNO states that the FBI was called and put on standby at the airport along with emergency services. Their involvement in the situation is not yet known, but BNO says the FBI is investigating.On February 10, 2006, a man died after hanging himself in a bathroom aboard a United Airlines flight traveling from Washington, D.C. to Los Angeles, California.The United Kingdom's Air Accident Investigations Branch (AAIB) has issued two reports today into collisions between jetliners in the same spot at Manchester Airport. None of the 468 passengers caught in the incidents, which were in separate years, were injured.The first report concerned an incident in 2007 in which a Pakistan International Airways Boeing 777 struck a Flybe Bombardier Q400. The 777 was trying to turn in behind the Q400 onto the taxiway when its wingtip struck the smaller aircraft's rudder. The 777's pilot had been "cautioned about the presence" of Flybe's plane, according to the AAIB. The pilot stated that he believed he had sufficient room to manoeuvre and that he expected a further warning were this not the case. The aircraft were later able to continue on their journeys.The second report issued today involves the exact same location, this time scene of a collision in 2008. A Boeing 737 operated by now-defunct Spanish airline Futura was instructed to "give way"; this confused the flight crew of the Tenerife-bound plane and it moved forward, one wingtip striking the tail of a Lufthansa Airlines Airbus A320 destined for Frankfurt.The Futura flight crew had believed they had an unobstructed path with plenty of space to clear the A320. The AAIB recommended that Manchester's air traffic controllers stop using the phrase "give way" and instead state "hold position". Procedures have already been changed at Manchester in light of the collisions.Investigators say that flaws in the design of the Interstate 35W bridge in Minneapolis, Minnesota may have caused it to collapse and that the design flaw is not "unique" to the Minneapolis bridge.According to an ongoing investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), the flaw was found in the steel plates connected to girders, which are large support beams used in construction and connect the plates together. It is reported that extra stress from construction equipment might have caused the plates to separate, causing the bridge to collapse.The flaw has not yet been confirmed to be the source of the disaster, and the NTSB says that the investigation could take several months to fully be completed.At least six people were killed and at least eight are missing, whilst over 100 are injured after the bridge collapsed on August 1.A rescue helicopter crashed in Abruzzo, Italy on Tuesday. All six on board died.The flight was taking a wounded skier from the Campo Felice ski resort in Rocca di Cambio to the regional capital, L'Aquila. It crashed near the resort. The mountainous site is around 100km (60 miles) from the scene of an avalanche last week at the Rigopiano hotel, where at least fifteen died and several remain missing. Rescue operations at the hotel, which is on the other side of mountain Gran Sasso, are ongoing. Rescuers diverted away from the scene to assist with the helicopter accident. Lucoli mayor Gianluca Marrocchi said the helicopter was flying low. "After that it disappeared in the fog," he said to RAI.Some witnesses said there was an explosion before the crash, and the local police said a crash signal was activated. A police spokesperson commented to AFP, "The area where it came down is hard to access at the best of times, and thick fog is making it even more difficult[.]"The region has seen heavy snowfall and several earthquakes recently. Thousands of residents have spent a week without electricity. Campo Felice is around 120km from Rome, and popular with skiers from the capital.Rescuers in Brazil are seeking a plane that disappeared Friday carrying six people, two local pilots and four British investors interested in a possible new housing development.The dual-engined Cessna 310, operated by Aero Star, lost contact with Air Traffic Control (ATC) eight miles (13km) off the coast near Ilheus, where it was intending to land in nine minutes time and was making a visual approach to Ilhéus Jorge Amado Airport. The flight had originated in Salvador and made last contact at 5:43 p.m. local time (2043 GMT) with Ilheus control tower.The four passengers have been identified as Sean Woodhall, Ricky Every, Alan Kempson and Nigel Hodges. The planned development they had been considering is a luxury estate planned by Worldwide Destinations, who Sean Woodhall owns. It is based in Spain and constructs worldwide luxury property developments.Ricky Every works for Worldwide Destinations, and Alan Kempson and Nigel Hodges are both directors of UK finance company Diamond Lifestyle Holdings, who had been considering a deal with Worldwide. At least three of the four did not live in the UK.The search for the aircraft is focusing on a location 20 miles (32km) North of Ilheus, where there are eyewitness reports that a light aircraft was flying extremely low and without lights, leading authorities to believe the aircraft loss power. Investigations are probing some reports of witnessing a plane crash, and there are unconfirmed rumours that wreckage has been found.Brazil's Coast Guard, three Aero Star helicopters and Bahia state police are all participating in the search. The weather was good at the time and the flight crew hadn't reported any issues to ATC.Rescuers working with cranes and heavy equipment at the scene of Japan's worst rail accident in forty years pulled 3 survivors and more bodies out of the wreckage of a packed commuter train that derailed on Monday. The crash is now claiming 95 lives and over 400 injuries. Hopes are fading for more survivors in the rail car search where it is thought a dozen bodies may yet remain.The train crashed into the side of a nine-story apartment building located nearby a bend where it jumped the track. Relatives of those lost are arriving in Amagasaki to identify loved ones in a gymnasium where a makeshift morgue is located.Police searching for the cause of yesterday’s disaster investigated eight offices of West Japan Railway Co on Tuesday for clues to the rail driver. Police conducting the probe said professional negligence may be involved. The train operator, who in the past received a warning for a similar incident, over-shot the stop at the previous station and had to back the train up nearly 40 m (130 feet).It is unclear whether the inexperienced driver of the train survived, 23-year-old Ryujiro Takami with 11 months on the job.Running late and traveling at what survivors thought was excessive speed, it is believed the train lost control at a bend in the track where 71 km/h (44 mph) was the speed limit; however, any speeds under 134 km/h (83 mph) should not have caused derailment.The train and aircraft disaster research committee, which reports to the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, began to research the disaster. The committee members revealed unofficially the physical reasons of the disaster are quite complexe A member of the committee says the speed of train was monitored and at the fifth train it was recoreded that this car had run at 108 km/h speed in a certain moment after emergency brake had worked.A researcher from Holland, Michigan claims to have found an unmarked grave containing human remains from Northwest Orient Airlines Flight 2501. The airliner vanished over Lake Michigan in 1950 with 55 passengers and three crew.Valerie van Heest says she has discovered that human remains washed ashore after the June 23 crash, the cause of which remains undetermined although severe weather at the time may have had an impact. She says that after the remains appeared they were placed in a mass grave in nearby Riverview Cemetery in St. Joseph without the relatives being notified. The grave was never marked.Both the Michigan Shipwreck Research Associates, who document shipwrecks in the area, and author Clive Cussler have spent years searching for the McDonnell-Douglas DC4 but without success.Van Heest Said of the victims' relatives “After more than a half-century they are still interested in learning what befell their loved ones... One 89-year-old woman in New York lost her mother in the crash. She told me, ’Valerie, please help find her before I die.’ ”A black granite monument engraved with the names of everyone on board has been donated by a funeral home in South Haven. It will be unveiled at a ceremony on September 20. The families of 47 of the 58 victims have been notified of the new developments.A motorist was injured during a collision that resulted in a rollover in the city of Naperville, Illinois, United States. The accident occurred at about 8:15 am (13:15 UTC) on the interchange of Illinois Route 59 and Interstate 88.Naperville police reported that Pavitra Durgam, a 26-year-old from Chicago, was traveling southbound on Route 59 and tried to turn left onto the ramp to Interstate 88. In doing so, she cut in front of a car heading north on Route 59. The other, currently unidentified driver swerved to avoid her, hit a curb, and collided with her car anyway. Northbound traffic on Route 59 north of Diehl Road, including the entrance into eastbound Interstate 88, was blocked as crews cleaned up the area of the collision. The unidentified motorist complained of back pain and was thus sent to nearby Edward Hospital. Durgam received a citation for failing to yield to oncoming traffic as she turned.Romania's passenger train operator, CFR Pasageri, announced today that several train services will be cancelled between March 17 and 20 on the main Bucharest-Braşov line. The cancellation is due to construction on the access road over the railway line.CFR said that any trains running between Bucharest and Braşov, including those that proceed towards western Transylvanian cities such as Cluj-Napoca and Oradea, are to be cancelled, either for the whole route or parts thereof. The cancellation will only affect InterCity, Rapid and Accelerat trains.The InterCity services between Târgu Mureş and Braşov, as well as the Rapid services between Galaţi and Braşov are also affected by the roadwork, as are international trains from Budapest, Prague and Vienna, which go to Bucharest via Braşov.For passengers who wish to make alternative travel arrangements, there are frequent private coach services between Bucharest, Braşov and beyond.The Loch Portrain ferry, operated by Caledonian MacBrayne, will arrive at 10 a.m. BST (0900 UTC) today at Leverburgh, in the Western Isles of Scotland, despite strong opposition from Presbyterian residents who regard it as a breaking of the Sabbath.According to Harris West councillor Morag Monro, more than 700 people on both Harris and Lewis signed a petition opposing the Sunday service. The Western Isles Council is also opposed to the new service.They are also considering legal action."At the moment we are investigating whether there is a legal option open to us to protect us from this imposition," she said."It is not just church people who are opposed, but also those who have come to appreciate a day of relaxation and a chance to be together with their families for one day."It has been welcomed, however, by many people at the southern crossing at Uist.Councillor Archie Campbell (of the North Uist/Berneray) will be expected on the vessel today, and is a campaigner for the "7 days per week" service.There is little sign of opposition expected when the ferry completes its journey, as the campaigners will be in church as the vessel arrives.After reviewing the Braidwood Inquiry report into the death of Robert Dziekanski at Vancouver International Airport on October 14, 2007, Special Prosecutor Richard C.C. Peck, Q.C. announced he will revisit the British Columbia Attorney General's decision not to charge the four Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers involved.Mr. Peck cited "factual material that was not available to the Branch at the time [of the initial ... decision]" as the motivation for reviewing the evidence heard at and recommendations of the Braidwood Inquiry into the tasering of Mr. Dziekanski with a view to pressing and prosecuting criminal charges against four RCMP officials involved in the incident.According to a media release from the British Columbia Ministry of the Attorney General Criminal Justice Branch, Mr. Peck "will examine any other conduct of the four officers in relation to this matter, and in particular their statements to investigators and their testimony at the Braidwood Inquiry [to determine] whether their conduct was at any time contrary to any provisions of the Criminal Code or applicable provincial legislation."The Polish Embassy in Ottawa welcomed the publication of the Braidwood Inquiry report in a statement on their web site that commended "the Government of Canada and the Government of British Columbia for leading this public inquiry that showed new evidence and discovered serious errors in the conduct of four RCMP officers that had dealt with Mr. Robert Dziekański at Vancouver International Airport."We strongly believe that the findings of the Braidwood Commission should have a follow-up. We therefore expect that the B.C. Criminal Justice Branch will reassess its decision from 12 December 2008 and reopen the criminal investigation or [a] Special Prosecutor will be appointed by the Attorney General."At approximately 06:00 a.m. (00:30 GMT) Wednesday, between four and seven people were killed when an Electric Multiple Unit (EMU) passenger train crashed into a stationary freight train at Vyasarpadi Jeeva station, in Chennai, India. Between eleven and twenty persons were injured, and rushed to General Hospital in Chennai. Officials are unsure of the number of persons aboard the passenger train, which was operated by an unknown person. "It is not clear who operated (it)," said S. Jayanth, acting general manager of Southern Railway. The operator of the EMU train was not in the train when it left 15 minutes to half an hour before the scheduled departure time. It is said some passengers did board the passenger train.The EMU train ignored all signals, and drove about 7 kilometers (4 mi) at high speed, jumping tracks, before colliding with the goods train.The driver of the goods train, Arumugam, has been confirmed as one of those who has died.  The goods train was traveling between  Arakkonam to Chennai. The motorman, guard and assistant jumped from the goods train sustaining fractures."We heard a loud noise and saw several compartments in flames. The smell emanating from bodies from the mangled coaches was nauseating," said M.N. Selvi, a nearby resident.The platforms at the Vyasarpadi Jeeva station were destroyed, and electrical cables were torn down. The EMU train caught fire in the collision destroying two compartments completely. The other compartments were thrown from the tracks.  The freight train was loaded with oil tanks, however reports indicate that only the EMU train was set ablaze.All train services were canceled for a time on one of the busiest rail lines of India.  "Train services are disrupted due to the mishap but we hope to restore the services in two to three hours time," an Indian Railways spokesperson.Railways Minister Lalu Prasad announced that an inquiry will be held.A London Underground engineering train ran away and travelled four miles on the Underground's Northern Line early on Friday morning, resulting in part of the Northern Line, which carries 500,000 passengers daily, being closed for much of the day. The runaway train apparently had an engineering defect.The London Underground, also known as the Tube, reported that the engineering train had been working on the High Barnet branch of the Northern Line when it broke down at 5.25 a.m. BST (0425 UTC). It was attached to an out-of-service passenger train to be dragged northwards when, for reasons which are being investigated by the Rail Accident Investigation Branch, it broke free near Archway station at 6.44 a.m. and started rolling southwards. The train ran through six stations before it was finally brought to a halt by a slight incline in the track at Warren Street at 6.57 a.m.Passenger Tom Redfern, on the preceding train at Archway, described what happened to the BBC:  "As soon as we pulled away the driver came on the tannoy and said, 'There is an emergency, will everyone move towards the front of the train'. There was a ripple of panic. I went from half asleep to a big adrenaline rush. I thought, 'Is this it?'"The passenger train was rerouted onto the City Branch of the Northern Line, and bypassed all stations until Moorgate in an attempt to keep ahead of the runaway, while the runaway was routed down the Charing Cross Branch.Mr Redfern said: "We went full speed. We knew the situation was dangerous because we were going fast. Even by the driver's voice, we could tell it was serious."London Underground director Richard Parry said that at no time was the runaway closer than 1 kilometre (0.6 miles) to a passenger train. Service was suspended between Finchley Central and Archway, and between Camden Town and Kennington via Charing Cross, while investigations into the cause of the runaway took place.It has been unveiled that aircraft operating at or near a major Russian airport, the Moscow Sheremetyevo International Airport, have for about four years been at high risk of bird strikes because of a high number of birds nesting nearby on a large, illegal landfill site. Prominent Russian social activist Alexey Navalny, whose anti-corruption campaigns are nowadays largely discussed on the Internet in Russia and general press, on Friday published a LiveJournal post with the details on the case.Navalny, among other things, references the recent writings in the LiveJournal blog of the airport's Director General Mikhail Vasilenko, who has publicly expressed concerns about the birds near the airport. He says that, since the landfill came into existence, there have been 141 instances of planes hitting birds while flying near the airport and 21 instances at the airfield during takeoff and landing operations. Bird strikes are a common problem in aviation that can lead to equipment damage and human casualties.It has been reported that, for a long time, airport administration and groups of local citizens concerned with the landfill have been appealing to different Moscow Oblast and Russian Federation authorities to address the problem, but almost nothing has been done to close the landfill due to obstacles in local governing and commerical systems. It has been emphasized that the existence of the landfill in question is not officially permitted, and as such, the landfill is operating illegally.As reported by Navalny, the only thing state authorities could recently accomplish, was a temporary suspension of trash transportation during May 7–12, when many world leaders came to Moscow through Sheremetyevo—historically the state's main civil airport—to celebrate Russia's 65th Victory Day. That was made possible only with the interference of Federal Protective Service, the state service which protects top Russian officials.Yesterday, at least four were killed and eleven were injured near the Slavyansky Bulvar Metro station in Moscow, Russia, after a bus ran down the steps at the entrance, officials stated. According to an emergency services source reported through state news media, fifteen were injured, and five died in the incident.The incident happened in an icy situation. The bus drove onto the pavement and down the steps leading to the station. The police reportedly arrested the driver. News agencies reported the driver was not under the influence of alcohol. The driver told investigators the bus suddenly moved, and although he tried to stop it, the brakes did not work. A reported emergency services source said the accident might be due to brake failure.According to Interfax news agency, the bus was less than a year old. Moscow's mayor Sergei Sobyanin said he had ordered all Moscow buses to be inspected.A Russian charter bus collided with a local transit bus near the town of Gagnef in Sweden. At least five passengers were seriously injured, with many others sustaining minor injuries. Rumours also stated that there had been one fatality, but the local authorities claimed that this information is incorrect.The accident occurred on Highway 70 near Gagnef when a local transit bus was leaving a road-side bus stop and was hit by a chartered Russian bus. As a result of the collision the roof of the charter bus was partially sheared off. At the time of the accident the vehicles were carrying a total of about 60 persons, 20 of whom were children.The accident occurred after midnight local time on January 3, 2008. The cause remains unclear. According to the officials the accident area had received a thick snow cover and the roads in the vicinity were icy.A Kamov-32 fire-fighting helicopter has crashed while trying to fill its water tanks, reports the Turkish Anatolian News agency. The crew was reported to be in good condition.Since mid-August, the forest fires have swept the Southern part of Turkey including popular tourist destinations like Bodrum and Antalya-Kas. Lately the General Directorate for Forestry has sent short text messages through Turkish operators for citizens to be aware of forest fires. Amid warnings another fire started in Kas during the weekend.The latest fire in Kas was taken under control with the help from fire helicopters, where the Kamof-32 type Russian fire helicopter has crashed while filling its tanks with water from nearby Lake Gombe. Three Russian citizens working with the team, a Turkish pilot and a Turkish engineer have reported to be fine and in good condition in Gombe Health Center.Aeroflot Flight 296 has returned to Greece after a bomb threat was received during a flight from Athens to Moscow, Russia.Greek authorities told the Airbus A319's flight crew to return the jet to Athens International Airport after the airport was told by an anonymous telephone caller that a bomb was on the flight. The airliner reached an area close to the Turkish border when word was received and the aircraft turned around.At 12:18 GMT, the aircraft performed a safe landing at Athens, and all 49 passengers were evacuated safely. Local authorities then searched the aircraft, but no bomb was found.Eleven people are dead after a military cargo jet crashed in Siberia. The strategic airlifter, which belonged to Russia's Interior Ministry, came down shortly after takeoff in Mirny. There were no survivors.No-one on the ground was injured by the Ilyushin Il-76, which lost control after it failed to gain altitude, banking hard to the right before hitting the ground two kilometers away near a disused mine.  The plane did not achieve a height of beyond 20–30 meters.The aircraft had been headed to Irkutsk and was being operated by interior troops. An inquiry was established to investigate. The Il-76 has been a major component of both the Russian and Soviet military since the 1970s, and had already seen a serious accident in Russia last month. On October 7 an engine separated on takeoff, without injuries. Russia briefly grounded Il-76s after that accident.A plane built by Russia's Sukhoi has crashed in Indonesia with around 50 people on board during a demonstration flight to potential customers. The Superjet 100 struck a cliff as it descended over mountains near Jakarta.The aircraft departed Halim Perdanakusuma Airport at around 2pm local time yesterday and was due to return 50 minutes later. A search and rescue mission was dispatched to West Java, where the aircraft crashed in the Salak mountain range. Bad weather and nightfall initially hampered rescue efforts but a helicopter found the crash site after dawn.Everything reportedly was normal that day on a preflight check and earlier demonstration flight. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev today ordered an investigation into the accident, while Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono today said "I expect that there will be a full and careful investigation".Those on board include journalists, Russian diplomats, and representatives of prospective customer airlines. The flight crew had requested permission for a descent from 10,000ft to 6,000ft shortly before contact was lost. It struck a 7,000ft mountain and the reason for the descent is not immediately apparent. The jet was touring Asia on a sales promotion with stops including Pakistan, Vietnam, Laos, Kazakhstan, and Burma.With a maiden flight in 2008, several Superjet 100s are in service and Sukhoi boasts orders for about 200 more. The first newly-designed post-Soviet Russian airliner, a commercial offering by military planemaker Sukhoi, it seats around 100 and retails for US$31.7 million. This is cheaper than products from Canada; and Sukhoi has sought the services of Western firms including Thales of France and Finmeccanica of Italy, potentially mitigating safety fears about Soviet-era technology.Sukhoi's top test pilot, Alexander Yablontsev, and co-pilot Alexander Kochetkov reportedly were due to be at the controls of the crashed plane. The exact number on board is reported as being from 44 to 50. Sukhoi Civil Aircraft boss Vladimir Prisyazhnyuk said the flight carried eight, including technical staff, from Russia; two from Italy; and one each from France and the United States. The wreckage is in small pieces and, following unconfirmed reports saying bodies were seen, a search team reported no survivors found but several corpses.So far, Aeroflot of Russia and Armavia of Armenia are the only airlines to have brought the jet into service. Mexico has recently given approval to the plane, allowing Western operator Interjet to join the Russian airlines before year's end. Sukhoi hopes to scale up production, presently below planned levels, and already has firm deals in place in Asia including with Kartika Airlines of Indonesia.Police in Russia say they have identified the man behind the bombing of Moscow's Domodedovo International Airport on Monday, although they will not yet name him. Police said the man who killed 35 was a twenty-year-old suicide bomber from the North Caucasus region.An Investigative Committee statement delivered by spokesman Vladimir Markin said "We have established the identity of the terrorist suicide bomber who set off the explosive. He turned out to be a 20-year-old native from one of the North Caucasus republics," and "Despite the investigation having established the name of the terrorist, we will not name him today," because it may hamper ongoing efforts to detain people suspected of collaborating. Markin added "I  would especially like to note that it was by no means an accident that the act of terror was committed in the international arrivals hall... According to investigators, the act of terror was first and foremost aimed against foreign citizens." Eight of those killed were foreigners and several flights had just landed from European origins.President Dmitry Medvedev sacked several transportations officials in the wake of the bombing. The nation's transport infrastructure will deal with extra visitors when the country hosts the 2014 Winter Olympics and 2018 World Cup. Medvedev has targeted both security officials and airport management in the wake of the bombing.Few official details have been released by the investigation and unofficial reports in the press have been contradictory; one report suggested a suicide bomber wearing a plastic explosive-based shrapnel bomb belt. Another said it could have been detonated remotely, while a third suggested a timer. Russian newspapers initially suggested a bag had exploded on the floor, while local TV has shown CCTV footage of the explosion. Unconfirmed reports also claim the Federal Security Service was searching for three people ahead of the attack and that the bomber was Vitaly Razdobudko of Stavropol.Although nobody has claimed responsibility or been arrested for the airport attack, Markin told reporters several people have been brought in on suspicion of planning an attack on December 31, while others are being sought. He linked them to an explosion on the 31st in a Moscow hotel, in which a bomber died after the device he was building went off prematurely.Prime Minister Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday that the attack is not thought to be linked to Chechnyan insurgency. The attack is Moscow's second within a year, with two women from Dagestan, North Caucuses blowing themselves up on the Metro and killing 39 in 2010.The Russian tour boat Bulgaria, carrying 208 people despite being certified to carry only 120, sank Sunday on Russia's Volga river.  Yesterday, prosecutors opened a wide ranging investigation into Russia's transportation industry, including an examination of the failure of governmental regulation and safety inspections of the tour boat industry.Around 80 people were saved and perhaps as many as 128 drowned, including up to fifty children caught in a playroom. Children were undocumented passengers who came aboard with their parents.  Rescuers equipped with helicopters are currently looking for survivors, and teams of 50 divers are searching the vessel and  say that people are still trapped inside. But officials hold little hope that more survivors will be found.A day of mourning was declared in Russia yesterday. Riverboats flew their flags at half-mast. Not since 1986, when two ships collided, killing 423 people, has Russia experienced a worse maritime disaster. Summer river cruises are a favorite outing in Russia, but river boats have fallen into disrepair since Soviet times. "We have far too many old ships sailing our waters," President Dmitri Medvedev said on Monday. He  vowed to bring criminal actions against the ship's operator.  Also, two commercial vessels that ignored drowning passengers and did not stop to help are expected to be charged. Yesterday, prosecutors opened an investigation into Russia's transportation industry, including an examination of the failure of governmental regulation and safety inspections of the tour boat industry.The 80m (260ft) boat  was caught in bad weather on Sunday and sank near Tatarstan while sailing from Bolgary to Kazaon, about 750km (450 miles) east of Moscow at a part of the Volga River that is very wide and considered wild. The vessel sank within a few minutes after encountering the storm. According to reports, the double-decker vessel was 56 years old and was in poor condition. One of its two engines failed before it left on its voyage on Sunday and the ship had been listing. The river boat industry lacks adequate regulation and the boats are not given complete safety inspections.The Neva Express passenger train heading to St. Petersburg from Moscow derails at 21:43 MSK (17:43 GMT) on August 13, 2007 after a bomb explosion near the railway station Malaya Vishera. At least 60 people have been injured, some taken to hospital, no one reported to be killed. The bomb made a shell-hole about 1.5 metres in diameter, officials say. 800 meters of railway track and its overhead contact system have been damaged. The bomb, determined by officials to be a homemade explosive device, was planted under the bridge.A criminal investigation has been established by Russian officials. It has been linked to an insurgency in the south of the country around Chechnya and is, according to the Federal Security Service, part of a pattern of violent attacks connected to the insurgency.The railway traffic was blocked in both directions. Services between St. Petersburg and Moscow were redirected via Volkhov.Thirty-eight members of the senior management of Irish airline Ryanair, including chief executive Michael O'Leary, have seen their pay frozen in light of the increasing price of fuel, driven by rising oil prices.O'Leary, who owns 4.2% of the airline and earned €992,000 (£780,000) last year including €565,000 basic pay, said "I think it's inappropriate for managers to be awarding themselves pay increases if profits are falling," and that pay would only be unfrozen if oil significantly decreased in price and "we can see some prospect of profits being increased."Ryanair has currently hedged oil prices at US$68 per barrel, but this is set to expire, leaving the no-frills airline paying full market prices. "Our hedging finishes next week and we go from about $70 to about $100. Next year's fuel bill is going up by €400m. We only have around 10% hedged in the high $70s for next year and I wouldn't be hedging now. We'll take our chances in the markets," explained O'Leary.UBS analyst Tim Marshall estimates Ryanair's fuel bill is set to increase €732m this financial year to €1.01bn. UBS predicts a profit of €485m for this year, but O'Leary says profits could be down to €235m between now and March 2009, dependent on "oil prices and average fares". In light of the news, shares in Ryanair fell 2¾ cents to €2.96½ each.Ryanair is trying hard to reduce costs, O'Leary saying they were "renegotiating airport contracts, handling contracts, maintenance contracts. We [Ryanair] want to reduce costs in every area of our operation." He said prices for passengers are set to go up, as "bag charges will keep going up until we can persuade half of our passengers to travel without checked-in luggage so we can get our handling charges down". At present, around 40% do this.He said that to fill an extra 30% of seats the airline will keep fares relatively low. "We won't have to cut the fares like hell but they are not going to go up... More will fly with Ryanair than British Airways, Air France and all the other high-priced airlines."Irish low cost airline, Ryanair, announced today that it is exercising its options with Boeing to purchase five new 737 aircraft. This brings Ryanair's total number of outstanding orders with the US manufacturer to 230.The new planes, which come from the 737-800 range, will be fitted with blended winglets to boost fuel efficiency by as much as 3%. Ryanair CEO, Michael O'Leary, justified his choice of Boeing by saying, "The Boeing 737-800 has the best technical reliability and ensures that Ryanair is the number one on-time major airline in Europe"..."In addition, it has the lowest unit operating cost. The addition of these five aircraft will continue to enable us to develop more new routes across Europe and bring low fares to many more European consumers."Ryanair is the world's most profitable airline, having reported record profits of €269m earlier this year, and is pursuing an aggressive expansion plan which will see it's total number of passengers jump to 70m over the next few years. At present Ryanair has 91 aircraft and 230 on order.Irish low fares airline Ryanair has announced it is to commence service of two new routes from Shannon Airport in County Clare, Ireland. It will now fly to Bristol, England daily and to Nantes, France three times a week. The airline will also increase the frequency of its Shannon-Frankfurt route.Shannon airport has seen its traffic figures soar in the past year since Ryanair established a new base there. Ryanair CEO Michael O'Leary has said he expects the new routes to bring an additional 200,000 passengers to the airport.Despite the positive announcement of the new routes on Thursday, Ryanair's share price plunged by 10% on the same day due to the London bombings that morning. However the share price recovered substantially on Friday.Ryanair is the world's most profitable airline, having reported record profits of €269m earlier this year, and is pursuing an aggressive expansion plan which will see it's total number of passengers jump to 70m over the next few years. At present Ryanair has 91 aircraft and 230 Boeing 737's on order.Irish low fares airline, Ryanair, has reported that passenger numbers for May 2005 are up 34%. This represented the largest increase in traffic for over a year, and comes after a string of good news for the airline during the week; most notably reporting record profits.Ryanair carried 2.9 million passengers in May compared to 2.17 million in the same period last year. This was partly helped by an increase in the number of routes over the year. Ryanair has been aggressively adding routes from its new European base in Shannon and throughout southern Spain over the past year. The airline now operates 12 routes from Shannon and over 50 from Spain.Load factor also increased, from 81% to 82%, as did the percentage of tickets sold on the internet. Internet sales now account for 98% of total ticket sales, up from 97% in May 2004.The airline, which operates over 200 routes, revealed after tax profits of €268.9m (US $332m) earlier this week and record revenue of €1.34bn ($1.66bn).Ryanair, the Irish low fares airline, which last week celebrated twenty years in business, has reported a 19% increase in profits. The airline, which operates over 200 routes, revealed in its annual results that after tax profits had increased to €268.9m (US $332 million), comfortably beating the median analyst forecast of €248m ($306 million).Group revenue rose by 24% to a record €1.34bn ($1.66 billion), on the back of a 19% rise in passenger numbers to 27.6m ($34.1 million). By 10:30am UTC, Ryanair shares had risen by 4.48% to €6.53 ($8.06) ( on the Irish Stock Exchange (ISE), having hit €6.66 ($8.22) earlier in the morning - briefly valuing Ryanair above the €5bn ($6 billion) mark.Despite the increase in profits, the firm told investors that the increased cost of fuel posed a serious threat for the future, however Ryanair has hedged 75% of next winters fuel needs at €38 ($47) a barrel. CEO Michael O'Leary, told the media in relation to fuel costs, "Our outlook for the coming 12 months is more positive than it was this time last year"..."Clearly fuel costs remain high, and the market is volatile." He also reiterated that Ryanair would not impose fuel surcharges on customers.Ryanair's 2004 record profit is larger than that of Easyjet ($74m), British Airways ($240m), and even its role model Southwest Airlines ($313m). The fact that it made €248m on turnover of just €1.34bn makes it by some margin the world's most profitable major airline. One of the key methods of keeping costs to a minimum at Ryanair is by using less staff to carry more passengers, in comparison to its main competitors:Ryanair employs 2,300 staff and carries 27m people a year;11,700 passengers per staff membereasyJet employs 3,600 staff and carries 24m people a year;6,666 passengers per staff memberAer Lingus employs 3,900 staff and carries 7m people a year;1,795 passengers per staff memberAir France-KLM employs 64,000 staff and carries 65m people a year;1,015 passengers per staff memberBritish Airways employs 51,939 staff and carries 35m people a year;674 passengers per staff memberRyanair has a stated aim of raising its passenger numbers to above 70m within five years time, making it Europe's largest airline. The Dublin-based airline currently is awaiting delivery of 200 new planes from Boeing which it hopes to use to achieve this ambitious aim and to replace its older aircraft.France's state-owned railway operator, SNCF, said the four main TGV lines serving Paris were sabotaged in what appeared to coordinated pre-dawn attacks. The acts of sabotage included a very large fire, said SNCF. TGV service faced extensive delays on Wednesday, which was exacerbated by the ongoing November 2007 strikes in France. SNCF says that 23% of its workers remain on strike."These actions are the work of hardliners and show total irresponsibility," said the SNCF, blaming militant strikers. Several smaller fires were started by stuffing a burning rag into cable storage boxes, disrupting the rail signals and forcing authorities to reroute service. The large fire damaged some 30 km (18.6 miles) of cable along the TGV Atlantic line.Union leaders immediately distanced themselves from the sabotage and said the acts were "committed by cowards." Bernard Thibault, head of the Confédération générale du travail (CGT), said it was possible the acts were committed to discredit the unions.According to Transport Minister Dominique Bussereau, who was speaking to France 2, said that President Nicolas Sarkozy ordered an investigation with the aim to punish the culprits "with the utmost severity." Prime Minister François Fillon said, "Those responsible for these acts of sabotage no doubt believed they could interrupt the negotiations and the return to work that is under way at the SNCF," in a speech to the Parliament of France. "Well, I'm telling them they are very much mistaken," he continued.Negotiations with the unions began at 3:00 p.m. CET (UTC+1) on Wednesday. "There have been a number of advances, of announcements," said Didier Le Reste, who heads up CGT's rail division. "I trust railway workers to take decisions that are appropriate."President Sarkozy said that while he will not back down on the issue of early retirements, he is willing to make other concessions to the unions. He also encouraged workers to return to work as negotiations have begun. "Everyone must ask whether it is right to continue a strike which has already cost users—and strikers—so dear," he said.Meanwhile, teachers and other civil servants, who yesterday started a 24-hour work stoppage in their own protests against government reforms, returned to work. University students, however, continued disruptions in a protest against education reform. New today, was a street demonstration by tobacco shop owners, who are protesting a proposed smoking-ban in bars.A salvage team boarded the bulk carrier MV Pasha Bulker that has been stuck on a reef off Nobby's Beach in Newcastle to assess damage.New South Wales Maritime spokesman Neil Patchett told reporters that an aircraft from the Australian Maritime Safety Authority flew over the ship earlier this morning and reported there was no visible sign of oil leaking from the vessel, calling it "good news".Meanwhile, casualties from the storm that hit Newcastle yesterday continue to mount. The bodies of an elderly couple were found earlier today, bringing the confirmed death toll to five with three more still missing. Divers and around 45 Police officers and SES volunteers are still searching for another adult and child missing from a family of five whose car crashed down an embankment when a section of the Old Pacific Highway collapsed during the storm.While the storm has eased, it is expected to worsen again overnight. The Bureau of Meteorology, says Sydney is also expected to be affected by the storm tonight as it moves south.Duty forecaster Julie Evans said, "The low pressure system is slowly moving south so the good news is it's stopped absolutely pelting down in Newcastle and the Central Coast but now Sydney's getting the brunt of it, and it's also becoming heavier in the Illawarra."A salvage ship owned and operated by the United States firm Phoenix International has arrived in the Makassar port on the island of Sulawesi, Indonesia. It intends to recover the cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder (collectively referred to as "black boxes") from the wreckage of Adam Air Flight 574, which crashed into the ocean nearby early on new year's day, killing all 102 on board.Adam Air spokesman Danke Drajat told reporters that the company would first survey the area, and that "If their studies show it is possible to do so, they will immediately try to retrieve the black boxes," adding, "it is our moral commitment to have the black box retrieved." He also said the survey alone would take several days.A US navy vessel, the Mary Sears, sent to the scene of the plane's disappearance had located the black boxes within weeks of the disaster, along with the rest of the wreckage, but recovery was significantly delayed because of a dispute over who would foot the bill for their recovery. With the recorders at a depth of approximately 1,700 meters (1 mile), salvage operations could cost as much as US$6 million (€4.45 million).Experts have predicted that the recovery could be further complicated by strong currents in the area, which may have buried the recorders in sediment or else dislodged them from their original location. According to one crew member, the recovery vessel - the Eas - has a 16-member crew and carries a mini submarine, which can reach depths of 6,000 meters (20,000 feet), as well as being equipped with sonar and deep sea cameras.The crash is one of three this year, which in combination have caused all Indonesian airlines to be added to the list of air carriers banned in the EU. The other two are Adam Air Flight 172 and Garuda Indonesia Flight 200.The cause of the Boeing 737s loss currently remains a mystery. It is known that while cruising at 33,000 feet (10,000 meters) the aircraft encountered a storm immediately before its disappearance, and, based on the distribution of wreckage on the seabed, it is also known that the aircraft did not experience an in-flight breakup.Sweden-based airline Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS) said it will reduce payrolls by 8,600 jobs as part of its "Core SAS" restructuring plan.The airline will cut 3,000 staff directly and eliminate 5,600 by divesting business ventures, reducing the workforce by 40% to 14,000. The restructuring comes after SAS posted losses of 6.32 billion Swedish krona in 2008. The company is also to sell airBaltic and Spanair and its stakes in Air Greenland, BMI, Estonian Air, Skyways Express, Spirit Airlines and Trust. Spanair is to be sold for €1. The company intends to switch to concentrating on its core Nordic market.SAS is to seek 6 billion krona from shareholders, while the government of Denmark is to invest 600 million Danish kroner in the company. Currently, Denmark owns 14.3% of SAS, Sweden has 21.4% and Norway 14.3%. The rest is publicly traded.The airline was founded in 1946 when the state airlines of Denmark, Sweden and Norway merged their longhaul services.Investigators in The Netherlands have announced that last month's crash of a Boeing 737-800 was caused by a combination of an instrument failure and pilot error. Turkish Airlines Flight 1951 crashed upon approach to Amsterdam's Schiphol Airport, killing nine and injuring eighty of the 135 passengers and crew on board.Pieter van Vollenhoven, head of the Dutch Safety Board, said yesterday that as the aircraft was at 1,950 feet the faulty altimeter indicated that the airliner's height was at minus eight feet. Because the autopilot and autothrottle were running from this flawed data the plane automatically reduced engine power as it would in the final seconds before landing.The plane's altitude and airspeed continued to fall for a minute and a half without the pilots noticing, when at 450 feet and an airspeed 46 mph lower than it should be the aircraft's stick shaker activated to warn the flight crew of an imminent aerodynamic stall. The pilots applied full engine thrust, but were too late to prevent the accident, and the aircraft crashed into a field and broke into three pieces."When the crew of the Turkish Airlines noticed what was going on, it was already too late to intervene effectively," commented the Board's press release. The Board also sent a warning to Boeing concerning possible problems with the 737-800's altimeters. The United States airframe manufacturer has issued an alert to operators of all variants of the 737 worldwide - totalling almost 6,000 aircraft - reminding flight crews "to carefully monitor primary flight instruments during critical phases of flight."Boeing have also stated that the preliminary report "should not be construed as a final conclusion or outcome of the investigation," and that the Board is still "in the early stages of this complex investigation." Further, they told ABC News that "erroneous radio altimeter readings are detectable and recoverable. Should a radio altimeter failure occur, anomalous readings would be detected by monitoring systems or be apparent through flight deck effects."It is apparent from the flight data recorder - which carries details of the plane's last eight flights - that the altimeter had also failed on at least two previous occasions, but the aircraft was able to land safely. Van Vollenhoven commented that misty conditions at the time of the crash would have prevented the pilots seeing their height earlier, and also said that the plane's automatic flight systems should not be used when crucial instruments are defective.A school bus, with fourteen students from the Temple High School aboard, crashed in Georgia, United States, earlier today on Georgia State Route 113 going southbound, killing one student and leaving a dozen more injured. It is reported that at the time of the crash there was a trainee driving the bus.According to the Carroll County Schools Superintendent, one student was killed and a dozen others were in need of medical care after the bus rolled over. A spokesman for the mayor and a highway patrolman also confirmed that a student died. The student has been identified as James Rashawn Walker of Temple, Georgia. It is reported that the bus was heading southbound on the highway when the driver lost control and drove into a ditch, which caused the bus to turn over. Witnesses reported the bus flipped multiple times before coming to a halt. According to a witness, Ben Cole, a lot of the students were crying and in pain. The six injured  were taken to the Tanner Medical Center and the Higgins Hospital, among them was the 45-year-old female bus driver. The Carrol County Sheriff's Department are advising concerned parents to gather at Temple High School.A woman, who was taking the road test to become a licensed school bus driver, crashed a bus into a utility pole in White Plains, New York, today. The wreck occurred on South Kensico Road between the intersections with Minevera Place and Oakley Avenue.The Journal News reported that the accident occurred at 11:30 a.m. EDT (UTC-4) and that neither the student driver nor the examiner from the New York Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) was injured.According to The Journal News the road was closed in both directions. Police and workers from the utility company, Con Edison, were on the scene inspecting the damage. The utility pole had snapped at the bottom and it was leaning on the bus.Wikinews went to the crash site and found that Con Edison crews were still working to replace the pole. Nearly five hours after the crash, a new pole had been installed and the old one was being held parallel up against it. Workers were transferring the wires onto the new pole.Kensico Road had been reopened, but only in one lane. Workers let traffic pass alternating between one direction and then the other. Ironically, the green sign that is affixed to the pole reads "DMV test site starts here."A man who visited Costa Rica who was on American Airlines flight 1552 from Miami, Florida to Toronto was stung by a scorpion on Sunday. The scorpion was from Costa Rica, where the man was on a camping trip with his brother.The scorpion crawled out of the man's carry-on knapsack. Then, the scorpion stung the man, who is believed to be in his 20s or early 30s. Flight officials immediately delayed the outbound flight. The man was treated by paramedics and was taken to hospital.Later, the scorpion was killed. Animal control officers said the scorpion was a non-lethal species."We delayed the outbound flight and searched the cabin of the aircraft to see if we could find any more, which we did not," said John Hotard, a company spokesman in Fort Worth, Texas. "This is rare. I'm not aware of a scorpion stinging a person on any of our flights before.""We've had cases where passengers have brought critters on board in their backpack and they get out and crawl around, but it's rare," he added.They arrived safely at Toronto's Pearson International Airport. The flight back to Miami was delayed by less than an hour.When the flight resumed, the pilot said: "Welcome to Scorpion Flight 1011."The scorpion is said to have been brought on the plane unintentionally.Scotland has refused bail to the Libyan man convicted of the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 despite his terminal cancer, as he can receive treatment in prison. Abdelbaset Ali Mohmed Al-Megrahi was jailed in 2001 for the 1988 bombing of the transatlantic airliner, killing 270 people, but is seeking to have his conviction overturned.Minutes after Edinburgh's Appeals Court rejected bail on compassionate grounds Jim Swire, spokesman for the victim's families who lost his daughter in the disaster, complained about the ruling. "It has never been a goal of our group to seek revenge," said a lawyer outside the court reading from his statement. "The refusal of a return to his family for a dying man whose verdict is not even yet secure looks uncomfortably like either an aspect of revenge -- or perhaps timidity."Al-Megrahi, a former intelligence officer, is 54 and serving a minimum of 27 years for the bombing. He has advanced prostate cancer which is spreading through his body. His request for bail was rejected by Lord Hamilton, Scotland's head judge, who said that as doctors say he could live a few more years he should not be released unless and until after his appeal succeeds or his condition worsens.Some other doctors give his time as just months, as the cancer has reached his bones. Hamilton however said that palliative hormone treatment could prolong his life. Hamilton also said Al-Megrahi was not suffering "material pain or disability".The Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission ruled last year that the conviction may be a miscarriage of justice. It said there was significant doubts to be raised over several key pieces of evidence in the original trial.The UK's Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) says it will close some airspace in Scotland, after meteorologists cautioned that ash from Eyjafjallajokull, an erupting volcano in Iceland, may make it unsafe for airplanes to fly.The CAA announced that the airspace will be shut down from 07.00 (06.00 UTC) local time on Wednesday; travellers are advised to check with their airlines to see if their flights will be operating. A spokesman for the agency also added that "[t]he forecasts also show that it is likely that the ash cloud will continue to move south, potentially affecting airports in the north-west of England and North Wales.""Met Office forecasts show that levels of ash in the atmosphere over Scotland and Northern Ireland will exceed the concentrations that engine manufactures have agreed are safe for operations," said a spokesman for the authority. "Unfortunately, this means that the CAA anticipates all Scottish and Northern Ireland airports will be closed from 7.00 am local time." The Irish Aviation Authority, meanwhile, warned that aviation in the vicinity could face a "summer of uncertainty" as the volcano continues to sporadically erupt. "We could be faced with this periodically [in] the summer," said Eamon Brennan, the chief executive of the group.The restrictions come a day after a temporary ban on flights in Ireland was implemented yesterday, from 07.00 to 13.00 local time (06.00 to 12.00 UTC); flights from there have now resumed. Flights going to and from locations in mainland Europe have not been affected thanks to new flight rules that allow planes fly through low-density ash clouds.A minibus overturned on the A6089 road between Gordon and Carfraemill in the Scottish Borders on Saturday night. The rural accident killed one man and injured 23 more.The bus was reportedly carrying an all-male group from Newtongrange to Kelso. Following the accident, local authorities declared a major incident, with Police Scotland, the Scottish Ambulance Service, the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service, NHS Scotland, and Scottish Borders Council all collaborating on the response.Per the reports, an air ambulance ferried one survivor to Glasgow's Queen Elizabeth University Hospital; fourteen casualties were taken to Borders General Hospital in Melrose; and eight were taken to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. The minibus held 23 passengers plus a driver. Authorities closed the road after the crash at around 10:50am, reopening it at 9:00pm.59-year-old East Lothian man Ross Jones Barker has been identified as the man killed at the accident location.  Barker and some other passengers were traveling to Kelso to attend the Kelso Races, a local horse race. Images of the bus showed it upended in a field perpendicular to the road, with extensive crush damage to the roof. BBC reported the minibus left tyre marks on the road.Traffic Scotland took to Twitter on the day of the accident to warn of strong wind gusts affecting driving in the area. The road has a poor safety reputation among locals, who know it for its multiple blind summits. Police Scotland's Road Policing Unit carried out on-site investigations and was working to establish the circumstances. The vehicle has since been righted  and recovered.Reverend Malcolm Muir of Newtongrange described "a solemnity across the village at the moment" in the "tight-knit community" which "has a very strong sense of identity."Two cars have been involved in a road traffic accident in the Scottish Lothian and Borders region, causing three fatalities and sending three to hospital. The incident occurred on the A68 road approximately 1.5 miles south of the Midlothian village of Pathhead when a Škoda Octavia and a Nissan Note travelling in opposite directions collided at approximately 0730 UTC today.The Nissan, which was carrying five occupants, overturned and came to rest on its roof. Three male Buddhist monks who sat in the back of the car died at the site of the crash. The female driver of the vehicle managed to get out of the vehicle herself but another male passenger in the front of the car had to be cut free by fire service members. The two front-seat passengers as well as the male driver of the Škoda were hospitalised at the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, although none of their injuries are considered likely to be fatal."This is a tragic incident," Inspector Simon Bradshaw of Lothian and Borders Police said, "and we are currently in the process of carrying out inquiries in order to establish the full circumstances of the collision." The A68 road close to the location of the accident was temporarily closed to allow police to investigate the incident, with traffic redirected to the B6370 road via the town of Gorebridge. The road has since reopened.For the past week, approximately 100 sealing ships have been trapped in ice floes off the northeast coast of Newfoundland. The ships and their crew had been participating in the annual seal hunt off Canada's easternmost province.Several of the vessels have been damaged by the ice and supplies are now running low for those sailors awaiting rescue by the Canadian Coast Guard. As of Thursday, 6:00 p.m. EDST, some 20 crew members, out of an estimated 400, had been rescued.A Coast Guard icebreaker, the Sir Wilfred Grenfell, on mission to free the trapped ships, itself became stuck in the ice. A Department of Fisheries and Oceans (DFO) spokesperson indicated to CTV News that, although the Grenfell had since been freed, another icebreaker, the Ann Harvey, was now trapped. "It's just such heavy ice that even ice breakers are having trouble," said Erika Pittman, a communications officer with the DFO. In addition to the crushing ice, extreme weather conditions have been hampering rescue efforts. Pittman suggested that conditions wouldn't improve until sometime next week. The amount and thickness of the pack ice, according to Pittman, is the worst it has been for sealers in the past 15 years.In addition to three icebreakers on hand, the Coast Guard is flying helicopters in to provide food and support to the stranded sailors. Most of the sealing ship captains have refused to abandon their ships, instead staying with them and hoping for a change in conditions or to be freed by the Coast Guard."Usually you try to stay with the ship because you think the safety is with the ship because the ship is big, but sometimes it is too late. In this case, we're hoping that as it changes and the breakers and helicopters are there and we can get them all out," said Brian Penney, a superintendent with the Coast Guard."They're putting a lot of effort into pulling them out," said Penny. "But the sheer numbers, it's a very, very slow process." According to Penny, approximately 15 of the longliners ships have had their hulls damaged by the ice to the extent that the ships are at risk of sinking.Critics of the seal hunt point out that the annual hunt is not only "cruel to animals", but is also a dangerous occupation for the sealers. When sealers have to be rescued by the Coast Guard, "Canadian taxpayers foot the bill," suggested Rebecca Aldworth, director of Canadian wildlife issues for the Humane Society of the United States.Search and rescue operations for a light aircraft that disappeared seven days ago in Brazil have ceased having failed to locate the plane. In addition to two local pilots the Cessna 310 was carrying four businessmen who were citizens of the United Kingdom.Rescue teams utilising two air force helicopters and a fixed-wing aircraft, as well as several naval vessels, scoured an area of 3,475 square miles off the North-East of the country for the missing plane, which was chartered from Aero Star. Although the plane and its occupants remain missing, some floating personal possessions from those on board and several pieces of wreckage have been recovered.The pilot and co-pilot have been identified as Clovis de Figueiredo e Silva and Leandro Oliveira Veloso respectively, and the passengers as Alan Kempson, Sean Woodhall, Ricky Every and Nigel Hodges. The businessmen were flying in connection to a propsed luxury housing development at the Bahia town of Ilheus, whose airport the plane had been a few kilometres away from and intending to land.The four Britons, three of whom reside abroad, had initially attempted to hire a helicopter for the journey but were denied this due to weather conditions that were deemed to poor for rotorcraft operation. Their relatives have hired a boat with sonar equipment and intend to search deeper waters for the lost plane.The search for the 16 missing people has been called off about 34 hours after the Sikorsky S92 helicopter crashed in the Atlantic Ocean on Friday.  The helicopter is lying on its side at a depth of 178 metres approximately 30 miles (48 kilometers) off the Newfoundland shoreline, about 55 miles (89 km) southeast of St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador.Of the original 18 people on board, Robert Decker is in critical condition in hospital and the body of Allison Maher had been recovered. Decker is the only survivor of the crash.  The remotely operated vehicles (ROVs) used to search the wreckage, have videotaped ten to thirteen of the missing within the helicopter. At first recovery crews were hoping to haul the main body of the helicopter and its fuselage up intact, but because of the helicopter's condition, the Transportation Safety Board will first retrieve the bodies from within the tangled metal.Weather permitting, the recovery of the helicopter should be completed by the end of today.Aircraft and water vessels from the French, American, and Brazilian military were searching the Atlantic on Monday after an Air France passenger jet with 228 people on board disappeared over the ocean. Search teams from Brazil mainly focused on the area north of Fernando de Noronha, an island located approximately two hundred miles off the coast of Brazil. France's military, meanwhile, was several hundred miles away, searching the waters near Cape Verde.Airplanes from Senegal and Spain have also been sent out to help out in the search effort. French officials have also asked for United States satellite data to help with the search."We want to try to reach the last point where the aircraft made contact, which is about 1,200km [745 miles] north-east of Natal [located in Brazil]," said Colonel Jorge Amaral, a spokesman for the Brazil air force.French president Nicolas Sarkozy said he was pessimistic that any survivors would be found."This is a catastrophe the likes of which Air France has never seen before. I said the truth to them: the prospects of finding survivors are very low," the president said to reporters at the Charles de Gaulle airport in Paris, France. The Pentagon has also ordered aircraft to assist in finding the plane. The Airbus A330 had departed from Rio de Janeiro on Sunday night, with a dozen crew members and 216 passengers on board, according to a spokeswoman for Air France. The jet was in a normal cruise at 840 kilometres per hour at about 10,700 metres above sea level when it disappeared, almost four hours after having departed. No problems were apparent when the aircraft made its last radar contact.Air France said that the aeroplane "crossed through a thunderous zone with strong turbulence" at about 23.00 local time (02.14 GMT). Approximately fourteen minutes later, an automated message was sent saying that the cabin had lost its pressurisation and that the electrical system of the aircraft had failed.If no survivors are found, then this would be the worst aviation disaster since the November 2001 American Airlines Flight 587 crash.A search and rescue operation is underway off the coast of Guam after a B-52 Stratofortress belonging to the United States Air Force (USAF) crashed with six crewmembers on board. At least two people have been pulled from the water but their conditions have not been made available. The area in question has also yielded a field of floating debris and oil. According to Lt. Elizabeth Buendia, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Coast Guard in Guam, the search is likely to continue throughout the night.Since the bomber's crash at 9:45 a.m. local time, both local and military teams have mobilised six vessels, three helicopters, two F-15 fighter jets and another B-52. 70 square miles of sea have been searched, starting roughly 30 miles northwest of Guam's Apra Harbour.The aircraft was posted to Guam's Andersen Air Force Base as part of a four-month rotation scheme and was based in Barksdale Air Force Base in Louisiana. It is believed that the bomber was scheduled to be used in a flyover of Liberation Day crowds celebrating the 1944 capture of Guam from Japan by the US, with the island remaining a US territory. However, some confusion exists over whether it was in fact another aircraft that was scheduled for the flyover.The B-52 is a 160-foot (50-metre) long-range heavy bomber manufactured by Boeing suitable for mid-air refuelling. The first having entered service in 1955, it is one of the oldest types still operated by USAF, who have used the aircraft for both attacks and surveillance.This is the second aircraft that the USAF has lost at Guam this year. In February a B-2 stealth bomber crashed on takeoff at Andersen Air Force Base, with the loss costing an estimated US$1.4 billion. Both pilots escaped by ejecting, and the accident was determined to have been caused by moisture on a sensor.The cause of today's accident is unknown. The USAF will assemble a board of officers to investigate.Estonian and Finnish oil spill response vessels are working on cleaning up the oil spill caused by the sinking of the Runner 4. The Dominican-registered ship sank on March 6 near the Estonian coast in the Gulf of Finland.This oil disaster may be even worse than the one of February, which was described by the BBC as the worst oil spill that Estonia has ever experienced. In the February spill, approximately 35 000 birds died. According to The Baltic Times, specialists say that this time up to 40 tons of oil might have leaked into the sea from the Runner 4. The ship was carrying, according to MTV3, over 100 tons of heavy fuel oil and 35 tons of light fuel oil.The ship Runner 4 sank due to a collision with another ship, in a convoy following a Russian icebreaker. The crew managed to leave the ship before it sank.On March 13, a week after the ship sank, the Estonian Border Guard sent its multipurpose vessel EVA-316 to the site to start the oil cleanup. Around the same time, the Finnish dedicated to the cleanup the oil spill response vessels Hylje, Halli and Seili.  Also, the Finnish Frontier Guard patrol ship Merikarku was sent to the site to conduct underwater robot examinations of the sunken ship. According to the Finnish Environment Institute press briefing on this, [1] Estonia does not have adequate equipment for oil spill response in icy conditions, so help was needed.The reaction to the disaster is criticized by Jouni Pirttijärvi, an inspector at the Finnish Environment Institute (Ympäristökeskus). He says, according to Finland's national broadcasting company (YLE), that the countermeasures should have started a week ago, immediately after the disaster, instead of now. He said, "It's difficult now to get the oil under control. It's spread all around, and ship traffic is spreading it further. We should have come here a week ago. Then the oil would have been closer to the disaster area [the ship's sinking site]. We weren't asked for help [by the Estonians] then, so now we decided to help without asking [before it's too late]." (Translation from the Finnish-language original). [2]Finland will be paying the costs of the cleanup, as Estonia did  not make an official request for help. The Estonian Border Guard's representative Helena Loorents says that Finland was not asked for help, as every day spent in the cleaning costs a lot of money. Estonia simply cannot afford this.According to Urmas Raudsepp, the director of Estonia's Institute of Marine Research, the oil spill's location was only found out on Thursday March 16. The Finnish ships had, however, arrived at the site on the day before.Jouni Pirttijärvi also said that the conditions in the site are bad. The wind is over 17 meters per second (38 miles per hour) and it is raining. The oil spill is moving into waters too shallow for the three Finnish vessels, so they can no longer do their job. Hylje will be heading back to Finland on March 19 and the other two might follow within a few days. According to the Estonian paper Postimees, the oil spill is now a kilometer (0.6 mile) away from the Estonian capital of Tallinn.American Airlines flight 55 from Manchester, England to Chicago, Illinois has been diverted due to a security alert and has landed in Bangor, Maine.An American Airlines spokesman in London, Richard Hedges, said: "I can confirm AA flight 55 from Manchester to Chicago (was) diverted into Bangor, Maine, due to a possible security concern."An FBI spokeswoman, Gail Marcinkiewicz, said: "We're responding to determine the cause of the diversion. It's going to take a number of hours for passengers to be interviewed. The pilot made a decision to divert the plane and we're investigating this now. We're interviewing the pilot, crew and passengers."According to the FBI, the flight was diverted when officials "learned of a reported threat to the aircraft while it was en route," said Richard Kolko, another spokeman for the FBI.The US Transportation Security Administration said: "Given the current threat level, the agency, in conjunction with other federal authorities, took prudent action to assure the safety of the passengers and crew. The plane has landed safely and passengers are being de-planed while TSA canines search the airplane. Responders are on the scene and the FBI will be interviewing the passengers and crew to further assess the situation." There is no word on what caused the flight to be diverted, but Guardian Unlimited is reporting that the bomb squad has been asked to assist. There are at least 179 passengers onboard the plane.Since August 10, when police in the UK claimed they had foiled a suspected plot to blow up several transatlantic planes, there have been several similar incidents.Hank Krakowski, the head of air traffic organization at the Federal Aviation Administration, has resigned after Ray LaHood, the United States transport secretary, said he was "totally outraged" as it emerged five air traffic controllers have been suspended this year for falling asleep while on duty. In one incident, two passenger jets landed without any guidance from the control tower at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington D.C. after the lone controller fell asleep."I am totally outraged by these incidents," LaHood said. "This is absolutely unacceptable. The American public trusts us to run a safe system," he added, vowing to do anything necessary to resolve the issue. His comments came as the FAA announced new plans to tackle fatigue in controllers, saying they were taking immediate steps to employ additional staff at 27 airports across the U.S. The FAA said it would "not tolerate" controllers falling asleep on duty. "This type of unprofessional behavior does not meet our high safety standards," a spokesperson said.Krakowski's resignation will likely be seen as an indication that the crisis in control towers across the U.S. is growing. Randy Babbitt, the administrator of the FAA, confirmed Krakowski had submitted his resignation, which had accepted. "Over the last few weeks we have seen examples of unprofessional conduct on the part of a few individuals that have rightly caused the traveling public to question our ability to ensure their safety," he said. "This conduct must stop immediately.  I am committed to maintaining the highest level of public confidence and that begins with strong leadership." Babbitt said the FAA was conducting a "top to bottom review" air traffic control procedures.A fifth controller was suspended this week after falling asleep while on duty at Reno-Tahoe International Airport in Nevada in the early hours of this morning, forcing an air ambulance carrying a patient to land without directions from the tower. The FAA said the flight crew made contact with a controller at a different facility and made a safe landing. "The controller, who was out of communication for approximately 16 minutes, has been suspended while the FAA investigates," a spokesperson said.The incident is the latest in a string of controllers falling asleep on duty. Last month two passenger jets landed safely in Washington D.C. without clearance to do so because they were unable to make contact with any controllers in the tower at the airport. It emerged the only controller in the tower had fallen asleep after working four nights in a row. In February, a controller at McGhee Tyson Airport in Tennessee allegedly deliberately went to sleep while on duty. The controllers involved in both incidents have been suspended by the FAA. Additionally, the FAA is investigating two other incidents, one of which took place when a controller fell asleep at Boeing Field in April. It is understood the same controller was already being investigated after falling asleep twice in one night in January. Two controllers were also suspended late last month when they both appeared to fall asleep. The National Air Traffic Controllers Association, a labor union representing controllers in the U.S., said safety was their members' "number one priority" and they were "fully committed to providing the safest and most professional services possible." The addition of new staff at control towers, they said, was "a strong first step that will go a long way to ensuring these isolated cases of fatigue never happen again." Paul Rinaldi, the president of the NATCA, said: "We take our responsibilities very seriously and believe staffing levels and fatigue are at the root of the problem. We will continue to work with the FAA and through our professional standards workgroup to provide the highest level of professionalism and safety."As gas prices have risen in the United States, the regional transport authority for southeastern Pennsylvania, SEPTA, has seen a sharp increase in ridership, which has caused overcrowding on the trains."As fuel prices have continued to rise, SEPTA ridership has steadily increased and is the highest in 18 years," said SEPTA General Manager Joseph Casey. Monthly ridership was 22 percent higher last month than a year ago."They have crushed loads on their rail lines, already where people are standing, and there's not enough seats," said Rich Bickel, the director of the Delaware Valley Regional Planning Commission."At peak times some railcars are standing room only and commuter parking lots are nearly full. All Regional Rail lines are running near full capacity and the train station parking lots are at about 90 percent capacity or more," SEPTA spokesperson Felipe Suarez said.While SEPTA awaits new Silverliner V trains from Hyundai Rotem, which begin arriving in 2009, it had hoped to lease eight rail cars from New Jersey Transit, at an agreed-upon rate of US$10,000 per month. However, due to problems with insurance and liability indemnification, the deal fell through, according to Casey.SEPTA has entered a new agreement to purchase the eight rail cars from NJ Transit. The transit authority will pay US$670,000 for the cars and assorted supplies plus one additional inoperative car which will be used for spare parts. The rail cars will be operated using a SEPTA provided locomotive as they are not self-propelled.The cars are being disposed of by NJ Transit because it has switched from single-floor cars to double-decker cars.SEPTA is expecting to raise US$3.1 million by selling rail that has been out of service since 1981 at auction.The Serbian Pilots Association has defended the actions of the Serbian pilot aboard the Air India Express jet that crashed earlier this year, killing 158 of the 166 on board. Investigators have suggested he had failed to follow procedure and reacted slowly to trouble.The Court of Inquiry found that captain Zlatko Glusica was sleeping through much of the three-hour Dubai–Mangalore flight and "disorientated" as the Boeing 737-800 came in to land; it overshot the clifftop runway on May 22 and ran over the edge. In the immediate aftermath of the crash, one survivor said: "Immediately on touching the ground, the aircraft jerked and in a few moments hit something. Then it split in the middle and caught fire. I just jumped from the gap."The pilots' group has said Gluscia was fatigued owing to "pressures" flying in India and said he should not be "victimised". The airport the aircraft had been attempting to land at is considered a challenging one, as it is on a flat plateau bordered by a valley. A former official from India's aviation ministry said that "Mangalore is a difficult field because it is on a plateau. From all accounts the visibility was all right. One can’t make any conclusions."Pilots questioned the role of First Officer H S Ahluwalia, who three times requested a go around during approach. "He should have taken over the controls, provided he was experienced and had the confidence to do so," one pilot said; another asked "[w]hat was the First Officer doing all the while? The non-handling pilot should take over the control if he or she thinks there’s going to be a crash, instead of sitting like a robot."A statement by the association said "[t]he individualisation of guilt ... is intended to shift the responsibility from those who have driven the crew and the passengers to death." They feel the investigation "created an ugly picture about the Serbian pilots... without taking into account the circumstances" leading to the accident.A memorial service has been held in Nova Scotia, Canada to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the Swissair Flight 111 disaster. None of the 229 people on board survived the aircraft's impact with the sea on September 2, 1998.Hundreds of search and rescue personnel and local fishermen were mobilised after the crash in St. Margaret's Bay near Halifax to recover fragments of both the aircraft and the victims. The state of the human remains was such that identifying them resulted in what would remain the largest DNA identification operation up until the World Trade Centre collapsed.At the ceremony, attended by around 100 people, 229 heart-shaped stones crafted from beach rocks and simply decorated with painted stars flowers and hearts were available for the mourners to take and place at the foot of the memorial at Bayswater, one for each of the 229 names upon the granite monument. Many flowers were also laid there.The aircraft was a wide-bodied jet which had departed John F.Kennedy International Airport in New York at 8:18 p.m. 53 minutes after takeoff pilot Urs Zimmerman and co-pilot Stephan Loew smelt smoke in the cockpit and within three more minutes smoke was visible. The plane, by then in Canadian airspace, tried to reach Halifax Airport but never made it, hitting the water at around 9:31 p.m. at 350 mph (563 kph).The cause of the disaster was determined to be highly flammable insulating foam, which caught light after an arcing electrical wire triggered a small fire. The fire was ferocious enough to destroy critical power cables, leaving the aircraft uncontrollable.The investigation was one of aviation's costliest and most complicated, costing the Transportation Safety Bureau of Canada $60 million. The TSB produced 23 recommendations to prevent a recurance of the disaster, but only five have been implemented in the decade since the crash, including some flammable material restrictions and electrical safety improvements.Several people at the hour-long multi-faith ceremony complained at the perceived lack of action. "How come after 10 years we are hearing reports that only five of some 20 recommendations for airplanes have been carried out? What has gone wrong with the bureaucracy - the inertia for that?" asked Rabbi David Ellis. John Butt, who headed the identification effort as Nova Scotia's chief medical examiner at the time, said it was 'disappointing' that action had not been taken and that it was "not very good to think about flying in an aircraft when you know recommendations have been made about the standards of safety and they haven't been adopted."TSB member Jonathan Seymour was also critical of the lack of action, particularly on the US Federal Aviation Administration's part. "It's just that obviously after 10 years you would have hoped that things would have moved on quite significantly further than they have. It's frustrating that we're still that far away from where we might want to be after 10 years," he said.Officials say that a French military helicopter with 10 French soldiers, including four crew members and six Special Forces paratroopers, has crashed off the coast of Gabon in west central Africa.The Eurocopter AS 532 Cougar ditched shortly into the Atlantic Ocean after leaving a French naval ship, about 50 kilometres off the coast. Seven French soldiers were killed, two were rescued, and one is still missing, according to a statement issued by President Nicolas Sarkozy's office. "Today, the wreckage of the helicopter was located at a depth of 35 metres and searched. Unfortunately, we must report the deaths of five other soldiers. A final soldier remains missing. Searches are continuing," the statement explained.According to Libreville Lieutenant Colonel Pascal Carpentier, the ill-fated helicopter crashed Saturday night at 8:08 p.m. (1908 GMT) into Atlantic waters off Nyonie, a small town located between Gabon's capital Libreville and the town of Port-Gentil. It was taking off from the amphibious assault ship La Foudre's naval landing craft transporter cruising 50 kilometers (30 miles) off the Gabonese coast, during a joint training exercise, said Lieutenant Colonel Francois-Marie Gougeon, spokesman for the general staff.The ship "set off the alert and arrived at the crash site with  rescuers who picked up the injured crew within half an hour. The sea was calm and the wind low at the time of the crash but the night was very dark," Lieutenant Gougeon explained, adding that "search operations will naturally continue all night." La Foudre, two helicopters and oil giant Total S.A.'s three vessels, including its sonar and underwater robot joined the rescue effort of the salvage team. "Divers were deployed to locate the wreckage," said Captain Christophe Prazuck, spokesman for the army general staff. "At daybreak we will deploy all our means, planes, helicopters, boats... to take part in the search," said Gabon's Interior Minister André Mba Obame.Meanwhile French President Nicolas Sarkozy directed Defence Minister Hervé Morin to travel to the crash site. Sarkozy had "asked that all available means in the area be immediately deployed to find the soldiers who were aboard."Morin later announced there would be two probes, a judicial one and another by the French defence ministry, with the assistance of French gendarmes and an air accident expert. Minister Morin arrived in Libreville on Sunday and met with President Omar Bongo to discuss rescue efforts for the missing body of one of the seven soldiers. "The cause of this tragedy remains unknown. It may be natural or human, or a combination of both." Morin said. "Divers were inspecting the Cougar, which was in water 35 meters (about 115 feet) deep. We will do everything we can to find the last person missing," he added. Morin viewed rescue efforts on La Foudre, and visited friends and relatives of the missing at Camp DeGaulle. The French soldiers were "permanent personnel in Gabon who knew the region well," said General Claude Reglat, Gabon commander of French forces. "The six others were commandos who had arrived from the French army's elite 13th Regiment of Dragon Paratroopers. We have expressed our compassion and solidarity to the families," he added.“This type of helicopter does not have a black box. So the flight was not recorded, nor were the voices in the cockpit. So some elements will remain unknown,” Claude Reglat also noted.The January 17-21 bilateral manoeuvres called 'Operation N'Gari' involved 600 French soldiers and 120 Gabonese troops maneuvering in the military drill known as Baptise Ngeri. The soldiers were backed by Cougar and Fennec helicopters to coordinate maritime safety operations with UN peacekeepers at Bouna airport, in the Ivory Coast. In the joint exercise soldiers were to be parachuted onto predetermined targets including Nyonie.  Gabon, a former French colony, hosts one of four permanent French bases in Africa. Gabon is a country in west central Africa sharing borders with the Gulf of Guinea to the west, Equatorial Guinea to the northwest, and Cameroon to the north, with the Republic of the Congo curving around the east and south. According the FFG which has around 1,000 troops in Gabon, the French Forces in Gabon (FFG)'s role is "to assure the safety of the 12,000 French residents in the country in case of threat, and carry out aid missions."A bus crash in France's Loire Valley has left seven of the Moroccan passengers dead. 22 of the 32 on board were injured, four critically, after the bus smashed into a concrete pillar on the A10 near Blois in the small hours of yesterday morning.The bus had departed Tiznit in South Morocco on Wednesday and was headed to the Parisian suburb of Les Mureaux. It had been hired by Aziz, a French company that provides buses to tourists and small traders heading between France and Morocco.Media images show the vehicle's front end stuck several feet up the pilar, with the roof trapped against the top of the bridge it supported by the pillar. The entire wreck is left leaning at about a forty degree angle back towards the road, and has left the road at a fairly steep angle directly into the pillar. The remains of a trailer it was towing can be seen still attached at the rear of the coach. Transport Minister Dominique Bussereau, who visited the scene shortly after the accident, said that “The incredible state of the bus showed that the impact was extremely violent.”The pictures showed the bus was in the livery of travel company Labat.The French Interior Ministry took the rare step of activating an emergency plan to ensure rapid response from large numbers of rescuers and resources. The scene was attended by four helicopters, 140 firefighters and 25 police officers, who had to free multiple victims from the wreck. The A10 was closed off.Six died immediately, and the seventh victim died shortly afterwards. All the deceased were adults, and included one of the two drivers, the other of whom was seriously injured. It is unclear which was driving at the time.Investigators believe no other vehicles were involved, but the exact circumstances remain unclear. "It looks like a loss of control. Is this linked to a mechanical problem, drowsiness or a totally different cause?" Bussereau said at the scene. His ministry's accident investigation bureau will conduct a major investigation inquiry, and a separate investigation will be launched by local prosecuters.One possible cause is that the driver fell asleep at the wheel. Investigators are also examining the bus to try to determine any sign of mechanical trouble. There was good weather in the region of the town of Suevres, where the accident occurred, and very little traffic was using the road at the time, thought to be around 2.50am (0050 GMT).Morocco's King Mohammed VI has announced he will personally pay for care of the injured and repatriation of those killed. He also asked the ambassador to France to pass on his condolences.At least seventeen people were admitted to an Oxford hospital after a coach, operated by the Oxford Tube service, overturned while exiting the M40 motorway near Thame, Saturday evening. There were no other vehicles involved according to Thames Valley Police.The incident took place at around 2300 GMT Saturday night at junction seven of the M40 near Milton Common, when a coach, belonging to the Oxford Tube service, overturned on a slip road. A police spokesperson stated "The exit slip at junction seven was closed, as well as the A329 in both directions either side of the M40. The coach is in the process of being recovered from the motorway." The motorway itself remained open.Sergeant Steve Blackburn of Thames Valley Police stated that "The vast majority [of passengers] were walking wounded or not injured at all and were released either at the scene or shortly after receiving some treatment."John Nixon from Oxfordshire Fire and Rescue noted that the coach was lying on its side on an embankment, stating that his crews' priority had been to stabilise the coach. He added, "There were people laid on the side of the embankment, on the road, covered in space-type blankets to keep them warm" Although there were no fatalities, five of the injured required surgery, which was undertaken at Oxford's John Radcliffe hospital. Of the other admissions, a number were discharged by Sunday morning.A spokesperson for the Oxford Tube was quoted by the BBC as stating that, "Safety is our absolute priority and our immediate thoughts are with those who have been injured in the accident." They added, "We will be carrying out our own internal investigation and assisting the police in any way that we can with their inquiries into the accident."Police have already begun an investigation into the cause of the accident and have requested witnesses come forward.Seven bombs exploded Tuesday at various local railway stations in the city of Mumbai, India between 6:24 pm and 6:35 pm IST (GMT+5:30).The first blast ripped through the first-class compartment of a local train from Churchgate to Borivali, near the Khar station. Subsequent blasts occurred at Bhayandar station near Mira Road, Mahim station, Matunga, Jogeshwari and Borivali. A seventh blast has occurred in the Khar-Santacruz subway. Local phone lines in Mumbai have been jammed. The Press Trust of India, quoting railway officials, said all seven explosions had targeted first-class cars. An eighth bomb was later defused at the Borivali station.According to official report at least 183 people have died and over 714 were injured in the blasts, although the figures could rise given the fact that Western Railway trains are very crowded during the evening rush hour. Police are reportedly conducting raids throughout India in response to the bombings. Officials in Mumbai claim the explosions were a deliberate attack. India's Home Minister Shivraj Patil said authorities had "some" information that an attack was coming "but place and time was not known". Heavy monsoon downpours have hampered the rescue efforts of the emergency services.The Indian capital New Delhi has reportedly been put on high alert after the blasts. Airports across the country are also on high alert as are sensitive installations in Mumbai. Mumbai's train system has been suspended and calls are made to keep the public away from the city's train stations. Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh called a emergency cabinet meeting and then released a statement saying that the bombings which have hit India lately are "shocking and cowardly attempts to spread a feeling of fear and terror among our citizens". The country's leading opposition party, BJP, claimed that the current policies of the government put the country in danger for terrorism.There has been no claim of responsibility, but the attack has the trademarks of Kashmiri Islamic terrorist groups like the Lashkar-e-Toiba. The group is known to have has set off bombs in quick succession in Indian cities before. India's domestic intelligence agency, the Intelligence Bureau, claims that this attack, as also the grenade attacks in Jammu and Kashmir earlier today were aimed at diverting attention from the elections being held in Pakistani Kashmir.A terrorist and key supplier of explosives were arrested in Jangpura area of Central Delhi on Monday after a tip-off. The police recovered 2 kg of RDX, an explosive widely used by the military, in his possession. The police are interrogating him to find out if he had anything to do with the recent bombings.Penske Automotive Group, Inc., an Ohio-based investment group and Telesto Ventures have indicated separately that they are interested in purchasing the Saturn auto brand from General Motors (GM).  According to The Wall Street Journal, Nissan-Renault is interested in  purchasing Saturn. Bloomberg, however, indicated that Nissan-Renault may be a partner of Penske's potential bid. If Penske acquired the brand, they would distribute Saturn vehicles and outsource the assembly.GM revealed that the Saturn brand along with Saab and Hummer were up for sale when unveiling their restructuring plans to Congress for governmental loans. While the Pontiac brand was originally to be a niche brand, GM had changed their plans recently and decided to eliminate the brand.Telesto Ventures is an investment group that includes private equity firm Black Oak Partners LLC of Oklahoma City and several Saturn dealerships. Initially, Telesto will purchase Saturn branded cars from GM then act as a general retailer for foreign brands. Telesto is in talks with several foreign manufacturers.The Ohio group includes many former senior auto company managers plus private financial backers, chemists and engineers who live in Michigan, Ohio, Indiana and Florida. This group plans to initially purchase cars from GM then purchase existing but closed plants due to automaker restructuring. Additionally, one of the partners indicated a willingness to accept some "legacy" cost in relation to the United Auto Workers. The Ohio group is also pursuing possible loans or other support from national and state governments.GM is reviewing several offers for Saturn. GM has contracted with S.J. Girsky & Co. to advise them on the sale.As many as eight people have been injured after two cable cars collided at the Nevis Range near Fort William in Scotland.Two RAF helicopters, an air ambulance, four ambulance crews, police, fire brigade and a mountain rescue team are among those present. Police have confirmed that three people have been injured,  including one child. Injuries include broken legs, head and chest injuries. The Scottish Ambulance Service have reported that up to seven people had been thrown on to the hillside. A reporter at the scene said one car near the top of the mountain had slid down a cable, hitting another and then one of the cars fell to the ground.Northern Constabulary have stated "It's understood that two gondolas would appeared to have collided and a number of casualties have been reported. The local mountain rescue team, Inverness helimed and other air support are in attendance to remove casualties".The Doppelmayr gondola system is made up of eighty six-seat closed cabins running on a continuous 4.6km steel cable.An ambitious project to bring a unique tram-train service to Sheffield and Rotherham, in the United Kingdom, is back on track, following the announcement of a £150,000 Government grant on Thursday. The plans, which were originally to see tram-train operation on a trial basis over the Penistone line during 2010, have been on the cards since 2008, but were shelved during 2009 to allow alternative proposals to be drawn up. The current plans will now see the vehicles operating along a currently-freight-only line between Rotherham and Meadowhall, before linking up with the existing South Yorkshire Supertram network there and continuing onto the streets of Sheffield.The plans to use tram-trains — which are already in widespread use throughout continental Europe, but not at all within the UK — have come about as an alternative to an original proposal to extend the Supertram network to Rotherham, which would be a much larger expense for the same or even fewer benefits.Whilst the journey between Sheffield and Rotherham is already covered by mainline trains, project officials believe that the new service – running via Meadowhall South and Rotherham Central and terminating at Parkgate, with a twenty-minute headway throughout – will attract extra custom to the intermediate points between the two conurbations, as well as making travel easier for people who find it hard to walk to and from Sheffield's railway station; the tram-trains will serve the heart of the city-centre.Now that the funding for further feasibility work has been approved, Network Rail, Northern Rail and the South Yorkshire Passenger Transport Executive (SYPTE) can continue to look at the business and project case for the trial, which will look at a range of issues, including economic and environmental benefits of the tram-trains, and ensuring that the vehicles will be safe to run on both the Supertram network and heavy rail tracks.Transport Minister Norman Baker announced the sum, and stressed the Government’s commitment to the scheme: “There is no doubt about finance being available to deliver the scheme. The Government is committed to a trial of tram-trains in the UK and the route between Sheffield and Rotherham is the best place to develop it. This is a unique scheme."Tram-trains offer passengers travelling from rural and suburban areas into city centres a viable, environmentally sound alternative to short and medium car commuting that can cut congestion and reduce overcrowding at railway stations.“These sorts of rail fleets are already in use on the continent, but this is a first for the UK. The funding we are providing for this exciting project represents a real chance for us to test whether they can be adapted successfully for South Yorkshire and the rest of the UK."David Brown, director of SYPTE, added: “We have done an awful lot of work on the plans so far and further efforts will look at ensuring the vehicles are compatible with both types of network, which are the same gauge.”If further investigations are successful, the system could be up and running by 2014.Cypriot cargo ship "Server" went down in Norwegian territory of the North Sea near the Norwegian city Bergen around 6pm local time on January 12. The ship broke into two parts and the accident is described as a catastrophe for the environment in the area due to a significant fuel oil leak. The oil reached land a short time after the breakdown.The entire 25-man crew was brought to land around 9pm by a Sea King-helicopter. At noon next day it was reported that 290 tons of heavy fuel oil had leaked out onto the sea. The spilt oil has covered ground along the coast and is reported to be still spreading. A nature reservation area for birds is in imminent danger of pollution.A blaze on the cargo vessel Aegean Sea has left three Greek and six Filipino sailors dead. Fire broke out in the Greek ship's engine room in the Caribbean Sea while it was 160km (100 miles) north of the Venezuelan mainland and close to Margarita Island.The Venezuelan Navy provided assistance after the fire broke out and five more of the twenty-four crew-members were airlifted to hospital. The nine who were killed were reported missing and later found dead in various compartments throughout the ship. The fire had spread upwards through much of the vessel, which had been carrying iron ore from Brazil to Texas.The injured were two men from the Philippines who received third-degree burns on their hands and faces while three Greeks had minor burns. All were taken to the mainland by the Venezuelan Maritime Rescue and Aid Service. The fire broke out before dawn yesterday when the ship was 33 nautical miles (61 km) from Blanquilla.The navy stated that the cause is unknown and the ship, which has all ten of its remaining crew still on board, will be towed to Margarita.A ship sank off the coast of Djibouti yesterday about 1 p.m. Eastern African Time (1000 UTC), killing 109 people. At least 20 more are reported missing. Reports say that 36 people are currently receiving medical care, and seven are in serious condition.The ship was bound for the religious festival of Djamaad, in the town of Tadjoura. Built to hold roughly 80 people, it was reported to have been carrying at least 200 people as well as construction materials at the time it sank. Though the cause of the accident has yet to be determined, Ismael Tani, advisor to the Djiboutian President Umar Guelleh, said that the overload probably caused the disaster. Eyewitness Omar Souleiki, however, blamed it on a small wave. Search operations by the Djiboutian, French, and American naval vessels have been called off for the night.Train services on two of Singapore's Mass Rapid Transit system lines, both operated by SMRT Corporation, were disrupted at separate times yesterday in two incidents.  During the morning rush hour, six stations of the Circle MRT Line (CCL) were without train service in both directions during the morning rush hour following what SMRT described as "intermittent signal interference". The company first announced the signalling fault on Twitter at 7:37 am, advising commuters to anticipate 10 additional minutes of travel time in the commute between Pasir Panjang and one-north stations. The fault was announced rectified two minutes later by another tweet from SMRT, though delays were still expected in the direction of Dhoby Ghaut station due to congestion at stations and on trains.SMRT issued another tweet at 8:09 am, alerting commuters to another signalling fault affecting the CCL, on the stretch between Botanic Gardens and HarbourFront stations.Initially informing commuters that the issue would add 10 minutes of travel time along the affected stretch, the company later revised this to 20, and finally, 30 minutes in subsequent tweets, attributing the delays to "intermittent signalling faults".The company later announced via Twitter service unavailable between Botanic Gardens and Marymount stations at 9:06 am, whilst offering free bus services along the length of the CCL. SMRT later amended the announcement in another tweet to encompass the stretch between Botanic Gardens and Serangoon stations. Train service was restored along the affected stretch by about 10:27 am.SMRT had previously experienced disruptions in service on the CCL for five consecutive days in September, also attributable to signalling issues, leading to authorities briefly switching off mobile signals at four CCL stations for two hours on September 2 during investigations. Most of the disruptions took place during peak hours, leading to suspicion the telecommunications network could be interfering with the train signalling system. After tests proved inconclusive following the lack of a disruption that day, the decision was made to turn off telecommunications signals in the event of another disruption.“It's very frustrating", commented a commuter, 41-year-old Joseph Lim.  "The trains are sometimes moving and sometimes getting stuck. I don't know whether to stay on board. The communication has been insufficient".Another commuter, 29-year-old Alice Pan, stated, "I am now stuck at the station with no way to get to work. I can't get on any SBS buses because they are full and there's no free shuttle bus in sight. I can't get any cabs either". Pan was stranded in a train for an hour at Lorong Chuan station.36-year-old Sean Chew, said of his experience during the incident, "I was stuck at Buona Vista for more than one hour. I didn't want to take the bus because it was very crowded. So no choice, had to wait [...] Luckily I just finished work."However, following the morning incidents, a stalled train on the East West MRT Line led to a half-hour disruption during the evening peak hour on the same day. SMRT informed commuters of the disruption, between Queenstown and Outram Park stations in the direction of Pasir Ris station, on Twitter at 5:48 pm, attributing it to a "train fault" at Tiong Bahru station. In the same tweet, SMRT estimated that the issue would be resolved around 6:10 pm. Due to the disruption, the company offered free bus services along the affected stretch in a subsequent tweet.At 6:20 pm, SMRT announced on Twitter that it had cleared the disruption by removing the stalled train, and that trains were "progressively return[ing] to normal speed". The company continued to offer free bus services until 7 pm, when it announced the termination of the service on Twitter. In the wake of yesterday's incidents, commuters criticized SMRT's handling of the matter on social media, citing SMRT's failure to provide sufficient information or sufficient buses for commuters, and uploading photos of the congestion.British all-business class airline Silverjet has ceased operations and entered administration. The airline operated out of Luton Airport running services to New York and Dubai.Passengers booked with Silverjet have been told to claim refunds from their credit card issuer or travel agent. The UK Civil Aviation Authority estimates that 7,000 UK travellers could be affected by the collapse.The airline, which had hoped to secure an emergency US$5 million loan from Viceroy Holdings, was formed at the start of last year. It has now been put up for sale by administrator Begbies Traynor. It is thought that Middle Eastern company Viceroy may put in an offer, as might a group of former Silverjet managers who recently left the company. Included in the administration deal are Silverjet's subsidiaries Silverjet Aviation Limited, Skylease Limited and Sky People Limited, all of which are wholly owned by Silverjet.Silverjet shares are suspended from trading at the London Stock Exchange and it is feared that shareholders may receive nothing from their investments.Silverjet is the latest all-business class airline to collapse recently. US rivals Maxjet and Eos Airlines have both been forced out of business by high fuel costs, driven by the rapidly increasing price of crude oil. Silverjet's last flight left Dubai for Luton on Friday.A bid made by Singapore Airlines for a 24% stake in China Eastern Airlines was turned down by minority shareholders.Talks about a sale started in March 2007 when Singapore Airlines and China Eastern started negotiations about a possible deal. According to Forbes the deal would have helped China Eastern's earnings and accelerate the consolidation and would have improved the market position of China's third-largest airline. Talks went on throughout the year and both companies suspended trading of their shares on May 21, 2007, according to a AFP press release.The vote took place at a shareholder meeting in Shanghai, People's Republic of China. According to Financial Times Online, the blocking of the SA bid by minority shareholders is bad news for China Eastern Airlines managers, who were and still are in full support of Singapore Airlines, which the Singaporean government owns a 55% stake in via Temasek Holdings.Financial Times Online says this is most likely due to the fact that Air China not having made any formal bids yet, instead creating many media rumors about a possible purchase. The bid by Air China, that is likely to be larger than that of Singapore Airlines, may be supported by Cathay Pacific, who are in a cross-shareholding relationship with China National Aviation Corp., the parent company of Air China.Singapore Airlines says that it will be compensated by Airbus for the additional delay in delivery of its new superjumbo A380's.The double-deck commercial aircrafts' delivery, originally due later this year, will be delayed until October 2007. The main fault has been found to be problems in the aircraft's 500km of wiring. In a statement on the Airbus website, the company said that "the root cause of the problem is the fact that the 3D Digital mock-up, which facilitates the design of the electrical harnesses installation, was implemented late and that the people working on it were in their learning curve". Airbus is currently two years behind schedule. In a statement, SIA said that, "The delays are disappointing; all the more so because the flight test and certification programme is proceeding well, and the delays are down to production issues."Analysts are predicting that the compensations could well run into a few hundred million US dollars. SIA has stated that the compensation details will be kept confidentialSingapore Airlines is the first airline to fly the A380 and will be receiving the first four aircraft.On Wednesday, Singapore's government announced its intention to have driverless buses operating on public roads from 2022. Driverless buses are to be first launched in three towns on less crowded roads made to be suitable for the purpose. The autonomous buses are to run during off-peak times, complementing human-driven bus services.According to the joint announcement from the Land Transport Authority and Singapore's Ministry of Transport, commuters will be able to use their mobile phones to hail a driverless shuttle.  Transport Minister Khaw Boon Wan remarked, "The autonomous vehicles will greatly enhance the accessibility and connectivity of our public transport system, particularly for the elderly, families with young children and the less mobile."Along with the announcement, a two hectare (roughly five acre) test centre has been unveiled outside Nanyang Technological University, where self-driving vehicles are to be driven in simulated Singapore traffic. The test centre is also to be used for developers of self-driving vehicles to observe how they react to pedestrians, extreme weather, aggressive drivers, and various other road conditions. At the launch, Mr Khaw also said, "Our land transport constraints may help us become a global player in urban mobility solutions. What works here is likely to also work in other cities". He noted driverless technology testing for Singapore was underway by at least 10 companies.Six people have been killed after a bus carrying Polish tourists crashed in Serbia. The accident happened yesterday on a road north of Belgrade that led to Novi Sad. The nearest town is Indjija. The bus had been taking the tourists home after a trip to Bulgaria.Five victims died at the scene. They were a woman, three men and a child. Another child died later in hospital. Of a total of sixty-eight on the bus, around forty are injured, although exact figures are unclear. All the victims are passengers, as the owner of the vehicle's operator Moana, Josef Rzepka, said both of the drivers on board escaped unhurt.A Reuters photograph shows the bus lying on its right side next to what appears to be a straight stretch of road. There is a slight slope under the bus and its rear end appears to have reached the bottom of the drop, crushing the roof at the back of the bus. It is not yet clear what caused the bus to swerve off the road, but as the crash occurred at 6:30 a.m. local time the driver may have fallen asleep at the wheel.There are also allegations that the double-decker bus may have been in a poor state of repair. The father of one victim said that the vehicle's windscreen wipers were taped together and the paintwork had been done by a brush instead of sprayed on. He also said that his daughter had reported rain leaking through the bus roof. Polish media also says some parents were concerned by the bus before they sent their children on the journey, although others say the bus appeared mechanically safe. Regardless, the bus has been removed with a crane and subjected to a technical examination by police.Poland supplied a military aircraft to transport relatives into Serbia. The crash is the worst in the area since a disaster in April 2004 that saw a Bulgarian coach returning from a journey to Croatia crashed into the Lim river, leaving twelve students dead. Road accidents are common in Serbia as regulations are commonly ignored. New legislation has been proposed to fine violators more heavily, but has yet to be implemented.An investigation is ongoing.In the United States, six men linked to the defunct Florida company Platinum Jet Management have been charged in connection to the February 2, 2005 crash of a jet owned by the company at New Jersey's Teterboro Airport. The Bombardier Challenger CL-600's crash left twenty people hospitalised and prosecutors allege that regular breaches of federal law were to blame.The business jet had been privately chartered for a flight to Chicago Midway Airport but failed to take off. Instead, the aircraft broke through a fence, crossed Route 46 and struck a warehouse, causing a fire. The plane clipped two cars on the way across the road and the accident left eleven people onboard the aircraft and nine more on the ground hospitalised.The National Transportation Safety Board investigated the accident and found that the flight crew had miscalcualted the aircraft's centre of gravity and that overfilling the fuel tanks had moved it too far forward. According to a federal indictment filed Wednesday, six men within the company were "routinely undertaking and concealing dangerous fueling and weight-distribution practices." Three co-founders of Platinum -  Michael Brassington, 35, his brother Paul Brassington, 29, and Andre Budhan, 42, as well as maintenance director Brien McKenzie, also 42, have been arrested and pilot Francis Vieira, 59, and director of charters Joseph Singh, 37, are being sought.The 23-count indictment says that Michael Brassington, McKenzie and Vieira regularly stated in paperwork that aircraft were operating at weights up to 1,000 pounds lighter than the true value in breach of Federal Aviation Administration laws. It also accuses Platinum of operating commercial charters for a year between November 2002 and November 2003 without a valid licence and filing such flights as noncommercial. The document goes on to accuse Platinum of using pilots that lacked proper training; in particular John Kimberling, who flew the jet that crashed, was not adequatly qualified to fly commercial flights, which have stricter regulations than noncommercial air operations. He has not been charged himself at this time, but investigations continue. The Southern Ledger states the accused face charges of "conspiracy, fraud, endangering the safety of aircraft and making false statements to the National Transportation Safety Board."A car crash on the A614 road, in Nottinghamshire, England has killed six people, all of whom are believed to have lived near the scene of the crash.All six victims died at the scene of the crash, which involved four young adults in a Peugeot 206 and two elderly people, possibly a male and female, who police believe to be in their 60s, in the other car said to be a Ford Fiesta. Rescue workers fought to save the one of the elderly individuals, but were unsuccessful. Both vehicles collided head-on and exploded upon colliding.Two police officers on traffic patrol discovered the crash, which took place at 23:00 local time (UTC) yesterday. The officers involved were praised by Bruce Cameron, a superintendent for Nottinghamshire Police. "The bodies are very badly burnt and they will have to be identified using dental records. We want to make sure we are absolutely certain as to who was in both cars when the accident happened," he said. Local residents say that the A614 has been the scene of a large number of accidents. One resident, Stuart Stonebridge, told The Daily Telegraph that "we only moved here three years ago and there have been a lot of accidents and some fatalities in that time," while another resident, Janice Gilbody said that "the people of Bilsthorpe will be in shock, horror and disbelief at the young lives lost."Gilbody also said that this accident is "yet again another accident on this road." She then added that the road was dangerous, saying that "it’s a wonder it doesn’t happen more often."The cause of the crash is still under investigation, but police say weather was not a contributing factor.Multiple people are reported dead after an early Friday bus crash near Phoenix, Arizona. The Arizona Department of Public Safety stated that there were "multiple fatalities and serious injuries" in the incident.The collision occurred south of Phoenix, near milepost 173 on Interstate 10. Public Safety barred westbound traffic lanes and could not specify any time when these lanes would open. Six people have died while seven more are in critical condition. 10 others received less severe injuresLocal ABC broadcaster, KNXV-TV, said the crash occurred 5:27 AM local time (UTC 12:27). Apart from the buses, it involved two trucks and multiple cars. The buses, which lie at one side of the road, are covered by debris, according to witnesses. The ladders of the rescue workers leaned against its side. The bus was badly damaged with most of its windows broken.An emergency site was constructed to treat the casualties. The injured were gathered on a tarp in the road before being transported by ambulances and helicopters.Six teenagers were killed in a horrific road accident near Mildura in north-western Victoria, Australia late at night on February 18. Cassandra Manners, aged 16, Stevie-Lee Weight, 15, Cory Dowling, 16, Shane Hirst, 16, and his sister, Abby Hirst, 17, died at the scene. Josephine Calvi, 16, was flown to the Royal Adelaide Hospital, where she later died of head injuries. Seven other teenagers were injured, including 15-year-old Marco Medici who is now in a stable but critical condition in The Alfred Hospital in Melbourne.The accident occurred after the teenagers left a 16th birthday party and walked along Myall Road, Cardross, south-east of Mildura. A car allegedly came speeding around a bend, hit the gravel on the side of the road, lost control and struck the group. The alleged driver, later identified as 34-year-old Thomas Graham Towle, fled the scene on foot, leaving his 10-year-old daughter and four-year-old son in the car. Towle was later arrested by police in Redcliffs. He was taken to Mildura police station for questioning.Towle has been charged with six charges of culpable driving causing death, four charges of negligently causing serious injury, one charge of failing to stop and one charge of failing to render assistance after an accident. Towle faced Mildura Magistrates' Court on February 20. Magistrate John Dugdale remanded him into custody to reappear before the court on June 26.Meanwhile, the town of Mildura and surrounding areas is in deep mourning. Premier Steve Bracks said the State Government will provide $AU40,000 for counselling and support services.Around 3,000 people attended the funeral for Josephine Calvi today. Funeral services for the other five teenagers were held last week.A six vehicle pile up occurred on the John Hart Highway (British Columbia Highway 97), north of the John Hart Bridge in Prince George, British Columbia, Canada which disrupted traffic during the morning rush hour of March 5, 2009.  No serious injuries arose as a result of the accident, however traffic was reduced to a single lane.  Traffic control was conducted by a Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer who was at the scene at the time of the accident (7:45 a.m.).  The RCMP cruiser was not one of the vehicles involved in the pile up.  The crash was put under investigation by a traffic analyst.The John Hart Highway connects Prince George,a city of 70,981 according to the 2006 census, with Dawson Creek over a length of approximately 250 miles (400 km).  The Northwest Corridor Association saw a C$30 million twinning upgrade to the John Hart bridge which spans the Nechako River, a tributary of the Fraser River.  The bridge is located 5.4 kilometres (3.4 miles) north of Prince George.  In March there is a traffic volume of between 11,000 to 12,000 vehicles per day at the north end of the John Hart bridge according to the the British Columbia Ministry of Transportation Average Annual Daily Traffic AADT reports between 1994 and 2000.Six-year-old Thomas David Horne from the United Kingdom has died and eleven other British tourists were injured Friday when their plane crashed in Canaima National Park in Venezuela. They were on a sight seeing tour of the world's tallest waterfalls, the Angel Falls.The single engine, nine-seater Cessna 208 Caravan, lifted off shortly before the end of the runway, lost power, and then surged briefly before plummeting into the Venezuelan jungle in front of the 3,200 ft falls."It started to take off and we sensed it was losing power. Then it seemed to get it back and lifted off just 200 metres before the end of the runway. Then it dived into the trees," reported Makeli Freire, a park tour guide.Three of the injured sustained serious injuries, while the others suffered mainly broken bones. Thomas Horne, who sustained serious head injuries, died on the way to a local hospital. The pilot, co-pilot and tour guide were among the injured. Everyone on board was flown to Ciudad Bolívar, the capital city of Venezuela's Bolívar state, where they were treated for their injuries. Among the injured were Thomas's mother and father Jane and David who were among those who had broken bones. They were British tourists finishing up a two week holiday to Venezuela."The young boy died as he was being flown to hospital. His parents are both physically OK but are completely distraught over the loss of their son," said Maiker Puga, of the Ciudad Bolivar clinic.Liz and her husband Keith Grainger and S. Phillips, also British tourists, were also injured in the crash. The names of the three other British tourists and the three person crew who were injured have not been released at this time.The plane tour was offered by First Choice, a division of TUI Travel PLC who extended their "heartfelt sympathy to family and friends during this deeply sad time."  LTA airline has suspended further flights until the investigation is concluded.June Holman, Thomas's aunt who was not on holidays said, that "there is nothing worse than losing a loved one, especially not a young child with their whole life ahead of them. The thoughts of us all are with his parents Jane and Dave at this very sad time."A search-and-rescue mission was underway after a helicopter with 16 people on board crashed off the northeastern coast of Scotland in the North Sea on Wednesday, the Maritime and Coastguard Agency stated.Police say they have recovered eight bodies, while the other eight persons aboard are still unaccounted for. The chopper was returning from an oil platform shortly before 2:00 p.m. local time when it crashed into the waters about 35 miles (56 km) from the coast of Aberdeen, Scotland.The aircraft involved in the accident is believed to be a Eurocopter AF332 L2 Super Puma."A supply vessel called Normand Aurora, which was quite close by, has put their fast response boat into the water and is looking for survivors," said a spokesman for the agency. "Two helicopters from the RAF have been scrambled to the scene and a Nimrod marine patrol aircraft has been diverted to the area. Aberdeen coastguard have begun broadcasting a mayday signal into the area and RNLI lifeboats from Peterhead and Fraserburgh are heading for the scene now."This February, another helicopter went down in fog in the North Sea. All eighteen people on board survived. In March, a Sikorsky S-92A helicopter carrying oil workers also crashed off the coast of Newfoundland, Canada, killing seventeen people.A collision between a tourist coach and a train at a level-crossing near Brezno, central Slovakia, has left at least 12 people dead and 20 injured. The accident happened at about 09:00 local time (08:00 UTC) on Saturday morning, when a coach from the western Slovakian town of Bánovce nad Bebravou carrying 36 people to the ski resort of Polomka Bucnik, was struck by a train traveling at full speed at a crossing.The train, only two cars long, was reported to have derailed, but passengers on it suffered only minor injuries. BBC News reports that there were no rail barriers to stop vehicles, only lights at the crossing."All the dead and injured were on the bus. There were only a few passengers on the train and they didn't suffer any serious injuries," said Slovak Railways spokesperson Martina Pavlikova.Two of the most seriously injured casualties, with spinal injuries, were airlifted by helicopter to a hospital in Banská Bystrica, while others were treated locally in Brezno. At least six people remain in serious or critical condition.A small aircraft struck an apartment building in New York this afternoon, killing the pilot and a flight instructor.  Cory Lidle, a pitcher for the New York Yankees baseball team, was the registered owner of the aircraft and is believed to have been piloting it; his passport was found on the scene.  The flight instructor was Tyler Stanger.The plane, a Cirrus SR20 with registration number N929CD, hit the 26th floor of the Belaire Condominium, a 50 story brick luxury residential building on the Upper East Side at 524 East 72nd Street at York Avenue near the East River in Manhattan, New York City, of which the first 20 floors are a hospital. An eyewitness, present half a block from the building, reported that the plane hit the building, creating an enormous fireball, broke in two and crashed down onto on the street below. Authorities received a 911 call reporting a crash at 2:42 p.m. Eastern time.New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg gave a press conference at approximately 5:20 p.m. Eastern time to report that the plane was occupied by a flight instructor and a student pilot, but as next-of-kin had not been able to be notified, the identities of the two people on the plane would not be released at this time. Apartments were seen to be engulfed in flames.  The FBI has stated that it was not an intentional attack. The New York area was grey and overcast during the time at crash; however, visibility was not hampered.After an hour and a half, the fire was extinguished by the FDNY. According to CNN Television ten people have been injured, six of them firefighters. The New York Times, however, reports that eleven firefighters have been injured.Initial reports suggested that a helicopter was involved, but the FAA has stated that it was a fixed-wing aircraft.  CNN Television reported that it was a single-engine fixed-wing plane which left Teterboro Airport, a busy General Aviation airport in New Jersey, circled the Statue of Liberty was tracked on radar until it was lost near the 59th Street Bridge, that the plane may have been having fuel problems or fuel pump problems, and that it was "a pilot in distress."  Wallace Sines, a source for CNN stated he believes the plane was a Cirrus SR-20 with an installed parachute, which did not deploy. The whole-plane parachute system may have saved the lives of the aircraft occupants had it been safely deployed clear of buildings, but the system is not designed to prevent the trauma associated with a plane impacting a builing. The Cirrus SR-20 was introduced in 2001 and the Cirrus line of 4-seater aircraft has since become one of the most purchased single engine aircraft in the world. The SR-20 does not normally carry an airline-style flight-data recorder, but some are equipped with GPS equipment which logs flight direction, speed and altitude.The aircraft was owned by baseball player Cory Lidle.  He was on board reported by AP. Lidle was killed, according to reports.  CNN Television reported that the FBI stated he was at the controls as the only occupant of the plane, and that his passport was found on the ground below the accident.A small plane crashed Friday morning into a house in Florida after taking off from the Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport.The twin engine aircraft is believed to be a Cessna 421. A Federal Aviation Administration spokesperson has said that one person was on board the 8 passenger plane. Authorities report that no one was at home when the crash occurred just before noon hour.The pilot, 80-year-old Cecil A. Murray, has not been found, but authorities say he did not survive the crash."The house was a total loss. The plane went right into the center of the house," said Mike Jachles, Broward Sheriff's Office spokesman. A neighbour rushed over and knocked on windows before the heat became too intense.  Firefighters immediately attended to the blaze and tried to determine the amount of aircraft fuel present in the area.  The plane also took out power lines in its descent resulting in a loss of power to 1,645 homes in the neighbourhood.The intended destination was Fernandina Beach, Florida.  Chaz Adams, from the Fort Lauderdale Executive Airport, reported that the plane radioed back to the tower for permission to turn around due to problems in flight.A small jet has crashed in Gaithersburg, Maryland near Montgomery County Airpark yesterday at about 10:45 a.m. local time (1545 UTC), causing a house fire. Officials said six people were killed in the accident — three in the plane and three on the ground.Montgomery County's fire chief said all three people aboard the plane were killed in the crash. According to reports, the plane broke apart. In all, a total of three houses were damaged, according to the fire chief. There were some residents in the damaged house who were not accounted for until about 4:30 p.m. when emergency personnel confirmed that three people inside the house were also killed. Witnesses to the accident reported seeing the plane wobble a couple hundred feet above the ground and do a barrel roll.The plane, identified as an Embraer EMB-500/Phenom 100, was apparently on approach to Montgomery County Airpark when it crashed. According to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the plane was in line with runway 14 at the airport. It was registered to an aviation company owned by one the victims, Michael Rosenberg — Sage Aviation LLC based out of Chapel Hill, North Carolina — according to authorities.Among those killed in were Rosenberg, president and CEO of clinical research firm Health Decisions; 36-year-old Marie Gemmell; and her two sons, Cole and Devon. Rosenberg has been identified as the pilot in a different crash in March 2010, but the FAA and the National Transportation Safety Board are still investigating the cause of yesterday's incident.A small, single-engine plane crashed in the median of Interstate 75 near Holly, Michigan Tuesday afternoon. The crash site is located about 100 feet from the East Holly Road overpass, near Exit 98, with approximate geographical coordinates of 42.784283° N 83.535847° W.The Piper model PA-28-180 aircraft crashed in the median during mid-afternoon local time, and slowed traffic when police and rescue teams were en route to the scene. According to local television station WEYI-TV, two passengers were aboard the plane, and did not sustain any large injuries.According to the FAA database, the plane was manufactured in 1968, and was issued a license in 1970. The most recent owner according to the database is a flying school in Coldwater, Ohio.On December 4, 2008, a solar car, developed by scientists at Swiss universities, ended its journey of traveling around the world at the United Nations climate talks in Poznań, Poland. Yvo de Boer, the Executive Secretary of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, rode into Poznań in the vehicle, along with schoolteacher Louis Palmer.The two-seat car began its journey 17 months ago in Lucerne, Switzerland. Carrying solar cells on a trailer, the car sent the message that global warming can be stopped and there are better alternatives."This is the first time in history that a solar-powered car has travelled all the way around the world without using a single drop of petrol," said Palmer. "These new technologies are ready. It's ecological, it's economical, it is absolutely reliable. We can stop global warming."Many people have been carried by the solar car, including New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.The conference in Poznań seeks to draft a new climate treaty that would replace the Kyoto protocol, which is set to expire in 2012. The delegates hope to finalize the treaty by December 2009, when the UN reconvenes on the climate in Copenhagen, Denmark."Here at the conference, we are talking about reducing emissions by 10 or 20 percent," Palmer said. "I want to show that we can reduce emissions by 100 percent — and that's what we need for the future."Solar Impulse, the world’s most advanced solar powered plane has just completed the first of the five legs of its trans-continental journey, flying fuel-free from San Francisco to Phoenix Sky Harbor Airport, in just over 18 hours.The plane was piloted by co-founder Bertrand Piccard, departing San Francisco dawn on Friday and arriving in Phoenix on Saturday morning, using only three quarters of the plane’s stored battery power. "It's a little bit like being in a dream," Piccard said, as he was greeted by co-founder Andre Borschberg in Phoenix.Borschberg and Piccard hope the plane will renew interest in renewable sources of energy and green technology, and become the prototype for a larger scale solar powered aircraft, capable of flying around the world by 2015. "If an airplane can fly day or night with no fuel, just on the sun's power, of course it means that everybody in daily life can use this technology for his house, for heating and cooling systems, for lighting, for cars, for trucks. There's so much we can do now to have a cleaner future," Piccard said.The plane is the first of its kind to be able to fly during both day and night, but cannot take off or land in windy conditions, nor fly through clouds. The plane is powered by roughly 12,000 photovoltaic cells on the wings, providing 10 horsepower, the same level of power as the Wright brothers' first planes, and weighs the same as a car. "One hundred years ago, the planes had to fly in good weather and there was only one person on board," Piccard said. "Now we have completely new technology, we fly with no fuel at all. But, of course, we need to fly in good weather and we carry only one pilot on board.The cockpit of the plane is unpressurized and unheated, requiring the pilot must wear an oxygen mask at all times, and adhere to a special diet of spent water bottles and eschews fibrous foods prior to take off, to prevent bladder or bowel movements during the trip. Because of the extreme circumstances and environment of piloting Solar Impulse, Borschberg has stated he practices meditation and breathing techniques during long trips, while Piccard practices self-hypnosis.Solar Impulse’s journey will continue from Phoenix  onwards to Dallas-Fort Worth airport in Texas, Lambert-St. Louis airport, Dulles airport in the Washington area and New York's John F. Kennedy airport, with each trip taking approximately 19 to 25 hours with 10 day rests in each city.The solar-powered airplane Solar Impulse touched down at the Brussels National Airport late Friday night, after completing a 13-hour flight from its home base in Payerne, Switzerland. It was the first international flight by a fully solar-powered aircraft.The experimental aircraft was piloted by André Borschberg, co-founder and chief engineer for the Solar Impulse project, which hopes to circumnavigate the globe using only the sun's energy in 2013. "Our goal is to create a revolution in the minds of people...to promote solar energies -- not necessarily a revolution in aviation," Bertrand Piccard, the group's other co-founder, said in an interview after the flight.The aircraft collects energy from the sun using 12,000 extremely thin solar cells affixed to the wings and tail section. An on-board battery can store enough electricity to fly all night, allowing the Solar Impulse to stay aloft indefinitely. This allowed the aircraft to maintain a holding pattern over the Brussels airport as other flights landed and conditions were right for the Solar Impulse to land. Because the aircraft weighs only about 3,500 pounds and has a wingspan of 200 feet, it is extremely sensitive to wind and needs calm conditions to land safely.The Solar Impulse, an experimental solar-powered airplane, landed in Switzerland on Thursday after completing a successful 26-hour test flight. The flight was a proof-of-concept displaying that a solar-powered aircraft can accumulate enough power from the sun during the day to power it through the night. The team that designed and built the aircraft believes that, in theory, the plane could fly indefinitely, given that there is enough sunlight to power it.The flight is the longest and highest flight by a piloted solar-powered aircraft, with an average altitude of about 28,000 feet, and an average speed of around 25 miles per hour. Pilot Andre Borschberg, a former fighter pilot in the Swiss air force, said "I've been a pilot for forty years now, but this flight has been the most incredible of my flying career. Just sitting there and watching the battery charge level rise and rise thanks to the sun. I have just flown more than 26 hours without using a drop of fuel and without causing any pollution."The plane can carry only one passenger, and contains 12,000 solar cells. However, the plane does have its setbacks; a blog on the project's website reported after seventeen hours of flight that "Andre's feeling great up there. His only complaints involve little things like a slightly sore back as well as a ten-hour period during which it was minus twenty degrees Celsius in the cockpit. That made his drinking water system freeze up and worst of all his iPod batteries die." The project's intention is to show that emissions-free air travel is a feasible concept; however, the team does not believe that current propulsion methods will be replaced by alternatives in the near future.Somali pirates have carried out their longest-range attack to date today, firing on an oil tanker 1,850 kilometers off the coast of Somalia. NATO and European Union anti-piracy forces say pirates attacked the ship in the Indian Ocean, 740 kilometers northeast of the Seychelles islands.The reports say pirates in at least two skiffs approached the tanker and attacked it with rifles and rocket-propelled grenades. The vessel took evasive maneuvers and escaped. No casualties were reported. The EU says a spotter plane has been sent to monitor the pirates.Meanwhile, maritime officials say Somali pirates have seized a cargo ship full of weapons. Details are sketchy on the incident. It is not clear when or where pirates seized the ship, which the officials say is using a fake name, Al Mizan.The Atalanta naval mission of the EU, which operates off the coast of Somalia, released a statement regarding the incident. "This was the longest range of a pirate attack off the Somali coast ever. Automatic weapons and rocket propelled grenades were fired. With increasing speed and evasive maneuvers the master managed to evade the attack. No casualties were reported," it read.Somali pirates have gradually extended their reach using so-called mother ships that can journey far out to sea. From these, the pirates launch small skiffs to attack and board commercial vessels.  Last year, and for much of this year, most of the pirates' attacks took place in the Gulf of Aden, north of Somalia. But in recent weeks, the pirates have concentrated their efforts in the western Indian Ocean, north of the Seychelles. The vast area is much harder for foreign naval patrols stationed off Somalia to cover, although the patrols have stopped some pirate attacks in progress.Somali pirates are holding at least nine ships and well over 100 crew members in all. The pirates are also holding a British couple, Paul and Rachel Chandler, who they seized from a yacht last month.The number of abducted Filipino seafarers in Somali waters rose to 134 with the seizure of the MV Delight on November 18. The seven Filipino seafarers are members of a 25 multi-national crew aboard the Hong Kong registered Iranian ship, whose crew also includes seven Indians, two Pakistanis and two Ghanaians. None of the crew members are reported to be harmed.The 134 Filipinos currently held come from a total of eight hijacked ships, including 19 from the high profile capture of the Sirius Star; with the single largest contingent being the 26 man crew of the MV Centauri taken on the 17th of September. The total would be higher but for 76 Filipino crew have been released by the Somali pirates since the April of this year.The large number of abducted Filipinos reflects the large Filipino seafaring community, some 230,000 of all ranks in 2004, who command wages only a third of that of Western seamen.According to East African Seafarers' Assistance Programme Kenyan chapter head, Andrew Mwangura, the Greek freighter MV Captain Stephanos and all its 19 crew, consisting of 17 Filipinos, one Chinese and a Ukrainian, had been released late Monday, after 78 days in captivity. It was unclear, however, if any ransom was paid. The Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs said that "there are [still] 91 Filipino seafarers on board six ships still with Somali pirates."Somali pirates seized the Bahamas-flagged vessel on September 21 near the Horn of Africa, as the bulk carrier, was cruising in the Gulf of Aden en route and transporting coal to Europe. The captors locked the crew inside the vessel and they were not fed well. The vessel is now headed to Italy and will sail from there to Greece, to meet the ship owners. Reuters reported that "a surge in attacks at sea this year in the busy Gulf of Aden and Indian Ocean off Somalia has pushed up insurance costs, brought the gangs tens of millions of dollars in ransoms, and prompted foreign warships to rush to the area."Pirates in Somalia have seized two European tankers within twenty-four hours. In the same time frame three other vessels escaped and a yacht which disappeared after departing the Seychelles has been reported as hijacked.Yesterday MV Nipayia, a 9,000-ton tanker owned by Athens, Greece-based Lotus Shipping and flagged in Panama, was seized. The vessel has eighteen crew members from the Philippines and a captain from Russia. She was hijacked 380 miles from Hobyo.Early today the MV Bow Asir, a 23,000-ton oil and chemicals tanker, was also seized in the same area, a 750,000 square mile ocean expanse near the Gulf of Aden. The vessel is owned by the Isle of Man's Star Tankers and is managed by Norwegian firm Salhus Shipping. There are conflicting crew numbers of 23 or 27 crew on board, but it is known that five of these are Polish and the captain is Russian.Salhus was alerted at 0729GMT by the Bahamas-flagged ship that two small boats were chasing the vessel; at 0745GMT another message said they had boarded and three hours later an email confirmed the ship had been seized. There are sixteen to eighteen pirates on board, armed with machine guns.The Seychelles' state broadcaster reported yesterday that a small yacht from the islands is thought to have been seized. The Serenity, with two people from the Seychelles on board, departed the nation on February 28 and headed into the Indian Ocean. The ship never arrived at her destination of Madagascar. Nothing has been heard from the ship since she left port.Three other ships were also targeted in two separate failed attacks yesterday. At 0907GMT MV Explorer III and MV Ocean Explorer stated that two small boats were chasing them. The ships were able to outrun the pirates. Later, at 2055GMT, the MV FD Gennaro Aurilia increased speed after a fishing boat began to approach. The master radioed nearby warships for help, after which the boat turned off its light and retreated.The hijackers of a ship carrying food aid to Somalia have demanded that the food be distributed to people in their home area. The ongoing crisis looked to be coming to an end when the WFP said an agreement had been made on 5 August, but the hijackers have told the UN IRIN news service that they have refused to sign the agreement.Initially the hijackers asked for half a million dollars but have sinced claimed that people in their home communities have been neglected despite being badly affected by the tsunami. Food aid to Somalia has been suspended since the hijacking over a month ago.A South African couple died after being hit by a freight train while having sexual intercourse on railroad tracks. The couple, who are yet to be identified, were having intercourse on the tracks in the Mpumalanga Province of the African country. The engineer yelled warnings at the couple to move, but according to him, they ignored them. South Africa's national freight railway is called Transnet.The man, in his thirties, was dismembered and died at the scene. The woman, in her twenties, was transported to a local hospital but later died from her injuries. An investigation is taking place to determine if the woman was being raped or if she was having intercourse out of her own free will. Nearby residents suspected prostitution, because the area was commonly used for such.A successful rail police pilot in the Western Cape will now be implemented nationwide according to South African Transport Minister Joseph Radebe. Radebe announced Monday that the program, which has reportedly resulted in a 68 per cent overall decline in crime on trains and in railway stations, will be implemented throughout South Africa by 2008. More than 5,000 officers will be deployed in railway stations and on trains."More than 5,000 police personnel will take their rightful place in the rail environment in order to confront our security concerns. We have made an undertaking to increase our presence, particularly on strategic high volume corridors such as Khayelitsha in Cape Town, Hammanskraal in Tshwane, and Moloto in Mpumalanga, as well as links between Midrand and Thembisa," said Radebe.Lucky Montana, Chief Executive of the government owned Metrorail, said, "The levels of crime remain unacceptably high. That is something we are concerned about. But today, we are driving the message that the safety of commuters comes first, as a priority. We are investing millions of rands to make sure that we turn around this environment."Commuters have been subject to railway "barbarism" for too long, said Transport Minister Radebe. Radebe said that the government plans to invest more than 80 million Rand ($10.5 million USD) in the rail police system with the intention of curbing the daily murders, robberies, and kindnappings committed on the Metrorail.An overturned tanker exploded in Western Equatoria, South Sudan yesterday, killing dozens.The death toll is unclear. At least 85 died according to presidential spokesman Ateny Wek Ateny, citing "local authorities". Charles Kisagna of the local government said at least 100 died. County commissioner Wilson Thomas Yanga in remarks to the BBC put the toll at a minimum of 176.The Red Cross said it had sent two burn kits to local rescuers in Maridi with provisions for 100 patients. Kisanga warns the toll may increase "because we do not have the facilities to treat the highly burnt people." Radio Tamazuj spoke to a doctor who reported reserves of painkillers, oxygen, and other consumables were being exhausted.Some casualties may have fled the scene. Reportedly, after the driver walked away from the crash to seek assistance, local residents began stealing petrol. South Sudan has few paved roads. Mass casualty fuel explosions are common in poor regions of East Africa.The international environmental organisation, Greenpeace, have been shadowing a Japanese whaling fleet currently operating in the Southern Ocean in Australian Antarctic Territory. They claim a minor victory against the six-vessel fleet, saying no whales have been killed since Christmas Eve. However they expect a resumption of whaling and protest activity soon.Greenpeace has two ships, MV Esperanza and MV Arctic Sunrise, active near Antarctica, in an effort to disrupt the whalers, who intend on slaughtering over 900 Minke whales and 10 Fin whales in the region this summer. The activists aim to stop the Japanese whaling fleet as it tries to catch nearly 1000 whales for what is claimed to be scientific research.Greenpeace chief Steve Shallhorn states that the protesters have chased the six-ship fleet northwards, with the vessels now away from the designated whaling zone. Greenpeace plan to maintain their efforts to keep the whalers in the public eye."What the fleet is doing is trying to outrun Greenpeace so that it can sneak back into the whaling grounds and resume the kill," he said. "And for that very reason, we're doing our very best and are succeeding in keeping up with the factory whaling ship. We are certain that they do not want any further publicity."He said Greenpeace will continue its high-speed tailing for as long as it takes. "We're capable of staying out there for many more weeks," he said. "The [Japanese] fleet is clearly embarrassed by having their actions exposed to the world, since the spotlight on their activities shows what it really is - commercial whaling with a very thin disguise."The whalers have been unable to kill any whales since Christmas Eve due to poor weather and harassment by Greenpeace vessels, and the Washington-based Sea Shepherd ship, RV Farley Mowat. The Sea Shepherd is operating independently of Greenpeace but say they are working towards a common objective – "the shutting down of illegal whaling in the Southern Ocean."Greenpeace expedition leader Shane Rattenbury says the whalers have a season of about 100 days. "Their quota is 945 whales. If you lose, say, 10 per cent of those through bad weather, they've got an average they need to catch of 10 a day and it's gone 10 days now without having any whales," he said. "That starts to add up pretty quickly. They're under a bit of pressure to get on with the business."Japan's Institute for Cetacean Research have rejected the claims made by Sea Shepherd, that Japanese warship was being sent to Antarctica to protect the fleet against the activists. The Japanese institute spokesman condemned Sea Shepherd over the claim by Farley Mowat captain Paul Watson, who called on the Australian Government to keep the peace.File:Greenpeace Vessels Esperanza and Arctic Sun.jpgSea Shepherd had requested the presence of the Australian navy to monitor events in the Southern Ocean. However, Australia's environment minister, Senator Ian Campbell, said that Sea Shepherd's threats to attack the fleet "risk setting back the cause of whale conservation many years".Capt Watson said yesterday: "Stop threatening us, Mr Campbell, and charge us if you believe we are acting unlawfully. Stop posing for the Japanese [who] are in blatant violation of international conservation laws."Japan's Fisheries Agency, which conducts the whaling, said the claim was a tactic by Sea Shepherd to try to raise the stakes for extra publicity."This is why the environmentalists' campaign in the Antarctic is a PR stunt: every time they get some media coverage there's always some member not too far away asking the public for money," an agency spokesman said in a statement. "Only this time, it completely backfired and now people will question what these groups say."The spokesman had no response to Greenpeace's claim that another vessel had joined the whaling fleet and was refuelling the ships within the boundary of the Antarctic Treaty's nature reserve.Mr Rattenbury said the 57 activists and crew aboard the Greenpeace ships were in good health following a quiet New Year's Day celebration on deck under a midnight sun.He said his ships were not in contact with the Farley Mowat, which is believed to be closer to the Antarctic ice shelf. The Farley Mowat's weblog quoted ship captain Paul Watson as saying the Sea Shepherd group had no conflict with Greenpeace, despite earlier British media assertions."As far as I am concerned both Sea Shepherd and Greenpeace are working towards a common objective – the shutting down of illegal whaling in the Southern Ocean," said Paul Watson.Greenpeace believes the fleet killed at least 25 whales from the time it contacted the whalers just before Christmas.Southwest Airlines Flight 812 carrying 118 passengers between Phoenix, Arizona and Sacramento, California was forced to divert to the Yuma Marine Corps Air Station in Arizona, after a hole appeared in the top of the aircraft; the plane landed safely at Yuma.The plane was forced to make an emergency descent down to 11,000 feet and reportedly descended 16,000 feet in one minute. One passenger identified as Cindy said, "[t]hey had just taken drink orders when I heard a huge sound and oxygen masks came down and we started making a rapid decent. They said we’d be making an emergency landing. There was a hole in the fuselage about three feet long. You could see the insulation and the wiring. You could see a tear the length of one of the ceiling panels."In a statement issued by Southwest Airlines they informed that, "Southwest Airlines Flight 812, the scheduled 3:25 pm departure from Phoenix to Sacramento today, diverted to Yuma, Ariz due to loss of pressurization in the cabin. Upon safely landing in Yuma, the flight crew discovered a hole in the top of the aircraft. There are no reported Customer injuries. One of the Flight Attendants, however, received a minor injury upon descent."Southwest Airlines have provided a replacement aircraft to take the 118 passengers to Sacramento. The National Transportation Safety Board confirmed it is investigating "an in-flight fuselage rupture."The US carrier Southwest Airlines, the world's largest low-cost carrier, announced grounding 128 planes on Tuesday because the planes had not be adequately inspected.Company spokesperson Brandy King explained backup hydraulic systems of 128 of the company's Boeing 737-700s should have been inspected sooner. The systems overdue for inspection back up the main rudder control systems.King said the the incident is inadvertent and emphasised the airline's commitment to safety. The airline decided to ground the planes involved in the missed inspections and notified the authorities.As of last year, Southwest Airlines' fleet had around 665 Boeing 737s. The uninspected planes incident involves about twenty percent of its fleet, and caused the airline to cancel about 80 flights on Tuesday, with possibly another 19 cancellations yesterday.Following the airline's actions, the Federal Aviation Administration ruled grounding of the planes is not mandatory provided inspections are completed within five days.Low-cost US airline Southwest Airlines announced Monday that it would buy its low-cost rival AirTran Airways for US$1.4 billion. The merger announcement comes just days after United Airlines sealed a merger deal with Continental Airlines."The acquisition of AirTran represents a unique opportunity to grow Southwest Airlines' presence in key markets we don't yet serve and takes a significant step towards positioning us for future growth," Gary Kelly, CEO of Southwest, said after the merger was announced.The Southwest-AirTran deal, which awaits antitrust regulatory approval, will gain Southwest a larger US network. By merging with AirTran, Southwest will also be a strong competitor in Eastern United States cities such as New York City, New York, Charlotte, North Carolina, Atlanta, Georgia and Washington, D.C., cities that Southwest had previously not touched much. Southwest also will be going international for the first time, inheriting AirTran's Mexican and Caribbean routes. The newly merged company would keep Southwest's name and livery.Southwest will be offering AirTran stockholders US$7.69 per share. That's 69% more than AirTran's Friday, September 24 closing price. However, AirTran stock shot up 62% to $7.36 on Monday, while Southwest's stock rose more modestly to US$14.01. Delta Air Lines stock declined by 2% on Monday, as Southwest will gain an AirTran hub at Atlanta, which is also Delta's primary hub.The new airline would carry over 100 million passengers, creating the world's fourth largest airline. Last year, Southwest carried 101,338,000 passengers, while AirTran carried 23,998,000 fliers. Southwest will be 25% larger after the merger is completed.Space Shuttle Discovery has successfully launched from Kennedy Space Center in Florida on mission STS-128.  Discovery took off at 11:59 p.m. (EDT) for a 13-day mission to the International Space Station (ISS).The shuttle's payload consists of a Multi-Purpose Logistics Module or 'Leonardo' and a Lightweight Multi-Purpose Experiment Support Structure Carrier. The treadmill named for comedian Stephen Colbert also is aboard Discovery. Colbert had previously won a contest to have one of the modules named after him, but officials at NASA decided on the name Tranquility."Space Shuttle Discovery completed a flawless ascent into orbit Friday night to begin a two-day chase of the International Space Station," said NASA in a statement on their website.After flying up on Discovery, astronaut Nicole Stott will trade places with station resident Tim Kopra, who went into space last month aboard Space Shuttle Endeavour.Space Exploration Technologies Corp. (SpaceX), a commercial spaceflight company, has successfully launched its Dragon spacecraft on its maiden voyage to orbit atop a Falcon 9 rocket from Cape Canaveral, Florida on Wednesday. The launch was followed by a successful landing of the unmanned capsule in the Pacific Ocean hours later.During its maiden flight, the Dragon capsule completed about two orbits around the Earth and executed successful de-orbiting operations, followed by successful reentry, parachute deployment, and splashdown in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Mexico. The Dragon spacecraft is the first commercial space transport certified to reach orbit and return to Earth. The successful flight of the Dragon spacecraft makes SpaceX the first private firm to launch its own craft to orbit and return it to Earth.The Dragon spacecraft is part of a contract between the California-based commercial spaceflight company and the United States' space agency, NASA, to provide transport for crews and supplies to and from the International Space Station.Three Spanair mechanics—including the head of maintenance for the airline in the area—are to be questioned under suspicion of manslaughter in connection to the Spanair Flight 5022 disaster. The other two workers checked the plane, a MD-82, before the failed takeoff at Madrid that killed 154 and left only eighteen survivors.The aircraft, destined for the Canary Islands, failed to maintain altitude after takeoff from Barajas Airport.A preliminary report concluded that the wing flaps were not correctly set for takeoff, and an alarm that should have sounded to alert the flight crew to this problem failed. No reasons have been determined for these occurrences.A judge has now summoned the head of Spanair maintenance at Barajas and the two mechanics who checked the aircraft. They were summoned by Juan Javier Perez of Madrid’s Superior Court, who heads the judicial enquiry into the accident. Aircraft manufacturer McDonnell Douglas—which has since merged with Boeing—has suggested that operators should check the wing flaps before every flight. However, Spanair only checked them every morning and after each change in flight crew. The recommendation came after the 1987 crash of Northwest Flight 255.So far, no one has been charged with a crime.Spanish budget air carrier LTE International Airways has suspended all of their flights due to financial trouble. Around 800 passengers have been stranded by the move and are being accommodated in hotels while alternative transport is arranged.The airline was founded in 1987 and has been known as both LTU and Volar Airlines in the past. The company's fleet of seven Airbus A320 aircraft were used for scheduled and chartered passenger services, and available for lease to other businesses."LTE is doing everything to minimize the impact of this suspension of services on its clients and providers. After 20 years operating with maximum dedication to our clients it just was not possible to avoid this situation given world events lately," read a statement on LTE's website. The airline flew from Spain to destinations such as Italy, Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom.The news comes just one day after Spanish airline FlySur, Andalusia's first airline, filed for bankruptcy after just forty-five days. The airline's one plane had at times flown with just one passenger.In 2003, a Yak-42 chartered from Ukraine to take Spanish soldiers home from Afghanistan crashed in Turkey. Sixty-two Spanish soldiers and thirteen crew from Ukraine and Belarus were killed. General Vicente Navarro was designated to head a team to travel to Turkey and repatriate the bodies.This team was then informed by Turkish coroners that thirty of the bodies were so badly maimed that visual identification was impossible and DNA tests would be required to identify these victims. The Spanish victims were then transported back to Spain, on the understanding that DNA tests would be carried out in Spain. Instead, two days later they were given a state funeral with thirty identities randomly assigned to the thirty unidentified bodies. When the situation became apparent months later, the bodies had to be exhumed for identification.Navarro was today sentenced to a €1,800 fine, a two-year ban from office and a three-year prison sentence after his conviction for falsifying records. It is the first time the National Court has imposed any sentence on a general. Also sentenced today were Commandant José Ramírez and Captain Miguel Sáez, who were responsible for producing the flawed autopsy reports. Each received an 18-month jail sentence.The case is not yet over, as Ramírez and Sáez may have the court consider suspending their sentences, while Navarro is intending an appeal to the Supreme Court. Navarro had admitted that there may have been mistakes made, but blamed errors made by the Turkish authorities. Ramírez and Sáez, meanwhile, had stated that they were clear as to what appropriate procedure entailed, but said that they were obeying orders.As winds in the UK reach 124 mph, a Spanish fishing trawler is missing off the coast of Scotland and three people have died in northern Britain.The UK Coastguard received an emergency beacon signal via satellite at 2330 UTC last night from a boat in the North Atlantic, 180 miles west of Scotland. No voice radio traffic had been received since the ship's owners talked to the captain at 2030, when the crew reported that they were in difficulties and were losing power. There are 19 crew members on board, five Spansish and fourteen Portuguese. An RAF Nimrod search aircraft is due on-scene at dawn to search for the vessel.Two lorries have been blown over. In Scotland, the lorry fell onto a car, killing the driver. In Northern Ireland, the lorry was blown off a bridge into the sea, killing the driver of the lorry. A third person died in Scotland when a van was blown into the path of an on-coming lorry. Across Scotland, 60,000 people are without power, many roads are blocked by fallen trees, trains are not running and ferries are restricted to port. The Sellafield nuclear fuel reprocessing plant in northern England has suffered superficial damage.A bus operated by Viazul, which is run by the Cuban military's tourist section, crashed on Thursday between Baracoa and Guantanamo. It was carrying a mix of locals and foreigners from Baracoa to Havana. The crash reportedly killed seven.The bus overturned in wet conditions; the bus driver told reporters he lost control, with some local press claiming he was attempting to pass another vehicle. The front-left section of the vehicle was heavily damaged in the rollover. At least one seat was pictured lying beside the wreck. According to reports, of the 40 passengers, 22 were Cuban. Foreign nationals were from France, Mexico, the Netherlands, Canada, and the United Kingdom. Four of the deceased were from overseas; they were two Argentinians, one from France, and a fourth from Germany.The crash took place on a bendy road at around 15:00 local time. Cuban roads suffer a large number of accidents; 2018 saw 11,187 recorded accidents leading to 750 deaths and 7,999 injuries. Sky News said Thursday's accident was the fourth major bus crash in a month. In addition to the deaths, 33 were reported hopitalised with five seriously injured.Public transit service in Toronto was suddenly shut down for Saturday when Toronto Transit Commission workers rejected a draft labour contract on Friday.The transit operator's major union, Amalgamated Transit Union Local 113, reneged on an earlier promise to give 48 hours notice before taking strike action. This about-face prompted Toronto Mayor David Miller to condemn the union's actions as "unacceptable" and "irresponsible".Meanwhile, the Ontario provincial government is preparing a back-to-work law this weekend. If this is passed on Sunday, Toronto's transit service would likely resume for the Monday morning rush hour.Toronto transit advocate Steve Munro reacted to the strike situation noting communication problems from the Local 113 union. He further commented that "Local 113 has blown its relationship with the most pro-labour Commission and Council they could hope to have across the bargaining table.  From here on, who can trust their signature on a contract?"The Rail, Maritime and Transport union (RMT) is to ballot staff on strike action at the largest British rail franchise after industrial relations suffered what it calls a "comprehensive breakdown".The RMT say that private rail contractor Northern Rail, which runs commuter rail services in the north of England, has been victimising union representatives and making unilateral changes to working conditions and payments made to staff attacked while on duty. It says that disciplinary procedures are not being followed and promises over the position of train guards when the Penistone line converts to tram-trains have not been kept.Northern say they are meeting with the union on Friday. A spokesman told the BBC, "We are looking forward to a positive meeting and are very hopeful that those issues can be resolved".Northern, a joint venture between the Dutch state railway company Nederlandse Spoorwegen and British outsourcing company Serco, was awarded the eight years and nine months railway franchise in 2004, succeeding First North Western and Arriva Trains Northern. The joint venture also runs the Merseyrail electric trains network, based in Liverpool, which is not affected by the RMT's proposed action.Subway service in the United States capital city of Washington, D.C. was disrupted Sunday afternoon when a Washington Metro Green Line train derailed as it approached theMount Vernon Square station.Sixteen passengers were reported hospitalised, but no critical injuries were reported. All passengers were evacuated from the trains less than an hour after the incident. The Mount Vernon Square station remained closed for the remainder of Sunday, with shuttle bus service bypassing the accident scene. Travel for Green and Yellow line passengers was delayed by 20 minutes during clean up and accident investigation. Normal service on Metrorail resumed on Monday.Sudanese flag carrier Sudan Airways has been grounded by the Sudanese Civil Aviation Authority (CAA). The airline's Air Operators Certificate will be revoked starting from Monday.CAA director of safety and flight operations Mohamed Hassan al-Mujammar said that the grounding was not directly connected to the crash of Sudan Airways Flight 109 at Khartoum International Airport, which has 30 confirmed fatalities. However, he did say that the airline said it was unable to make urgent improvements suggested by the CAA in a safety audit last month because they were too preocupied with dealing with the disaster's aftermath."It is high time to stop this type of non-compliance with international standards," said Mujammar. Sudan Airways now has one month in which to appeal the decision or make the requested improvements. The airline had prevously complained of trouble acquiring spare parts and pilot training because of sanctions imposed by the United States on Sudan. The airline says even parts for European-manufactured Airbus planes are affected.The airline operates mainly routes in the Middle East and the Gulf.The Philippine shipping company Sulpicio Lines has asked a court to issue a temporary restraining order (TRO) stopping the Board of Marine Inquiry (BMI) from proceeding with its investigation into the loss of MV Princess of the Stars. The passenger ferry capsised and sank off Sibuyan island on June 21 during Typhoon Fengshen (known locally as Typhhon Frank) with hundreds of casualties.Sulpicio told the Manila Regional Trial Court that both Republic Act 9295 and the Domestic Shipping Development Act of 2004 removed the BMI's power to investigate maritime incidents and that the investigation the board launched on June 25 is "irregular, illegal, and null and void". They say only the Maritime Industry Authority is allowed to investigate accidents at sea.Sulpicio also described the investigation as an 'inquisition' that was biased against Sulpicio from the start. They say "prejudgment" has increased the "pervasive negative publicity" surrounding the line, since negative accusations are most often published in newspapers. The company says one comment the board made was "Your vessel is not stable!" "You have no business being a safety officer!"As a result Sulpicio is seeking ₱650,000 from the BMI. This is split down as ₱500,000 in moral damages, ₱100,000 lawyer's fees and ₱50,000 further costs.The House Committee on Transportation also launched its own inquiry into the disaster today. The case for the TRO will be heard tomorrow.Sulpicio Lines, a ferry company in the Philippines, have been ordered to pay PH₱6.24 million over the death of a man on board MV Princess of the Orient, which sank in stormy weather off Batangas in 1998. Ernesto Unabia was one of seventy confirmed fatalities in the disaster, which left eighty more missing.Unabia was a 37-year-old seaman who worked on international vessels, and earned a ₱120,000 salary. According to widow Verna Unabia, who filed the case with her three children, he was going to work on for thirteen more years and then retire. Unabia's case is the first to be concluded, although most victims settled with Sulpicio without claims being filed.Although Sulpicio lost their appeal several weeks ago, reporters have only today received access to documentation concerning the case.Under Philippines law, employers are responsible for their employees actions. However, in Pestaño vs. Sumayang the Supreme court ruled that if it could be proved an employer had taken appropriate diligence when selecting employers then they could not be held responsible.It was viewed that Sulpicio was responsible as they failed to remove captain Esrum Mahilum from the vessel despite a number of incidents involving the ferry while he was in command of it. Princess of the Orient had struck the bottom of Manila's North Harbour, sideswiped a container ship and suffered a crippling engine fire while berthed at North Harbour, being towed first to Cebu and ultimately Singapore for repairs.Despite these serious incidents while the ship was under Mahilum's care, however, he was not removed from captaincy or even disciplined. A Board of Marine Inquiry (BMI) investigation into the ultimate sinking of the Princess of the Orient would later say that Sulpicio did not have enough initiative to take action against him. The court ruled this made them responsible for his actions.On September 18, 1998, the day of the sinking, Captain Mahilum was warned before starting out that severe weather was approaching. He wrongly calculated that the storm was safely distanced and left port regardless, running into the storm two hours later. Princess of the Orient began listing to the left and a distress call was sent, but she sank before help arrived. The BMI's report blamed the disaster on the captain making "erroneous maneuvers of the vessel before it sank." He remains missing to this day.After the court ruled that this made Sulpicio liable to pay civil damages an appeal was filed, in which Sulpicio said that the captain "valiantly tried to save his ship up to the bitter end. He heroically went down with his ship." Although he failed to properly supervise the abandon ship order he gave, he was last seen helping passengers to board life rafts. Sulpicio further alleged that careful analysis of the BMI report showed he did not directly cause the disaster.The court rejected the appeal, with judge Estella Alma Singco saying that while the failure to remove the captain wasn't the direct cause, "such failure doubtless contributed materially to the loss of life." Sulpicio were ordered to pay P6.240 million in lost earnings, P100,000 moral damages, P50,000 indemnity - which Sulpicio had already offered to all the families of the deceased - and P50,000 in pursuer's litigation costs.Sulpicio Lines has named the companies hired to conduct salvage operations for MV Princess of the Stars, the Philippines ferry that sank on June 21 during Typhoon Fengshen, leaving over 800 passengers dead.The Department of Transportation and Communication (DOTC) had already set a deadline of this Tuesday to name the contractor who would recover the ship. Another important aspect is the separate recovery of chemicals on board, primarily the fuel and a 10-tonne shipment of the dangerous pesticide endosulfan by Del Monte.The ship had also been carrying a number of other chemicals in smaller quantities, including metamedopus, carbofuran, niclosemide, and proptineb. All of the chemicals must be removed by order of the DOTC before the vessel is recovered. The chemical recovery is to be performed by Titan Salvage, an international firm owned by Florida's Crowley Maritime Corporation and specialising in sunken and capsized ship recovery. Titan will co-operate with both Sulpicio and the DOTC, and expect the project to be completed within 60 days of the contract being signed.Once the chemicals on board are removed then the ship itself can be recovered. Sulpicio has also named its contractor for this: Malayan Towage and Salvage Corporation (Salvtug). Salvtug has accepted the contract, but warned that its estimated operation cost is PHP2.25 billion to P4.5 billion, which is roughly equivalent to US$50 million to $100 million. Sulpicio had previously estimated that this exercise would cost P600 million.The high cost is a potential problem as it is unclear who will pay. Sulpicio's insurance does not cover salvage. Had Sulpicio been covered with protection and indemnity (P&I) insurance this would have been covered, but this is not required in the Philippines and so Sulpicio's insurance agreement with Oriental Assurance Corporation only covered the hull, machinery and third-party injuries and damage.It is likely that Sulpicio will pay for the recovery of the ferry, which has a gross weight of 23,824 tons, but as the ship poses a potential environmental hazard it has been suggested that the government should pay the costs initially to ensure work is done quickly, with Sulpicio to be charged later for this. However, for now it is unclear who will pay for the vessel's recovery.An express train travelling from Moscow to St Petersburg in Russia derailed yesterday, leaving at least 25 people dead and 100 more wounded. Authorities suspect a terrorist attack after a possible bomb crater was found beside the line.The trainwreck occurred in the countryside of Tver, near Bologoye. Around 650 passengers were on board the Nevsky Express which was travelling during peak time along one of Russia's most-traversed rail routes. Ninety of the injured are hospitalised, with hundreds of rescue workers attending and three victims being airlifted by helicopter.Survivors say they heard a loud bang just before the crash. "There was an explosion under the locomotive," the driver said as he called the Emergencies Ministry from his mobile phone. "I do not know what we hit. We are derailed. The locomotive and carriages, I do not know yet what else, everything is in smoke."The prosecutor-general has launched a terrorism investigation. Vladimir Yakunin, head of state-owned Russian Railways, said the chief line of enquiry is "To put it simply, a terrorist attack." "There is objective evidence that ... a blast from an explosive device is one of the explanations for the Nevsky Express incident," he said.The Interfax agency reported the crater was a metre wide. Russian journalists reporting from the scene were unable to locate it. President Dmitry Medvedev has ordered a full investigation and assistance for the victims. The Health Ministry said that over a dozen people remain missing.Russian railway infrastructure is poorly maintained and plagued by negligence and alcohol abuse, according to The Guardian. There is also a high concern of terrorism, especially from rebels in Chechnya. Two Chechnyan rebels are accused of a 2007 bombing that derailed a train on the same line, wounding 27 people.A court in the eastern Swiss canton of St. Gallen has imposed a world record speeding fine of 299,000 Swiss francs (US$290,000). The repeat offender drove his Ferrari Testarossa through a village at up to 137 km/h (86 mph), when the speed limit was 80 km/h (50 mph). Swiss courts calculate their fines on the principle that they are proportionate to the person's wealth. The driver was assessed to have assets worth 23.3 million francs (US$22.7m), including a villa with a garage containing five luxury cars. He was initially fined 90,000 francs, but claimed to be a diplomat from the Republic of Guinea-Bissau which would have given him diplomatic immunity from prosecution.A court accepted his claim and annulled the fine, but when he later failed to provide evidence of his diplomatic status he was summoned to the Cantonal Court of St. Gallen, and consequently was fined 299,000 francs. In its judgement the court stated: “The accused ignored elementary traffic rules with a powerful vehicle out of a pure desire for speed.”This fine far exceeds the previous record, imposed on a Porsche driver in Zürich in 2008, of 111,000 francs.A ferry operated by Sydney Ferries crashed into a whale-watching ship before hitting the Pyrmont Bridge in Darling Harbour at around 1 PM AEDT today. The accident is the second incident involving a Sydney ferry in the past two months.The Sirius, a First Fleet class ferry was carrying around 100 passengers when it attempted to berth at a Darling Harbour warf and failed to stop. It is thought the ferry may have suffered a technical fault.  The Sirius collided with the Ocean Dreaming, a 34-metre whale watching ship which was moored at the nearby Aquarium warf. The Ocean Dreaming had a sole crew member on board who escaped uninjured.Sydney Ferries said that none of its passengers were injured in the accident and all disembarked safely.Will Ford, the operations manager for the Ocean Dreaming recalled the incident. "It looks like one of the ferries coming into the Aquarium wharf has not stopped, and skidded past our vessel," he said."There's a bit of damage to the bow and it's continued on to Pyrmont Bridge where it stopped suddenly."The incident follows an accident in January, when a Rivercat collided with a small boat, killing a fisherman and injuring his son.Manager of Sydney Ferries, Geoff Smith defended the safety record of his services. He said ferry services have improved "out of sight" over the past year.Mr Smith urged the public to put the incident into perspective. "We do about 1,500 along-sides every day, so to have one incident like this, one is too many obviously, but you've got to put that into perspective," he said."Safety is Sydney Ferries' highest priority."Mr Smith told ABC Radio that an investigation would be held into the accident which would involve drug and alcohol testing of the Sirius's driver and crew but said he could give no further comments until the investigation was complete.The New South Wales Roads and Traffic Authority announced Friday night that a AUD$1.20 toll will be charged on a pair of new 200 metre long on and off ramps from the Warringah Freeway to Falcon Street, North Sydney.According to the RTA the ramps are part of the Lane Cove Tunnel project. The new ramps are being constructed so that traffic can enter and leave Falcon Street from the Northern side of the Warringah Freeway. At present, there are only on and off ramps on the Southern side of the intersection.The Southern ramps will remain toll-free.According to the RTA, the toll was set at $1.00 in 1999. Inflation has been applied to that value to bring it to the $1.20 that will be charged when the ramps open. Heavy vehicles will pay $2.40 to use the ramps, although commercial buses will not be tolled.As with all of Sydney's newest toll roads, tolls will be collected electronically.Neither NSW Premier Morris Iemma nor transport minister Eric Roozendaal has commented on the tolling arrangements for the ramps.Five people were killed and many others injured after Flight 390 of TACA airlines overran the runway at the Toncontín International Airport in Tegucigalpa. The Airbus 320 held dozens of people on board including both passengers and crew, although various accounts are inconsistently reporting occupant numbers. Flight 390 began in San Salvador, El Salvador and just departed its intermediate stop at Tegucigalpa before it was to continue towards Miami, United States.The plane fell to the city streets while approaching the runway at approximately 1600 UTC (10 am local time). The accident occurred in the midst of bad weather from tropical storm "Alma". Among the casualties confirmed are the president of the Central American Bank for Economic Integration, Harry Brautigam.File:Air France Flight 447 Empennage removal 2.jpgA search team from Brazil has recovered a part of the tail section of Air France Flight 447, which crashed in the Atlantic on June 1. The Brazilian armed forces have released pictures of divers near the tail fin, painted with the Air France colours of blue, red, and white.Meanwhile, France said that it has dispatched a nuclear submarine to search for the airplane's flight data recorders, which could provide information as to how and why the jet crashed.Sixteen bodies have been recovered from the waters of the ocean last weekend.Brazilian president  Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva said that "everything was being done [...] so that we can find, if possible, all the bodies, because we know how much it means for a family to receive their lost loved one."The death toll from Wednesday's plane crash in Taipei, Taiwan reached 40 today with the recovery of five more bodies.There were 58 on board when TransAsia Airways Flight 235 crashed into the city's Keelung River. Fifteen survived and three more remain missing. Tzu Chi Foundation volunteer Lee Hung Shu-ying said today cold weather meant the families of the missing believe their loved ones are dead.The Aviation Safety Council is investigating. The plane was in the air for minutes before banking steeply, hitting an elevated road, and crashing into the river. The domestic flight from Taipei Songshan Airport was headed to the island of Kinmen.Investigators are focusing on the ATR 72-600's engines. One engine automatically 'feathered' itself. Feathering involves the turboprop's propeller rotating its blades to reduce drag.Engines autofeather when they fail ('flaming out'). By reducing drag on the non-working engine, a twin turboprop plane can fly safely using only its other engine. A feathered engine will not provide any thrust. The reason for autofeathering is presently unclear; what is known is the flight crew subsequently shut off the wrong engine. A series of stall warnings went off in the cockpit as the aircraft headed to disaster.Aviation Safety Council managing director Thomas Wang confirmed an automated "number two engine flameout" message should have alerted the crew to the engine trouble, leading them to follow "the corresponding checklist". "There are procedures that pilots go through — safeguards — when you're going to shut down an engine, particularly close to the ground," said John M. Cox, former commercial pilot and boss of a safety consultant. "Why that didn't occur here, I don't know."Stephen Fredrick, a former pilot of similar aircraft, told CNN video showing the final seconds is consistent with dual flameout. He said the wings-level, nose-down position suggested gliding. Wang, however, cautions it is too early to blame any particular factor. "At this moment we just release the numbers, the parameter we've confirmed, we did not release any judgment who did what at this time". The Aviation Safety Council has teamed up with engine manufacturer Pratt & Whitney Canada to examine the engines. Also being prioritised is finalising a cockpit voice recorder transcript and cockpit examination. The aircraft was near-new.Local prosecutors are investigating potential "professional error", and the Civil Aeronautics Administration has ordered TransAsia retest all ATR pilots. 90 flights over three days are cancelled to allow the proficiency checks. TransAsia and Uni Air have also been ordered to check their collective 22 ATRs for engine and fuel system problems.Pilot Liao Chien-tsung and his co-pilot, not publicly identified, were initially hailed as heroes by prosecutors, mayor Ko Wen-je, international press, and at least one relative of a survivor. After declaring "Mayday Mayday, engine flameout" to air traffic control the pair grappled with their struggling plane, avoiding buildings in its path. They have been credited with reducing the death toll. Their bodies were found in the cockpit, with leg fractures. Both were still holding the wrecked plane's controls.The Transport and General Worker's Union and Gate Gourmet, the company that laid off 500 workers after workers staged unofficial strike action, will attend further talks held at a conciliation service by the Advisory Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS) on Saturday.The director of Gate Gourmet, Richard Wells, denied that he was being "heavy-handed" over the dismissals. He insisted that the people affected were spoken to, and given written warnings before they were sacked.As a result of British Airways (BA) staff at Heathrow joining Gate Gourmet's staff in the strike action, BA are running 50% of their short-haul flights, and 40% of their long haul flights today from 0600 BST/UTC+1. They are expecting to add more flights to the schedule as the day progresses, so passengers are advised to check the British Airways website.Analysts said that the disruption may lose BA next to £40m because of the refunds that the company are paying out, loss of flight revenue, and the costs of accommodating passengers in nearby hotels.Only passengers with confirmed reservations have been allowed to board flights at Heathrow. Barriers have been placed around Terminal 4 to stop people without reservations from joining flights. There are limited catering services on-board the flights.British Airways advises passengers to telephone +44 (0)800 727 800 or check their website before travelling to the airport. They also said that they would refund customers that had to stay in a hotel on Friday night up to £100.It is noted by passengers, though, that the advice line can be engaged for long periods, so users of the telephone line need to be patient.Qantas, Finnair, GB Airways, Sri Lankan Airlines, and British Mediterranean are also affected, as they were serviced by BA's ground staff. Their telephone numbers are listed below.On Tuesday afternoon a TAM Linhas Aéreas Airbus A320 (flight #JJ3054) crashed while attempting a landing at Congonhas airport, in São Paulo Brazil. The plane reportedly skidded off the wet runway, crossed a busy thoroughfare  before careening into a fuel depot and warehouse ultimately bursting into flames."The plane accelerated when it reached the end of the runway and tried to take off again to avoid the road, but it crashed into the building and exploded," Junior Matos told AFP. Authorities believe that all 180 people onboard the plane have died, and a further 15 people on the ground are feared dead as well.Earlier, there were reports from the Brazilian media that eight people, some from the plane, and some from the gas station, were taken to the local hospital for treatment and that Brazilian congressman Júlio Redecker was also on board the plane. Low clouds and heavy rain were reported at the time of the crash. Additionally, the runway has had a history of problems with standing water. Neither of these factors have been linked to the cause of the crash at this point.Rodrigo Pinho, state attorney, said the authorities will thoroughly investigate "to determine the cause and to identify who was responsible".A tanker crash in Brevard County, Florida on the Beachline Expressway — also know as State Road 528 — killed two people and caused officials to close sections the expressway. Firefighters and Police personnel are currently on the scene and residents were evacuated due to toxic smoke. The tanker collided with a pickup truck on an overpass at approximately 3:40 pm EST (2040 UTC) and subsequently burst into flames. Officials are reporting that both the driver of the tanker and truck were killed. Reports also suggest that there is significant damage to the overpass.Florida Highway Patrol Sargent Kim Montes commented that the expressway could be closed for a while. Florida Department of Transportation officials are currently on the scene assessing the damage and motorists are being advised to take alternate routes. The school district is advising that school bus service may be delayed for certain schools.A tanker explosion on Interstate 75  has destroyed a part of the Nine Mile Road overpass in Hazel Park, Michigan, a northern suburb of Detroit.  One man, truck driver Ronald Martinez, has been killed and only 4 injuries have been reported. On July 15, 2009 at about 8:15 PM EST, a tanker carrying thousands of gallons of gasoline collided with a semi-truck from Meijer grocery stores, causing an explosion that resulted in heavy black smoke that could be seen for miles. It is believed that the tanker was clipped from behind by driver Saied Haidarian-Shahri, 27, of nearby Clawson.  The tanker's two parts broke in half when a semi-truck rammed into the gasoline-filled tanker and it exploded.  The driver of the semi-truck sustained only minor injuries.Saied Haidarian-Shahri was a relatively new driver, getting his license within the past 6 months. Reports say he was doing 70 mph in a 50 mph zone, called the "9 Mile Curve", along the Chrysler Freeway.  There were no traffic violations on his license. He has been blamed for causing the accident. The explosion resulted in the collapse of the Nine Mile Road overpass over the freeway. The Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) has decided that the rest of the overpass cannot be saved. MDOT has closed down the freeway between Interstate 696 and Eight Mile Road both northbound and southbound. Local streets surrounding the site have been closed too. This is expected to cause trouble for commuters who travel one of the most used freeways in the metro area.About 2,000 residents of Hazel Park are now without power due to the accident.A Japanese tanker has spilled an estimated 4,500 tonnes (1.4 million gallons) of crude oil in the eastern Indian Ocean, after colliding with a cargo ship, which it was trying to assist, the tanker's owners report. A statement released by Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd, the owners of the tanker, Bright Artemis said that the tanker was attempting to rescue the crew of the distressed Singapore-registered cargo ship, Amar, when the two vessels came in contact about 470 km (290 miles) west of the Great Nicobar Island in the Indian Ocean at 1:00 p.m., (3:00 p.m. JST) on Monday. The collision opened a gash 1 meter in height and 5 meters in length on the single-hulled tanker's starboard side, spilling its crude oil cargo. The statement said that the spill has been contained, the crew of the Amar are safe on board another rescue vessel and no other injuries have been reported. The tanker reported the location of the incident  as 5'46"N, 89'04"E and the cargo ship Amar was on fire when the incident happened, said the statement. It added that oil has been transferred from the damaged tanks to other tanks, the tanker is proceeding east at a reduced speed and that the Maritime Port Authority of Singapore and the Indian Coast Guard have been informed of the incident.The Bright Armetis was manned by a crew of 23 including Croatians, Filipinos and a Canadian and was carrying close to 250,000 tonnes of crude oil from the Persian gulf to Japan, according to the company. Indian Coast Guard officials told Reuters news agency that the spill lies outside India's exclusive economic zone and that they are watching the situation closely.Bloomberg reports that shares of Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. fell as much as 4.3% upon news of the event. Mitsui is Japan's second-largest shipping company.A 15-year-old boy who allegedly stole a Melbourne, Australia tram and drove for 40 minutes picking up and setting down passengers, may yet be allowed to work as a tram driver, despite his nine charges related to the incident."We have a very good recruiting policy and anybody who passes the muster for our recruiting policy we'd be glad to offer a job to, provided he's old enough to hold a driver's license," Yarra Trams Deputy Chief Executive, Dennis Cliche, told Australian Associated Press on Monday.Detective Senior Constable Barry Hills of Victoria Police, said of the boy, "He's a nice lad, he's a good lad. I think his obsession just got the better of him."Described as wearing a jacket similar to official Yarra Trams uniforms, the boy was caught on Sunday night by police in east suburban Kew, 15km from where the tram was stolen, when electricity was shut off to the route.He is also accused of stealing a tram on Friday night, from South Melbourne depot. It is said that he drove it twice between the depot and Port Melbourne.The lad was thought to have picked up the keys from Box Hill depot three weeks ago, said Detective Senior Constable Hills."There are safety systems built in that he would have had to study and know how to drive this tram without engaging the safety systems, which are designed to shut the tram down," said Mr Cliche."So ... this is someone who's spent a lot of time and a lot of effort to go about this.""When somebody takes one of our vehicles unauthorised it's of grave concern to us and we are conducting a full investigation - whether he's a 'trammie' or an individual who cares for trams, it makes no difference whatsoever," he said.A full report on all depots, which would also look at the potential impact of terrorism, was due for release in three weeks.Police say the boy, of Sunshine in Melbourne, has been charged with nine offences, including two counts each of theft of trams and conduct endangering life. The boy, whose name was not given, was released on bail to appear in the Melbourne Children's Court in June.A boy, who says he is 14, has been arrested after hijacking a bus with ten people on board in Japan. He said he hijacked the bus to cause trouble for his parents.The boy hijacked the bus in Okazaki. The vehicle was traveling along the Tomei Expressway  between Tokyo and Nagoya.The boy, who had a knife, was arrested after briefly attempting to hide on board. The bus was at a rest stop in Okazaki at the time. He said to officers, "I was scolded by my parents so I did this to cause them trouble," according to Jiji Press.The incident was resolved within a few hours of police being summoned.A gunman yesterday wounded three people on an international train in Belgium, near the French border. Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel called the shooting a "terrorist attack" and French counterterrorism police are investigating.Two United States Marines on the train heard a weapon being loaded in a bathroom. When the man exited the toilet, the unarmed Marines tackled him. One Marine was injured. French actor Jean-Hugues Anglade was injured slightly by broken glass.A man, believed to be a 26-year-old Moroccan, was arrested at the station in Arras, France. Some passengers reportedly leapt from the train as it passed through Henin-Beaumont. The high-speed Thalys service was headed from Amsterdam to Paris.French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve travelled to Arras after the incident. He has met with passengers including Anglade. He said the two Marines are "particularly courageous and showed great bravery in very difficult circumstances [...] Without their composure we could have been confronted with a terrible incident." French Prime Minister Manuel Valls also expressed gratitude to the Marines.The suspect is reported to have been carrying knives, a kalashnikov rifle, and a handgun. Press reports suggest intelligence agencies were aware of him. Rail operator SNCF say over 550 passengers were on board. Reports indicate the shooting was towards the rear.Local prosecutors said counterterror resources were involved "in view of the weaponry used, the way it happened and the context". French President Francois Hollande promised "Everything is being done to shed light on this tragedy."Terry Knutsen, a man who achieved some notoriety in the 1960s with the novelty song Curse of the Hearse, was seriously injured in a collision late Wednesday evening, according to sources close to the singer. Mr. Knutsen, 70, routinely billed himself under the stage name Terry Teene and some sources indicate he may have recorded as many as 300 songs. Yesterday morning, local media reports indicated that his condition was listed as "critical", but a source close to Mr. Knutsen described his condition yesterday morning as "grave".File:Dad terry teen fan.JPGFile:Clownzo.JPGReports indicate that Mr. Knutsen struck a tow truck while he rode his bicycle along Highway 110 along the outskirts of Tyler, Texas on Wednesday evening. A passerby describes seeing "...a smashed up bicycle covered in...plastic bags and...a yellow raincoat..." lying at the scene of the accident. Mr. Knutsen has performed for many years throughout Texas as a professional clown. He made a brief (uncredited) appearance many years ago on one episode of the hit television show In Living Color. Sources indicate he also had minor roles in various films.For the first time in Texas's history, the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) is conducting an online vote to help decide which license plate design the state will use beginning in early 2009.The week-long vote is being held at dot.state.tx.us. It started Monday at noon and will end on February 11 at the same time. Anyone can vote for one of five license plate designs, including the current design.The designs are:Traditional Texas — This simple design features blue highlights at the top and bottom and a gold star.Lone Star Texas — This design uses a mountainous landscape under a bright, cloudy sky as its background. In the top left corner is a white star amid a splash of red and blue.Natural Texas — The background is a field filled with wildflowers.New Texas — This red, white and blue design features a skyline composed of landmarks from major Texas cities including Houston, Dallas, and San Antonio. A large gold star is faintly visible in the background.My Texas — This is the current license plate that was introduced in 2000. It features silhouettes of a desert landscape with an oil derrick and a man on horseback, as well as a starry night sky with a space shuttle.All of the designs incorporate the state's name, an outline of the state, and the state's nickname, "The Lone Star State". TxDOT says they took legibility and reflectivity into account when making the designs, in order to promote safety and law enforcement.The decision to allow a public vote was made because the state was running out of six-character combinations to assign to drivers. The new license plates will have seven characters, regardless of the public's decision."By the end of this year, we will be out of license plate combinations for the three letters and three numbers that we currently put on the general-issue plate," said Rebecca Davio, director of Vehicle Titles and Registration. "Because we need to change the plate, we thought it was the perfect time to invite Texans to participate in a design selection."According to TxDOT, it took 33 years to exhaust the number of six-character combinations, and using current population growth figures, they project it will take 35 years to run out of seven-character combinations.The Texas Transportation Commission must give final approval of the design. TxDOT says the commission is "enthusiastic" about giving the public an opportunity to vote for the new design. TxDOT considered allowing the public to submit designs, but ultimately decided that it would use a "substantial amount of state-worker time" and wouldn't be a "prudent use of taxpayer money".At the time of this writing, an unofficial vote count showed the "Lone Star Texas" design in first place with over 22,000 votes. "Natural Texas" was second with over 14,000, followed by "Traditional Texas", "New Texas", and the current design "My Texas".A French Train à Grande Vitesse (High-Speed Train or TGV) has smashed the world record for a train on conventional rails by a big margin, reaching 574.8km/h (356mph) The TGV travelled over 59.8 km/h (36 mph) faster than its previous record of 515 km/h (320 mph)The record attempt by a modified TGV took place on a track between Paris and the eastern city of Strasbourg. However, this is not the fastest train speed. A Japanese Maglev (Magnetive Levitation Train) reached a top speed of 581km/h (361mph) in 2003. The TGV made history at 13:14 CEST (11:14 UTC). The TGV had been modfied and was called V150 - a TGV with larger wheels than usual and two engines driving three double-decker cars. The vehicle's horsepower was 25,000.Reporters said the three train drivers were seen grinning on French TV after they realised they had broken the record. The TGV travelled almost as fast as a World War II Spitfire fighter at top speed. Even the electrical tension in the overhead cable was increased 6000 volts from 25,000 volts to 31,000 for the record attempt."We saw the countryside go by a little faster than we did during the tests," engineer Eric Pieczac said."Everything went very well. There are about 10,000 engineers who would want to be in my place," Mr Pieczac said. "It makes me very happy, a mixed feeling of pride and honour to be able to reach this speed." Since their introduction in 1981, TGVs generally travel at about 300km/h (187.5 mph) however, on the recently opened Paris-Strasbourg LGV (Ligne à Grande Vitesse or High-Speed line) trains will travel at 320 km/h (200 mph)  SNCF and Alstom - the TGV's manufacturer - have said that the record test was performed to see how a TGV would react in extreme conditions - conditions that cannot be performed in a laboratory. After the record was broken, French President Jacques Chirac conveyed his congratulations on "this new proof of the excellence of the French rail industry." The President also said that "Economically efficient and respectful of the environment, the TGV is a major asset in efforts to ensure sustainable development in transport"What is important for us today is to prove that the TGV technology which was invented in France 30 years ago is a technology for the future," said Guillaume Pepy Alstom plans to increase TGV sales abroad, where it is competing with high-speed trains such as the Japanese Shinkansen and the German ICE.  Currently, nations of the Far East such as China, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan are the "top" customers for high-speed trains. Agence France-Presse said that a high-speed rail link in between Los Angeles and San Francisco, California was being looked into.A school bus taking students on a field trip crashed into a truck early this morning in eastern Thailand, killing thirteen students and two teachers.The top deck of the bus was crushed on one side after hitting the truck and spinning. The students aboard ranged from ten-year-olds to young teens and had been headed from their Nakhon Ratchasima school to Pattaya. The bus driver fled and is unaccounted for.The bus was carrying around 60 female students, with a boys' bus from the school following behind. The second bus escaped the accident. The crash was on a narrow, busy road in Prachinburi. The road is in a national park which prevents upgrade works like widening, according to Nuttapong Boontob of the Thailand Accident Research Center.Police Lieutenant Colonel Anukarn Thammavijarn said police theorise the vehicle's "brakes may have failed or the driver might have fallen asleep." Thammavijarn said the bus was out-of-control and going downhill when it struck the 18-wheeled truck from behind. He cited the old appearance of the vehicle as a reason to suspect brake failure for the accident.The crash injured a further 47 people. A row of covered bodies was formed beside the wreckage. Of the injured, 23 were hospitalised. Wounds include broken bones.Road accident rates are among the world's highest in Thailand; last December a bus fell off a bridge, killing 29. Road accidents killed 8,600 on the nation's roads last year. Legislation does not require bus passengers to wear seatbelts.Thirty people are reportedly dead according to La Nación, in the second-to-last day of the Bicentennial of Chile celebrations through all the country. There is one more death than last year's celebrations. La Nación reports nine deaths on main roads and 21 on rural routes.The national police issued 255 infringements for driving under the influence of alcohol, and 1,555 for speeding."Travel has to be well planned. They must not drive for more than two hours," an officer told Radio Cooperativa.A large departure of tourists from beaches or other vacation spots is expected to be at "peak hours" after 18:00 (22:00 UTC).A double-decker bus has overturned in Belfast, the capital city of Northern Ireland. Approximately thirty people have been left injured as a result of the road traffic collision near Belfast Central railway station, located close to the centre of the city. The incident occurred at around 1415 BST (1315 UTC) today.According to ambulance service spokesperson John McPoland, "The vast majority of those on the bus are being taken to hospital by ambulance." He continued, "Thankfully no one is seriously hurt; a lot of people are walking wounded. Probably the driver is the most seriously injured and he's been taken to the Royal Victoria Hospital, but it's not expected his injuries are life-threatening."The driver of the bus was extracted from the wreckage with the use of cutting equipment. The victims have been transported to four separate hospitals in Belfast. The bus was the only vehicle to have been involved in the accident. No passengers are thought to have been killed or seriously injured.Albertbridge Road and East Bridge Street in Belfast have been closed as a result of the crash. According to a spokesperson for Translink, "an investigation is underway into what happened". The vehicle has been removed from the scene for investigative purposes. Railway services at the nearby station remain unaffected.A tractor-trailer carrying 32,000 pounds of hydrofluoric acid overturned on a northeastern Pennsylvania highway early Saturday morning, prompting the evacuation of about 5,000 people. The truck, registered to the Honeywell company, flipped over at about 2:40 a.m. after the driver swerved to avoid a deer.The pressurized acid began to leak after the vehicle flipped over onto its side on Route 33 in Plainfield Township, but Northampton County authorities said Saturday the nobody was injured and the leak was contained by noon.Residents were evacuated as Hazmat officials were brought in to clean up the site. Inhalation of hydrofluoric acid can be fatal, and low doses can irritate the eyes, nose and respiratory tract.But Northampton County Administration Director John Conklin said the leak was slow-moving, and not enough of the chemical leaked to create a toxic cloud."This will be over real quick," Conklin told CNN International.Hundreds of evacuees were taken to the Pen Argyl Area High School in nearby Pen Argyl, but Conklin anticipated they would be able to return to their homes by the end of the day.Hydrogen fluoride is a hazardous and highly corrosive chemical compound used mostly for industrial purposes. It is also an ingredient in high-octane gasoline, refrigerants and light bulbs.The driver of the truck, Raymond Leblanc, 54, of Harrow, Ontario, was treated at Pocono Medical Center in East Stroudsburg for minor injuries and released Saturday. A passenger, Joseph Dault, 51, of Ontario, was not hurt.As part of an update by the United States National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) into its investigation of a fire on a Boeing 767 cargo plane at San Francisco International Airport last week, it has been revealed the operator received a threat the week before.ABX Air, a contractor for DHL that is also known as Airborne Express, received a threat against them, although no specific aircraft was mentioned. However, the NTSB also said that initial investigations have revealed no evidence of a bomb or an incendiary device.The fire at 10 p.m. Saturday broke through the jet's exterior just behind the cockpit. The two-man crew had been preparing to start up the jet's engines for takeoff at the time, but escaped without injury. Both have been interviewed by the NTSB, and the Cockpit Voice Recorder and Flight Data Recorder have both been sent to Washington where they are being analysed at the NTSB's headquarters.Records kept by the NTSB and the Federal Aviation Authority indicate that the aircraft, which was manufactured in 1987, had had no previous issues. It had transported passengers until 2004, when Israel Aerospace Industries converted the plane for cargo transport. Israel's Ministry of Transport has sent a representative to assist the investigation, and Israel Aerospace Industries will serve in an advisory capacity.Also assisting with the investigation were the FBI, the Bureau of Alcohol, the Transportation Security Administration, the San Francisco Fire Department and the San Francisco Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting division. Under International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) Annex 13 other firms involved with the aircraft, such as Boeing and ABX, will also be party to the investigation.The NTSB expects the on-scene portion of the investigation to be completed by July 6.The Singapore Navy on Thursday warned of a possible pirate threat to ships passing through the Strait of Malacca after receiving a correspondence from an unnamed terrorist organization.According to the Navy, the intent of the terrorists was to "achieve widespread publicity and showcase that they remain a viable group." While the threat received covered only oil tankers, other large cargo ships were also at risk of attack, naval officials went on to say.  To reduce possible risks, the Navy urged ships to strengthen onboard security, including adding additional lights and lookouts. They also recommended that ships maintain a higher speed and report any unusual incidents to the proper authorities. The advisory said that past attacks in the Strait had been carried out by small vessels such as motorboats or fishing boats with armed crews. Commercial vessels were also warned to avoid known fishing areas accordingly.The Singapore Navy said that it had contacted other countries in the area to warn them of the threat. Both Indonesia and Malaysia have also announced plans to increase patrols in order to provide additional security.The Strait of Malacca is a major conduit for oil shipments. With around a third of global oil shipments passing through, it is the main route for travelling from the Middle East to Asia. Any attack on vessels within the Strait would likely have a major ripple effect on global trade.The port closures left 54 ships in the harbour or stranded at sea, said Alexandru Mezei, the director of shipping navigation at Constanţa Port, the largest port in Romania. However, he claims that the closure was necessary to prevent accidents from occurring, as the fog had reduced visiblity below safe levels.In the centre of the English city of Birmingham, three vehicles collided and eight people are reported injured. The crash was on the Aston Expressway; of the eight injured two are said to be in a serious condition. No fatalities have been reported.The two people most seriously injured are both female, one in her 30s and the other an elderly woman. Both women had to be freed from the vehicle they were in when the crash occurred at approximately 1845 UTC yesterday. According to a spokeswoman for West Midlands Ambulance Service: "The elderly woman sustained chest and abdominal injuries and the woman in her 30s suffered head and pelvic injuries in the crash." Both were transported to Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham by ambulance.Meanwhile, two women in another car also had to be freed from the vehicle they were in. One of them was injured in the shoulder while the other female's collar bone was fractured. "Both were immobilised with neck collars and spinal boards before being conveyed by land ambulance to City Hospital," according to the ambulance service spokeswoman. Two males in the same vehicle were also taken to City Hospital, Birmingham, having experienced minor injuries.A man and a woman travelling in a separate vehicle managed to escape serious injury in what the ambulance spokewoman called a "significant collision". They were taken to Heartlands Hospital by ambulance.A Croatian train en route from the capital, Zagreb, to the Dalmatian city of Split crashed, killing six and wounding 40, according to medical authorities. The incident occurred 12:08 pm (1008 GMT), when the two-carriage tilting train derailed near the town of Kaštela, outside Split. 91 passengers were reported to be aboard the train at the time of the disaster, including foreign tourists. Among the injured are: 18 Croatian, 6 French, 2 Australian, 3 Swedish and four others; a Belgian, British, Slovenian and Pakistani national.The cause of the crash is still unknown, but passengers claim that the speed of the train was excessive. Other reports say railway workers put anti-weed ointment on the tracks before the accident, making them slippery.Shortly after the crash, a railway works vehicle coming to the site of the accident, also reportedly in excessive speed, nearly hit emergency workers and reporters. No one was injured in the incident, but was filmed by a TV crew.Croatian media say that this is the worst railway accident to have occurred in independent Croatia, adding that if the train derailed into a ravine, which is several meters ahead, the death toll could have been much higher.A million toads caused a traffic jam on Inland Island Highway, between Campbell River and Courtney, British Columbia on Saturday.Several years ago, after another toad incident, a 45-centimetre plastic fence was built east of the highway by the Ministry of Transportation, where the toads come from, to guide them safely under the highway into the Millar Creek area, a forestry area on the west side. The west side is higher and that's where the tadpoles hibernate until winter. After that, they mature and go back to their old location to breed.According to the Canadian Press, the recent young toads also escaped from the local wetlands into the highway instead of using the fence that guides them. An interesting fact is that when the toads come back in the winter they do not use the highway, they cross at streams and rivers instead.The Ministry of Transportation has now put buckets beside a fence along the highway so the toadlets jump into the buckets and local volunteers and conservation groups bring them across the road into the Millar Creek area.But this is a regular practice for the toads. It has been happening for several weeks now. According to environmental technician Kate Paul, 25,000 toadlets per day have been rescued from becoming roadkill."We've been walking the fence and collecting the little guys that end up in the pails. Once we've made a full sweep of the fence, we'll then take them across the highway and let them go," said Paul."Right now we're estimating we've transported about a million toadlets across the highway to the other side," said Paul. "The numbers are starting to decrease a little bit now, so there's a chance this migration may be over within the week."Paul noted since in some parts of the U.S. toads are considered an endangered species, they are doing their "best to increase their survival rates" and they do their "best to help them out.""It seems the population has just spiked, and there are thousands and thousands and thousands of them and they still seem to prefer the road than to the culverts," said Sue Pauwels, area manager with the Ministry of Transportation.The toadlets were described as brownish green or black and were camouflaged.Toll New Zealand has announced that it will keep the Overlander train service but on a reduced timetable, the service was initially due to stop service September 30. Toll said that they reached the decision because of the huge amount of public support the train service received, including a 16,000 person petition.The Overlander will originally run for only three days a week; Friday, Saturday and Sunday during winter on the original timetable. But during summer through to autumn the service will run seven days a week. Toll hopes that this will cover all the needs of its patrons.David Jackson, Toll NZ CEO, said: "We have had tremendous support from the regional councils and will consider an upgraded service option and offering alternate packages aimed at both domestic users and the tourist market."Jackson said: "The continuation of the Overlander allows Toll to look at other funding options. We want to explore options that may be open to us to achieve this with the support and input of various interested parties. We especially appreciate the support of the regions to assist with marketing."The decision comes days after the New Zealand Government announced that they will not provide financial assistance."Over the next few weeks we will be speaking to key people with the aim being of putting in place a clear plan for the positive development of the Overlander. Clearly it cannot remain in its current format so change will be fundamental for its survival. Reducing the services will allow us to perform refurbishments on the existing carriages and it [is] expected that this work will be completed by the start of the summer season."Sue Morris, district mayor for Ruapehu, said: "The decision to save the Overlander is a relief. It's hugely important, it's our future. We are relying on the train to continue for a tourist option here, we're about toursim in the Ruapehu District, it's about bringing 13,000 passengers here."The Manning Group has a proposal out for electro-diesel trains running two times a day and stopping eight times between Auckland and Wellington. Tom Manning said: "[I am] pleased Toll is looking at upgrading options for the Overlander and I am still open to working with the company to bring better trains to the network."Nearly 400 people are involved with the clean-up operations. Among them are military specialists for chemical warfare. The Ukrainian Army alert state was raised to “high readiness” state on Tuesday, when the scale of the accident became clear. 27 medical brigades, 13 consultants and seven specialists are inspecting the surrounding inhabited areas.Two of the fifteen phosphor containers that were involved in the accident have been raised and put on new transports; nine of them need more work to treat leaking and damaged areas. All containers are to be transported to a more secure location by Saturday. The situation on the ground appears to be confusing. Political TV channel, Kanal 5, reports that the village closest to the accident, Ozhidovo, is still requesting volunteers to send medicines and water, as they do not have any. Journalists of three TV channels (Inter, Novyj Kanal, ICTV) needed medical care themselves after being in the village.TV channel, UT-1 reports this evening that the Ukranian President, Viktor Yushchenko, has called an urgent meeting of the National Security Council. The accident appears to be likely to become a topic of contention in the long-standing rivalry between the President and the Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych. Yesterday, the President publicly criticized the government’s work. Politicization of the disaster is likely to be the main reason behind the extreme differences among the versions of the Ukrainian media. Some declared the accident “ended” a few hours after it occurred, while others are still making alarming reports.On July 18, the Monitoring and Information Centre (MIC) of the European Commission reportedly offered EU assistance to the Ukrainian government. The same sources say that Ukraine has not officially requested the help. Without a formal request, EU assistance cannot begin.On the same date, NATO Spokesman in Brussels, Mr. James Appathurai, is reported by Podrobnosti to have declared that the Alliance is following the situation, and that NATO has not received any request for help from the Ukraine, either.Toll New Zealand has said that it will cancel the Overlander train service from September 30, 2006. The train runs from Auckland to Wellington, and is the only passenger train service that does.The North Island Main Trunk line has been used in New Zealand for passenger services for 97 years, beginning in 1909.Toll said it had been running the train service at a loss for many years now and was no longer viable to continue running the service. They also say that they approached the New Zealand Government for help so they could continue the Overlander but "after working through with the Government both parties concluded there was not the passenger numbers to justify keeping it running. Significant investment would also have been required to replace the aging carriage fleet," David Jackson, Chief Executive of Toll New Zealand, said.Only 50,000 people used the train each year compared to the 200,000 people who use the Tranz Alpine in the South Island.It was cheaper and shorter to catch a plane, between NZ$100-$282 for an one-hour flight, compared to $158-$170 for a 12-hour journey.The New Zealand Green Party is disappointed by the news. Co-leader of Greens, Jeanette Fitzsimons, said "I predict that as oil prices continue to rise further we will need The Overlander again."In a joint statement Friday by Australian federal Roads Minister Jim Lloyd and his New South Wales counterpart Joe Tripodi said that tolls were being considered to fast track upgrades of the Pacific Highway. Over Half of the highway between the F3 freeway terminus at Beresfield on Newcastle and the Queensland border is still single carriageway.Despite the New England Highway being the "national" highway from the F3 to Brisbane, traffic along the Pacific Highway is almost three times heavier on most sections [1]. By 2021, traffic on the Pacific Highway is expected to rise by 35 percent.The New South Wales Roads and Traffic Authority estimates that to complete the dual carriageway "North Coast Motorway" (Pacific Highway upgrade) by 2016 would cost $AU8 Billion. Since the major upgrades began in 1996, $AU2.2 Billion has been spent. Around 40 to 50 people die on the Pacific Highway every year.Mr Lloyd said "If there are sections of the Pacific Highway where you can get private sector involvement, get it built quickly, provide value for money for those who wish to use it and alternative routes for those who choose not to, then I think let's go for it". The proposal could introduce tolls on some sections of the highway with other sections (that are completely publically funded) remaining toll free.The plans have drawn mixed results from transport groups. A spokesperson for the NRMA, the largest motorist's organisation in NSW said that tolls should only be considered as a "last resort". He further added that if the only way the road could be upgraded was by use of tolls then the NRMA would agree with conditions. He said that any toll should not exceed $AU20.Tourism and transport lobby group TTF Australia welcomed the move but warned that NSW north coast communities should not be disadvantaged through the introduction of a toll. Managing director Chris Brown said "We don't expect north coast communities to pay 10 bucks to go and get a bottle of milk".Tonga's largest criminal trial today ended in the conviction of four men and the state shipping firm over the sinking of MV Princess Ashika. 74 were killed when the ferry went down off Nuku'alofa in 2009.The vast majority of bodies remain missing. Only two were recovered, including one Tongan — a 21-year-old mother called Vae Fetu'u Taufa. The Shipping Corporation of Polynesia (SCP) manager John Jonesse, acting director of the national department for ports and marine affairs Viliami Tu'ipulotu, captain Viliami Makahokovalu Tuputupu, and first mate Semisi Pomale were all convicted of her manslaughter by negligence. The men were remanded into custody over the weekend to await sentencing; they face a maximum of ten years in jail.Justice Shuster cited the severity of the offences in denying bail, which was requested by Laki Niu and Vuna Fa'otusia, attorneys representing the accused.Built in the early 1970s, by 1985 the ferry was found to be unseaworthy and hence not suited for use in deep water. When SCP bought it in 2009 from Fiji, it suffered from "huge" rusting holes and on August 5 that year sank in deep water during a storm. Most passengers were sleeping below deck when the ship was lost near the island of Tongatapu, where it remains on the seabed. No women or children escaped.The six-week trial followed a royal commission of inquiry that found Jonesse, from New Zealand, bought Princess Ashika "without any proper due diligence, surveys, inspections, valuations, documentation or proper inquiry having been completed." It also concluded Tuputupu chose to sail that day despite the ship leaking on other journeys. The inquiry branded the loss "a result of systemic and individual failures... The tragedy is that they were all easily preventable and the deaths were completely senseless."SCP was convicted of charges concerning the vessel's seaworthiness by the jury, which sat in Tonga's parliament building after the trial's high profile saw it moved away from Nuku'alofa Supreme Court.Jonesse and Tuputupu have both been convicted of five counts of taking an unseaworthy ship to sea under the Shipping Act, for voyages held on July 3, July 9, July 15, July 23 and August 5. Jonesse is also guilty of forgery and knowingly using a forged document.An EF4 tornado struck near St. Louis, Missouri Friday night, forcing the closure of Lambert-St. Louis International Airport and damaging over 2,700 buildings in St. Louis County. The National Weather Service also confirmed that an EF1 tornado touched down in neighboring St. Charles County and an EF2 touched down in Pontoon Beach, Illinois.The city of Bridgeton, in North St. Louis County, was hit by the EF4 tornado. According to the National Weather Service, it was the most powerful tornado to touch down in the St. Louis region since 1967, with winds ranging from 166 and 200 miles (267 and 322 kilometres) per hour. Aftereffects of that tornado were also reported in Maryland Heights, Missouri.One official estimated that anywhere from 50 to 200 homes in the Maryland Heights and Bridgeton areas incurred damage, but early numbers released by St. Louis County indicate that over 2,000 buildings in those two cities had suffered "noticeable damage," which does not include minor damage. Around 30,000 people in the region did not have power Saturday, out of a total of 47,000 affected residents.Authorities with search and rescue dogs went door-to-door Saturday, looking for possibly trapped residents. Aerial imagery was being used in damage assessment. Area residents unaffected by the tornado were assisting those that lost their homes, reported St. Louis television station KSDK.The Harmann Estates neighborhood of Bridgeton was heavily damaged during the storm, with many residences losing roofs and siding. Officials have already condemned some of the subdivision's homes. St. Louis County Executive Charlie Dooley reported 25 homes in Bridgeton and Berkeley, Missouri as being completely destroyed and an additional 35 as uninhabitable.Granite City, Illinois was struck by the EF2 tornado, while New Melle, Missouri was hit by the EF1. Fourteen New Melle homes sustained minor damage, while four were heavily damaged.The storm also caused the temporary shutdown of two major St. Louis highways. Portions of Interstate 70 and Interstate 270 were closed Friday night due to fallen power lines and storm debris. Both blocked sections have since reopened, but officials said it would take a few days to remove all the debris, which they pushed onto the roadsides.Lambert-St. Louis International Airport, which is immediately west of Berkeley, suffered heavy damage Friday night from the same tornado, and was forced to halt all regular operations Saturday while crews worked to clear the affected terminals. Eight flights had been forced to land in Kansas City, Missouri Friday night due to the tornado. About 500 people were in Lambert Airport when the tornado hit. A Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) spokesperson said other US airports were not affected by Lambert's shutdown. Lambert is not an airline hub and is significantly less busy than it was ten years ago.In a Saturday press conference, Rhonda Hamm-Niebruegge, Lambert's director, said the airfield and Terminal 2 were "fully functional," but the main terminal's Concourse C had been severely impacted by the storm. That terminal, which sustained the heaviest damage, serves Air Tran, American Airlines, Cape Air, and Frontier Airlines. The total cost of repairs at Lambert is expected to be in the millions of dollars, but Hamm-Niebruegge said the airport does not yet have a good estimate.One passenger of a waiting plane at Lambert told KSDK that heavy winds pushed the aircraft about 20 feet (6.1 metres) while it was still attached to the gate. Two other planes on the tarmac were unable to return to the airport, so passengers were bused back. Five planes—four operated by American and one by Southwest Airlines—suffered damage, and some will undergo major repairs.Some travelers inside the airport received medical attention for minor injuries caused by flying glass. A handful of people were transported to a local hospital for additional treatment, but all were later released. "We get to the terminal and lights were out, glass everywhere, blood everywhere from people had been cut," recalled one witness. Another person at the airport reported, "The ceiling was falling. The glass was hitting us in the face. Hail and rain were coming in. The wind was blowing debris all over the place. It was like being in a horror movie. Grown men were crying."On Saturday, it was evident that Concourse C would not be open for some time, said Mayor of St. Louis Francis Slay. A large section of its roof was missing and around half of its windows had been blown out by the high winds. Debris and water from the storm were present inside the airport as crews worked to restore power and assess damage to the terminal. Missing windows had been boarded up, ruined carpet had been removed, and the control tower was functional by Saturday afternoon. The power was back on by 7:40 p.m. CDT (00:40 UTC) that evening.The airport resumed outgoing flight services Sunday, although several incoming flights landed at Lambert Saturday evening. Slay said the airport will be running at 70 percent capacity until mid-week, depending on the availability of airline crew members and planes. Airlines using Concourse C will have their operations temporarily relocated, he added. On Sunday, Southwest was operating at normal capacity, while AirTran moved to Concourse B and canceled four of its eleven scheduled flights. A spokesperson for American said the airline would have planes ready for normal Monday operations. American had previously canceled all St. Louis flights scheduled for Sunday.On Saturday afternoon, Missouri Governor Jay Nixon arrived at Lambert and visited areas devastated by the tornado. He originally planned to tour Maryland Heights, Bridgeton, and Berkeley, but Nixon was only able to tour Berkeley due to an approaching line of storms. While in St. Louis, the governor said 750 Missouri homes had been damaged by Friday's tornadoes and that federal assistance was forthcoming. Nixon reported that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) was involved in assessing storm damage, as well as that US President Barack Obama had already contacted him, promising relief funds. US Representative Lacy Clay, said Saturday that he would brief Obama on the situation.The state declared the affected areas of St. Louis County a disaster area. No one has reported serious injuries or deaths as a result of the storm, although some people were treated for minor injuries. "It was horrific and for that much damage to been done, to have no loss of life, is truly a blessing," Slay said.Canada's largest public transit system is expected to resume service Sunday evening after the Ontario provincial government ordered striking Toronto transit workers back to work today. Service was shut down when transit workers suddenly walked off the job on Friday, having just voted to reject a labour contract deal made the previous weekend.The provincial legislature met in an extraordinary Sunday afternoon session to pass Bill 66, the Toronto Public Transit Service Resumption Act, 2008 which not only orders the transit work to resume, but includes follow-up arbitration to resolve outstanding disagreements between transit management and its unions. The largest union affected is Local 113 of the Amalgamated Transit Union, but the legislation also affects workers unionised under International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers Lodge 235, and the Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 2.Union members who defy this law could be fined C$2000 per day, while the union itself would risk a daily fine of C$25,000. However, ATU Local 113 president Bob Kinnear indicated that his union would respect the law and return to work while supporting the choice of Kevin Burkett as arbitrator. Wages were not an issue for union members, who voted against the earlier draft contract out of fears regarding compensation for on-the-job injuries, and for maintenance workers' job security.Toronto's subways, streetcars and buses will operate on a limited service for Sunday evening, with full service expected as the work week begins Monday morning.At approximately 8 p.m. EEST (1700 UTC) in Bahrain, a ferry that was believed to have been carrying about 150 tourists and locals was reported missing and overturned off the coast of Bahrain, near the Sheikh Khalifa Causeway Bridge, Sitra. The United States Fifth Fleet has been called in to help with the rescue.Earlier reports from Reuters stated that at least 40 bodies had been found, but ABC News reported that at least 44 are dead."There are 52 survivors and there are also 44 dead (bodies) that were retrieved. So far, the (rescue) operations continue. God willing, there will be more survivors rescued," said Bahrain's Interior Minister Abdulla Al Khalifa.One resident said, "I have seen at least 48 bodies," and ABC News reported at least 44 dead. However, "many on board were rescued," a Bahraini official was quoted as saying."The first report we received was that a Dhow (a wooden boat) has capsized. We are preparing a helicopter to join the rescue. There is no initial indication that this was an attack," said a U.S. Navy spokesman.Thirteen people have died after an Airlines PNG plane crashed in Papua New Guinea. The plane was carrying two local pilots as well as nine Australian, one Japanese and one Papua New Guinean passengers.The Twin Otter had been trying to land at Kokoda yesterday as Airlines PNG Flight CG4684, but had aborted once already. About ten minutes before it was due to land from its second approach it disapeared. The crash site was located today and is so inaccessable that two policemen were dropped into the jungle in order to hike to the scene and seek survivors. The search had been hampered by the same bad weather that had caused the aborted landing.Australian helicopter pilot David Inau has flown over the crash scene and commented that the plane appears to have "impacted head first into a sheer cliff face". The area is described Papuan Civil Aviation Authority head Joseph Kintau as "very, very difficult terrain".The tourists had been intending to hike along the Kokoda Trail, a route used by Australian soldiers fighting the Japanese during the second world war. Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said that "There is a horrible tragedy involved when families send off their loved ones for what they expect to be the experience of a lifetime only for it to turn into a tragedy such as this." The Australian military assisted in searching for the aircraft.Papua New Guinea Prime Minister Michael Somare commented on his own "great sadness" over the crash and promised a full investigation. "I have requested the ministers of the various responsible authorities to commence investigations into the accident and to furnish a report to cabinet," said Somare.The airline has also released a statement describing the pilots as "highly experienced" and commented that "Our thoughts and prayers are with all those affected at this very difficult time."A freight train in Lviv, Ukraine derailed, caught fire, and spilled a toxic chemical, releasing dangerous fumes into the air early Tuesday morning (local time), and people who live near the site of the crash are still becoming sick. Officials say that the toxic cloud, surrounding at least 14 villages near the scene, is at least 23% above benign levels.So far 70 people, including 19 children, have been hospitalized after being poisoned by the fumes from train cars filled with yellow phosphorous. That number is up from the 15 seeking medical attention on Tuesday."I can say we have resolved the situation by extinguishing those tankers. Now we need to talk about dealing with the aftermath of this breakdown," said Viktor Yanukovych, Ukraine's Prime Minister."This is a dangerous substance ... It is highly flammable and causes burns and choking," said Greenpeace Russia toxic gas expert, Alexei Kiselev.The European Union has stated that they will continue to monitor the gas cloud because toxic gas clouds do not "respect borders" of countries and will travel.The train was shipping cargo from Kazakhstan to Poland when it derailed. Authorities have ruled out sabotage and terrorism from playing a role in the crash and are still investigating the accident. At least 15 cars, of the 58 the train was pulling, derailed or were overturned.Water and local crops are said to not be affected by the chemical spill.Toyota has been accused by a U.S. House of Representatives committee with misleading the public and investigators over its recent recalls.The accusations, in a statement from the House Energy and Commerce Committee, claim that Toyota both relied on a flawed study in its assessment of the issue of sticking accelerator pedals at the heart of the recalls, and then made misleading statements about its response.  According to the authors of the letter, Henry Waxman and Bart Stupak, Toyota dismissed, rather than investigated, the idea that the cars' computers were at fault.  In a statement, James Lentz, the president of Toyota's American division, claimed that hardware issues were to blame, and that dealers were repairing the faulty part.  Toyota also released a study commissioned from the research firm Exponent that said electronic systems were not to blame.  According to the House committee, however, the study involved only six vehicles, none of which had problems with their electrical systems, and was insufficient to produce an accurate result. "Our  preliminary assessment is that Toyota  resisted the possibility that electronic defects could cause safety   concerns, relied on a flawed engineering report and made misleading   public statements concerning the adequacy of recent recalls to address   the risk of sudden unintended acceleration."The company is under a criminal investigation, and has received two subpoenas for documents from two House committees relating to the recalls, although whether they are directly related to the letter is unclear.  The documents are related to accelerator issues in several models, as well as brake problems with the Prius hybrid car, and were served earlier in in February by a federal grand jury and the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Toyota has released upwards of 75,000 pages of documents under the requests.In a separate, though related, development, it has emerged that Toyota last year negotiated a limited recall for two models, the Toyota Camry and Lexus ES, that were affected by the accelerator recalls, saving the company an estimated $100 million.  A confidential internal presentation in July 2009 made the claim, and a month later, a Lexus ES, one of the models under the limited recall crashed in California, killing four people.  The claims apparently referenced a September, 2007 recall of floor mats that could trap gas pedals, the same problem that triggered a full recall of numerous Toyota cars to fix the same problem.  In the same presentation, the company claimed to have avoided recalls of another model related to rust, as well as delaying new federal safety regulations.On Friday, a new generation solar powered cargo vessel, the Auriga Leader has docked in North America for the first time.  Toyota Motor Corp will employ this car carrier for automobile shipments to Europe and North America from Japan.  The vessel will be operated by the Japanese-based NYK Line.Auriga Leader has 328 solar panels to provide 40 kilowatts, about 10% of the ship's power while sitting idling in dock. This amount of energy is the equivalent to the power used by ten average homes. "This is the first ship to direct the solar power into the ship's main electrical grid. It's helping all of the time, and its helping with everything, like the ship's thrusters and the hydraulics for the steering gear," said Brian Mason, national manager of marine logistics and export for Toyota.The panels are installed on the ship’s car-carrier, and then connected to the onboard 440 volt electrical network.  Nippon Yusen K.K. and Nippon Oil Corp created the Auriga Leader's US$ 1.6 million innovative  green technology solar power grid.  The cargo ship has a length of 200 meters (656 ft) and gross tonnage of 60,000 GT, which is capable of carrying 6,400 automobiles. Richard Steinke, executive director of the Port of Long Beach said of the joint demonstration project, "From our standpoint, it's another positive step," to reduce diesel emissions and the release of greenhouse gas.Car manufacturer Toyota is to recall almost 1.7 million cars in two simultaneous recalls, that include the Toyota Avensis and Lexus IS 250, after concerns over fuel systems, which, if combined, amount to the biggest Toyota recall for six years.Japan's transport ministry stated it was possible for slight cracks to appear in fuel pipes in Avensis models, which may widen if the cars continue to be used. In the United Kingdom, Toyota GB are offering free repairs, which are expected to take around four and a half hours each. The Lexus IS 250 is involved in a separate recall, with around 280 thousand models outside of Japan being recalled over a faulty fuel pressure sensor, which can possibly come loose, causing a fuel leak.The Managing Director of Toyota GB stated "We are committed to putting the customer first and have a total focus on the quality of all our products. We will liaise with our customers to carry out the repair procedures as efficiently as possible, with minimal disruption".Toyota has recalled over 16 million cars globally since late 2009.The automobile manufacturer Toyota has said that it will recall up to 1.8 million cars across Europe, after a problem with the accelerator pedal was discovered.According to the firm, eight models were affected by the problem — AYGO, iQ, Yaris, Auris, Corolla, Verso, Avensis, and RAV4 — after it was discovered that the accelerator may become stuck in a depressed position, resulting in uncontrollable speeding.On Thursday, Toyota said it would recall 1.1 million cars in the US; a day previous, it had suspended eight models from sales. Last week, 2.3 million cars in the US were recalled due to the pedal issues.The chief executive of Toyota Motor Europe commented on the recall. "We understand that the current situation is creating concerns and we deeply regret it," said Tadashi Arashima. The firm, however, noted that it wasn't aware of any accidents resulted by the malfunctioning accelerator pedals, and not many pedal problem incidents were reported in Europe. "The potential accelerator pedal issue only occurs in very rare circumstances," Arashima added.The National Automobile Dealers Association, meanwhile, commented that Toyota showrooms could lose as much as US$2.47 billion worth of revenue due to the incident."Toyota veterans will likely hear the news with disbelief and keep faith in the brand, but new customers could definitely be scared off," remarked Robert Rademacher, who is the president of the trade group ZDK, as quoted by Business Week.  "This recall has a dimension which we've never seen before."There are concerns that the problem may result in reduced consumer trust in Toyota. Hans-Peter Wodniok, an analyst for Fairesearch GmbH & Co. in Germany, noted: "If this is a one-time event, huge as it is, Toyota may be forgiven. But if something happens again in the next months and years, they will have gambled away customer trust in Europe as well."Analysts for Morgan Stanley, however, said they believed Toyota would not suffer much from the incident. "The company's actions to correct the situation are timely enough to avoid major brand damage," they remarked in a note to investors.US Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood made the announcement Monday, saying in an e-mailed statement that "Toyota has accepted responsibility for violating its legal obligations to report any defects promptly."  Toyota has still not admitted any wrongdoing, and said that it disagreed with the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), which levied the fine against Toyota. In a statement, Toyota said it "denies N.H.T.S.A.’s allegation that it violated the Safety Act or its implementing regulations. We believe we made a good faith effort to investigate this condition and develop an appropriate counter-measure."Toyota is still at risk of lawsuits from those affected by cars that crashed due to a safety defect in the accelerator pedal. Numerous such lawsuits have been filed, and analysts said that the total cost of the lawsuits could be upwards of two billion dollars in 2010, and possibly as much as ten billion in total. While the government fine is largely symbolic, as the amount was limited by US law, it could provide support for lawyers who are filing legal charges against Toyota. If the cap on the fine was not in place, Toyota would have been fined a total of $13.8 billion; each of the 2.3 million defective vehicles sold would have had a $6,000 fine.Additionally, the NHTSA is reportedly considering a second fine, also of $16.4 million, based on evidence that there were two separate defects in the affected vehicles, and the company is facing an investigation from both the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission.Toyota, the Japanese auto maker, has issued a voluntary recall of 870,000 of its Sienna minivans in North America (600,000 in the United States and 270,000 in Canada).The models affected are the first and second generation vehicles, which were manufactured between 1998 and 2010. It has been discovered that salt, used to grit roads and melt snow in northern US states and Canada, could potentially cause corrosion in the spare tire carrier cable. In a worse case scenario, this corrosion could lead to the wheel becoming detached and becoming a hazard for following vehicles. The new 2011 version of the Sienna is not affected, nor are all wheel drive versions of the vehicle.In a statement, Toyota said that "In the worst case, the carrier cable may fail and the spare tire could become separated from the vehicle." In the same statement, Toyota's Chief Quality Officer in North America, Steve St. Angelo, said that "Toyota is listening to its customers attentively, and we want to make sure their voices are heard...We are also working diligently to develop a remedy as soon as possible."The latest blow to Toyota's reputation for safety and quality comes just days after the company announced the suspension of sales of its luxury Lexus GX 460 SUV over fears that it was susceptible to rollovers.Japanese auto maker Toyota is to temporarily suspend sales of its luxury Lexus GX 460 SUV following an unfavorable verdict from Consumer Reports, which concluded "Don't Buy: Safety Risk," the first such warning in almost a decade.After conducting its standard emergency handling tests on the 2010 version of the Lexus GX 460, Consumer Reports became concerned that the rear of the vehicle had a tendency to slide out, which in real life situations could lead to rollovers. However, the consumer organisation is also unaware of any such incidents with the 5000 GX 460s sold since its launch three months ago.Already embattled with ongoing safety issues with its vehicles, Toyota has been quick to act, though it did claim that the car was safe to drive and that it had passed internal safety standards. According to Toyota, "Lexus' extensive vehicle testing provides a good indication of how our vehicles perform and we are confident that the GX meets our high safety standards."Toyota Motor Corporation, the Japanese automobile maker, posted an overall 8.7% drop in sales in the United States for last month. This comes after recent safety recalls of its vehicles, as well as congressional investigations over Toyota's safety standards.The model that had the highest drop in sales was the Camry sedan, with a 20% decline, figures released yesterday indicate.Toyota sold a total 100,027 vehicles in the US in February, a number somewhat higher than what economic analysts predicted; they estimated a decline of ten percent.Bob Carter, the vice president of the group's Toyota division, commented on the figures. "I'm surprised that we sold as many vehicles as we did," he said in a conference call, as quoted by Ninemsn. "We did see a drop in our first-time Toyota buyers. But we haven't seen any major outflows of Toyota buyers to other brands.""Clearly we have some work to do. We stubbed our toe in terms of our image. There's nothing I can come up with in terms of an incentive program to make that go away. It's something we're going to work on with all consumers," the vice president added. Toyota said it would have zero per cent financing for most of its models, as well as free scheduled maintenance."In March, we’ll be getting back to the business of sales," said Carter.Meanwhile, Toyota stock increased by 2.3% at the Tokyo stock exchange to 3,390 yen in morning trading.Toyota Motor Company announced they have formalized an agreement to develop an electric version of the RAV4 SUV with Tesla Motors.In May 2010, Akio Toyoda and Elon Musk, leaders of Toyota and Tesla, respectively, announced they would work together on electric vehicles. The agreement formalizes this announcement and would allow Tesla to work with Toyota at an automobile production plant in California.The plant will open 2011, when Tesla reopens it after it bought the Fremont, California plant. The plant was previously used by Toyota and General Motors, but was shut down when Toyota said it would not produce cars in California.Tesla currently produces only a single model, the US$109,000 Roadster, although it is currently designing a second model, the Model S, which will be produced at the Fremont factory.Analysts supported the move; John Boesel, CEO of a green-transportation trade group, said that "Toyota's willingness to partner with Tesla to provide an electric version of one of the Japanese automaker's existing vehicles suggests the partnership between the two companies is going to be a meaningful one."Following this announcement, Tesla's shares rose $0.75, while Toyota's fell $1.65.A train accident in northeastern Spain killed at least twelve people, and injured fourteen more, late on Wednesday evening.According to the Spain's interior ministry, the incident occurred at the Castelldefels Playa station in the city of Castelldefels, south of Barcelona.A group of about thirty beach-goers exited a commuter train and were crossing the tracks when they were struck by a high-speed train not scheduled to stop at the station. According to witnesses, the group did not use the underpass to exit the station.Local media reports say, of those injured, all were younger than 28 years, except for one woman who is 45 years old. Most of the group were en route to a celebration of the Saint John's Day summer festival to mark the shortest night of the year.A day of mourning was called for in Catalan region following the disaster.A train has crashed into a bus in a suburb of Mexico City, the capital of Mexico. The bus and train slid along the track for more than 100 yards (approx. 90 metres), according to witnesses.The collision has killed at least 24 people and injured 12 more, according to police and other Mexican authorities.Another department spokesman, Octavio Campos, said that 19 bodies had been recovered from the wreckage of the bus, and that two of the 12 people initially listed as injured later died in the hospital.The incident occurred as the bus headed north on a highway in Cuautitlán. The bus collided with the 36-carriage train as it crossed the tracks in the industrial area.The bus driver apparently misjudged the speed at which the train was traveling, thinking he could beat it across the level crossing.The bus driver was arrested following the crash, and according to officials, was trying to flee the scene. The train conductor was also detained for questioning. The train was pulling 36 empty wagons at the time on the incident.Juan Carlos Herrera, an emergency worker at the scene, said the casualties were all from Mexico.Belgian authorities have confirmed that at least eighteen people died in a head-on collision between two passenger trains in the suburbs of Brussels. Other reports suggest that the death toll could be as high as 25. More than 125 passengers are reported injured, 11 of them "very seriously". Rescuers were still trying to free bodies from the wreckage of the trains more than eight hours after the crash, which occurred in snowy conditions at 08:28 local time (0728 UTC) near the station of Buizingen in the municipality of Halle, about 15 kilometres southwest of the Belgian capital.One of the trains involved was travelling from Quiévrain to Liège, while the other was travelling from Leuven to Braine-le-Comte.  The collision saw the first two carriages of one train being forced upwards into the air over the first carriage of the second train.  Eyewitnesses described the collision as "brutal", with passengers being thrown "violently" around the carriages.Television footage showed the two smashed locomotives forced up in the air, with passenger cars strewn over a wide area and dazed survivors wandering at the crash site.  Train speed at the time of the crash was not immediately known.  There are reports that one of the trains ran a stop signal.Initial reports suggest that the Leuven–Braine-le-Comte train was on the wrong line. It is not known if the train went through a red signal or if there was a problem with the signalling. A "well informed source" quoted by French-language daily Le Soir suggested that there might have been an electrical failure in the signalling system.The collision occurred on one of the main access lines to Brussels-South station, about 14 kilometres (9 miles) from the Belgian capital. It caused "major damage" to overhead power cables, especially on the Brussels–Mons and Brussels–Tournai lines, and high speed rail services between Brussels and France and the UK have been suspended. Thalys services were temporarily halted due to the accident, with four of its trains in the region being diverted to alternative stations. Thalys services between Brussels and Cologne have now resumed, but services to Amsterdam and Paris are still suspended.One passenger on board, Christian Wampach, described conditions on board the train, "It was a nightmare. We were thrown about for about 15 seconds.  There were a number of people injured in my car but I think all the dead were in the first car."  Wampach was in the third car.Another passenger, Patricia Lallemand, said, "When we came out we saw dead bodies lying next to the tracks, some mutilated."Over 50 people have been injured today when two trains collided head-on at the Bet-Yehoshua station, near the city of Netanya on the railway from Tel Aviv to Haifa. Most of the injuries are minor, with no casualties or serious injuries reported in the media.The trains advanced slowly, one leaving the station and one entering it. One of the trains was completely derailed. The Israeli Railway Authority CEO said the accident was caused by a personal error of one of the conductors, but a police investigation is still ensuing. This is the second serious accident for Israeli trains within half a year. Four months ago, a train car derailed and burst in flames, injuring 79 people, most of the injuries due to inhaling of smoke. The Israel Railway Authority notified the passengers that the tracks from Tel Aviv to Haifa will be closed for at least a week, but later the company manager announced that rides would continue within 24 hours, while a fast and open investigation will follow. He promised that the results will be publicized immediately upon being received.Twenty-four cars of a west-bound Canada Pacific train were thrown from the tracks after the train collided with a semi tractor-trailer in poor weather and visibility near Regina, Saskatchewan around 11 a.m. Tuesday morning. The driver was rushed to hospital.The accident took place on a level section of Highway 46 just north of Highway 1, about 25 kilometres east of Regina. The RCMP spokesperson reported the crossing is marked with lights, but weather may have played a role."Road conditions were wet and sloppy and it's foggy," RCMP Cpl. Brian Jones said to the CBC. The bad weather, including a heavy overnight snowfall, may have contributed to the accident.Most of the 93 cars in the train were empty bulk transit cars, used for moving agricultural products such as grains. The RCMP report that neither train or truck were transporting any hazardous materials.The train had been entering a station in Pretoria when seventeen cars derailed, apparently during a switch between steam and electric locomotives, although the exact cause is not known. The train had been coming from Cape Town, with 55 passengers and an unknown number of crew on board.None of the dead were identified, and nationalities were not released. However, a spokesperson for the operator of the train, Rovos Rail, said that passengers were from several different countries, and that most customers of the railroad were from the US or Europe.Chris Botha, an emergency worker at the scene said that the derailment had produced "absolute carnage." According to him, "[s]ome of the railway coaches are lying on top of each other and absolute wreckages. They had to use hydraulic rescue equipment to cut some of the people free." The section of track where the incident occurred has been closed off.At around 4:50 p.m. local time (0850 UTC) on Sunday, at least eighteen passengers were killed and, by varying reports, more than another 170 injured after a train derailed in Yilan County in northeast Taiwan. It was the most deaths in a train crash in Taiwan in 27 years. The Puyuma express was transporting 366 people when the accident occurred, according to the railways administration. On Sunday authorities said an investigation was underway to determine the cause of the incident.Traveling between Shulin and Taitung, the train's eight carriages derailed around Xinma station.According to Associated Press, locals assisted passengers to escape through the windows of the train before the emergency response team arrived. Emergency workers and roughly 120 soldiers worked to free survivors from the wreckage.Injured passengers were transported to four different hospitals for treatment, The New York Times reported.The train's conductor, according to United Daily News, reported some sort of object was on the tracks and might have derailed the train. Transport ministry officials said on Monday the train driver had reported abnormally low pressure in the brakes of the train 20 minutes before the crash.This incident exceeded the fatality count of seventeen in a train derailing at Alishan, Chiayi in 2003. Previously 30 passengers died and 112 were injured as a result of a train collision in Miaoli in 1991.An express train struck a collapsed motorway bridge in the Czech Republic, leaving 7 people dead and 64 injured. The EuroCity train, which was en route from Kraków, Poland to Prague, derailed after it collided while traveling at 134km/h (84mph).According to Czech Railways spokesman Radek Joklik, "it probably hit part of a motorway bridge under construction which fell onto the track." It is believed that the bridge, which is near Studénka, may have fallen onto the train, crushing carriages below it.The train, which was carrying 400 people, saw a derailment of its locomotive and first three passenger carriages.Rescue operations are underway, with 16 fire brigades and 30 vehicles at the scene, which is 215 miles from Prague and close to the Polish border. Numerous ambulances and several helicopters are transporting the wounded to hospital.Many of the passengers were traveling to a music festival in Pardubice. The toll of dead and injured could rise further as investigators release information.A runaway train killed seven people and injured eleven more today in the small town of Young, Uruguay, about 235 miles west of Montevideo. The victims were taking part in an Uruguyan reality game show, Desafio al Corazon, or "A Challenge to my Heart," where communities can raise money by performing tasks. The task in this accident was to push or pull a train with two cars attached to it down a railroad track. The train gathered too much momentum and ran down the people in front of it. One eyewitness, Ana Portela, said that the train was in motion when "somebody slipped and fell under the locomotive, and others were falling alongside it. There were shouts and somebody cried 'my arm!' Everybody was in a state of shock." Local authorities have declared three days of official mourning as Uruguayan President Tabaré Vázquez offered his deepest condolences for the victims of the crash. A spokeswoman from the channel airing the program, Mrs. Graciela Baccino stated, "Channel 10 offers its solidarity and support to the families involved in this unexpected tragedy that came, in fact, while they were trying to help others." The money raised would have gone towards a local hospital.Two trains have collided head-on in eastern France at Zoufftgen in the Moselle region of France, close to the Luxembourg border, at around 11:45 local time (09:45 UTC) earlier today. Based on inital reports, BBC News has suggested 10 passenger deaths as well as the those of two train drivers involved in the incident and a track side worker. French officials later confirmed at least 5 dead.The trains were a french freight train and a Luxembourgeois passenger train. The passenger train was travelling from Luxembourg to Nancy and the freight train was travelling from Thionville to Luxembourg. There are also at present 20 additional casualties although this number could rise. BBC News has reported, some of the injured may still be trapped in wreckage. Rescuers from France and Luxembourg are at the scene, with BBC reporting that a mobile hospital as well as specialist equipment was on the way.The cause of the crash is undetermined at present, but due to engineering works, single line working was in operation on the route affected. The trains collided head-on. An SNCF spokesman was quoted as saying "Due of the engineering works, only one way was available and train traffic was alternating" He continued, "For reasons still to be established, the trains found themselves facing each other".French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin and Transport Minister Dominique Perben are understood to be on their way to the scene of the incident.Eric Soupa, a local official was quoted (BBC News) on French radio: "We are faced with an important and dramatic situation."According to first reports, the spokesman of SNCF has indicated that the driver of the freight train did not "pass a signal at red" and had actually passed the signal at green.Two trains collided on the Serbian Belgrade – Novi Sad railway line yesterday evening, leaving two engine drivers, Živko Topalović and Milan Ivančević dead and five injured. Doctors at the Novi Sad clinic said that five were injured and that all five, said to be Serbian Railways workers, have suffered serious, but not life-threatening injuries in the crash. Earlier in the evening, Stojan Suknović of the Novi Sad fire brigade, who took part in the rescue efforts, said the accident occurred after 6 p.m. yesterday evening, near Sremski Karlovci in Vojvodina."An engine and a freight train collided," he confirmed. Emergency teams are working intensively on removing the wrecked engines from the line in order to provide suitable conditions for the resumption of traffic.From Washington D.C. to New York City, trains powered by overhead electric lines stalled for more than two hours due to what Amtrak called a "major power outage."  While working to restore power, Amtrak attempted to provide alternative transportation in the form of diesel locomotives and buses. Power was restored at 10:30 a.m. EDT. Delays continued for much of the day. Besides long-distance rail services such as Acela, local commuter trains were affected.  Seven SEPTA lines in the Philadelphia area were temporarily shut down, and five more ran shortened routes.  Also affected was Maryland's MARC and New Jersey Transit.No specific cause has been reported, but Amtrak's site indicates that they are investigating.As managers of local transit companies tend to boycott developments of transit rules in Bogotá, the whole transportation system was a complete chaos on Tuesday (2).The local Administration intends to develop the year 2000-stablished Transmilenio system, and to accomplish that, old buses must be removed from main routes and from active service. The protest included a complete halt of public service, and people recurred to private cars, trucks, and cabs for transportation. Bogotá has in place an already strange rule to stop the movement of cars around the city depending on the day of week and the last number of the license plate. Such a rule was cancelled for the time the protest continues, and other measures were announced by the Mayor Luis Eduardo Garzón. Garzón hinted several penalties will be applied to those who omit showing to the streets to give service, going from a buch of hundreds of dollars, to the total cancellation of transit licenses for Bus companies (Already in the past those measures were announced with no real effect and no real sanctions).The protest was also infiltrated by people who damaged more than 70 machines of the Transmilenio system, Public schools called the day off and there will be no classes on Wednesday (3). Most public and private corporations and business, sent people home by 14:00 local time (19:00 UTC), to help avoid security problems.Twenty-three people died when a Transrapid maglev train travelling on the system's test track in Lathen in Germany, near the Netherlands border, collided with a maintenance vehicle on the track. Ten others were severely injured according to Karl-Heinz Brüggemann, a spokesman for the rescue effort.The driverless train was estimated as operating at 170 km/h (105 mph) when the accident occurred around 09:30 local time (07:30 UTC). The unmanned train, with 31 passengers aboard crashed into a maintenance wagon containing 2 workers.German Chancellor Angela Merkel visited the site to pay her respect to the victims and the rescuers.The train had traveled about 1 km (0.6 miles) from its departure station when it struck the maintenance vehicle.  Debris from the accident was spread over a 300 m (984 ft) section of track. Police spokesman Hans Kley confirmed that the Transrapid train did not leave the track, which is elevated approximately 5 metres (16 ft) above the ground. Other reports indicate that the train's roof was torn off in the collision. Rescue workers used ladder trucks from local fire departments to evacuate the stopped train. On hearing of the accident, Germany's Transport Minister Wolfgang Tiefensee suspended his trip in China and made preparations to return to Germany to view the accident scene.The 31.8 km (20 mile) test system in Germany was built by a consortium of Siemens AG and ThyssenKrupp.  It has been in operation since 1984 and is regularly used by tour groups for demonstration runs four days per week. Transrapid trains are capable of speeds up to 450 km/h (280 mph).  This accident is the first on the system that included fatalities; analysts so far attribute the cause of the accident to a lack of communications between the train operators and the maintenance employees. The only commercial installation of Transrapid technology in service is currently the Shanghai Maglev Train linking Shanghai Metro Line 2's Longyang Road station to Pudong International Airport.Travellers in many parts of the United Kingdom face chaos after thick fog enveloped major parts of the southern UK. London's Gatwick and Heathrow international airports have been severely affected and all British Airways domestic flights from Heathrow have been cancelled. On Thursday 350 flights from Heathrow were cancelled.Road travel has also been affected as visibility in some areas dropped down to less than 50 feet. Fog has caused several road accidents across the UK, there was one death when an accident caused a four lorry pile-up on the M40 motorway near Banbury in between junctions 11 and 10. This caused traffic chaos across the town as traffic was diverted onto much smaller roads towards Oxford.Weather reports suggest that the fog will slowly move north-west over the weekend. Gatwick Airport re-opened on Friday, while Heathrow flights are still affected. Three hundred flights have been cancelled so far and 3,000 people have been transported to their UK destinations by coach.BA has said that it aims to fly 95% of passengers in and out of Heathrow as planned tomorrow, Saturday.The railways have become congested coping with the number of passengers both trying to get home and to domestic destinations, but most tickets are sold out.There were, however, no cancellations at London's third airport, Stansted.A truck on the Trans-Canada Highway in New Brunswick, Canada, carrying 12 million bees has overturned. The truck was carrying 330 crates of bees when it tipped on a ramp in Saint-Léonard. The bees were used to help pollinate blueberries, and were heading back to Ontario.The accident happened in the morning hours. Bee experts were called in to control the bees, and they were helped by the rain as bees dislike it, with the bees staying close to the truck. However, by midday, the sun came out and the bees became much more agitated. The beekeepers had to douse them with smoke, while firefighters attempted to hose the bees down to try to get them back near the truck. There were no serious injuries from the incident, but some reporters at the scene got stung repeatedly. Anyone with an allergy to bees has been advised to stay at least 200 metres away from the scene.The highway was first reduced to three lanes from four, before being completely closed, to prevent curious onlookers from being endangered by the swarms of bees angered and agitated by the incident.This accident was the first of its kind in New Brunswick.Just two weeks after a join statement by Australian federal roads minister Jim Lloyd and his New South Wales counterpart Joe Tripoldi that tolls may be used to fast track upgrades of the Pacific Highway, acting Prime Minister Mark Vaile suggested that truck operators could pay up to a $70 toll.Mr Vaile claims that industry sources claim that it is $400 less for a B-double semi trailer to drive from Sydney to Brisbane via the Pacific Highway than the New England Highway (which is the national highway) because of the upgrades carried out over the past 10 years.Mr Valie claims the transport industry would accept a $70 toll. "Anything we do is going to enhance their efficiency". "Therefore the transport industry would be prepared to pay a toll - not just a $5 or $7 or $10 toll. For Sydney to Brisbane, who knows, (they could pay) a $50 to $70 toll, because these efficiencies are so significant now in running that sector."The federal and state governments have committed to converting the highway to dual carriageway between Sydney and Port Macquarie and Brisbane and Byron Bay within three years. The remainder of the highway (with the exception of the section replaced by the Sydney - Newcastle Freeway was scheduled to be completed by 2016.Mr Vaile said that the New South Wales government should look at using public-private partnerships to fund upgrades between Port Macquarie and Byron Bay. He further hinted that regular motorists would still pay tolls, although they would be variable depending on the length of highway used.Kathy and Greg Campbell who lost Greg's mother and their daughters Becky, 9, and Jessy, 8, when a truck slammed into their car head on south of Buladelah said the number of trucks which use the single carriageway section is an outrage. Ms Campbell said that the federal government received AU$14 billion a year in fuel excise from motorists and the estimated cost to complete the highway upgrade was AU$8 billion.Wake turbulence from a larger aircraft is believed to be the cause of a crash of a Mexican government Learjet 45 into rush-hour traffic in Mexico City earlier this month. All nine on board, including Interior Minister Juan Camilo Mourino, and five on the ground were killed.As well as Mourino, anti-drug advisor Jose Luis Santiago Vasconcelos died in the wreck, leading to speculation of murder. There have been rumours the jet may have been sabotaged or bombed, but both of these have been ruled out, as have mechanical failure.To try to prevent conspiracy theories, there has been unusual openness to the press over the accident. The investigation is being led by Mexico, who have been joined by teams from Britain and the United States.Instead, the readout from the Cockpit Voice Recorder (CVR) coupled with the knowledge that the aircraft had come in too close behind another suggest the likely cause to be an encounter with wake turbulence - dangerously unstable air left behind by an aircraft as it passes through an area. The Learjet came within 4.15 nautical miles of a Boeing 767-300 on the same approach towards Mexico City International Airport, whereas for safety there should have been around 5 nautical miles of separation between the two.It has also been revealed that air traffic control instructed the accident aircraft's flight crew to slow down to keep back from the airliner, but that this had not happened. The pilots may have lacked adequate training, as they are reported to have experienced difficulties and unfamiliarity with the plane's controls. The CVR transcript reveals that the pilots were aware they had hit severe turbulence immediately prior to the crash."Wow, check out this turbulence!" pilot Martin Oliva exclaimed to co-pilot Alvaro Sanchez. Apparently panic-stricken, he then asks "Alvaro, what should we do, Alvaro?" and is told "Give it [control of the aircraft] to me, give it to me, give it to me!" Sanchez then says simply "God." It was to be his last word. The plane became uncontrollable and crashed down at a forty-two degree angle, killing all on board.The investigation continues.47 people were injured on Friday after a Boeing 747-400, operated by Northwest Airlines, encountered severe turbulence on the Manila-Tokyo leg of a flight bound for Los Angeles. The aircraft was carrying 408 passengers and 14 crew members.The aeroplane was circling off the coast of Chiba, east of Japan's capital of Tokyo, waiting to land, when turbulence forced it to make a rapid descent.Many of the passengers who were not wearing their seat belts were thrown out of their seats. Most sustained injuries to their heads and necks by colliding with overhead lockers. None of the injuries were life-threatening, although six of the injured are expected to be hospitalised for up to three weeks.The aircraft landed safely at Tokyo's Narita International Airport, whereupon ambulances took the injured to nearby hospitals."I was so scared, I thought I would die," said an unnamed passenger, describing the incident. "My whole body was lifted into the air.""The person in front of me flew up to the ceiling. The person behind me collapsed and looked unconscious," another said."Air turbulence is believed to be the cause. The turbulence occurred 25 to 30 minutes before landing, when the seat belt light was on," said a spokesman for Northwest Airlines, Masashi Takahashi. "During the flight, we received a message from the pilot saying two or three people were injured. But [the pilot] probably assessed that an emergency landing was not necessary," he said to Agence France-Presse.Northwest Airlines has stated that the seat belt sign was turned on during the incident.Saturday afternoon, a commercial aircraft skidded off the runway at Trabzon Airport in Turkey. The airplane, which carried over 160  passengers and crew, had just landed when it left the runway and went down a cliff, where it stopped, perilously close to the Black Sea. The aircraft is a Boeing 737-800 operated by Pegasus Airlines.Provincial governor Yucel Yavuz told the press, everyone was evacuated and no injuries were reported. He announced the airport would be closed until Sunday morning as investigators take a look at the incident. It is unclear why the plane veered off the runway. Photos show the nose of the craft mere meters from the sea on the steep cliff.Passenger Yuksel Gordu told Anadolu Agency: "It's a miracle we escaped. We could have burned, exploded, flown into the sea." Fellow passenger Fatma Gordu said: "We tilted to the side. The front was down while the plane's rear was up. There was panic, people shouting, screaming."Croatia's sea and transport ministry said the UND Adriyatik, a Turkish freight ship caught fire in the Adriatic Sea 13 nautical miles west of the town of Rovinj on the early morning hours of February 6, 2008. An SOS was launched at 4.04 local time. It said that the 193-metre long ship was sailing from Istanbul in Turkey to Trieste in Italy and was carrying 200 trucks and nine tons of dangerous material, in addition to between 100 and 200 tons of ship fuel, causing fears of environmental damage. An official said Croatian fire-fighting planes and ships were trying to extinguish the blaze. As the fire started inside the ship, there was no way of extinguishing it from the outside. The ship's 22 crew members and nine passengers were rescued by the Greek ship Ikarus Palace that was sailing nearby and were on their way to Venice.There were fears of an explosion if the fire was to reach the fuel tanks. Also, the water currents were pushing the ship towards the Croatian coast. However, reports said the fire was diminishing by the end of the day.A midair collision has been narrowly averted between two commercial airliners over Indiana, United States. A Midwest Airlines plane carrying 24 people and a United Express aircraft carrying 31 people came within 600 vertical feet and 1.3 horizontal miles apart.The eastbound Midwest Airlines jet was accidentally directed to descend into the direct path of the westbound United Express flight. The mistake was made after an air traffic controller erroneously removed the latter aircraft's identification aircraft tag in preparation to handing off the aircraft to the air traffic control centre for a neighbouring sector of airspace.The Traffic Collision Avoidance System (TCAS) installed in the cockpits of both aircraft sounded emergency warnings advising the pilots to take evasive action. The Midwest Airlines plane promptly pulled up out of danger. Had TCAS not activated, it is believed the jets would have struck each other. "If they didn't suddenly climb, there would have been a convergence," said Midwest spokeswoman Carol Skornicka.Had the aircraft struck each other, they would have been traveling at a combined speed of about 700 m.p.h. Airspeed would normally be higher, but congestion around O'Hare International Airport had slowed things down. The incident occurred at the end of a rush period, during a change in shift at the control centre.Jeffrey Richards, president of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, told reporters that pilots had mentioned three times in the course of the flight how close aircraft were coming, quoting them as saying to air traffic control on one occasion "Center, you really lined us up on that last clearance."Near air misses are classified on a scale of D to A by the Federal Aviation Authority, A being the most serious. The incident was classed as a B, the third incident of such severity in just six weeks caused by mistakes at Chicago Centre. The minimum permitted distance for aircraft traveling at an altitude of 25,000 feet, as these two were, is five horizontal miles and 1,000 vertical feet.Richards said that on the night of the incident controllers at Chicago Centre had been working close to the two hour working limit between rest breaks. "These controllers are fatigued from working such long stints and very few breaks compared to just three years ago," said Richards, who added that this was particularly true of the 26-year-old veteran who made the mistake. "Each of his sessions were right up to the two-hour limit," Richards said, adding that he was nearing the end of his shift and had returned from a break just minutes before the near-collision.Richards said that at the time the building contained a staff of 11 controllers, five trainees and one supervisor, which is one supervisor and one controller lower than usual. He went on to say that before a retirement wave, 17 controllers monitored the airspace. He says this is a part of a larger issue whereby retirements are exhausting the supply of skilled operators, in what he describes as "a systemic problem,".This latest incident raises important safety issues at Chicago Centre, which is currently undergoing a dispute between the controllers union and management over how many controllers are adequate to run the centre. The site is soon to have to handle large quantities of traffic as an annual holiday season starts. However, the FAA says that it currently has no issues with staffing at the facility, although Richards contends that low levels of staff and increasing workloads have long been a worrying factor at the facility.Skornicka said of the incident that it was "part of a bigger debate taking place," and that she felt "this is just one situation that highlights the need for modernization and overhaul of the air traffic control system."Two 16-year-old British girls were arrested in Accra, Ghana earlier this month for apparently attempting to smuggle £300,000 worth of cocaine in laptop bags.Yasemin Vatansever, of Cypriot descent and Yatunde Diya of Nigerian descent were arrested as they attempted to board a British Airways flight from the Kotoka International Airport on July 2, 2007.  The arrest was by the Ghanaian Narcotic Control Board. They were alleged to be carrying 6.5 kg of drugs. They are currently in Ghana police custody and have been visited by British High Commission staff.The girls who are both students from Islington, north London, had left home after informing their families they were making a school trip to France. They are expected to be charged with "possessing narcotic drugs and attempting to export drugs", for which they could be jailed for up to ten years if found guilty.The arrest is part of the Operation Westbridge project set up in November 2006 as a collaboration between the Ghanaian Narcotic Control Board and HM Revenue and Customs of the UK. It is to curb the influx of drugs into Europe and the UK through West Africa which is now being used as a transit point from South America. The project involves the provision of technical and operational expertise to the Ghanaian teams and training in the use of specialist scanning equipment. Ghana is the first country in Africa to introduce such equipment.On Saturday, local authorities said a child died and three were being treated after a leisure boat capsized at Bailong Lake in Guangyuan, Sichuan province, China at 14:50 local time (0650 UTC). At about noon on Monday a search and rescue team found the body of a middle-aged male passenger; thirteen other people were still missing.According to officials, strong winds caused the accident. The boat had been running a three-hour tour and the accident happened several minutes before its finish.  Officials on Saturday said the child was taken to hospital and pronounced dead there.On Sunday, a Blue Sky rescue team spokesman said underwater video cameras located the boat at around 65 meters (around 215 feet) depth, with no signs of survivors. The search for the remaining then-fourteen people was ongoing.Five families had been on board, and the boat operator, his wife, and his son.The vessel was prepared for up to forty passengers.Divers have recovered two bodies after a passenger ship accidentally rammed a cargo vessel two miles from the port of Haifa, Israel.The Israeli cargo ship Shelly sank after being struck by Cypriot passenger vessel Salamis Glory where she was anchored two miles from the coast. None of the nearly 700 people on the Salamis Glory were harmed, but two of the Shelly 's thirteen-man crew were unable to escape the sinking vessel. Their bodies were recovered twelve hours after the accident by Israeli divers.Some of the survivors climbed on board a rescue launch lowered by the Salamis Glory, and were subsequently rescued by the navy, whilst the others were picked up by a rescue helicopter. The crew members on the Shelly were all foreign, with one of the deceased being an Ukrainian and the other being an Indonesian. They were the vessel's first mate and the ship's engineer. The survivors refused to be transported to hospital for treatment.The bodies were retrieved after a massive search in the hope that the men had survived, with six naval vessels, several aircraft and countless divers participating. The disaster triggered an oil spill that spread down the Israeli coast, prompting officials to issue a warning against bathing at the nearby Zvulun beach.The Salamis Glory returned to port in Haifa, exhibiting minor damage by to her hull. Her crew will be interviewed by police in order to determine the cause of the accident. Cyprus will also participate in the investigation and is sending a go team to the scene. Cypriot shipping official Sergios Sergiou named one line of inquiry as a possible fault with the vessel's navigation system.An accident involving two school buses, a tractor trailer and an sport utility vehicle has left at least two people dead and fifty more injured about 40 miles outside of St. Louis, Missouri according to reports.The incident occurred Thursday morning on I-44 in Gray Summit between 10:15 AM (15:15 UTC) to 10:30 AM local time (15:30 UTC) according to Jorma Duran, a spokesman for the Missouri Department of Transportation.The school buses were carrying students from St. James High School and were en route to the Six Flags St. Louis amusement park, approximately 10 miles (16.1 kilometres) from the scene of the accident.It wasn't immediately clear how exactly the collision happened.A man and a woman have been killed in a road traffic accident near Connel in the west of Scotland. Seven people, including three children, were also injured in the head-on collision on the A85 road in Argyll at approximately 1830 BST (1730 UTC) yesterday.A 74-year-old female passenger of a blue Honda CRV and a 32-year-old male passenger of a blue Vauxhall Vectra died at the scene of the crash. The Vauxhall driver, a 32-year-old woman, was transported by helicopter to Glasgow's Southern General Hospital, where she is reportedly in a critical albeit stable condition.Three child passengers in the Vauxhall, aged fourteen, five and two, were taken to Oban Hospital and given treatment for minor injuries, as were the Honda's 51-year-old female driver and two female passengers aged 49 and 46.A Scottish Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson said hydraulic cutting equipment was used during rescue efforts. "Ambulance personnel and police officers worked closely with our team throughout the incident but sadly one passenger from each car lost their life", the spokesperson continued. "The thoughts of all emergency responders who were at the scene will be with the casualties and their loved ones as they attempt to come to terms with what has happened."Police have appealed for potential witnesses to contact them.Two people are believed to have been killed when two light aircraft collided in mid-air, near East Midlands Airport in Leicestershire, United Kingdom.  One of the aircraft crashed while making an emergency landing at the airport after suffering damage to its landing gear.  The second has crashed near Blithfield Reservoir in Staffordshire, approximately 25 miles west of the airport.An eyewitness at the airport saw a plane crash and roll onto its side while making an emergency landing with two or three wheels missing, but all aboard that plane are believed to have survived without serious injury.  The pilot of the plane later reported that he hit something, but didn't know what, and that he saw burning debris below him.Leicestershire police say that they believe that there are fatalities at the second site.  Emergency services say there were two people on board, and that they fear that they will not have survived the accident.  Farmer Michael Sargeant, who owns the farm where the second plane crashed said that he saw that the plane was already "almost burned out" when he arrived at the scene.The airport was closed, with all flights to the airport being diverted to Birmingham, and Manchester.  The airport has subsequently re-opened.The airport have asked passengers with enquiries to contact the airport on 0871 919 9000 (from within the UK) or their tour operator.Two Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) Green Line trains have collided in Newton. Both trains consisted of two cars, one of which rear-ended the other causing major damage on both trains, multiple injuries and trapped the female operator of one of the two trains, 24 year-old Terrese Edmonds, who subsequently died. An investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board is underway.The crash happened yesterday around 6 p.m. EDT between the Waban and Woodland Green Line stations on the Green Line's D Branch. One train was stopped at a red signal waiting to enter to Woodland when it was struck from behind by the second train. According to MBTA spokesman Joe Pesaturo, "The first one was stopped at a red signal and was ready to proceed to the station when it was struck."The Green Line, which is the most heavily used light rail line in the United States, is made up of four branches. The D Branch runs along a dedicated right of way and the stations are more spaced out as opposed to the other branches which run on the street. This is one of several accidents the MBTA has experienced recently. Exactly two weeks ago, a trolley on the B Branch derailed and caught fire, and Tuesday, a fire broke out between Park Street and Downtown Crossing on the MBTA's Red Line. The MBTA's Commuter Rail division has also experienced accidents including the death of a 5-year old in Revere who was stuck by a commuter train in the middle of a grade crossing this Tuesday and a MBTA commuter train that was rear-ended by a runaway boxcar belonging to CSX back in late March. Quick thinking on behalf of the engineer on that train is believed to have averted a larger accident.Two men have been fined for their failure to prevent the 2006 Lathen maglev train accident in Germany, which caused 23 deaths and 11 injuries on September 22, 2006. The maglev train involved slammed into a maintenance vehicle at high speed on a test track after what was described as a "chain of human error" Maglevs float above the rails, kept up and propelled by magnetism. This particular Transrapid sat 1 cm above the rails and featured a rail-hugging design that reduced the risk of derailments.The state court in Osnabrück fined then track manager Guenter Steinmetz 24,000 euro and his successor Joerg Metzner 20,000 euro. Both men were convicted of 23 counts of manslaughter and 11 counts of causing negligent injury. Prosecutors had sought jail sentences but the men were spared this as the court ruled they had not acted with criminal intent. The men intend to appeal.The men had failed to install automatic brakes that would have stopped the train while there was a maintenance vehicle on the tracks and of not adhering to the "two-people-on-duty" guideline.The third defendant, traffic superintendent Guenther Mueller, was unable to face trial due to suicide fears. His prosecution will occur at a later date. He is said to be the most important person facing charges, as he cleared the train to proceed when, in fact, the line was blocked.The Nuclear ballistic missile submarines Triomphant, from France, and HMS Vanguard, of the British Royal Navy, collided deep under the middle of the Atlantic Ocean in the middle of the night between February 3 and 4, despite both vessels being equipped with sonar. The collision caused damage to both vessels but it did not release any radioactive material, a Ministry of Defence (MOD) official confirmed Monday.A Ministry of Defence spokesman said nuclear security had not been breached. "It is MOD policy not to comment on submarine operational matters, but we can confirm that the U.K.’s deterrent capability was unaffected at all times and there has been no compromise to nuclear safety. Triomphant had struck 'a submerged object (probably a container)' during a return from a patrol, damaging the sonar dome on the front of the submarine," he said.A French navy spokesman said that "the collision did not result in injuries among the crew and did not jeopardise nuclear security at any moment." Lack of communication between France and other members of NATO over the location of their SLBM deterrents is believed to be another reason for the crash. According to Daily Mail, the vessels collided 1,000ft underwater in the Bay of Biscay (Golfe de Gascogne; Golfo de Vizcaya  and Mar Cantábrico), a gulf of the North Atlantic Ocean. It lies along the western coast of France from Brest south to the Spanish border, and the northern coast of Spain west to Punta de Estaca de Bares, and is named for the Spanish province of Biscay, with average depth of 5,723 feet (1,744 m) and maximum depth is 9,151 feet (2,789 m).Each submarine is laden with missiles powerful enough for 1,248 Hiroshima bombings, The Independent said.It is unlikely either vessel was operating its active sonar at the time of the collision, because the submarines are designed to "hide" while on patrol and the use of active sonar would immediately reveal the boat's location. Both submarines' hulls are covered with anechoic tile to reduce detection by sonar, so the boats' navigational passive sonar would not have detected the presence of the other.Lee Willett of London's Royal United Services Institute said "the NATO allies would be very reluctant to share information on nuclear submarines. These are the strategic crown jewels of the nation. The whole purpose of a sea-based nuclear deterrent is to hide somewhere far out of sight. They are the ultimate tools of national survival in the event of war. Therefore, it's the very last thing you would share with anybody."First Sea Lord Admiral Sir Jonathon Band GCB, ADC of the United Kingdom, the most senior serving officer in the Royal Navy, said that "...the submarines came into contact at very low speed. Both submarines remained safe. No injuries occurred. We can confirm the capability remains unaffected and there was no compromise to nuclear safety.""Both navies want quiet areas, deep areas, roughly the same distance from their home ports. So you find these station grounds have got quite a few submarines, not only French and Royal Navy but also from Russia and the United States. Navies often used the same nesting grounds," said John H. Large, an independent nuclear engineer and analyst primarily known for his work in assessing and reporting upon nuclear safety and nuclear related accidents and incidents.President of the Royal Naval Association John McAnally said that the incident was a "one in a million chance". "It would be very unusual on deterrent patrol to use active sonar because that would expose the submarine to detection. They are, of course, designed to be very difficult to detect and one of the priorities for both the captain and the deterrent patrol is to avoid detection by anything," he said.The development of stealth technology, making the submarines less visible to other vessels has properly explained that a submarine does not seem to have been able to pick out another submarine nearly the length of two football pitches and the height of a three-story building. "The modus operandi of most submarines, particularly ballistic-missile submarines, is to operate stealthily and to proceed undetected. This means operating passively, by not transmitting on sonar, and making as little noise as possible. A great deal of technical effort has gone into making submarines quiet by reduction of machinery noise. And much effort has gone into improving the capability of sonars to detect other submarines; detection was clearly made too late or not at all in this case," explained Stephen Saunders, the editor of Jane's Fighting Ships, an annual reference book  (also published online, on CD and microfiche) of information on all the world's warships arranged by nation, including information on ship's names, dimensions, armaments, silhouettes and photographs, etc.According to Bob Ayres, a former CIA and US army officer, and former associate fellow at Chatham House, the Royal Institute of International Affairs, however, the submarines were not undetectable, despite their "stealth" technology. "When such submarines came across similar vessels from other navies, they sought to get as close as possible without being detected, as part of routine training. They were playing games with each other – stalking each other under the sea. They were practising being able to kill the other guy's submarine before he could launch a missile.Because of the sound of their nuclear reactors' water pumps, they were still noisier than old diesel-electric craft, which ran on batteries while submerged. The greatest danger in a collision was the hull being punctured and the vessel sinking, rather than a nuclear explosion," Ayres explained.Submarine collisions are uncommon, but not unheard of: in 1992, the USS Baton Rouge, a submarine belonging to the United States, under command of Gordon Kremer, collided with the Russian Sierra-class attack submarine K-276 that was surfacing in the Barents Sea.In 2001, the US submarine USS Greeneville surfaced and collided with Japanese fishing training ship Ehime Maru (えひめ丸), off the coast of Hawaii. The Navy determined the commanding officer of Greeneville to be in "dereliction of duty."The tenth HMS Vanguard (S28) of the British Royal Navy is the lead boat of her class of Trident ballistic missile-capable submarines and is based at HMNB Clyde, Faslane. The 150m long, V-class submarine under the Trident programme, has a crew of 135, weighs nearly 16,000 tonnes and is armed with 16 Trident 2 D5 ballistic missiles carrying three warheads each.It is now believed to have been towed Monday to its naval base Faslane in the Firth of Clyde, with dents and scrapes to its hull. Faslane lies on the eastern shore of Gare Loch in Argyll and Bute, Scotland, to the north of the Firth of Clyde and 25 miles west of the city of Glasgow. Vanguard is one of the deadliest vessels on the planet. It was built at Barrow-in-Furness by Vickers Shipbuilding and Engineering Ltd (now BAE Systems Submarine Solutions), was launched on 4 March, 1992, and commissioned on 14 August, 1993. The submarine's first captain was Captain David Russell. In February 2002, Vanguard began a two-year refit at HMNB Devonport. The refit was completed in June 2004 and in October 2005 Vanguard completed her return to service trials (Demonstration and Shakedown Operations) with the firing of an unarmed Trident missile."The Vanguard has two periscopes, a CK51 search model and a CH91 attack model, both of which have a TV camera and thermal imager as well as conventional optics," said John E. Pike, director and a national security analyst for http://www.globalsecurity.org/, an easily accessible pundit, and active in opposing the SDI, and ITAR, and consulting on  NEO's.File:Triomphant img 0394.jpg"But the periscopes are useless at that depth. It's pitch black after a couple of hundred feet. In the movies like 'Hunt for Red October,' you can see the subs in the water, but in reality it's blindman's bluff down there. The crash could have been a coincidence — some people win the lottery — but it's much more possible that one vessel was chasing the other, trying to figure out what it was," Pike explained.Captain of HMS Vanguard, Commander Richard Lindsey said his men would not be there if they couldn't go through with it. “I'm sure that if somebody was on board who did not want to be here, they would have followed a process of leaving the submarine service or finding something else to do in the Navy,” he noted. The Triomphant is a strategic nuclear submarine, lead ship of her class (SNLE-NG). It was laid down on June 9, 1989, launched on March 26, 1994 and commissioned on March 21, 1997 with homeport at Île Longue. Equipped with 16 M45 ballistic missiles with six warheads each, it has 130 crew on board. It was completing a 70-day tour of duty at the time of the underwater crash. Its fibreglass sonar dome was damaged requiring three or four months in Drydock repair. "It has returned to its base on L'Ile Longue in Brittany on Saturday under its own power, escorted as usual by a frigate," the ministry said.A Ballistic missile submarine is a submarine equipped to launch ballistic missiles (SLBMs). Ballistic missile submarines are larger than any other type of submarine, in order to accommodate SLBMs such as the Russian R-29 or the American Trident.The Triomphant class of strategic missile submarines of the French Navy are currently being introduced into service to provide the sea based component (the Force Océanique Stratégique) of the French nuclear deterrent or Force de frappe, with the M45 SLBM. They are replacing the Redoutable-class boats. In French, they are called Sous-Marin Nucléaire Lanceur d'Engins de Nouvelle Génération ("SNLE-NG, literally "Device-launching nuclear submarine of the new generation"). They are roughly one thousand times quieter than the Redoutable-class vessels, and ten times more sensitive in detecting other submarines [1]. They are designed to carry the M51 nuclear missile, which should enter active service around 2010.Repairs for both heavily scraped and dented, missile-laden vessels were "conservatively" estimated to cost as much as €55m, with intricate missile guidance systems and navigation controls having to be replaced, and would be met by the French and British taxpayer, the Irish Independent reported.Many observers are shocked by the deep sea disaster, as well as the amount of time it took for the news to reach the public. ”Two US and five Soviet submarine accidents in the past prove that the reactor protection system makes an explosion avoidable. But if the collision had been more powerful the submarines could have sunk very quickly and the fate of the 250 crew members would have been very serious indeed,” said Andrey Frolov, from Moscow's Centre for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies.“I think this accident will force countries that possess nuclear submarines to sit down at the negotiating table and devise safety precautions that might avert such accidents in the future… But because submarines must be concealed and invisible, safety and navigation laws are hard to define,” Frolov said, noting further that there are no safety standards for submarines.The unthinkable disaster – in the Atlantic's 41 million square miles – has raised concern among nuclear activists. "This is a nuclear nightmare of the highest order. The collision of two submarines, both with nuclear reactors and nuclear weapons onboard, could have released vast amounts of radiation and scattered scores of nuclear warheads across the seabed," said Kate Hudson, chair of Britain's Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament. "This is the most severe incident involving a nuclear submarine since the Russian submarine RFS Kursk K-141 explosion and sinking in 2000 and the first time since the Cold War that two nuclear-armed subs are known to have collided. Gordon Brown should seize this opportunity to end continuous patrols," Hudson added. Despite a rescue attempt by British and Norwegian teams, all 118 sailors and officers aboard Kursk died."This reminds us that we could have a new catastrophe with a nuclear submarine at any moment. It is a risk that exists during missions but also in port. These are mobile nuclear reactors," said Stephane Lhomme, a spokesman for the French anti-nuclear group Sortir du Nucleaire.Nicholas Barton "Nick" Harvey, British Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for North Devon has called for an immediate internal probe. "While the British nuclear fleet has a good safety record, if there were ever to be a bang it would be a mighty big one. Now that this incident is public knowledge, the people of Britain, France and the rest of the world need to be reassured this can never happen again and that lessons are being learned," he said.SNP Westminster leader Angus Robertson MP for Moray has demanded for a government statement. "The Ministry of Defence needs to explain how it is possible for a submarine carrying weapons of mass destruction to collide with another submarine carrying weapons of mass destruction in the middle of the world's second-largest ocean," he said.Michael Thomas Hancock, CBE, a Liberal Democrat Member of Parliament for Portsmouth South and a City councillor for Fratton ward, and who sits on the Commons defence committee, has called on the Ministry of Defence Secretary of State John Hutton to make a statement when parliament sits next week."While I appreciate there are sensitive issues involved here, it is important that this is subject to parliamentary scrutiny. It's fairly unbelievable that this has happened in the first place but we now need to know that lessons have been learnt. We need to know for everyone's sakes that everything possible is now done to ensure that there is not a repeat of the incident. There are serious issues as to how some of the most sophisticated naval vessels in the seas today can collide in this way," Mr. Hancock said.Tory defence spokesman Liam Fox, a British Conservative politician, currently Shadow Defence Secretary and Member of Parliament for Woodspring, said: “For two submarines to collide while apparently unaware of each other’s presence is extremely worrying.”Meanwhile, Hervé Morin, the French Minister of Defence, has denied allegations the nuclear submarines, which are hard to detect, had been shadowing each other deliberately when they collided, saying their mission was to sit at the bottom of the sea and act as a nuclear deterrent."There's no story to this -- the British aren't hunting French submarines, and the French submarines don't hunt British submarines. We face an extremely simple technological problem, which is that these submarines are not detectable. They make less noise than a shrimp. Between France and Britain, there are things we can do together....one of the solutions would be to think about the patrol zones," Morin noted, and further denying any attempt at a cover-up.France's Atlantic coast is known as a submarine graveyard because of the number of German U-boats and underwater craft sunk there during the Second World War.In the Outer Hebrides of Scotland, two councillors from the Scottish National Party (SNP) began a petition Friday, the day after Comhairle nan Eilean Siar — the local government council for the Western Isles — said it would discontinue flight services between the islands of Benbecula and Barra as part of its 2013 / 2014 budget. The petition — entitled "To petition the Scottish Parliament that Comhairle nan Eilean Siar maintains its support for the lifeline air services between Stornoway, Benbecula and Barra" — has also been launched in response to another council decision to restrict flight services between the islands of Benbecula and Lewis to three days a week, although the move has been temporarily suspended for two weeks to allow for NHS Western Isles to provide funding for said services. Otherwise, the changes come into effect late next month. Gordon Murray and Rae MacKenzie, the two councillors who launched the petition, are both from the town of Stornoway in the isle of Lewis. At the council's meeting, Councillor MacKenzie suggested an alternative budget retaining flight service financing. The petition says the council's decisions "risk the future of all internal flights within the Outer Hebrides and would severely undermine the transport connections which have been built up between the islands over the last forty years, with serious implications for the local economy and community."The council's decision to remove the £148,000 (about US$230,000 or €172,000) subsidy means Benbecula – Barra flights are to cease operation within the next few weeks. When the decision comes into effect, travelling between the islands will only be available through the use of ferry services. The council, which was trying to achieve about £5 million (US$7.75 million or €5.8 million) in spending reductions, said some 75% of seats on these flights were vacant.Angus MacNeil, MP for Na h-Eileanan an Iar in the British Government, and Alasdair Allan, MSP for the same constituency in the Scottish Government, both of whom are SNP members, have criticised the council's decision. MacNeil said he was "disappointed" about the move and claimed Comhairle nan Eilean Siar was "axing these services while pocketing the cash" provided to them by the Scottish Government. Meanwhile, Allan said the council's action was "a significant blow to the community". He said, from Benbecula: "As someone who used the Barra to Benbecula flight today, it is clear to me what importance this service has in keeping the Western Isles connected."Council leader Angus Campbell subsequently criticised MacNeil for his remarks, saying he was "extremely disappointed" by them. "The use of the term 'pocketing the money' shows a disrespect for the democratic process of local Government", he said. He also requested that MacNeil and Allan "stand shoulder to shoulder with the Comhairle to campaign for increased funding for the Western Isles to help deal with these issues rather than turning on their democratically elected local council over individual issues they don’t particularly like."Campbell described the council's 2013 / 2014 budget as "the most difficult we have faced during my time as a councillor."A British couple have died after their car collided with a bus carrying a group of children. The crash took part on the A64 at Staxton near Scarborough, North Yorkshire on Sunday morning. The bus continued on through a hedge line and hit an unoccupied camper van. Six passengers on the bus were treated for minor injuries.Detective Inspector Geoff Carey of the North Yorkshire Police said that "The coach was carrying a group of young people as well as adults and they are very shocked. They have slight injuries but a great deal of shock." He also commented on the after crash saying that "Had the Winnebago not been there the bus could have gone into the house."The bus was traveling from Pelsall to Primrose Valley holiday park in North Yorkshire to attend marching band competition when the accident happened.The North Yorkshire police were unable to give any more details. The A64 was closed in both directions at Staxton at the junction with the B1249. Motorists were advised to avoid the area, which has become congested, according to police.Two planes were involved in a collision Monday night at London's Heathrow airport. Fire and rescue officials reported no injuries. The two planes, a British Airways Boeing 747, and a Sri Lankan Airlines Airbus A340 were reported to have clipped each other's wingtips while taxiing on an airport runway. The passengers on both jets are currently being taken back to the terminal while engineers inspect both aircraft.Two trains collided in Shandong, China 4:41am local time on Monday killing at least 71 people and injuring over 400, including four French citizens. It is still not known exactly how many people were on either of the trains.The collision occurred in Zibo when one of the trains traveling from Beijing to Qingdao jumped tracks and collided head on with a train traveling in the opposite direction from Yantai to Xuzhou. Both of the trains are reported to have been traveling at their maximum speeds when they collided."It toppled 90 degrees to one side and then all the way to the other side. When it finally went off the tracks, many people fell on me and hot water poured out of their thermos flasks," said Zhang, a passenger, to Xinhua.The cause of the accident is still under investigation, but reports say that the tracks were broken under the train traveling from Beijing. The tracks are said to have been built in 1897.Jinan Railway Bureau officials Chen Gong and  Chai Tiemin  have been fired after the accident.  The two top officials who were the former director and former Communist Party chief, respectively, will face an investigation by the Ministry of Railways. Four Frenchmen were hospitalized with non-life-threatening injuries. Authorities named them as Pascal Boisson, 54, his son Pierre Emmanuel Boisson, 14, his daughter Joanne Boisson, 22, and his girlfriend Robin Naurence, 42. No foreigners were killed in the accident, officials said.A train, traveling at a high rate of speed, was carrying over 850 passengers when it rammed into an empty train near Rio de Janeiro. The empty train was in the process of being moved between sets of tracks.Officials are currently putting the death toll at eight, and at least 70 others are seriously hurt. There are no more survivors trapped within the wreckage. "We have to use blowtorches to open the sides of the train cars to reach the people," said Pedro Machado, commander general of the Rio de Janeiro Fire Department. "Our priority is to give support to the survivors, the passengers trapped in the wreckage, and reduce the number of fatal victims," said Col. Souza Filho, the head of Rio de Janeiro's Civil Defense Department in an interview with the Globo TV network. "They had fractures in their arms, their faces, everywhere," said Marcos de Souza, director of the Posse Hospital in a televised interview. He said the hospital does have a large emergency ward but they are bringing in extra personnel to treat collision victims.Two trains have collided at Roccasecca, 120km south of Rome in the Frosinone province of Italy.Initial reports claimed 30 injured, with people trapped in the wreckage.  A BBC report however suggested there could be at least 40 injured.  Two people have been reported missing since the collision occurred, possibly being the two drivers of the trains.  One person was reported killed.The incident is already under investigation by the Italian authorities and the Italian state Railway Operator, Trenitalia. As yet the reasons for the collison are unclear.Relief efforts are being made difficult by the dark and cold weather.The two trains were travelling on the same line, in the same direction, with different destinations. The first one (regional train number 3361) departed from the Roma Termini station, in Rome at 13:47 and was a local service to Cassino, stopping at the major stations along the route.  The scheduled time of arrival was 15:38. The second train (inter-regional 2361) also left from the Rome terminus, at 14:15, and was heading in the same direction, with a final destination of Campobasso.  The scheduled time of arrival was 17:27, and the first stop first stop was at Cassino, scheduled at 15:42.Around 15:00 the first train had stopped at the station of Roccasecca, and was just to restart its journey, when the second train came at high speed on the same rail, slamming into the back of it. The locomotive of the second train was pushed over the first train and landed on the last carriage of that train.  The injured were taken to local hospitals for treatment.A similar incident recently happened in Southern Poland.The train service has been suspended over the line. Long distance trains are reroutered on an alternative line (the one which pass through  Formia, Villa Literna e CasertaIt has been alleged that the second train passed a red signal. However no evidence about that has been collected to support this at present. An operator of the railway stated that the signal should have been red, but what he has said came from what he saw on the control panel inside the station, he did not see the colour of the signals. The two train drivers of the second train said that they did not see red signals, but only green signals. It was alleged that the train has been misrouted. Actually if the second train had to pass the station without stopping and overtaking the first train it seems resonable that it would pass on a different track. Hovewer the railway authority has confirmed that there has been no error in this sense, because both trains were scheduled on the platform 2.Several union representatives of the railways employed claim the security system on most of the Italian railways is not updated.The line was not serviced by an advanced security system to automatically help the driver. Works to implement a more modern security system were just made on the line and the new system would be ready in just some days. Nevertheless even if the line were equipped by a modern security system, it would be of no help in this case. The locomotive of the second train was a very old locomotive, a diesel locomotive of type 668, with no equipment to dialog with modern security system.The inauguration of the new "high speed" line between Rome and Naples was in program just for the day after the crash. The inauguration have been delayed.According to the United States Navy Fifth Fleet, two vessels registered to the US Navy collided on Friday in the Strait of Hormuz, located near Iran. Fifteen sailors were reported to have been slightly injured.The two craft involved in the incident were the USS New Orleans, a transporter and the USS Hartford, a nuclear-powered submarine. The New Orleans' fuel tank ruptured upon impact, leaking 90 to 95 thousand litres of diesel fuel."New Orleans suffered a ruptured fuel tank, which resulted in an oil spill of approximately 25,000 gallons of diesel fuel marine," the navy said in a statement. "Both the submarine and the ship are currently on regularly scheduled deployments to the U.S. Navy Central Command area of responsibility conducting Maritime Security Operations."A spokesman for the Fifth Fleet, Lieutenant Nathan Christensen, said that "there is no disruption to shipping traffic in the strait," and "both ships are operating under their own power and have passed through the strait.""It was a night-time event and the submarine was submerged at the time," Christensen replied when asked about how the accident happened.The Strait of Hormuz separates Oman from Iran, and is the entrance into the Gulf. An estimate by the International Energy Agency said that over 15 million barrels of crude oil passed through the strait every day in tankers. It is less than a hundred kilometres broad at its widest point.Four people were killed on Saturday when two small planes collided in midair over the Florida Everglades.Broward County Sheriff's Office is reporting that the dead include Bryan Sax, 37, of Aspen, Colorado, Andrew Marc Rossignol, 21, of Stuart, Florida, Stuart Brown, 25, of Pembroke Pines, Florida, and Edson Jefferson, 30, of Miramar, Florida.The accident happened Saturday afternoon 2.7 miles southwest of Everglades Holiday Park, according to Broward Sheriff's Office spokeswoman Veda Coleman-Wright. Both planes took off from their respective airports at 3:30 PM Eastern Time (20:30 UTC).  Rossignol and Sax were flying in a 1979 twin-engine Piper PA-44 Seminole, from Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, which was headed to a practice area near Opa-locka Airport, when they collided with Brown and Jefferson, who were flying a 1997 single-engine Cessna 172R that had departed from North Perry Airport.Kathleen Bergen, a spokeswoman for the Federal Aviation Administration, has stated that neither pilot filed a flight plan, which was not required, because the planes were flying under visual flight rules, meaning that pilots were responsible to watch for other planes.The owners of the two planes reported them missing early Sunday after they failed to return.  Florida state officials were made aware of the accident, and the search began. A Coast Guard Dolphin search-and-rescue helicopter discovered three separate debris fields at 8:00 AM, according to Coleman-Wright. Following this discovery, the Sheriff's Office deployed air boats into the area due to accessibility issues.The bodies were recovered and identified by Monday morning, much to the relief of some relatives. Rohan Brown, cousin of Stuart Brown commented that "the whole family is thankful for that."Both Brown and Jefferson were originally from Jamaica, and Brown aspired to fly for his country's airline.Sax, taking advanced flight training, was the passenger in the Piper.Piloting the Piper was Rossignol, who grew up in Biddeford, Maine, and was following in the family profession as his father, Richard Rossignol, is a commercial airline pilot for Continental Airlines.His brother Matt Rossignol said that "he loved flying because my father's a pilot. He wanted to become a commercial airline pilot and sit next to my dad, as co-pilot."In an unexpected move, US Airways has placed a $8 billion bid for Delta in the morning of November 15, 2006, rallying the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which closed at 12,251.71, a record high. The offer to buy Delta once the Atlanta-based airline emerges from bankruptcy protection by the middle of 2007 would give Delta's unsecured creditors $4 billion in cash and 78.5 million shares of US Airways stock. Delta has yet to file its own plan of reorganization. If completed, the deal would combine two of the oldest and most storied airlines in the United States. Delta started as a crop duster in the 1920s and grew to make its base at Atlanta-Hartsfield the nation's largest airport. US Air started as a mail carrier in the 1930s and has gone through several mergers and two bankruptcies."Consumers will have more choice and more reach, and a carrier that has a cost structure of a low-fare carrier," US Air CEO Doug Parker said in a phone interview. The last airline deal of this magnitude, United Airline's proposed purchase of US Airways, was blocked by the Justice Department on antitrust grounds in 2001, just before the Sept. 11 terrorist attack.Management of Delta have not endorsed the deal, stating they wish to prevail as independent. On Wall Street, however, US Air (up $6.64 to $57.57) investors welcomed the proposal, sending the carrier's stock soaring more than 12 percent in midday New York Stock Exchange trading. Investors also were pleased with Delta, with shares soaring 19 percent but then going back to modest gains. If the deal is completed the airline would operate under the name of Delta but nothing is set in stone.On Tuesday the U.S. Army released its revised solicitation for the Ground Combat Vehicle infantry fighting vehicle three months after scrapping its previous plans.The United States Army retracted its first solicitation for the Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV) on 25 August. It was decided by the army to begin anew after a "red team" recommended that the army either upgrade the existing ground vehicle fleet or rewrite the requirements. Program officials choose to end evaluations of vehicle submissions and to begin again in two months with new requirements.The previous design requirements emphasized modularity, affordability, rapid design and low risk technology. The infantry fighting vehicle variant would have carried a crew of three and nine infantry dismounts. It was initially to be compatible with the current Battle Command Control and Communications Suite but would gradually use a more revolutionary network. The system would support networking between external systems, vehicles and soldiers. It was to be transportable by C-17 cargo aircraft, rail, and ship and be as logistically deployable as the Stryker. The army officials were open to tracked or wheeled submissions but suggested that it be tracked due to the weight stemming from the requirements. The vehicle had an off-road speed requirement of 30 mph (50 km/h) and was required to deliver improved maintainability and consume less fuel than the Bradley Fighting Vehicle. The army wanted the vehicle to leverage an autocannon, a anti-tank guided missile system and non-lethal weapons. The army wanted the vehicle to have the blast protection level equal to the MRAP and supplement armor with active protection systems.The army wanted the first vehicle variant to be a troop carrier that would displace the aging M113 APCs and M2 Bradleys. Later, other variants of the GCV would appear.There were four known competing contractors for the Ground Combat Vehicle contract. BAE Systems led a team consisting of Northrop Grumman, QinetiQ, and Saft Group. BAE offered a tracked vehicle with a hybrid-electric engine, a baseline weight of 53 tons and a maximum weight tolerance of 75 tons for modular armor and various countermeasures including a V-hull and active protection systems. General Dynamics led a team consisting of Lockheed Martin, Detroit Diesel, and Raytheon. General Dynamics offered a vehicle using diesel and leveraging an active protection system. SAIC led a consortium called Team Full Spectrum which included Boeing, Krauss-Maffei, and Rheinmetall. SAIC offered a vehicle based on the Puma. Advanced Defense Vehicle Systems (ADVS) submitted its proposal for a wheeled vehicle but was rejected for being non-compliant.The predecessor to the GCV, the Manned Ground Vehicle family, was canceled in April 2009. Similar programs like the M8 light tank and XM2001 Crusader have also been scrapped in the past. The Expeditionary Fighting Vehicle, Joint Light Tactical Vehicle, and Ground Combat Vehicle programs have been targeted for cancellation by the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform.American automobile manufacturer Chrysler LLC has said that it wants to eliminate 789, or about a quarter, of its 3,200 dealers by early June. In a bankruptcy court filing on Thursday, the firm stated its network has too many dealers competing between each other and is antiquated.A June 3 hearing has been scheduled in the US Bankruptcy Court to determine whether the move should be approved."This is a difficult day for us and not a day anybody can be prepared for," said Jim Press, the Vice Chairman of Chrysler.Company executives said the firm is trying to eliminate dealers with poor performances, and retain those who make the strongest sales. Over 50% of the dealerships that are to be eliminated sell less than a hundred automobiles per year."We recognize in the short term we will see some loss of sales. But based on the long term ... the dealer [network] is key and it's going to be very strong, powerful, with a much better financial viability," said Press.American automobile manufacturer General Motors (GM) announced plans Friday to shut down about 1,100 of its dealerships, in an effort to evade bankruptcy and lower its expenditures.GM's move comes a day after Chrysler, another U.S. car maker, released a list of 789 dealerships that it was closing. Unlike Chrylser, GM will not publicly announce the dealerships that it intends to shut down. Instead, dealerships whose franchises won't be renewed after October of next year will receive a private letter telling them of the decision.At the moment, GM has 6,246 dealers in the U.S. It intends to reduce that number to 3,605 by the end of 2010. GM said the dealerships that were to be closed are "underperforming and very small sales volume U.S. dealers."“They’re dealerships that are in most cases hurting, losing money, and in danger of going out of business anyway,” said GM's sales, service, and marketing vice president in a telephone conference. “It’s a move that people could argue should have been taken years ago but this leadership team had no choice but to do it today.”The dealers that are to be closed represent 18% of the firm's dealership network, but only 7% of GM's 2008 revenue.Investigators with the United States National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) are examining a damaged section removed from a Southwest Airlines Boeing 737-300 that blew out in-flight on Monday, July 13.The passenger jet was flying between Nashville, Tennessee and Baltimore, Maryland when the hole, which measured seventeen inches by eight, opened up in the jet's roof. A safe emergency landing was performed and the 126 passengers were evacuated from the aircraft without injury.The damaged section arrived in Washington, D.C. yesterday for examination by the NTSB. They have reported that there is no corrosion or obvious pre-existing mechanical damage to the segment.As a result of the incident Southwest have inspected all 180 of their Boeing 737-300s, without result, within 24 hours of the incident. Continental Airlines have done likewise to their own examples of the type.In 2008, Southwest was fined after it was found to have operated 47 jets that were overdue for inspections. In the light of Monday's incident, former NTSB member and maintenance specialist John Goglia criticized the airline's maintenance practices and governmental oversight. "Where's the maintenance programs with this airline? Where's the FAA (Federal Aviation Administration)? Where's the oversight? I mean, the list goes on and on. These people on this airplane really don't know how lucky they were."Southwest released a statement the day after the mishap in defense of their maintenance. "Southwest Airlines has an exemplary safety record that always is our focus. We are actively engaged with the NTSB in finding the cause of this incident and assuring that it does not happen again. We applaud our pilots and flight attendants for their expert handling of this situation and our customers for their cooperation."The inspections Southwest failed to perform in 2008 concerned examining the top of their aircraft for structural damage after a weight reducing modification was discovered which could reduce the strength of the design. NTSB spokesman Peter Knudson said that "It looks like that (Airworthiness Directive (AD))  would apply [to Monday's incident]. We are going to look at the maintenance records and the maintenance practices, and we are going to want to know if all of these (ADs) were followed."However, the FAA said that the inspections did not apply to the section that failed and, in any event, Boeing and Southwest ultimately came up with an improved design that was up to standard.A U.S. nuclear-powered submarine collided with a Japanese oil-tanker in the Strait of Hormuz late last night. Only minor damage to the tanker and no serious injuries were reported. The USS Newport News submarine collided with the stern of the Japanese oil-tanker, causing minor damage to the tanker. No personnel on either vessel were seriously injured, US Navy and Japanese government officials said. The straits of Hormuz connect the Persian Gulf to the Arabian Sea and is a major waterway for oil tankers. Immediately after the incident the tanker was able to continue to nearby port in the United Arab Emirates. The tanker is owned by Japanese shipping company Kawasaki Kisen Ltd. The Japanese government was informed of the incident soon after by the Navy and the U.S Embassy in Tokyo. They have requested that the U.S investigate the cause of the incident. The recent incident is a stark reminder of the February 2001 incident when a U.S. Submarine rammed into a Japanese fishing vessel in waters off Hawaii, killing nine people.On Friday, Transport for London (TfL) announced US-based taxi booking application Uber would not get a renewed private hire operator license after their current permit expires at the end of the month. The regulatory body released an official statement on their website and stated Uber London Limited was "not fit and proper to hold a private hire operator license".TfL said Uber London "demonstrate[d] a lack of corporate responsibility" for reporting serious criminal offences, and for obtaining background of the drivers and medical certificates. In August, police said Uber allowed a driver despite allegations of sexually assaulting a passenger. The company has been accused of sexism and bullying. TfL in its statement also complained about possible use of "greyball" software to prevent officials from accessing the application for law enforcement duties.According to Uber's statistics, about 3.5 million people in London use Uber. There are some 40 thousand drivers tied with Uber within the British capital. Per the Private Hire Vehicles (London) Act 1998, Uber can appeal against TfL's decision within three weeks. Uber received an interim renewal for four months in May, and it is set to expire at the end of the month. To this announcement, Uber London's General Manager Tom Elvidge said, "By wanting to ban our app from the capital Transport for London and the Mayor have caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice. If this decision stands, it will put more than 40,000 licensed drivers out of work and deprive Londoners of a convenient and affordable form of transport. To defend the livelihoods of all those drivers, and the consumer choice of millions of Londoners who use our app, we intend to immediately challenge this in the courts." He also added, "This ban would show the world that, far from being open, London is closed to innovative companies who bring choice to consumers."TfL said Uber's irresponsibility could compromise the safety and security of the public. In contrast, Uber's response said their service enhances safety. London mayor Sadiq Khan, on Facebook, said, "[...]all companies in London must play by the rules and adhere to the high standards we expect — particularly when it comes to the safety of customers. Providing an innovative service must not be at the expense of customer safety and security. I fully support TfL's decision — it would be wrong if TfL continued to license Uber if there is any way that this could pose a threat to Londoners' safety and security. Any operator of private hire services in London needs to play by the rules."Uber has received criticism from traditional taxi drivers as well as government officials. Uber was banned from Bulgaria and Denmark, and faces regulatory issues in France, Italy, Hungary, and Spain. It also faced legal inquiry for use of greyball in the US to resist government regulation of the application. Regarding the complaint about improper use of use of Greyball, Elvidge cited an independent review and said it "found that 'greyball' has never been used or considered in the UK for the purposes cited by TfL". Uber operates in over 40 cities and towns in the UK.On Monday, the United States ride-sharing company Uber announced suspension of its experimental self-driving car program after one of the cars fatally struck a 49-year-old woman pedestrian in Tempe, Arizona on Sunday night.The company characterized the suspension of the program — in the Phoenix area and also in Pittsburgh; San Francisco; and Toronto, Canada — as a standard response in the wake of the accident. Uber released a statement that "Our hearts go out to the victim’s family. We are fully cooperating with local authorities in their investigation of this incident." According to a spokeswoman, the company is also conducting its own investigation. It was reportedly the first time someone died in an incident involving a self-driving car.Elaine Herzberg was hit at about 10 pm local time (UTC -7) on Sunday when she walked into the street with her bicycle about 100 yards or less from a crosswalk. She died later in hospital. The Volvo car was operating autonomously. Sylvia Moir, chief of police in Tempe, told the San Francisco Chronicle that according to the human operator in the vehicle — Rafaela Vasquez, 44 — "it was like a flash", there was no time to override the computer to take evasive action, the first indication was the sound of impact. The police stated the car was three miles per hour (mph) over a speed limit of 35 mph. According to Moir, recordings from the car's video cameras indicated it would have been "difficult to avoid this collision in any kind of mode". Moir told the San Francisco Chronicle that while she "[wouldn't] rule out the potential to file charges" against Vasquez, "preliminarily it appears that the Uber would likely not be at fault in this accident".Uber started its Arizona self-driving test program in February 2017, using vehicles that had been banned in California due to safety concerns. The next month one was involved in a collision while in self-driving mode after another car failed to yield the right of way; the Uber SUV rolled on its side.A United States Army UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter crashed Monday  (before 3:00 pm CST) after takeoff at Duncan Field at  Campus of Texas A&M University, during a routine mission flight shuttling cadets from the university to Camp Swift. Two active-duty soldiers were killed in the crash, and four Army National Guard soldiers were injured.Second Lt. Zachary Cook, 22, a native of Lufkin, Texas and a December 2008 graduate of Texas A&M University, was killed in the incident. Cook was a member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps cadre at Texas A&M University and also graduated from Lufkin High School. U.S. Rep. Chet Edwards on Wednesday paid tribute to Cook on the floor of the U.S. Congress. “His loss brings a great sadness to his family and friends, the extended Texas A&M family, and the Army, all of us deprived of this patriotic citizen who was dedicated to serving our great nation in uniform,” he said. Edwards is a Democratic Party member of the United States House of Representatives from the 17th District of Texas, based about Waco.The crash also killed Sgt. Charles C. Mitts, 42, of Spring, Texas. He died about 9 p.m. Wednesday night at Memorial Hermann Hospital, said hospital spokeswoman Ann Brimberry. Mitts was the oldest of five men on board the ill-fated helicopter. He was assigned to Iraq from September 2006 to September 2007 with Company C of the 1st Battalion, 108th Aviation Regiment, based in Topeka, Kansas. Mitts was posthumously promoted from his present rank, Chief Master Sgt. Gonda Moncada announced.The three others on board the UH-60 Black Hawk were injured in the accident. The pilot, Chief Warrant Officer 2 Matthew J. Smith, 41, of Leander, and 1st Lt. Ellis W. Taylor, 31, of Buda, were in stable condition Thursday at Brooke Army Medical Center. Sgt. Richard D. Ravenscraft, 24, of Austin, also was initially listed as critical but upgraded to stable in College Station.The accident is under investigation by the Combat Readiness/Safety Center in Fort Rucker, Alabama, home of the U.S. Army Aviation Center. "They have a reputation for extreme thoroughness and quickness," said Texas Guard Capt. Adam Collett. The probe team will review the wrecked helicopter and debris scattered on Duncan Field next to Duncan Dining Hall, near the Corps of Cadets field on the school's College Station campus, about 100 miles northwest of Houston, Texas. "Every piece the way it landed is still in place," said Texas Army National Guard Chief Master Sgt. Gonda Moncada, adding that investigators began the expert examination of evidence Wednesday morning.As part of a five-ship training exercise, the Blackhawk helicopter was performing a training demonstration for about 190 Corps of Cadets in the ROTC Rudder’s Rangers Annual Winter Field Training Exercises. It was also used to transfer the students to Duncan Field just off George Bush Drive. When the helicopter was attempting to take off, a rudder reportedly malfunctioned. "At first, it looked like he was hot-dogging and then very quickly it was obvious he was in trouble and not messing around. All of a sudden he dropped straight back down into the ground," Scott Walker Walker, publications manager for the A&M Association of Former Students said. "There was a bunch of people on Duncan Field and everyone went running and diving for cover," he added. The aircraft entered a rotational spin upon take off and plummeted down on its tail boom, with its cabin section largely intact.The chopper will be transferred to the Austin Aviation Support Facility, where it is was based. Some parts of the Blackhawk will also be sent to the Corpus Christi Army Depot for testing, Officials with Texas Military Forces officials said."Our thoughts and prayers go to the crew members involved in this tragedy, and especially to the family and friends of the crew member who reportedly died as a result of injuries sustained in the crash," A&M President Elsa Murano stated. The UH-60 Black Hawk is a four-bladed, twin-engine, medium-lift utility helicopter manufactured by Sikorsky Aircraft. It is a utility tactical transport helicopter that replaces the UH-1 "Huey" and has been in use since 1979.It was based at the Austin Army Aviation Support Facility at Austin-Bergstrom International Airport. The aircraft's soldiers came from Austin and San Antonio. They were part of the 36th Combat Aviation Brigade, at Austin's Camp Mabry.The Campus of Texas A&M University, also known as 'Aggieland', is located in College Station, Texas, USA. College Station is a city in Brazos County, Texas, situated in Central Texas. It is located in the heart of the Brazos Valley. Aggieland is centrally located within of three of the 10 largest cities in the United States and 75% of the Texas and Louisiana populations. Southside of the campus contains halls both for the Corps of Cadets members and "non-regs". Facilities for the Corps of Cadets are located in the Quadrangle, or "The Quad", an area consisting of dormitories, Duncan Dining Hall, and the Corps training fields.Workers including drivers for Kuehne and Nagel Drinks Logistics (KNDL) have voted in favour of striking. KNDL, which delivers beer and soft drinks to about 30,000 locations in the UK, was in talks with Unite yesterday to try and resolve the dispute.The vote is a response to a proposed restructuring in which a number of operations currently performed at the firm's 29 distribution centres would be relocated to three new 'super-hubs'. Although no distribution centre closures are currently planned, the union says workers fear future job losses, and are also concerned products will spend more time on the road, spoiling the taste of beer.A Unite official said "We have tried to engage with the company but they have repeatedly failed to resolve this dispute." A KDNL spokeswoman said "We are committed to continuing dialogue with Unite in order to reach a resolution before any action is taken." She also pointed out Unite is yet to decide dates for the strike; Unite has described "one final chance" to resolve the dispute.A Unite ballot of 970 KNDL employees produced a turnout of 64% of which 85% voted to strike. The distribution centres involved are mostly in England, but sites in Aberdeen, Dundee, Bathgate, and Inverness in Scotland and Swansea in Wales are also affected.KNDL delivers high-profile brands including Britvic soft drinks and Heineken, Kronenbourg, and Fosters beer. Customers include chains Weatherspoons, Enterprise Inns, and Trust Inns, and airports, cinemas, and leisure centres. Even Premier League football clubs are among KNDL's delivery rounds.The Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS), the largest civil services trade union in the United Kingdom, yesterday reversed its decision to hold a strike for its UK Home Office worker members scheduled for today, the day before the Olympic Games are due to start in London. The strike, which was called last week as a result of job reductions being made, would have affected the UK Border Agency (UKBA), the Identity and Passport Service, and the Criminal Records Bureau, at London Heathrow Airport amongst other UK airports.PCS General Secretary Mark Serwotka cited the "significant development" of the creation of 1100 new job positions, 800 in the UKBA and 300 in the Passport Service, as the reason for the union's decision change. "We believe that significant progress means that there is no case for the union to proceed with industrial action tomorrow," Serwotka said yesterday morning. The PCS also reported position recruitment advertisements appearing on the Internet for London Heathrow, London Luton and Gatwick Airport.However, the UK government's Home Office denied that they had created such positions. "We have made no concessions to the PCS and are not creating any new jobs in response to their threat of strike action", a spokesperson for the Home Office stated. Saying the recruitment effort, initiated two months ago, was amongst scheduled modifications to the UK Border Force, the spokesperson clarified: "Unfortunately, due to an administrative error, a figure of 400 posts was repeated in both adverts by mistake. This will now be corrected".Serwotka's announcement was made one hour before lawyers representing the UK government had been due at the High Court to attempt to gain an injunction preventing the strike. According to the PCS, the government's plan was based on accusations that twelve staff members in Brussels and Paris became involved in the dispute despite the fact they would be unaffected. The PCS' decision was welcomed by airport operating company BAA. "So far passengers arriving for the Olympics have had a smooth journey through Heathrow and it is great news that those arriving tomorrow can also expect a warm welcome to London and the Games", a spokeswoman for BAA said yesterday. UK Home Secretary Theresa May had considered the PCS' plans "opportunist and wholly unjustified". Serwotka said he had "[a]bsolutely no regrets" about his previous decision to call the strike.The PCS has also postponed plans to launch a work-to-rule initiative during the 2012 Summer Olympics.A car crash in the British region of Leicestershire has resulted in the deaths of six people: three men and three women. The incident, involving a lorry and a Ford Mondeo, occurred at around 01:00 UTC today (02:00 local time) on the A607 road.Simon Adkin of the local police said that, "the black Mondeo was travelling towards Leicester and the lorry was travelling in the opposite direction." He announced that the police "are appealing to anyone who witnessed the incident and saw either of these vehicles beforehand to get in touch."The driver of the Ford, who was killed in the incident, was a 23-year-old male. An 18-year-old man, 19-year-old woman and 18-year-old woman were also killed in the incident. The ages of the other two people are not yet known.As a result of the crash, the A607 is expected to remain closed for most of today.A driver for the UK coach firm National Express has been jailed for five years after causing a crash last year that killed three people. Philip Rooney, 49, was in a double-decker coach near London's Heathrow Airport which rolled on January 3 last year.The vehicle landed on its side after Rooney attempted to take a 40mph turnoff at 55mph on the M4/M25 slip road near Heathrow. He was described at Oxford Crown Court today as driving like one 'possessed', possibly in a bid to make up for lost time after a luggage issue had delayed the London-Aberdeen service's departure.Rooney had been delayed after summoning a taxi to transport one family's luggage due to a lack of room on the crowded coach. This delayed departure by an hour and a half.The coach, with 69 passengers on board, skidded along on its side after overturning whilst Rooney made a safety announcement over the vehicle's PA system. 76-year-old Christina Toner from Dundee and 30-year-old Chinese citizen Yi Di Lin were killed, while 78-year-old John Carruthers from Chertsey, Surrey succumbed to his injuries six months later.Another 65 people sustained injuries, including four who had amputations as a result of their injuries and 19 who suffered fractures. "After Heathrow the driver drove like he was possessed. He kept overtaking everything and going like the clappers," said one passenger. Fire and rescue crews had to cut several victims from the wreck.Rooney had been convicted on five previous occasions of speeding in public service vehicles during his career of fifteen years with large passenger vehicles. He was also disciplined in 2004 by National Express after he was caught tampering with a speed limiter to allow him to drive his coach faster.Defending, Mohammed Khamisa QC said of Rooney "The events [of the day in question] have crushed him and continue to haunt him," and that he offers his "heartfelt apologies" to all victims and relatives.Rooney pled guilty to three counts of causing death by dangerous driving. He was jailed for five years, banned from driving for three and ordered to take an extended driving test.A documentary broadcast on Sunday on the UK's Channel 4 claims the RMS Titanic was weakened by a three-week fire before its infamous 1912 sinking.More than 1,500 people died when the vessel sank partway between Southampton, England and New York, United States. The disaster has long been thought down to a collision with an iceberg.Titanic: The New Evidence focuses upon research by Irish journalist Senan Molony, who spent 30 years investigating the accident. Based on photographs of RMS Titanic at the shipyard that built it in Belfast, Ireland, he suggested fire by spotting large black streaks in the region struck by the iceberg.The documentary claims expert analysis confirmed these streaks likely signify a large fire in a fuel store. Alleging temperatures of up to 1,000 degrees Celsius, Molony said metallurgists had opined "when you get that level of temperature against steel it makes it brittle, and reduces its strength by up to 75 per cent."Molony claims "This isn't a simple story of colliding with an iceberg and sinking. It's a perfect storm of extraordinary factors coming together: fire, ice and criminal negligence[....] The fire was known about, but it was played down. She should never have been put to sea." He said J Bruce Ismay, President of the firm behind construction of RMS Titanic, ordered the twelve men tasked to attempting to control the fire to avoid informing passengers. Molony also claims the ship backed into its Southampton berth in a bid to hide fire damage.A 1912 report to the UK Parliament mentioned, but dismissed as a cause, the on-board fire. Ray Boston suggested in 2008 fire may have broken out ten days prior to departure. Boston investigated the disaster for twenty years. Richard De Kerbrech, who wrote several books documenting the accident, said Molony's proposal the fire severely weakened the ship's structure is believable.Molony said "Nobody has investigated these marks before or dwelled upon them." The photographs, taken by engineers on the ship, only recently came to light when they were sold at auction.British drivers have been urged not to panic buy fuel because of the 4-day walkout by delivery drivers working for companies delivering to Shell petrol stations.  The 600 workers have walked out over pay disagreements, wanting an increase to their current pay of £36,500, however their union Unite turned down a last-minute offer of £41,500.Hoyer UK, which employs tanker drivers for Shell, said, "We extended our offer to the very limits that our business could sustain." However Unite said in a press release that, "this dispute could have been resolved if Shell had advanced a fraction of the billions of pounds in profit they make every month", continuing to say, "one of the world's richest companies is prepared to play Pontius Pilate and see the British public inconvenienced rather than settle this dispute for a sum smaller than the chairman's pay increase last year"Shell admitted that the walkout could leave some of its 1,000 forecourts without fuel, but the UK Petrol Industry Association, which represent oil refiners, said that forecourts would have around 4 days of supply, maintaining usual stocking levels.  Shell also commented that the strike impact would be "significant", as the company runs around 1 in 10 of all petrol stations in the UK.  British Business Secretary, John Hutton, said that "the strike, which will have a disproportionate effect on people in Britain, cannot be justified," and urged both sides to resume negotiations in order to settle the dispute.  "We have been working closely with industry to put in place detailed contingency plans to reduce as far as possible the disruption for the driving public," he added.  Unite's press release also confirms that "provision has been made for fire, police and the emergency services."Tanker drivers on strike have set up picket lines at many of Shell's UK refineries, including those in Stanlow, Avonmouth, Plymouth, Pembroke, Cardiff, Kingsbury, Basildon, Grangemouth, Aberdeen, Inverness, Jarrow and Luton Airport.A firm in Oxford, United Kingdom has recently released plans for a hypersonic passenger airplane able to travel at speeds up to Mach 5 with a range of 20,000 km. Reaction Engines of Oxfordshire says the A2 plane could be in service within 25 years, carrying 300 passengers at a top speed of almost 4,000 mph, which is twice the speed of the Concorde. It would be able to reach Australia from Brussels Airport, Belgium non-stop in just five hours.It is 143 meters (469 feet) long, which is approximately twice the length of the Airbus A380 and would be the first man-made object to cruise for extended periods at such speeds within the Earth's atmosphere. Man-made aircraft have travelled this fast before; they, however, were inefficient rocket powered aircraft, that were only capable of short range.The cost of a trip on the A2 is expected to be comparable with current first class tickets on standard flights, of around US$6,900 (£3,500), although it is possible prices will drop in the future."The A2 is designed to leave Brussels international airport, fly quietly and subsonically out into the north Atlantic at Mach 0.9 before reaching Mach 5 across the North Pole and heading over the Pacific to Australia," said Alan Bond, the head of Reaction Engines.Due to the heat generated in high-speed flight, the plane would have no windows. Instead, television screens connected to video cameras on the outside of the plane will be placed in front of passenger seats.The jet may be more environmentally friendly than other planes because it uses liquid hydrogen for power rather than fossil fuel, and thus would not necessarily produce any pollution during the flight. The energy to produce the liquid hydrogen could come from an environmentally friendly source."Our work shows that it is possible technically; now it's up to the world to decide if it wants it," Bond said.Reaction Engines Limited, a firm in Oxford, United Kingdom, has recently been awarded €1 million by the European Space Agency. This money is to be used for development work for the firm's SABRE engines.The SABRE engines are for a reusable spaceplane that it is intended to be able to travel into space and return completely intact. Reaction Engines Limited says the Skylon plane could be in service within 10 years. When in service it would be intended to be regularly carrying up to 60 passengers into orbit much more cheaply than today.The cash will be used to test a precooled jet engine that would cool the very hot air entering the engines and should permit the aircraft to fly more economically, like a jet plane. The plane will fly through the air to 26 km (85,000 feet) altitude and five times the speed of sound before using rockets to push the aircraft the rest of the way to orbit.The BBC says that other aspects of the Skylon design will be investigated by EADS Astrium, the German space agency (DLR) and the University of Bristol.The government of the United Kingdom has outlined its plans for the development of the Britain's railway network in a white paper presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State for Transport, Ruth Kelly.Ruth Kelly described the report as "the most ambitious strategy for growth on the railways in over 50 years" and announced that capacity will be increased to cope with an expected 20% growth in passenger numbers over the next seven years through a £10 billion investment.The government is to continue to limit the rate of increase of regulated tickets, which include standard season and saver tickets, to a maximum of 1% above inflation, and plan to introduce a simplified ticketing structure of four basic ticket types. Today's announcement also extended the government's commitment made in March of this year to fund extra carriages. An additional 300 brings the total to 1,300 carriages to be acquired to relieve overcrowding. The impact of the investment the government has outlined will be concentrated in tackling areas of high overcrowding on the rail network. In particular, Ms Kelly has highlighted a number of key projects. These include the improvement of Reading and Birmingham New Street stations and the approval of the Thameslink modernisation programme. 150 stations across the network will be upgraded and refurbished at a cost of £150 million.The largest opposition party, the Conservative Party, greeted the release with much scepticism, saying that the paper contains "reheated announcements that are years later than promised". A spokeswoman for the Liberal Democrats described it as a "missed opportunity" to encourage more people to use trains in favour of cars or planes and suggested that much of the investment outlined in the document had been announced before.George Muir, of the Association of Train Operating Companies which represents the companies providing passenger train services on the British rail network, said that the white paper is the "first plausible plan for expanding the railway" in recent years.The families of two members of the crew of a United Kingdom RAF Hawker Siddeley Nimrod which crashed almost exactly two years ago during a mission in Afghanistan are suing their government. None of the twelve crew and two other officers on board Royal Air Force Nimrod XV230 survived the midair explosion.According to a report last year by Assistant Deputy Coroner for Oxford Andrew Walker "The aircraft was in my judgment never airworthy from the first release to service in 1969." The coroner recommended grounding the entire Nimrod fleet, but this was never done, with the government saying that the aircraft were safe after modifications carried out after the crash.The final report on the accident blamed the crash on a fuel leak into a dry bay, which ignited after contacting an air pipe that was hot. The jet had undergone midair refueling just minutes previously. The plane was one of a fleet of fifteen that were intended for retirement last decade but still operate, despite having suffered various mechanical problems, including fuel leaks.A writ was today served on UK Defence Secretary Des Browne by the families of Sergeant Ben Knight, 25, and Flight Lieutenant Steven Swarbrick, 28. The writ accuses the Ministry of Defence (MoD) of failing to minimise risks, negligence and denial of the right to life. This last charge makes it the first time the MoD has faced a legal challenge under the European Convention of Human Rights.Graham Knight, Ben's father, claimed that "Nobody has been held accountable for the actual crash. The Government has stood up and said we are sorry. The coroner has said the aircraft was never airworthy but nobody in the RAF or MoD has ever been held accountable for it." He went on to say he was 'disappointed' in the RAF and that My son was proud to be in the RAF and I thought it was full of honourable men. But no one would stand up and take responsibility or resign."September 2 will mark the second anniversary of the accident, the biggest loss of UK military lives in a single incident since the war in the Falklands in 1982. It is the last chance for compensation to be sought, as this must be done within two years of the event.The U.K. Government announced today it has commissioned a report on whether the legal alcohol limit for driving, and whether the laws on driving under the influence of drugs, should be tightened.  The report, by Oxford University academic Sir Peter North, should be completed by April for the Secretary of State for Transport, Lord Adonis.  Lord Adonis said, "Drink-driving was involved in 430 road deaths in 2008 and research suggests that drug-driving is also a key concern for the public."One option that will be considered is whether to lower the limit from 80 milligrams of alcohol per 100 millilitres of blood to 50 milligrams.  This would bring the UK into line with other European countries; a proposal to change the law in Scotland under devolved powers has already been put forward by the Scottish Government. A limit of 50 milligrams would mean that an average person would not be permitted to drive after drinking a standard measure of wine or a pint of beer.The news was applauded by representatives of motoring organisations. The Automobile Association's President, Edmund King, said he was "pleased that these complex issues will be addressed". The RAC's spokesman said drug-driving is a "growing problem", and lowering the alcohol limit would reduce fatalities. However, the Conservative Party took a different view, with Shadow Transport Secretary, Theresa Villiers, saying they were "yet to be convinced of the case for an across-the-board reduction in the drink-driving limit", and, would certainly oppose any suggestion of penalties being reduced.Sir Peter North, 73, is a former Principal of Jesus College, Oxford and Vice-Chancellor of Oxford University. A former member of the Law Commission, he chaired the Road Traffic Law Review between 1985 and 1988, leading to the Road Traffic Act of 1991.  His 1997 report on parades and marches in Northern Ireland led to the foundation of the Parades Commission. Commenting on his task he stated, "[t]he challenge is to see whether changes in the law and its processes can reduce casualties", adding that whilst the issues "are not easy to resolve", he intended to consult "widely".On Thursday, ten of those on board British Airways Flight 38 launched a case against Boeing over the accident before a court in Illinois. They are suing over an alleged flawed design that allowed an ice buildup to bring the 777 jet down at London's Heathrow Airport. Scottish advocate Peter Macdonald spoke to Wikinews, commenting on the case and explaining the surrounding legislation. He has experience of litigating aviation accidents.Although investigations are ongoing, the United Kingdom's Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) has issued interim reports indicating ice buildup on an engine component.  As the jet passed over Siberia on its journey from Beijing, China it encountered significantly reduced temperatures.  The AAIB has determined that the fuel was at a temperature below 0°C for an unusually long duration.  This is believed to have caused water in the fuel — which met all relevant international standards — to have frozen into crystals. A build-up of ice developed on a component called the fuel/oil heat exchanger.  This restricted the flow of fuel to the engine, resulting in an "uncommanded engine rollback" — a loss of power — on approach for landing.  Investigators initially struggled to produce enough ice under test conditions but later discovered that at high concentration, fuel can form ice at very low temperatures in enough quantity to seriously restrict fuel flow.  This does not occur when fuel demand is lower, as the hot oil then becomes sufficient to entirely melt the ice.  It was only when extra fuel was pumped in from the tanks for the landing that the crystals became a problem.  The fuel/oil heat exchanger is a dual purpose part designed to simultaneously melt fuel ice and cool down engine oil by passing oil pipes through the fuel flow.The crew of the aircraft were praised for their handling of the emergency, avoiding the airport's perimeter fence and nearby houses to crash land short of the runway. None of the 136 passengers and 16 crew were killed but some of those suffered serious injuries, including broken bones and facial injuries. Some were left unable to fly and there were cases of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).The crash was triggered by highly unusual circumstances; the first AAIB report noted that cold fuel behaving in this manner was an "apparently hitherto unknown phenomenon."  As part of the investigation, data of 141,000 flights of 777s equipped with the engine model involved — the Rolls-Royce Trent 800 — was reviewed without finding any relevant circumstance similar to the accident flight, although there was later a similar incident in the United States in which the aircraft continued safely after repowering one engine; the second did not lose power.Given the circumstances surrounding the case, Wikinews asked Peter Macdonald if the plaintiffs intended to prove that Boeing knew or should have known the Rolls-Royce powerplant was dangerously defective by design. "I rather suspect that there may be product liability legislation in place in whichever US jurisdiction is being used," Macdonald explained. "Such statutes normally do not require proof of fault, nor do they require proof of knowledge. All that you have to show is that there was a defect in the product which caused the losses concerned... If I am correct that it is a product liability suit, then the fact that this is the first such accident matters not."Macdonald went on to discuss the international legislation and how it interacts to the plaintiffs and the three companies involved — Boeing, British Airways and Rolls-Royce. Only Boeing is currently named in an action over the case.  "There are several reasons why the plaintiffs will wish to sue Boeing in the States," he said.  "Were the plaintiffs to seek redress in a court in the United Kingdom, it is unlikely that the relevant part of Boeing would be subject to jurisdiction here."  He also pointed out that "US damages are generally higher than English damages.""As to whether Boeing should settle, that all depends upon the basis of the action. If it is a fault [negligence] based action, they will be able to defend it. If fault is not needed, that is why they would want the action dismissed, forcing litigation in the UK." In the UK, a product liability suit "would ordinarily be directed against the importers, i.e. British Airways... It would be a simple matter to sue BA here [the UK] for the physical injuries and their financial consequences," said Macdonald. "That leaves RR [Rolls-Royce]. I assume that the engine was made in the UK. They would be liable for a defect in terms of the Consumer Protection Act 1987, Part I." This piece of UK-wide legislation states that "where any damage is caused wholly or partly by a defect in a product [the manufacturer] shall be liable for the damage." Damage includes injuries.US courts decide international jurisdictional issues under the Jones Act, passed as a result of Bhopal litigation, "which makes it much more difficult for a foreigner to sue in the US if the accident did not happen there... My restricted understanding of that is that it is likely that it would be difficult to remove an action from a US court where the aircraft was made in the US." He further pointed out that the court would require there to be an alternative court with jurisdiction over the issue. "It may well be that the relevant part of the Boeing group is not subject to the jurisdiction of the English courts... I have seen cases where it was made a condition of the grant of an order under the Jones Act that the defendants would submit to the jurisdiction of a court in Scotland and that they would not take a plea of time bar in the even that an action was raised within three months of the court order."He then addressed the international law with regards to what could be claimed for against air carriers such as BA. In a previous case against the same airline, Abnett v British Airways, the House of Lords ruled in 1997 "that the only remedy for an injured passenger on an international flight is to sue under the Warsaw Convention, Article 17, incorporated into our law by the Carriage by Air Act, 1961." The Warsaw Convention governs liability for international commercial airlines. At the time, the House of Lords was the highest court of appeal in the UK, although it was recently replaced by the Supreme Court. The Abnett case referred to British Airways Flight 149, in which Iraq captured the aircraft and occupants when it landed in Kuwait hours after Iraq invaded in 1990. Peter Macdonald represented Abnett in this case.The Convention "provides a remedy for "bodily injury". Interestingly, the term only appeared in the final draft of the Warsaw Convention. There is no mention of the term in the minutes of the many sessions which lead up to the final draft. It was produced overnight and signed later that day." This term creates difficulties in claiming for mental problems such as the fear of flying or PTSD, although Macdonald points out that "there is a large amount of medical literature which details physical and chemical changes in the brains of people who are suffering from PTSD."In King v Bristow Helicopters, heard before the House of Lords in 2002 "held that PTSD was not a "bodily injury", but expressly left the door open for someone to try to prove that what is known as PTSD is the manifestation of physical changes in the brain which have been brought about by the trauma. Such a litigation is pending in Scotland." Macdonald is acting in this case.Actions against Boeing are not bound in this way, as the Warsaw Convention only applies to airlines, making the States an attractive place to sue due to the issues with demonstrating jurisdiction against the relevant part of the Boeing group in the UK. Another reason why the plaintiffs would prefer to sue in America is that in the UK "there would be liability [for BA], and that would be subject to a damages cap. An action in the US [against any defendant] would probably have the same cap, but is likely to award damages more generously in the event that the cap is not reached."This afternoon the RAF launched an operation to rescue nineteen sailors from a Spanish trawler in difficulties in a North Atlantic storm.Radio contact with the FV Cibeles was lost yesterday evening at 2030 UTC when the crew reported to the ship's owners that they were in trouble. Last night, UK Coastguard picked up a satellite emergency beacon signal as winds reached speeds of over 70 mph.This morning a RAF Nimrod maritime patrol aircraft located the ship adrift 180 miles off the Scottish Western Isles. A nearby tanker, the Aegean Spirit, diverted with the intention of taking the trawler in tow and arrived at 1500 UTC. However, the tanker was unable to take the trawler on tow, and with no other vessels capable of towing the ship nearby, the Coastguard Rescue Seeking helicopter "Mike Uniform" was launched from Stornoway to extract the crew. The tanker remained on scene to offer some protection from the weather, currently reported as gale force winds and rough seas.In the United Kingdom, the average price of unleaded petrol has reached a record high of 121.76p a litre. The previous peak was 121.61p a litre, on May 12, 2010. In comparison to last year, petrol is more expensive by 11.88p, according to The Automobile Association (AA). The price for 50 litres has therefore increased by £5.94. Edmund King, current president of the AA, stated: "In the past week, we have seen the average price of petrol shoot up 1.7p a litre across the UK and diesel rise 1.61p. It comes at a particularly bad time for drivers, who have struggled with appalling winter weather and often seen their fuel drain away while stuck in snow-bound traffic jams. Our only hope is that either oil and fuel markets settle back down or the pound strengthens against the dollar. Until then, it is an even more uncomfortable ride for families trying to keep cars on the road."iAt 125.73p a litre on average, diesel is approximately eight pence lower than its July 2008 peak of 133.25p; It remains 14.21p more expensive than last year.In January 2011, the prices of fuel are anticipated to rise again due to the increased value added tax rate and higher hydrocarbon oil duty prices coming into effect. Adrian Tink, a motoring strategist for the RAC, believes that the latter should be called off: "It's unbelievable to think that, compared with this time last year, petrol is 13p a litre more expensive. That's over £7 more every time you fill up an average tank. While the increases this year have been driven by a number of factors, you can't get away from the fact that we have seen five rises in fuel duty in the past two years — and we're due another one in January, plus a VAT rise. Who knows what the price will be come January 5, 2011? An average of 125p per litre is very feasible."Seventeen-year-old Chinese student Mei Chen, who vanished from her host family's home in Scarborough, England, was found safe and well on Thursday by police. Her host family suggested she was travelling to meet an unknown person from the Internet; Wikinews has contacted authorities to establish the circumstances, but has received no answers.North Yorkshire Police launched an urgent appeal on Tuesday for the teen's whereabouts, and alerted all of the United Kingdom's regular police forces as well as the British Transport Police and border authorities. She had been studying in Scarborough's International School since arriving in the country in October.The original police appeal has since been removed, and replaced with a boilerplate notice the content "may have been moved or deleted", possibly "because the crime has been solved or the missing person found." The 5-foot-1-inch (1.55m) girl was reported missing by her host family on Monday, with them suggesting they were "very concerned" for her. They also raised concerns Chen may be taken advantage of due to her young age, and reported she had discussed visiting London to meet an online friend."No matter where in the world it happens, a loved one becoming a missing person is devastating for all involved", Matt Searle, Chief Executive of The Lucie Blackman Trust, told Wikinews on Thursday night. The charity provides support to those within the UK who experience loved ones abroad going missing, and more broadly supports UK victims of serious crimes overseas. Searle noted families of those missing find themselves "forever fearing the worst and imagining unthinkable outcomes", adding "when all of this is happening on the other side of the world, continents away, families feel even more helpless. At home they could talk to police, authorities and other organisations, go to the site they were last seen and at least do something. This is often impossible in overseas cases — culture and language barriers often create huge hurdles in simply reporting a case at all." He concluded by saying that, while charities such as his can provide some support, ultimately "it [is] hard to contemplate just how harrowing an experience a missing loved one overseas can be."Investigators found Chen caught a train from Scarborough on Monday morning shortly before 10:00 and alighted at York. From there, she caught another train travelling via Peterborough to London. Wikinews contacted three police forces in a bid to establish where Chen was found, and if any investigations into the circumstances of her disappearance are ongoing. British Transport Police told our correspondent the force was "alerted in the same way we would be for any missing person thought to be travelling on the rail network".A British Transport Police spokeswoman told Wikinews, "I believe this was a North Yorks Police investigation, so you'd need to contact them for details." She also said the force "wouldn't hold that sort of info" in response to our inquiries. Wikinews asked North Yorkshire Police for the same information, but has received no response; the Metropolitan Police, which cover the London area, also failed to reply.A message to the National Crime Agency, which includes a Child Exploitation and Online Protection area, has also gone unanswered. Wikinews wished to know if the agency was aware of the case and, if so, if they were conducting any investigations.Scarborough International School of English describes its goal as "to develop a warm, safe and caring atmosphere where every student will be happy and successful in learning English." Its website describes "a strong sense of belonging to a family community here". Wikinews contacted the school but they did not reply.North Yorkshire Police have issued a terse statement confirming Chen has been found, and thanking the public for sharing their initial, removed, appeal.British rail company South West Trains (SWT) is to cut 180 jobs.The franchisee for lines out of London's Waterloo station has already announced 480 job cuts. The redundancies affect front line staff in ticket offices and at stations and further managers and administrators.Bus firm Stagecoach Group, LSE: SGC which runs South West Trains and East Midlands Trains, says that cuts are required because predicted passenger growth will now not happen. SWT's subsidy from the government is falling from £61 million in 2008 to £23 million this year. The subsidy becomes a premium payment next year, with over £36 million to be paid by SWT in 2010.Train crew and maintenance staff will not face redundancy and the number of services, which are generally mandated by the Department for Transport, will not be reduced. The Rail, Maritime and Transport (RMT) union condemned the job cuts. Bob Crow, the union's general secretary, said “SWT’s attacks on its staff and passengers are eating into the very fabric of the railway they are supposed to be running, and they must be stopped". He said that the RMT wanted to ensure there were no compulsory redundancies but that "the company seems to be heading towards a ballot for strike action". Crow also restated the union's longstanding demand for the railways to be renationalised, saying "South West Trains has shown itself to be incapable of running a railway for the benefit of its passengers and the economy, and it is time for the franchise [to come] back into the public sector".SWT's statement on the cuts said "The company will continue to review its operation and take any further steps required to ensure it has a secure business for the long-term. Our priority will remain maintaining services to our customers, protecting jobs for the majority of our people and providing a strong foundation for growth when the economy improves."The Office of Rail Regulation (ORR), the regulatory authority for Great Britain's railway network, has launched an investigation of Network Rail procedures following a complaint from Virgin Trains regarding over-running engineering works on New Year's Eve. Network Rail, who are responsible for the British railway infrastructure, have announced that as part of ongoing engineering work to improve the West Coast Main Line, no services will be able to pass through Rugby on December 31. The closure will affect services operated by Virgin Trains, London Midland and First ScotRail.Chris Gibb, the Managing Director of Virgin Trains said, "I am very disappointed that Network Rail (NR) has given us so little opportunity to warn our passengers of this further disruption. We were first warned of the possibility of this additional work on 6 December.""Because of the seriousness of the situation we felt it necessary to refer the matter to the Office of Rail Regulation. We simply cannot have NR bullying train operators in this way just because their engineering planning processes are in a mess."The company has warned passengers that journeys are likely to be extended by an hour or more in some cases. Whilst the ORR will be investigating the complaint from Virgin, they have ruled that the work should still go ahead. A spokesman for Network Rail said, "Work will be ongoing for most of the next year, but the Christmas period is the last major opportunity we have to do key work while passenger numbers are down during the relatively long holiday period."It was only realised at the beginning of December that work was falling behind. Rail companies are usually given 12 weeks notice of engineering work. Virgin were told only at the beginning of the month, so that is very late."Network Rail is extremely sorry and apologises to passengers for the inconvenience."According to the company, the engineering works will contribute to enabling increases in service frequencies and reductions in journey times on the West Coast Main Line from December 2008.A train driver from the United Kingdom has had his conviction for manslaughter over a head-on rail collision in 1989 quashed. A train operated by Robert Morgan, 64, passed a red signal at Purley and struck an oncoming service on March 4, 1989, killing five and injuring 80 more.Morgan's train had been destined for London Victoria having left Littlehampton, but after passing through the red light struck a Horsham-to-Victoria train at 60mph.Morgan, of Ferring, West Sussex, was ultimately convicted of two counts of manslaughter over the accident to which he had earlier pled guilty, and was jailed in September 1990 for 18 months, of which 12 were suspended. A subsequent appeal reduced this sentence to four months. 47 years old at the time, Morgan had never had any previous problems during his 23 years driving trains.However, after his conviction it emerged that in the five years preceding the crash there had been four separate Signal Passed at Danger (SPAD) incidents involving the same signal, signal T168. The last of these had itself almost resulted in an accident.The court was also told that had Morgan, who was unable to fully remember the collision due to his injuries, been aware of the previous problems at the time he would not have pled guilty to manslaughter.Lord Justice Latham said on Wednesday in the court of appeal that "The history of signal 168... would have been a significant factor in any jury's evaluation of the extent to which the appellant's fault could have been said to have gone from being negligent — breach of duty — to being the sort of breach of duty which justified the imposition of criminal sanctions." He went on to describe the information that had not been available at the original 1990 trial as of "considerable significance".He added that a further SPAD incident that occurred two years after the crash at the site, despite improvements designed to prevent a recurrence of the crash, showed that "something about the infrastructure of this particular junction was causing mistakes to be made. Had a jury known that, it is at the very least impossible for us to conclude that the jury would inevitably have nonetheless convicted the appellant of manslaughter. These facts would have all been matters which the jury would have taken into account when assessing the level of fault of Mr Morgan. There is no way that we can say accordingly that these convictions are safe. The position is that we allow the appeal against convictions."Latham acknowledged that Morgan had indeed made a mistake when he passed the signal at danger, but described the area surrounding signal T168 as "an accident waiting to happen".Morgan's legal team issued a statement from him describing him as "both delighted and relieved" that Lord Justice Latham and the two other judges had ruled his conviction unsafe.Solicitor Gary Rubin said: "It is unfortunate that at the time when this tragic accident occurred, the significance of this particular signal being passed at danger on four previous occasions was not properly understood. Due to this lack of understanding at the time, Mr Morgan was placed in a position where he had no alternative other than to plead guilty. The impact of the better understanding has been material to the [appeal] court taking the rare step of quashing a conviction where there had been an original guilty plea so long ago."Morgan told reporters outside the court "I am pleased that my conviction is squashed and my name is finally cleared. My thoughts will always remain with those who lost their loved ones."Transport company Metronet, the firm responsible for upgrading three-quarters of London tube system, is facing administration following a preliminary decision from rail arbiter Chris Bolt which limits the amount that London Underground (TfL) is obliged to pay for cost overruns to £121 million. The company had asked for £551m.The arbitrations follows a row over who should pay for the overspend, estimated at between £1.2bn and £2bn in total. Metronet have claimed that the costs are due to changing requirements from TfL. This was disputed however by TfL and the Mayor of London, who has said previously that the costs were due to "management incompetence".The Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, has previously stated that he will not give Metronet one penny more than he is legally obliged to, and that if they go into administration TfL will step in and take control.The company was awarded the tube contract under a Public-private partnership arrangement, which was a central policy of the Labour government, but fiercely (and legally) contested by the London Mayor.The Metronet board have said they are considering their position and will make a statement later today or tomorrow.Metronet, a company set up to manage the upgrade of three-quarters of London's tube network, has gone into administration (which is similar to Chapter 11 in the United States) after having accrued debts of up to £2 billion, following the decision on Monday to limit the amount of extra funds that the company would receive from public funds.A notice on the Metronet website announced that the Boards of both Metronet BCV (responsible for the upgrade of the Bakerloo, Central and Victoria lines) and Metronet SSL (responsible for upgrade of the 'sub-surface' lines) had asked the Mayor to seek the appointment of a PPP Administrator. The statement says that the decision follows a period of 'financial uncertainty', with the decision of the arbiter leaving Metronet "unable to carry out its contract".Metronet's shareholders, the companies Atkins, Balfour Beatty, Bombardier, EDF Energy and Thames Water had blocked access to an extra funds, and each have a limited liability of £350 million, their original equity stake.Transport for London have reassured the public that tube services will not be affected - Metronet is not responsible for day-to-day operation - but it is so far unclear what will happen to the upgrade contracts.UK firm BAA Limited has been told by the Competition Commission that they must sell three of their airports within two years. Gatwick and Stansted airports, both serving London, England, and either Edinburgh International Airport or Glasgow International Airport in Scotland must be sold, in that order.BAA, mostly owned by Spain's Grupo Ferrovial, described the ruling as 'flawed'. Despite challenging a preliminary ruling last year, BAA had also already begun the process to seek a buyer for Gatwick in 2008. Ferrovial, who will still have a London airport with Heathrow, has two months to appeal if they wish. The two year deadline is an extension of the deadline given by the Commission in its previous ruling. Ferrovial, who bought BAA and their seven UK airports in 2006 for US$14 billion, complained that the ruling was impractical given the current recession. Gatwick and Stansted must be sold to different buyers to ensure adequate competition between both airports and Heathrow. The decision has been praised by airlines including Ryanair and Easyjet.XL Leisure Group — the United Kingdom's third largest tour operator — has collapsed and entered administration. About 85,000 passengers have been left stranded outside the UK as a result.The Civil Aviation Authority is working to bring these people home, and Air Travel Organisers' Licensing scheme stated that "repatriation aircraft" had been scrambled. Both flights chartered specially for the purpose and scheduled services with spare seats are being used.XL operated a number of subsidiaries, including XL Airways, Travel City Direct and the Really Great Holiday company. Including parent company XL Leisure, 11 companies are effected. Their collapse has also left people stranded in UK airports and delayed other flights as airlines who had chartered XL aircraft for their services sought alternative planes.Passengers booked with XL have been advised to keep away from their departure airports. Refunds will be available for most, but some who booked via XL's website or call center and did not use a credit card or Visa debit card are not able to claim their money back.Around 50,000 XL package holiday customers and 10,000 other XL Airlines passengers are stranded abroad. 25,000 people booked with other operators who had deals with XL have also been hit, and a total of 200,000 holidaymakers are believed affected. In addition, XL Leisure had 1,700 employees.XL's CEO Phil Wyatt blamed a combination of himself, high oil prices and economic instability for the problem. He said he was "devastated" and apologised to those affected, but said they were forced to give up after lenders pulled out.The available information about the phosphorous cloud following the railway accident in the Ukraine last Monday is becoming more and more cryptic.The political involvement of most media and other factors are causing contradictions among official sources that are making press work extremely hard. Moreover, no one is permitted to enter the accident location. The site of the accident was closed to visitors following the injury of three TV journalists who got too close.Pirates in Somalia have released the MV Faina, a Ukrainian ship carrying a cargo of 33 T-72 tanks, along with 20 of its crew of 21, the Russian captain having been killed by hypertension during the hijack. A ransom of US$3.2 million was paid for the ship's release, compared to the $20 million previously demanded and also down from the initial request for $35 million after the capture in September. By January 16 the ransom sought was $5 million, with negotiations occurring directly between the pirates and the ship's owner. In October the pirates threatened to blow the ship up unless this was paid within days, and stated they were willing to die and take the crew with them, but this threat was never carried out.The ransom came in on Wednesday, and after counting the money the pirates left the vessel on Thursday. One pirate, Segule Ali, said of the payment that "no huge amount has been paid, but something to cover our expenses."The ownership of the cargo, which includes ammunition, rocket launchers, small arms and spare parts as well as tanks, is uncertain. Although the shipment was said to be for Kenya, as acknowledged by the Kenyan government, the pirates claim to have documents proving they were destined for Sudan, currently the subject of a United Nations arms embargo. Sudan denies this.At one point, with the ship anchored off Harardhere, the pirates claimed they had put down an attempted revolt by the crew. However, the Faina's owner has expressed doubts about the veracity of this report, which originated with the pirates themselves.The remaining crew are reported to be healthy by the Ukrainian Presidency and the ship is now heading to Mombasa under US Navy escort. There are 17 Ukrainians, two Russians and a Latvian on board.An alarm for heavy chemical pollution has been issued in the Lviv region, Ukraine, where yesterday evening a railway disaster led to a fire involving 15 containers of liquid yellow phosphorus. Extinguishing the fire proved extremely difficult because water cannot be used: in contact with phosphorus, water creates poisonous gas. It took six hours before the flames were extinguished. Gas was generated nonetheless, and at the moment the poisoned area extends about 90 sq. km. The casualties count is already heavy: 20 people are reported injured, 13 of them in critical condition. They have been carried to the Lviv hospital. Podrobnosti reports that the fire started when one of the containers started to leak and the phosphor caught fire.The poisoned area includes 14 villages. From the five villages that are closer to the disaster area some 800 people have already been evacuated. Half of the evacuees had to manage on their own as there was not enough public transport for all.At the moment there is no available data about the wind direction or next expected movements of the phosphorus cloud. Special firemen units remain on place to control the possibility of a new fire, while the administration of the Lviv Oblast tries to forecast the possible short- and mid-term evolution of the situation. The Ukrainian Railways have officially excluded the possibility of a terrorist act as a cause for the disaster.Podrobnosti reports the deadly dose of yellow phosphor at  0.1 g. According to that source, when poisoning living beings, phosphor causes liver necrosis and attacks the bones and spinal cord.The transport union RMT has criticised Transport for London (TfL) for the decision apparently to privatise the East London Line, which is undergoing a major upgrade and extension programme over the coming years. The announcement follows a report from BBC News which claims that a 'leaked memo' has revealed plans for the line to be run by the private sector come 2009. RMT General Secretary said "there is no earthly reason why its operations should not remain within London Underground", adding that the Union would take steps to safeguard the jobs of its members currently working on the line.Responsibility for the East London Line extension was officially transferred from the Strategic Rail Authority to Transport for London in November 2004, and London Mayor Ken Livingstone has pledged to deliver the £900m extension by the end of the decade. However it has always been the plan that the line, once built, would form part of the national rail network, rather than the Underground network. Network Rail will manage much of the track, and private companies will run the trains under strict franchise from the London Rail arm of TfL, in the same manner as TfL franchises the bus services.Phase One of the project, due to be complete in June 2010, will see a northern extension to Dalston Junction and a southern extension to Crystal Palace and West Croydon. This is in plenty of time for the 2012 London Olympic Games.Control of the North London Line, currently run by Silverlink, will also pass to TfL from Autumn 2007. It is planned that eventually the line will join up with the East London Line, the West London Line and the South London Line to form a circular 'Orbirail' service.A group of United Airlines employees said they saw a mysterious, elliptical-shaped (saucer-shaped) UFO hovering over a terminal at Chicago's O'Hare Airport.  The employees said that the UFO did not have any lights, and that after hovering over the airport's terminal, it went into the clouds and disappeared.  The employees said they were frustrated that their bosses, the United Airlines, and the FAA were not taking their report seriously.United Airlines Flight 923 from London to Washington D.C. made an emergency landing at Boston's Logan International Airport following the pilot declaring an in-flight emergency.The flight had 182 passengers and 12 crew members on board.A spokesman for Logan International Airport, Phil Orlandella, said the flight was guided to Boston by two fighter jets. A 59-year-old woman from Vermont, evidently suffering from claustrophobia, created an on-board disturbance and had to be restrained by passengers.The spokesman for United Airlines said that the pilot for the flight declared an in-flight emergency.Massport spokesman says that the passengers were removed from the plane and their carry-on items were inspected.United Airlines Flight 634 made an emergency landing yesterday morning when only two of the three landing wheels on the Airbus A319 deployed as the plane was making its final approach into Newark, New Jersey's Newark Liberty International Airport. After multiple attempts to fix the problem failed, the pilot decided that an emergency landing was the only remaining choice.Only the plane's nose gear and left landing gear had descended. The right landing gear would not release. The airliner made a go-around as the crew attempted to fix the problem. Passenger Jim Falk knew something was wrong saying, "Normally a big plane like that doesn't do a bypass, so we knew something was wrong." However, the pilot decided that nothing could be done to bring the gear down, and an emergency landing was declared.  "We are going to have an unusual landing," the pilot calmly announced to the 53 passengers seated on the plane, according to passenger Moritz Loew. Another passenger, Paul Lasiuk said he was more shocked than scared, telling himself, "You have no choice.  You're going to go through this.""Brace! Brace! Brace!", the pilot announced over the plane's public address system, calling for passengers to enter the brace position as the plane made a touchdown on the runway at Newark. The plane touched down on the nose wheel and left rear wheel before lurching to the right causing sparks to fly as the right engine skidded along the runway. Eventually, the plane came to stop at 9:27 A.M. EDT.Afterward, passengers and crew evacuated the plane by sliding down the evacuation slides and moving quickly away from the plane. They were then taken by bus to the airline's lounge where they told their stories to investigators and waited for their luggage. Three passengers reported minor injuries but refused treatment.The emergency landing caused the airport to shut down for 20 minutes, but service quickly resumed on two of the airports three runways. The plane remained on the runway throughout the afternoon as investigators determined the cause of the landing gear failure. This is in contrast to last week, when the airport was shutdown for six hours after a young man named Haisong Jiang breached security by passing through an exit to kiss his girlfriend goodbye.According to passengers, the crew remained calm during the ordeal. Jim Falk said, "They did a great job. There was no yelling, screaming, panicking or anything." Falk said he wanted to buy a bottle of champagne for the currently unnamed pilot. Falk added, "The pilot did a beautiful job. He didn’t put it in the water like the other pilot did, but he should be commended." Martin Trebino, a spokesperson for United Airlines said they would not release the pilot's name on Sunday, but did not indicate when his name would be made available either.Paul Lasiuk said, "I've had a lot of worse landings at Newark before. It was unbelievably smooth."Moritz Loew joked with himself afterward saying, "What's a great landing? One that you walk away from."The flight, which left Chicago's O'Hare International Airport early Sunday morning around 6 A.M. reported no other problems during the flight up until the incident. According to United Airlines spokesperson Robin Urbanski, it remains unclear why the landing gear failed to deploy. Urbanski added that passengers' tickets would be refunded and that they would receive vouchers and credit towards any future flight.The besieged airline industry received some good news today, United Airlines plans to hire 2,000 flight attendants.  This is the first time in four years United has increased the number of flight attendants it employs. United Airlines, the second largest US carrier, furloughed many flight attendants as a result of decreased air travel after September 11th.  At one time 5,500 flight attendants were on furlough.  United finished recalling flight attendants on October 31st.  The airline's problems were further aggravated by soaring fuel prices forcing the company to file for chapter 11 bankruptcy which it plans to emerge from in 2006.  The new hires are intended to replace retirees and flight attendants who decided not to return from furlough. United stated that it will begin accepting applications November 13th at United flight attendant application pageA United Nations (UN) team assessed the damage from an early December oil spill in Sundarbans, Bangladesh, to the world's largest mangrove forest. Team leader Emilia Wahlstrom yesterday presented preliminary assessment results at a press conference in the capital, Dhaka.The 25-member UN team arrived in Bangladesh on December 18 and visited the Sundarbans from December 22 to December 27.At the press conference, Wahlstrom said the pollution was spread 40 kilometers up and downstream, but no impact on the mangrove forest floor was observed. She said the Pashur and Shela rivers contributed by washing some of the oil. She also suggested a ban on water traffic in the area, saying "regular monitoring and stopping traffic through the Sundarbans are needed to tackle the long-term impact."Anwar Hossain Manju, Minister for Forest and Environmental Affairs of Bangladesh, acknowledged that vessel traffic in Sundarbans was suspended. He also said "alternative options" were "being explored".Wahlstrom also commented cleanup by local villagers removed about a fifth of the oil spill.On December 9, the OT Southern Star 7 tanker sank in an accident with another vessel. Reportedly visibility was poor due to thick fog. OT Southern Star 7 was carrying about 350,000 L of fuel oil.Sundarbans is a World Heritage Site. The UN plans to release a final report in two weeks.On Tuesday, an engine cowling of a United Airlines airliner flying from San Francisco to Honolulu, in Hawaii, flew off over the Pacific Ocean, forcing the pilot to make an emergency landing.The Boeing 777-200 two-engine jet left San Francisco International Airport shortly after 9:00 am PST (1700 UTC) and was flying the scheduled United Flight 1175 when there was a sound described by one passenger, Maria Falaschi, as "a big bang". Pieces of the right-side engine assembly could be seen blowing in the wind. Passengers said the plane landed 40 or 45 minutes later, during which time they said it shook "violently", "sound[ing] a lot like being inside an unbalanced washing machine" as one posted to Instagram. Many took pictures and videos; one later told ABC News: "I thought we were going to die and hoped that my kids knew that I loved them". She said the flight attendants also appeared afraid. Falaschi said it was the "scariest flight of my life".The plane landed at 2:42 pm PST; there were no reported injuries. United issued a statement saying the engine cowling had come off because of a "mechanical issue" and that passengers had "deplaned normally" after "pilots followed all necessary protocols to safely land the aircraft" and "taxied to the gate". The statement also said the company would be contacting all the passengers and "plan to fully refund every ticket".Early on Sunday morning, Amtrak's passenger train number 91, the Silver Star, bound for Miami from New York, slammed into a stationary CSX freight train in Cayce, about ten miles (16 km) south of Columbia, capital of the US state of South Carolina.  Two Amtrak employees were killed and at least 116 were injured, some seriously.The two killed were 54-year-old engineer Michael Kempf of Savannah, Georgia, and 36-year-old conductor Michael Cella of Orange Park, Florida.  Robert Sumwalt, chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, told a press conference the passenger train had been diverted into a siding by a switch left "literally locked, with a padlock" in that position.The collision happened at about 2:35 am local time (0735 UTC) at a switching yard in the small city of Cayce. The Amtrak train, with reportedly 139 passengers and eight employees aboard, collided head on with the freight train, which was parked with no one on board. The Amtrak locomotive and the leading locomotive on the freight train were destroyed; the Amtrak locomotive and some of its passenger cars derailed, and one of those cars was folded in half. Several freight cars were crumpled, Reuters reported. In a press conference, the state governor, Henry McMaster, said the Amtrak locomotive was "barely recognizable" and described it as "a horrible thing to see, to understand the force involved". Harrison Cahill, a spokesman for Lexington County, gave a count of 116 injured, up from an initial report of 70; according to Derrec Becker, public information officer for the South Carolina Emergency Management Division, injuries ranged "from cuts and bruises to severe broken bones". On Monday a Palmetto Health spokesperson said two patients were in serious and two in critical condition at their facilities. A spill of approximately 5,000 gallons of fuel from the freight train posed no safety hazard, according to officials.Passenger Derek Pettaway told the CNN network that like most others, he had been sleeping when the collision happened. He said Amtrak staff cleared the passengers from the train rapidly, and there was no panic; "I think people were more in shock than anything else", he said."Key to this investigation is learning why the switch was lined that way", Sumwalt said. Amtrak's CEO, Richard Anderson, speaking to reporters on Sunday, held CSX responsible; he stated the track in that area is operated by CSX and the signals, which CSX operates, were not working at the time of the collision and a CSX dispatcher was therefore directing the Amtrak train's movements. Sumwalt noted an automatic monitoring and braking system called positive train control, which was not in use on the stretch of line, could have forestalled the collision.Several fatal incidents involving Amtrak trains have occurred in the past three months. On December 18, the inaugural train on a new route in Washington state derailed at high speed while crossing above a highway, killing three; on January 31, the driver of a garbage truck was killed in Virginia when he collided with an Amtrak train chartered to take Republican lawmakers to a retreat.The Australian Civil Aviation Safety Authority (CASA) has announced it will take the unprecedented step of conducting a special review of flag carrier Qantas after three separate emergencies in two weeks.In the latest incident, a Boeing 767 headed from Sydney to Manila was forced to turn back yesterday after ground staff at the airport noticed what they believed to be smoke emanating from the jet's wing as it departed. It turned out to be fine spray from a hydraulic fluid leak, and the aircraft brought its 200 passengers back down safely at around 3:00 p.m., with ARFF trucks on standby.Despite the aircraft being forced to turn around, the pilot did not request a priority landing and so Qantas refused to describe the event as an emergency landing.Qantas has a largely good safety record, having never lost a jet aircraft or had a fatality on board one. Their last fatal accident was in 1951. However, recently two other events have led to some questioning of Qantas from within the aviation industry.Last Monday, a Qantas Boeing 737-800 returned to Adelaide after experiencing pressurization problems caused by the failure of an undercarriage door to retract properly. This followed the July 25 accident on board Flight 30, a Boeing 747 headed from London to Melbourne that had just made a stopover in Hong Kong, in which an exploding oxygen cylinder caused an explosive decompression. An emergency landing was performed in Manila, with a hole blown in the aircraft's side.According to Qantas staff, the problems are not a new thing. Qantas flight attendants have asked senior management for an emergency meeting over these latest events. The Flight Attendants' Association of Australia's president Steven Reed said "We want some assurances from the company that these are isolated incidents. Or are they something we should be concerned about? We need to meet with the company at a senior level to have these assurances." Such a meeting is said to be likely within a week.Qantas engineers have been complaining for some time about maintenance issues, saying that cost-cutting and outsourcing are compromising the quality of maintenance. Much work is now being done in countries such as Hong Kong, Malaysia and the Philippines. According to one engineering union official, recent incidents linked to outsourced maintenance include a failure of emergency lighting and flight attendants in the galley being electrocuted by faulty wiring.According to the Australian Licensed Aircraft Engineers' Association's assistant federal secretary, Wayne Vasta, there has been a recent "change in culture" at Qantas, although he did say it would be inappropriate to blame only outsourcing. He said that while previously Qantas engineers had simply attempted to do the best they could, "Now it appears we have got to do the best job we can possibly do, within a budget." He also expressed a welcoming of the CASA probe.Qantas' engineers are currently lobbying for a pay rise, and say the airline is risking safety with cost cuts.Peter Gibson, spokesperson for CASA, said no trouble had been spotted in recent safety audits of Qantas, but they felt it 'prudent' to investigate given the recent string of incidents. He acknowledged that the review is unprecedented in CASA's history, and announced the probe would be headed by senior official Mick Quinn."We want to look at their safety systems to make sure that the systems are operating the way they should. All these things are stated in manuals. We want to make sure that what is in the manuals is being done," Gibson told reporters. He said the investigation should take around two weeks.As many as 140 people are feared dead after a boat sank on the Kasai River, a tributary of the Congo River, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.The central African country, of equivalent size to western Europe, has very poor road infrastructure, meaning that many people travel on boats, which are often overloaded. The boat involved in the accident was travelling to the capital city, Kinshasa, from the town of Mushie. The accident occurred in the province of Bandundu, approximately 30 km (20 miles) from the provincial capital, where officials reportedly held a crisis meeting to deal with the incident.The boat is believed to have been overweight, carrying at least 180 passengers as well as goods.  It is the dry season in the Congo, so the river is shallow.  The sinking was reportedly the result of hitting a mud bank, causing the vessel to capsize. Lambert Mende, the Congolese information minister, said in a statement that at least 80 people had been confirmed dead while 76 were thought to have survived. However, the local police later announced a provisional death toll of 138, and possibly more.Safety standards are poor in the Democratic Republic, with overcrowding common on boats, which often do not carry lifejackets and are forced to navigate poorly marked waterways, meaning that fatal accidents are not uncommon in the country.The world's largest package delivery company, UPS has announced a $1 billion dollar expansion at its Louisville, Kentucky air hub to meet their projected future demands. The expansion will add an estimated 5,000 jobs and make the facility the size of 113 football fields when completed in 2010. It will make the facility  capable of handling nearly 500,000 packages an hour. UPS is already the largest employer in Kentucky with nearly 18,000 employees. Many of the positions are part time and are held by students from the University of Louisville and Jefferson Community College, with whom UPS has a tuition reimbursement deal.Rival United States airlines Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines announced today that they have agreed to merge. The new airline, which will use the Delta name, will be the largest commercial airline in the world.Technically, Delta will be buying Northwest in a roughly US$3 billion deal. Northwest shareholders will receive 1.25 shares of Delta for each share of Northwest. Based on Monday's closing prices on the New York Stock Exhange this represents a 17% premium for Northwest shareholders.Richard Anderson, the Delta chief executive officer who will also head the new company, said: "We said we would only enter into a consolidation transaction if it was right for all of our constituencies; Delta and Northwest are a perfect fit. Today, we’re announcing a transaction that is about addition, not subtraction, and combines end-to-end networks that open a world of opportunities for our customers and employees. We believe by partnering with our employees, including providing equity to U.S.-based employees of Delta and Northwest, this combination is off to the right start."The combined company would have $35 billion in annual revenue and approximately 75,000 employees. The deal does have to receive regulatory approval. "We will look at the competitive effects of the transaction and how it would affect consumers," said Gina Talanoma, a spokesperson for the United States Department of Justice.Airline industry consultant Robert Mann told Reuters, "It's a very optimistic view on an industry that's been very dismal for the last couple of weeks."Delta Airlines and Northwest Airlines, the third and fourth-largest US airlines, filed for bankruptcy protection from creditors on Wednesday. Together with United and US Airways, four of the seven biggest US carriers are now operating under bankruptcy protection, representing 51% of US passenger flight capacity. The filing occurred due to rising fuel prices, high labor expenses and competition from low-fare carriers.Delta and Northwest both said that bankruptcy protection would cause no changes for passengers in their flight schedules and frequent-flyer schemes. However, analysts say that cuts in some flights can be expected in the future.A US Airways Airbus A320, Flight 1549, has made an emergency landing in the Hudson River after a failed attempt to take off near Manhattan. There were 148 passengers and five crew on the flight to Charlotte from LaGuardia Airport. The plane took off at 3:26 PM EST (UTC-5) and went down minutes later. All aboard survived the landing.The United States Coast Guard has reported that they have sent units to the scene of the incident, and that a nearby ferry was giving life jackets to survivors. According to witnesses, the plane landed in the river, making a large splash in the water, at a somewhat gradual angle. "This looked like a controlled descent," said Bob Read, who witnessed the incident from his office.A source told The Wall Street Journal that the plane initially was maneuvering to make an emergency landing at nearby Teterboro Airport in New Jersey, but lost too much altitude and had to ditch in the river.Unconfirmed reports cite the pilot as saying that the plane encountered a flock of geese and that some of them went into both of the jet's engines, leading to a loss of powered flight. Passengers told the press that they heard a loud bang shortly after takeoff.A Federal Aviation Administration official said that the plane was airborne for only three minutes. For these rare water landings, pilots are trained to bring the plane down as they would on land, but with the landing gear still retracted.Salvage crews have dragged US Airways Flight 1549 out of the Hudson River in New York City. The Airbus A320 performed a successful emergency landing on water on Thursday after losing power shortly after departing La Guardia Airport.The aircraft was tied up at Nelson A. Rockefeller Park, Battery Park City for the last two days before the overnight lift. Efforts were complicated by strong currents and freezing temperatures, but the aircraft was successfully retrieved by a large crane from its Manhattan dock.The lift was completed slowly to allow the flooded cabin to drain as it was raised. The waterlogged cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder have been removed and sent to Washington.When the plane was lifted, extensive damage to its underside was revealed. The aircraft's right engine remains attached and was retrieved with the aircraft, but the left separated. Sonar has located what is thought to be the engine on the riverbed.The jet was landed on the Hudson by Captain Chesley Sullenberger, who is credited with saving the 155 passengers and crew on board. He testified that it was almost certainly birds ingested on both engines that brought down the jet.On Friday, the United States Department of Transportation announced new restrictions on flights to Cuba. The new policy, which is to take effect on December 10, prohibits all flights to Cuba, with the exception of flights to the international airport in Havana.US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo sent a letter requesting the new rules to Elaine Chao, the Secretary of Transportation; the new rules were released later the same day. In the letter, Pompeo cited the Cuban government's "ongoing repression of the Cuban people and its support for Nicolás Maduro in Venezuela" as his motivation. The new regulations do not apply to José Martí International Airport, for which Pompeo requested an exemption.Bruno Parrilla, the foreign affairs minister of Cuba, responded to the new rules via Twitter: "I strongly reject new #US blockade measure that bans #US airlines' flights to 9 Cuban airports [...] they won't extract any concession from us. We shall overcome!"According to CBS, the delayed implementation of the new policy provides airlines with 45 days to wind down Cuban operations. American Airlines and JetBlue are among the airlines affected, as they both offer flights to Cuban cities other than Havana.The move was the Trump administration's latest application of pressure on Cuba's government, following improved bilateral relations during the presidency of Barack Obama.United States automobile company General Motors announced it has lost US$6 billion in the first quarter of 2009, amidst heavy declines in revenues. Not including special items, the firm said it had lost a net $5.9 billion dollars, or $9.66 per share. In the first quarter of last year, GM had reported a loss of $381 million, or $0.67 per share. Most financial analysts had forecast the automaker's losses to be over $6.7 billion, or $11.05 per share. GM had also reported that it had spent $10.2 billion in an effort to prevent bankruptcy. The manufacturer has received over $15 billion in bailout money from the federal government.The company has a deadline set at June 1 to draw up a restructuring plan. If it doesn't do so by then, it will be obliged to file for bankruptcy protection."We're focusing very much on the cost side of the business but once you start losing revenues you get into a vicious circle from which you can't recover," said Ray Young, the chief financial officer for GM."We continue to see a 60-80 percent chance of a GM bankruptcy. While the GM equity today is largely uninvestable, we increasingly believe GM may emerge substantially stronger from a bankruptcy - provided the Chapter 11 process is not overly drawn out - particularly given the scope of targeted dealer cuts," analyst Himanshu Patel said.The final report into the crash of a B-2 Spirit bomber belonging to the United States Air Force (USAF) in Guam has determined that the crash was caused by moisture on sensors which caused the jet to receive inaccurate data. It was the first loss of a B-2, which costs US$1.4 billion.The aircraft, belonging to USAF's 509th Air Wing and carrying the name Spirit of Kansas, was attempting takeoff from Andersen Air Force Base on February 23 this year when the crash occurred. Moisture in three of the 24 air pressure sensors caused the sensors, all on the port side, to feed back inaccurate data to the flight computer.The aircraft crew believed the bomber had reached the takeoff speed of 140 knots when in reality it was traveling ten knots slower and rotated for takeoff. The malfunction also meant that the sensors showed the plane to be in a nose down position, causing it to command a high level of pitch, around 30 degrees. This, combined with the low takeoff speed, caused the aircraft to stall and veer to the left.Major Ryan Link and Captain Justin Grieve, who were piloting, ejected as the left wingtip struck the ground. They were injured, with Grieve suffering compression fractures to his spine, but survived. The wreckage came to rest to the runway's left.The report also noted that more effective communications could have prevented the crash. The vulnerability of the sensors to moisture was first detected by aircrews and maintenance staff in 2006, at which time it was discovered that turning on the 500 degree pitot heat prior to sensor calibration would evaporate the water and cause a return to normal readings. However, this was never formally noted and so the pilots of the aircraft were unaware of the potential problem or its solution.They were also unaware that, at an earlier time at the same base, another B-2's takeoff roll was aborted at 70 knots due to abnormal indications. After inspection by maintenance personnel, it was determined that moisture in the sensor system was to blame. After turning on the pitot heat the aircraft took off without incident.The United States' third-largest airline operator, Delta Air Lines, will cut 1,000 jobs due to a planned service reduction at their Cincinnati hub. The carrier also announced they will sell 11 of their Boeing 767-200 planes to an air-cargo company, ABX Air Inc., since they are the least fuel-efficient aircraft in the fleet.Cincinnati/Northern Kentucky International Airport lost 9 destinations, but the carrier said there would be no inconvenience to passengers. Delta will fly to 20 new "business destinations" from Atlanta and Salt Lake City, instead. Also 41 international connections are to be maintained or expanded.The changes took place due to the difficult financial situation of the company, which suffered $10 billion in losses since 2001, and warned that they would file for bankruptcy if unsuccessful in lowering costs.Shortly after 5:00 pm EDT on Monday, a northbound R6 SEPTA Regional Rail train collided with a northbound R5 train in the Center City section of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  The collision occurred underground past Philadelphia's Market East Station, near 9th and Vine Streets.  About 30 to 40 people on board the two trains suffered minor injuries, most of whom were riding in the front of the R6 train, however no serious or life-threatening injuries were reported.The R6 train, heading towards Norristown, Pennsylvania, departed Suburban Station at 4:44 pm, and arrived at Market East Station at 4:50 pm.  The R5 train, heading towards Doylestown, Pennsylvania, was running late and traveling right behind it was the R6.  Shortly after the R5 departed from Market East Station, the train deployed its air brakes in the tunnel, and then collided with the R6.  Although the collision occurred at only around 10 mph (16 km/h), the impact was great enough to toss passengers out of their seats.  One rider claimed, "All of the sudden, there was a real hard jerk, and the train just came to a complete stop. It felt like we hit something hard. But I was all right."After the collision, the R5 train was unloaded, and its 17 injured victims were taken to Jefferson University, Hahnemann University, and University of Pennsylvania hospitals.  After backing up to Market East Station to unload its passengers, the R6 later proceeded to the Temple University station to unload those who were injured, after officials realized it would be easier to unload at the above-ground station.  Police officers from the Philadelphia Police Department, SEPTA, and Temple University, rushed to the Temple University train station upon the train's arrival to help transport injured victims to the nearby Temple University Hospital. Firefighters and paramedics arrived at the station to assist the victims as well, transporting some of them off the train on stretchers.Uninjured passengers on the R6 train were transported by bus from Market East to Temple University, where they boarded an arriving R6 express train, which immediately switched to local service.  Following the collision, all trains passing through Market East Station were affected by delays of at least 20 minutes or more.  The out-of-service R6 train remained on one of the two outbound tracks at Temple University station, causing all incoming trains from Center City to queue behind one another on a single track, causing great delays for arriving trains at that station as well.Paramedics remained on the scene for two hours, and the accident scene was finally cleaned up by 7:00 pm EDT.  By 8:00 pm EDT, Regional Rail trains were running back on schedule after encountering delays of up to one hour.Authorities do not know the cause of the accident, however it is presumed to be a human error by one of the train's engineers.  According to a SEPTA official, "Trains are never under any circumstances supposed to be close enough to make contact so we take that very seriously and will be investigating that very seriously."  Investigations on the accident have begun by both local and federal officials, and the first meeting on this incident will be held by SEPTA on Wednesday.The crew of a United States-flagged ship managed to retake the craft from four Somali pirates on Wednesday, but the boat's captain is reported to be held hostage in a lifeboat. According to the authorities, a US destroyer and six other vessels were dispatched to the scene.The ship involved in the incident was the 17,000-tonne Maersk Alabama, which was headed to Mombasa, Kenya. It was attacked by Somali pirates about five hundred kilometers from Somalia's coast, according to the CEO and president of Maersk, John Reinhart.Ken Quinn, the ship's second mate, said that the four pirates were in the vessel's lifeboat with the captain, having sunk their boat after seizing the Alabama.The ship's crew had taken one of the pirates hostage in an attempt to swap him for the captain, but the ploy failed."We had a pirate we took and kept him for 12 hours," Quinn said to CNN. "We tied him up and he was our prisoner." The crew returned the pirate, but the pirates did not release the captain. "So now we're just trying to offer them whatever we can, food, but it's not working too good," Quinn said.The Maersk Alabama was carrying food aid to the Kenyan port of Mombassa when it was attacked by the pirates. Twenty US crew members were aboard. According to Quinn, the crew did not have any weapons, but pirates were armed with Kalashnikov assault rifles. The crew locked themselves in the steering gear compartment of the ship, and remained there for twelve hours. Quinn says that the pirates "got frustrated because they couldn't find us."Piracy in the waters off the coast of Somalia and the Gulf of Aden is rife: this is the sixth ship to be seized by Somali pirates in the area in a week. The last time an American ship was attacked by African pirates was in 1804.On Friday Ford Motor Company announced the United States Department of Justice was performing a criminal investigation of Ford's internal emission testing practices. Ford said in a financial filing to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that the criminal investigation started on some unspecified date after Ford voluntarily disclosed the matter to the federal government on February 21.Ford said in their filing the matter "currently focuses on issues relating to road load estimations, including analytical modeling and coastdown testing", and "does not involve the use of defeat devices" which were an issue with another automaker previously."Ford is fully cooperating with the government, and we'll keep them posted on what we're finding through our investigation and technical review", Ford told The Verge. In the filing itself Ford also made this point, writing "In addition, we have notified a number of other state and federal agencies. We are fully cooperating with all government agencies."In February, Ford announced investigating itself, following employee concerns that emission testing calculation could be inconsistent. The employees were reportedly concerned about the calculation of "road load", a measurement of ordinary resistance factors such as tire resistance and aerodynamic drag. Ford started its investigation by hiring law firm Sidley Austin, according to The Verge.According to the filing, Ford voluntarily disclosed this matter to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency on February 18, and also to the California Air Resources Board on February 21.The United States Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) has announced that inerting systems in airliner fuel tanks are to be made mandatory. The move, in conjunction with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT), is in response to a recommendation made by the country's National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) as part of its investigation into a 1996 air disaster. TWA Flight 800 was a Boeing 747 that exploded in mid-air twelve years ago today, on July 17, 1996, above the Atlantic Ocean. All 230 people on board the New York to Paris flight were killed as the aircraft disintegrated shortly after takeoff from John F. Kennedy International Airport. It was ultimately determined that center wing fuel tank had exploded after sparking faulty wiring ignited a volatile fuel-air mix in the tank.After the investigation was completed the NTSB requested that the FAA enforce the requirement of inerting systems to prevent dangerous fuel-air mixes from being ignited. One of the most feasible ways of doing this is with nitrogen pumped into the tank, reducing the amount of oxygen available and making ignition difficult or impossible. The NTSB has a 'Most Wanted List of Transportation Safety Improvements' and inerting systems for airliners have been on the list since 2002.Since TWA 800 there have also been similar explosions in Thailand and India, but both occurred on the ground and resulted in no fatalities.The FAA's new directive requires all new aircraft from August 20 to have the equipment fitted. It also requires all carriers to retrofit their fleets, with half of their airliners to be compliant within six years and every jetliner in the US to have the technology fitted in nine years.The FAA's announcement was made at the Virginia hangar where the remains of Flight 800 are stored.Air carriers, who until now have fought against the changes, say that there will be a cost running into millions of dollars. If the nitrogen system is installed, the cost of retrofitting an airliner is at US$92,000 for mid-range jets such as the Boeing 737 and Airbus A320, and costs $311,000 for a Boeing 777 or other similar long-range widebodied airliner. The 747, which has a large center wing fuel tank, is especially vulnerable to such explosions.The United States House of Representatives on June 29 passed a $1.17 billion funding bill for Amtrak in fiscal year 2006, an amount that is still short of the $2 billion Amtrak was originally seeking.  The funding was approved in an amendment to a more general transportation and treasury appropriations bill.  The House also removed the requirement in the bill that would mandate Amtrak to end passenger train service on currently unprofitable routes.  The funding has yet to be approved by the Senate.An Amtrak passenger train de-railed after hitting a pickup truck in Plant City, Florida, in the United States. The driver of the pickup truck was killed on impact. The crash occurred at a marked railroad crossing inside of an industrial area, according to an Amtrak spokesperson.None of the 133 passengers were seriously hurt, however, the train's engineer and five passengers were taken to a local hospital after suffering minor injuries. The remaining passengers were taken to a local bowling alley. Although the train's two locomotives and nine cars de-railed, they remained upright. Witnesses report the train sounded its horns at the appropriate times. It was reported the pickup truck simply drove in front of the train.The crash is the second to occur this week with a train; on Monday, a driver in a Pontiac Grand Am deliberately ignored the lights and crossing arms at another railroad crossing in the area, and drove around them, into the path of a different Amtrak train on the same route. The impact caused the car to go airborne. All four people in the car were killed; no one on the train was injured.Investigators with the United States National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) are looking into a serious runway incursion at Charlotte Douglas International Airport in North Carolina. A regional jet came within ten feet of striking a private turboprop.The incident occured on May 29. A Bombardier CRJ-200 owned by US Airways subsidiary PSA Airlines was cleared to take off.  As the jet moved off down the runway a Pilatus PC-12 was cleared to move onto the same runway and await permission to begin its own takeoff.As the jet headed towards the other aircraft a monitoring system called ASDE-X alerted air traffic control that the aircraft was on a collision course. The controllers immediately informed the PSA jet. As the aircraft approached the PC-12 the turboprop's pilot also realised the danger and moved his aircraft to one side of the runway.The jet was able to come to a stop just ten feet from the other plane. The CRJ-200 had 42 passengers and three crew on board, and it is unclear how many people were on the PC-12.The US government has filed a lawsuit against American Airlines on behalf of three pilots.  The pilots were employed by the company while serving in the Naval Reserve and Air National Guard.  The US Department of Justice alleges that when the pilots were called into active duty by the US military, American Airlines denied them employment benefits. The Department of Justice said in a complaint filed in the US District Court in Dallas that American Airlines conducted an audit of leave taken for military service by pilots in 2001.  The Justice Department charges that based on that audit American Airlines then cut the employment benefits of pilots who had taken military leave while not cuting benefits of pilots who had taken non-military leave.Justice Department Assistant Attorney General Wan Kim said "This nation depends on our reservists to faithfully carry out their duty. No reservists, indeed no members of the armed forces, should ever be punished or discriminated against for answering the call of duty."This is the first class action lawsuit under the 1994 Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act.Justin Reed, 22, a Corporal in the United States Marine Corps, has been arrested at Logan International Airport in Boston, Massachusetts after security personnel found a gun along with bomb-making material inside his checked-in luggage.According to Transportation Security Administration (TSA), Reed had traveled on a flight from Las Vegas, Nevada and was on a layover before he continued on to Charlotte, North Carolina. The discovery was made after his luggage was mistakenly routed to the baggage claim instead of his plane to N.C.Inside his checked-in luggage, authorities found a semi-automatic handgun, a loaded magazine with extra ammunition, a hand grenade fuse assembly, bomb-making materials which included military fuses, electronic boxes and switches, and model rocket engines. The TSA says that passengers are allowed to have a firearm in their checked baggage, so long as it is declared at the gate before checking it in, which Reed failed to do.Reed was arrested for possession of an infernal machine and possession of a concealed weapon in a secure area of an airport, says the Boston Globe.  He is being held on US$50,000 bail and will be in court on Tuesday.  It is not yet known why Reed was in possession of the items and an investigation is ongoing.Reed is stationed at Camp Lejeune, located in N.C..An amphibious vehicle belonging to the United States Marines capsized and sank to the floor of the Del Mar boat basin, California at 1130 PST (1930 UTC) resulting in one death and three injures.Three instructors and three students were conducting driver training when the vehicle capsized and sank, trapping them inside. Three injured individuals were transported to hospital and two were uninjured. The deceased Marine was rescued at around 1415 PST and was transported to hospital where he was pronounced dead at 1447 PST. Oxygen was being pumped into the vehicle for hours in an attempt to keep the Marine alive.Captain Daniel J. Thomas revealed that "There will be a thorough investigation into this mishap that occurred." He continued, "[there will be] reports that come, lessons learned in terms of preventing anything like this from happening." Major Thomas said that training would not be stopped, but "We’re going to take a look at this and the commander will then make a decision before anything goes back into place to make sure any safety briefing that need to be given are conducted."The identity of the dead Marine has not yet been revealed; the family have yet to have been notified.The United States military has confirmed that three of the six crew on board a B-52 Stratofortress that crashed near Guam's Apra Harbour yesterday are dead. The strategic bomber belonged to the US Air Force (USAF).The aircraft had been headed for a Liberation Day celebration to perform a flyover when it crashed thirty miles off the coast. Since the Monday morning accident 3,000 square miles of ocean have been searched, with aircraft drafted in from as far afield as Japan to help.The commander of the 35th wing in Guam told reporters that since the crash at 9:45 am local time "we've had no encouraging indicators that our airmen survived this crash." He also said that amongst the groups searching were the US Air Force, Navy, Coast Guard, and Drug Enforcement Agency in addition to Guam Fire and Rescue and Police Departments.According to the navy, there were no munitions or weapons on board at the time of the crash.United States President Barack Obama test drove a Chevrolet Volt Friday during a visit to a General Motors plant in Michigan. The visit was part of a larger trip to the Detroit area to discuss the progress of Obama's bailout of the auto industry earlier in his administration.As the president toured the factory, managers invited him to test drive the Volt, which will soon be manufactured there. After consulting reluctant top aides and Secret Service personnel, Obama accepted. "I hope it has an air bag," said press secretary Robert Gibbs. Obama hopped into the car with assembly manager Teri Quigley, buckled his seat belt, and crept forward about ten feet (three meters). As he got out he remarked that the ride was "pretty smooth".Obama visited the Detroit area to defend his controversial decision to invest US$50 billion in the failing auto industry last year. "It's estimated we would have lost another million jobs had we not stepped in," said Obama. Instead, job growth totaled 50,000 workers this year, the largest since 1999. Obama warns, though, that recovery is not yet complete.This was the second time Obama drove a car since early 2007, when as a presidential candidate he requested Secret Service protection. The first was a Dodge Charger, which he drove a few months ago at a Secret Service training facility.The United States has said that "regional extremists" may be targeting Air Uganda airplane flights between Southern Sudan and Uganda.A warning posted yesterday on the Web site of the US Embassy in Khartoum says there is a "potential threat" on the flights between Juba, Sudan and Kampala, Uganda. Juba is the capital of semi-autonomous Southern Sudan.The embassy did not name the potential attackers but said the threat is of "sufficient seriousness," and that air travelers should "maintain vigilance at all times." "[We have] received information indicating a desire by regional extremists to conduct a deadly attack on board Air Uganda aircraft," the embassy said in a statement. "[The] capacity of these extremists to carry out such an attack is unknown [...] [but] of sufficient seriousness that all American air travellers should be made aware."The Sudanese Foreign Ministry, however, commented that the threat wasn't "serious". Foreign Ministry spokesman Moawiya Osman Khalid commented that "they did not inform us of this security threat, we learnt about it from the embassy's website," as quoted by Agence France-Presse. "They did not ask for our cooperation, which they should have done before notifying the media."The US has increased its airport security following the failed attempted December 25 bombing of a Delta flight by a Nigerian man with explosives in his underpants. Sudan is one of fourteen countries where passengers headed for the US will undergo additional searches at airport security.Police in Barcelona, Spain yesterday were searching, according to reports, for a Moroccan man suspected of plotting an attack using a bus as a weapon during Christmas holidays. The United States State Department alerted the nation to the suspected plans.Las Ramblas, the scene of an Islamic State van ramming attack in the city in 2017, became the site of heavy police activity. The US State Department urged its citizens to be vigilant when in the area. Police were also patrolling a Christmas market at the nearby Plaza Cataluna, a major square.Catalonia's police force is the Mossos d'Esquadra. Based on the intelligence received, Spanish newspaper El País reported, they were hunting for a 30-year-old bus driver from Casablanca, with only a minor criminal record in Spain. Police were performing spot checks on bus drivers in an effort to trace him. The 2015 attack, which killed over a dozen, was also conducted by a Moroccan; within hours, five linked assailants had conducted a similar second attack elsewhere in the city. This Friday saw the arrest of a 35-year-old Moroccan male suspected of working for the Islamic State in Syria. The Spanish Interior Ministry has left its terror alert level at four on a five-point scale. Catalan Interior Minister Miquel Buch said the situation was being taken seriously; the national Interior Ministry, meanwhile, indicated enhanced security was already in force for the final days of the year on a precautionary basis.Reports indicated the suspect was not known to be currently in Spain.The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) of the United States and the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) in the United Kingdom are working together 'closely' after a Delta Air Lines Boeing 777 in the US suffered an engine power incident. The event has similarities to the crash of British Airways Flight 38 in January at London's Heathrow Airport.The AAIB and the NTSB are now collaborating to try and determine whether or not the two events are in fact linked. On November 26 a Delta 777-200ER cruising at 39,000 feet near Great Falls suffered a serious reduction in power on the right-hand (number 2) engine without input from either the flight crew or the aircraft's control systems. The pilots lowered the jetliner to 31,000 feet in accordance with procedures in the flight manuals and regained full power in the engine.From that point on, the engine behaved normally again. The flight, Flight 18 from Shanghai, continued to its destination of Atlanta.Investigators have noticed similarities to the January crash of a British Airways jet in London. Flight 38, another 777, suffered this same uncommanded loss of engine thrust in both engines during final approach to Heathrow on January 17, and crashed short of the runway. There were no fatalities, although several passengers were injured. The aircraft was written off.An interim report by the AAIB, which is leading the investigation into the crash of Flight 38, has suggested that an ice buildup during the trip from China in the fuel supply caused the accident. As a result, Boeing recommended pilots of such aircraft occasionally rev up their engines on lengthy flights to stop ice from building up.Both airliners were equipped with twin Rolls-Royce Trent 895 engines. The NTSB appointed Senior Air Safety Investigator Bill English as the accredited representative of the US to the AAIB on the London crash. Now, he has also been put in charge of the NTSB investigation into the Delta midair incident. The two investigative bodies are now working with each other to try to identify whether there are common circumstances behind both events.Among the parties to the investigation are Eaton-Argotech. The firm manufactures fuel systems for commercial airliners, amongst other users. Also participating are the US Federal Aviation Administration, Boeing, Delta, and the Air Line Pilots Association.Investigators with the National Transportation Safety Board in the United States have issued an 'urgent safety recommendation' in connection to their role alongside the United Kingdom's Air Accidents Investigation Branch in investigating loss of power in Rolls-Royce engines on Boeing 777s, with the AAIB following suit. One of them resulted in British Airways Flight 38 crashing short of the runway at London's Heathrow Airport last year. The NTSB and the AAIB want Rolls-Royce to redesign the engines.Both events occurred on Boeing 777-200ER airplanes powered by Rolls-Royce RB211 Trent 800 Series engines. On January 17, 2008 British Airways Flight 38 experienced a dual engine rollback (reduction of engine power) on final approach to Heathrow and crashed, leaving one passenger seriously injured, eight passengers and four of the flight crew with minor injuries and the airplane written off.The second event occurred on November 26, 2008, when a Delta Air Lines Boeing 777 experienced a single engine rollback during cruise flight over Montana, United States while en route from Shanghai to Atlanta. Normal operations resumed after the flight crew followed Boeing's published procedure to recover engine performance and the airplane landed safely in Atlanta.Boeing has already developed new procedures after the crash to prevent ice from building up within their 777 fuel systems after it became apparent that icing may have been a factor, and it was some of these that the Delta flight crew had followed. Boeing modified these further after the Delta incident. As part of the recent releases by the NTSB and AAIB it has become apparent that investigators from both bodies, which are collaborating, have found ice buildup in the fuel system caused both rollbacks.In both cases a build-up of ice (from water normally present in all jet fuel) developed on a component called the fuel/oil heat exchanger. This restricted the flow of fuel to the engine, resulting in the uncommanded engine rollback. Investigators initially struggled to produce enough ice under test conditions but have now found that at high concentration, fuel can form ice at very low temperatures in enough quantity to seriously restrict fuel flow, according to a new interim report by the AAIB. This does not occur when fuel demand is lower, as the hot oil then becomes sufficient to entirely melt the ice. The British jet experienced very low temperatures over Siberia. The vigorous tests are thought to be the first of their kind. They have also confirmed that while ice may have formed elsewhere in the airliner's fuel system fuel was probably not restricted at any other location. Instead, it is thought 'soft' ice formed in the pipes and then broke off, travelling to the fuel/oil heat exchanger and restricting it.The NTSB has now revealed that they have advised Rolls-Royce to redesign the fuel/oil heat exchanger, and Rolls-Royce have stated that they are indeed working on a replacement part that will be available within twelve months. The AAIB advised Boeing and Rolls-Royce to jointly review the problem across the fuel system, and both companies responded that they 'accepted' this recommendation and repeated that a replacement part was being developed.Both the NTSB and the AAIB also sent letters to the US Federal Aviation Administration and the European Aviation Safety Agency requesting the installment of the modified component be mandatory. The NTSB suggested this should be either the next maintenance check or within six months. There are 220 Boeing 777-200s - the only type using the affected engine - with Trent 800 series engines.The fuel/oil heat exchanger is a dual purpose part designed to simultaneously melt fuel ice and cool down engine oil.The AAIB further noted that it is unclear weather other aircraft designs are at risk, and advised the FAA and EASA to look into increased use of de-icing additives and investigate both the accumulation and sudden movement of ice in aircraft fuel systems and the actual formation of ice in the fuel itself.Ten passengers on board a British Airways jet that crashed in London's Heathrow Airport are suing the manufacturer of the aircraft. Documents filed before a court in Chicago, Illinois claim that Boeing were responsible for design flaws with the fuel system.The Boeing 777 crash-landed early in 2008 after engine power was lost on final approach, coming down short of the runway.  The aircraft was severely damaged.  The United Kingdom's Air Accidents Investigation Branch is still investigating, but interim reports have indicated that engine components became clogged with ice developing in the fuel.The crew of the aircraft were praised for their handling of the emergency, avoiding the perimeter fence and nearby houses. None of the 136 passengers and 16 crew were killed but some of those suffered serious injuries, including broken bones and facial injuries. Some were left unable to fly and there were cases of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.The case, run by London firm Stewarts Law, is that Boeing are liable for the design of the engine component upon which the ice settled during the accident. "Our clients are not critical of BA and feel that the pilots performed heroically in guiding the aircraft down in exceptionally difficult circumstances," said the partner in charge of the case, Stuart Dench. "However the two interim reports from the Air Accident Investigation Branch suggest design defects in the aircraft's fuel system and in particular its limitations in the prevention of dangerous ice build-up. The passengers we represent are therefore prepared to take on Boeing in its home court in Chicago, which is undoubtedly the most appropriate jurisdiction for this case."Boeing may seek to have the case heard in London before the High Court. If successful, the claimants are estimated by the media to be able to claim US$1 million (£600,000).A video showing a man being tasered by police and subsequently dying at the Vancouver International Airport has been released to the media. The cause of his death has not yet been determined.Robert Dziekanski, 40, was immigrating from Pieszyce, Poland to live with his mother, Zofia Cisowski, in Kamloops, British Columbia. He did not clear customs at the airport for over eight hours and his mother was unable to locate him when she went to meet him at the airport. Since Dziekanski did not speak English airport security guards were unable to properly communicate with him. He started yelling at the airport staff because of this. He used chairs to prop open a door between a customs clearing area and a public lounge, he then threw a computer and threw a small table at a luggage section window.He had calmed down and was standing with his hands at his side in the customs room until four Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers arrived and tasered the man, at least twice. Dziekanski began to convulse and was tasered a second time after falling to the ground, where the four officers pinned him down and handcuffed him. He screamed before he stopped moving. Paramedics arrived at the scene, but were unable to revive him and pronounced him dead.Dziekanski's mother had told him to wait in the luggage area where she would meet him, not realizing that this was inside the airport's security zone, which was inaccessible to her. Arriving international passengers need to pass through customs first, before being able to meet people waiting to pick them up. His mother had tried in vain to get a message to him and eventually left the airport when told by airport staff that he wasn't there.Paul Pritchard, who had just arrived from China back to Victoria, shot a video of the incident and gave it to police. The police promised they would return the video within 48 hours. They gave him back his camera without the video.Pritchard immediately hired a lawyer, held his own news conference, and threatened that he would take them to court to get it back.CBC, CTV and Global television paid Pritchard several thousand dollars for the video, and he says he will use the money to take care of his father."It was against his [Pritchard's father] wishes completely and my lawyer's wishes as well. Profit is such an ugly word, and I hope people realize that it's not a personal profit," said Pritchard."I extend my heartfelt condolences to Mr. Dziekanski's family, knowing that I could not hope to speak to the loss that they have suffered. I would also like to express my concerns for those people who were in any way touched by this extraordinary and tragic occurrence - our employees working that night, the various agencies involved, the emergency responders and the passengers who may have come across the scene," Larry Berg, President and CEO of the Vancouver Airport Authority said on November 1.According to a RCMP spokesman in Vancouver, the four officers involved in the case will testify in court under the coroners request, but it is expected to happen sometime next year.Polish ambassador to Canada, Piotr Ogrodzinski, said "Mr. Dziekanski (was) a person who was agitated, frustrated, I think terrified, but not aggressive. He was not making a gesture that he intended to fight anybody" and "he didn't know what to do. In fact, he was in search (of) help. That is why it is a really very sad and deeply moving film to watch."The incident is being investigated by the RCMP, the British Columbia Coroner's Service, the Vancouver International Airport Authority, and the Commission for Public Complaints Against the RCMP.Police warn more bodies may remain to be found after yesterday's crash of a vintage jet killed at least seven people. The Hawker Hunter crashed into a busy road during the Shoreham Airshow in England.The plane failed to pull out of a large loop at around 1:20p.m. It hit the nearby A27 road, erupting into a fireball and leaving cars burned out and heavily damaged. The scene in West Sussex is near the town of Shoreham.Pilot Andy Hill is presently alive but critically injured in hospital. He has previously flown with British Airways and the Royal Air Force. Two of the dead are Worthing United FC football players, Matthew Grimstone and Jacob Schilt, who were on their way to a match. Also killed was Matt Jones, 24, who worked as a personal trainer. He came from Littlehampton and was giving a friend a lift. A vintage Daimler wedding limousine on its way to collect a bride was also caught up in the crash, but its owner Chariot Chauffeurs say they are unclear on if the driver was a fatality.Sussex Police and the Air Accidents Investigation Branch are investigating. Police Superintendent Jane Derrick said last night, "At this time we are continuing to search[...] It is possible that tonight and tomorrow we are going to find more bodies at the scene." She said it is believed all casualties except the pilot were road users. At least fourteen were injured. Assistant Chief Constable Steve Barry today said eleven people are "highly likely to have died in this tragedy", based upon "our initial work at the site" and "inquiries following calls to the emergency services from worried families and friends". He said officers currently remain at the "incredibly large" scene. There are plans to remove plane wreckage using a crane tomorrow.The pilot, Hill, was experienced, with years of display flying under his belt and a military career that included flying Harrier jump-jets. David Wildridge, another pilot who took part yesterday, said Hill is "well-known and well-loved", "very professional", and that his Harrier experience made him "the best of the best."The 1950s jet was decommissioned from military service in 1996 and sold at auction. In 2012 English entrepreneur Graham Peacock bought it for around £65,000. It is a regular at airshows. Tina Tilley, head of the local chamber of commerce, was at the show and said "From where we were we could see the jet came down very low and looked like it was going to scoop up — but it didn't. There were flames and we knew it was right on the A27. Everyone was horrified and there were people crying." Motorist Dom Lawson, whose car was narrowly missed, said "It was like something out of Die Hard". The road closure left thousands trapped at the scene as they could not remove their cars.In a statement, Prime Minister David Cameron sent "his heartfelt condolences to the families of the people who were so tragically killed [...] [his] thoughts and prayers are with the families and friends of the victims." The airshow is cancelled today.It is one of three deadly European airshow crashes in four days. On Thursday two planes carrying parachutists collided and crashed in West Slovakia. At least seven were killed. They had been practising for an airshow due to be held this weekend. Today two small planes collided during an airshow in Dittingen, Switzerland. One of the pilots escaped but the other was killed.Earlier this year a pilot was killed when his plane crashed during an aerial display at CarFest in England. In 2007 a Shoreham Airshow display recreating the Battle of Britain ended with a pilot dead following a crash.Investigators in Ireland have found wiring problems in several Virgin Atlantic Airbus A340s as part of their investigation into a fire on board one such aircraft that was forced to divert to Shannon Airport. The Virgin jet was headed from London Heathrow Airport to Chicago with 143 passengers and thirteen crew on January 11 this year. A small fire was noticed in a waste bin storage area in the first class section's bar unit.A damaged wiring loom could be seen sticking out of a hole in the compartments floor, and there was visible electrical arcing in the area. An attempt was made to control the situation by switching off electrical circuits, but both the fire and the arcing continued unchecked.The aircraft's captain declared an emergency and diverted to Shannon, which the airliner reached thirty minutes later. During that time, the crew used five 1kg fire extinguishers upon the fire, but each time the arcing continued and after about five minutes the fire reignited. Witnesses described the fire as consisting of “licks of flame”.After performing a safe emergency landing the airport's Aircraft Rescue and Firefighting department tackled the fire with a 5kg extinguisher but met with similar results. After consulting with the crew the jet's power was completely shut down, after which the fire was finally put out. Virgin initially claimed the fire had never occurred.Investigators with Ireland's Air Accident Investigation Unit (AAIU) inspected the loom and found it to be “completely severed” and exhibiting “strong evidence of burning/arcing” according to a preliminary report released on Friday. The loom was identified as providing power and dimming circuits for mood lighting in the bar.The AAIU says that it seems the loom had contacted the metal waste bin in the compartment above. There should have been rails to hold up the bin and a protective metal cover, but “no evidence” of these was found and the report notes that “Initial inspection indicated the possibility that they were never fitted.”The bar unit is a modification exclusive to Virgin. The AAIU ordered all 36 of the airline's A340s worldwide inspected, with both France and the United Kingdom assisting with this. The UK has identified four other aircraft with faulty wiring, it has now been revealed. Virgin says that “A few minor issues were found and were immediately rectified,” and adds that “The installation of the bar was carried out in accordance with all relevant regulations. Virgin Atlantic continues to assist the AAIU in their investigation and looks forward to the full report with interest.”The AAIU says that "significant other issues are being examined by the investigation" in addition to the wiring defects. “These include the difficulties faced by the crew in isolating the damaged circuits, the emergency checklist, the design of the modification and the standards relating to such modifications,” said the report.Virgin's Boeing 747-400 fleet also has a similar bar installed on it, but there was not considered to be a risk to the aircraft's wiring on that model. The fire involved a bar added three years ago, with the aircraft manufactured in 1998.Sir Richard Branson, successful British entrepreneur, better known as the founder of the Virgin brand, has made a suggestion to the next British chancellor to both save MG Rover, the largest independent manufacturer of cars in England until it collapsed this spring, and help with rapidly rising oil demand. He wants the British government to give subsidies to the fallen car-maker so that it can be the first European producer of hybrid cars.A Virgin Trains train travelling at high speed collided with a car near Copmanthorpe, Yorkshire, England, killing the car's driver.The accident took place at approximately 20:55 GMT when the Class 220/221  train, travelling at close to 100mph, hit the car which was on the tracks.    The train then partially derailed but remained upright, coming to a stop further down the tracks. The car driver is believed to have been killed instantly. No one on the train was injured. The car was not at a level crossing. North Yorkshire Police said that the car had left the road, driven through a fence and ended up on the track. The train was the 14:25 Virgin Voyager cross-country service from Plymouth to Edinburgh Waverley, capable of speeds up to 125mph, but was deccelerating on approach into York. There were 74 passengers on board. The line between York and Leeds was closed for several hours, delaying other services. Virgin Spokesman Arthur Leathley told reporters that Network Rail hoped to have three of the four lines in that section of the track operational by Tuesday morning.A 9 Carriage Class 390 Pendolino train, with as many as 180 people onboard, operated by Virgin Trains has derailed and crashed in Cumbria, England.The train was the 17:15 service from London's Euston Station to Glasgow Central. Witnesses said that several passengers have broken bones. All but one carriage have slid down the embankment and all of the carriages were derailed. 5 people are still seriously injured in hospital, including the driver Ian Black,  and 11 people altogether are still in hospital. Hospital reports early on Saturday morning indicate 1 death, 84 year old lady Margaret Masson from Glasgow."It's our understanding there are a number of people injured on the train. We think there are numerous injuries," said a spokesman for the Cumbria Fire and Rescue squad, Brian Mitchelhill."A train has crashed between Oxenholme and Tebay, but that is all we know at the moment. We have got two cars travelling there now and local police are attending," said a spokeswoman for the British Transport Police.At least twelve ambulances and at least five fire trucks are at the scene, along with 3 Royal Air Force Sea King helicopters, two mountain rescue teams and one police helicopter.  The rescue effort was hampered by limited access to the remote site and poor weather conditions.  "At the moment, we have reports of various injuries, from leg injuries to back injuries and head injuries -- ranging from minor to quite serious," said an unnamed ambulance official."The carriage I am in is completely on its side, it did a sort of bump - and I was thinking don't worry this fine - but then the swaying became very dramatic," said a BBC executive, Caroline Thomson. "Where I am there are some injuries - a woman with a very badly hurt back but I suspect further up the train it's a bit more serious."First reports suggested that the train hit something on the track at 20:15 near Grayrigg, between Oxenholme and Tebay, derailed and slid down an embankment.  Early investigators reports say a set of points will be the primary focus of the investigation. All but one of the train's carriages are said to have totally come off the tracks, a spokeswoman said. So far 12 passengers have been taken to The Royal Preston Hospital, where three casualties are said to be in a "critical condition" and one serious. 3 passengers with limb injuries are at the Royal Lancaster Infirmary.  People with minor injuries were taken to a nearby farm before being transferred to a Kendal hotel.As of 22:16, Sleeper services over the affected line have been suspended. Other major services are terminating at Preston or Carlisle according to (UK) National Rail Enquires.  A five mile cordon has been set up to seal the crash site as investigators from the Rail Accident Investigation Branch attempt to determine the cause of the crash.Virgin owner Richard Branson came to the site from his holiday in Switzerland and held a press conference at a safe distance, roughly 200 meters, from the site. Branson stated that the Virgin Train Pendolino was "built like a tank", and believed the track was to blame. All of the carriages retained their integrity and none of the windows broke. Mr Branson also praised the driver of the train for attempting to stop the train and not leaving the cockpit.Network Rail has checked 700 sets of rail points in response to the accident, though no speed restrictions have been imposed.A Virginia man and Afghan national, Awais Younis, was arrested and charged on December 6 for making threatening communications and is currently being subjected to a mental evaluation which was ordered by a Judge during a hearing on December 9. Younis allegedly revealed his plans on the social networking site Facebook and is scheduled for a second hearing on December 21.  The unsealed court documents came to the attention of news media today.Federal authorities said that Younis told the FBI's witness on Facebook how to construct a pipe bomb and "what type of shrapnel would cause the greatest amount of damage". The FBI arrested Younis after an informant alerted them about his plans. According to an FBI statement Younis said that he could hide a pipe bomb under a sewer head in Georgetown and place pipe bombs under the third and fifth metro cars, which contain "the highest number of commuters on them", without being noticed. However, spokesman for the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Virginia, Peter Carr, assured the public that there is no danger, "The public should be reassured that activities prior to his [Younis'] arrest were carefully monitored and that there is no threat against Metrorail or the general public in the Washington, D.C., area"Younis is also known as Sundullah Ghilzai and Mohhanmed Khan and is either 25 or 26 years old.Mount Redoubt, a volcano in Alaska, erupted on Saturday, sending out clouds of ash thousands of feet high. According to the Federal Aviation Administration, the Ted Stevens Anchorage International Airport was shut down after ash reached the airport.Jeremy Lindseth, a spokesman for the airport, said that only small amount of ash reached the airport, but was significant enough to disrupt operations, as ash can cause engine problems for aircraft. He said that he was uncertain of how many flights were affected due to the eruption.The eruption happened at around 1:30 PM local time, the United States Geological Survey reported. The volcano had erupted four times on Friday, billowing ash up to 51,000 feet up into the air. These are the latest in a series of eruptions from Mount Redoubt, which started on March 22. The volcano had not erupted since a four-month period in 1989-90.The Alaska Volcano Observatory set its alert level at red, the highest possible level, meaning that an eruption is imminent, and that it would send a "significant emission of volcanic ash into the atmosphere."Martin Winterkorn, Volkswagen AG’s CEO, resigned yesterday after it was discovered the German motor vehicle company has been rigging emissions tests for their diesel vehicles. The company has not announced who his successor will be, but plans to discuss the issue tomorrow. Winterkorn has said that he was "shocked" by the rigging of the emissions tests. "Above all, I am stunned that misconduct on such a scale was possible in the Volkswagen Group", Winterkorn said in a statement issued yesterday.This resignation came after he issued an apology on Sunday about the emissions test rigging, which involved installing a program onto the company's diesel vehicles to manipulate test results. The program, referred to as a "defeat device", causes the vehicles to emit less nitrogen dioxide, a pollutant contributing to smog and possibly linked to asthma, during testing. Volkswagen's share value has dropped by one third, The Toronto Star reported. The stock prices of France car manufacturers Citroen, Renault, and Peugeot have also dipped. The Associated Press states that this may be due to concerns other car manufacturers are also engaging in illegal acts.The Volkswagen emissions scandal continued yesterday with the company announcing 800,000 mainly diesel vehicles may also be affected by carbon dioxide emissions problems.The company stated "the safety of the vehicles is in no way compromised". They estimated potentially this could cost them €2bn on top of the €6.7bn set aside to pay for the cost of correcting 11 million cars affected when the scandal broke, in addition to fines by regulators. This follows Monday's revelation that the emissions scandal has affected up to 10,000 vehicles sold in the USA by brands in the Volkswagen group, although the company refutes the allegation. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the regulatory body which has been investigating Volkswagen, claims the company fitted a number of recent Audi, Porsche, and Volkswagen models with technology that initiates secret components during emission tests to ensure the results are favourable.The scandal began with damaging revelations that the car manufacturer has been using illegal software to enable diesel cars to cheat on mandatory emissions tests. This lead to a public apology on September 20 by then-chief executive Martin Winterkorn and the promise of an outside inquiry. He then resigned on September 23, and was replaced by Matthias Müller. The new allegation about Porsche is of particular concern for Müller, because he had previously been in charge of Porsche.The company is expected to foot the bill for the recall of close to 500,000 VW and Audi cars affected at the time. There is also the possibility of Volkswagen having to pay federal fines of up to US$18 billion dollars because the US Clean Air Act sets a maximum fine of US$37,500 for each vehicle that contravenes the requirements of the Act.An investigation into alleged breaches of environmental law was originally initiated on the advice of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a European non-governmental organisation. The EPA requested tests be carried out by West Virginia University, where the secret software was discovered.The software, known as a "defeat device", enabled cars to identify when they were being tested and to switch on the emission control system. The devices may have been adding urea to the car exhaust because that would reduce the amount of nitrogen dioxide. The car would release a fraction of the nitrogen oxide compared to when they were being driven normally. Emissions of nitrogen oxide contribute to smog and are thought to have caused a rise in respiratory illnesses like asthma.Chief Executive of Volkswagen Martin Winterkorn issued on Sunday a public apology and announced an outside inquiry would be carried out, after the company became engulfed in a scandal about diesel emissions tests.Over the weekend there were damaging revelations that the car manufacturer has been using illegal software to enable diesel cars to cheat on mandatory emissions tests. An investigation into alleged breaches of environmental law was originally initiated on the advice of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a European NGO. The United States Environmental Protection Agency requested tests be carried out by West Virginia University, where the secret software was discovered.Volkswagen has suffered a significant drop of almost a fifth in the value of its shares. There have been knock-on effects for other car manufacturers who have also seen their share values fall after suggestions that the scandal could extend much further than just Volkswagen. The company will have to foot the bill for the recall of close to 500,000 VW and Audi cars. There is also the possibility of paying federal fines of up to US$18 billion dollars because the US Clean Air Act sets a maximum fine of US$37,500 for each vehicle that contravenes the requirements of the Act.The software, known as a "defeat device", enabled cars to identify when they were being tested and to switch on the emission control system. The devices may have been adding urea to the car exhaust because that would reduce the amount of nitrogen dioxide. The car would release a fraction of the nitrogen oxide compared to when they were being driven normally. Emissions of nitrogen oxide contribute to smog and are thought to have caused a rise in respiratory illnesses like asthma.On Wednesday, automobile company Volvo announced all of its cars to be released in 2019 onwards are to use some form of battery-powered engine, leaving conventional petrol-only vehicles altogether. The decision comes after Volvo announced in May their intent to cease production of diesel vehicles.The chief executive of Volvo Cars, Håkan Samuelsson, said, "People increasingly demand electrified cars". Volvo aims to release five new electric vehicle models between 2019 and 2021. While little has yet been revealed about them, the company has stated two of them are to be high-performance electric vehicles, branded as Polestars.Other car models from 2019 may be plug-in hybrid or 48-volt "mild hybrid" systems. Audi and Mercedes-Benz are also releasing mild hybrid cars for the European market."This announcement marks the end of the solely combustion engine-powered car. Volvo Cars has stated that it plans to have sold a total of 1m electrified cars by 2025. When we said it we meant it. This is how we are going to do it," Samuelsson said. Volvo is owned by Chinese automotive giant Geely, and China's Ministry of Industry and Information Technology has said by 2025 they want new vehicle sales to be 20 percent "new energy vehicles".A committee of Welsh Assembly politicians has called for an extensive programme of works to upgrade the railways in Wales, saying that Wales is not being treated fairly in comparison with other parts of the United Kingdom.  However, one academic who gave evidence to the committee says that the proposals, if implemented in full, would cost about £5 billion (more than US$8 billion), and it is unclear whether this level of public finance will be available.The Enterprise and Learning Committee made a number of recommendations to improve the rail service within Wales, and between Wales and England.  It calls for better links between the north and south of Wales, high-speed links from Wales to other parts of the UK, and light rail systems for the southern cities of Cardiff, Swansea and Newport.Other suggestions include upgrading the Severn Tunnel between south Wales and England, electrifying the line along the north Wales coast, and new carriages, especially on routes serving the valleys of south Wales. Improved access for passengers with disability is another area where the committee wants action. It also calls for more decision-making powers about railway matters to be transferred to the devolved government in Wales.The committee, which took two months to look over the report, said that it was concerned that passenger satisfaction with the service was lower in Wales than elsewhere. In addition, investment was needed to meet an anticipated increase in demand for passenger and freight services. It wants the possibility of reopening closed lines, or building new lines, to be examined.Committee chairman Gareth Jones said that the report "examines the long-term future of the rail network in Wales", adding, "The evidence we have gathered indicates that freight and passenger traffic on our network will increase over the coming years. The objective hopefully will be that Wales benefits from this extra traffic so that we are better placed in terms of high speed link connections with the rest of the UK and Europe. It is important that the Welsh government provides for that extra demand."Commenting on the report, Profesor Stuart Cole from the University of Glamorgan said that although the plans were ambitious, the committee had "set out very clearly what is required if you’re going to get a 21st century railway". The 21 recommendations would cost £5bn in total, with the three light rail schemes taking about one-third of that total, in his view.  Other improvements, for example between the north and south of Wales, could be achieved at a lesser price.  Cole, who gave evidence to the committee, says that "for an expenditure of £50m spread over three years we could get the journey time from Llandudno to Cardiff down from four hours to three hours and 20 minutes.”The Welsh Assembly Government will give its full response to the report at a later date. A spokesman said that a modern railway was "crucial" for Wales, and commented that the Assembly Government agreed with many of the recommendations.  Network Rail, which manages railway tracks in Wales and elsewhere in Great Britain, said that it would already be spending more than £1.5bn on infrastructure over the next five years, with improvements to over 120 stations planned.At least nine people have been reported killed in a serious collision incident between two metro trains in Washington, D.C., United States.The collision which occurred on the Red Line between Fort Totten and Takoma Park stations of the city's Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority during the early evening (1700 local time) is also reported to have injured a number of other passengers. The fatalities include the operator of one of the trains. At 7:58 pm local time, two more fatalities were confirmed, resulting in a total of six deaths.In a statement to media, Washington Mayor Adrian Fenty was quoted as saying  "With the four confirmed fatalities, it is my preliminary understanding that this would be then the deadliest accident in the history of our Metro train transit system," at a news conference following the incident.The Metro's general Manager John Catoe was also quoted as saying "We are extremely saddened that there are fatalities as a result of this accident, which has touched our Metro family. We hope to have more details about the casualties later today. Our safety officials are investigating, and will continue to investigate until we determine why this happened and what must be done to ensure it never happens again,"The cause of the collision incident is still unclear, although it has been suggested by some sources that a derailment or head on collision may have led to the incident.Highland Airways, which runs flights between Anglesey in north Wales and Cardiff in south Wales, has said today that it is business as usual, despite suspending online booking yesterday.  Meanwhile, Liberal Democrats have called on the Welsh Assembly Government to withdraw the £800,000 annual public subsidy for the route (about US$1.3 million) and use the money on "green public transport" instead.Although flights were continuing and passengers were told to "check in as normal", the company stopped taking bookings for future flights yesterday, blaming "technical difficulties".  However, it also said that trading conditions were "difficult".  The company's commercial director, Basil O'Fee, explained that the company's problems had been "exacerbated by the severe winter and resultant reduced flying and reduced income." He added that the board was in talks with potential new investors, and hoped for a outcome of these discussions to be known "within days rather than weeks"."It is now time to end this costly debacle before even more public money is poured into a service that is both economically and environmentally unsustainable," according to Kirsty Williams, leader of the Welsh Liberal Democrats. She wants the money spent on improving rail transport in Wales.However, Ieuan Wyn Jones, the leader of the Welsh nationalist party Plaid Cymru and the Assembly member for Anglesey, said that the service was an "essential link".  He hoped that the company would be able to keep going, or in a "worse case scenario", that the route would be run by administrators while the Assembly Government looked at other options.The company has carried 37,000 people on its twice-daily service since it started operating.  According to Jones, this showed that that the service "has been a huge success with passenger numbers far exceeding expectations".  Bidding for the next contract with the Assembly Government to provide the route closed last week, with Highland Airways thought to be the only entrant.  The lack of other bids was "particularly worrying", commented Jenny Randerson, Welsh Liberal Democrats transport spokesperson.  "This does suggest that despite huge public subsidy, this service is still not seen as a viable, profitable, and green solution to this key transport need", she said.Highland Airways is based in Inverness, Scotland, where it operates passenger and freight services for island communities. The news that the company was in difficulty was said to come as a surprise to business and transport leaders in Scotland, where it is regarded as a "Highland success story".A Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI) remotely operated vehicle touched down 10,902 meters (35,767 feet) in the Mariana Trench near the island of Guam.On Sunday, May 31, Nereus dove into the Pacific Ocean and began its descent into Challenger Deep the deepest area of the Mariana Trench."It's the deepest known part of the ocean. The trench is virtually unexplored, and I am absolutely certain Nereus will enable new discoveries," said Andy Bowen, project manager of WHOI, "Reaching such extreme depths is the pinnacle of technical challenges. The team is pleased that Nereus has been successful in reaching the very bottom of the ocean to return imagery and samples from such a hostile world. With a robot like Nereus we can now explore anywhere in the ocean. The trenches are virtually unexplored, and Nereus will enable new discoveries there. Nereus marks the start of a new era in ocean exploration."However, this is not the first time that a mission was sent into the trench. In 1998, the Japanese robot Kaiko was launched. In 1960 a two man bathyscaphe vehicle, the Trieste descended 10,916 meters (35,813 feet) to the ocean floor.Nereus can be operated remotely or it can run as an autonomous underwater vehicle AUV. It is currently attached to the mother ship via an optic tether the diameter of a human hair."Much of the ocean's depths remain unexplored. Ocean scientists now have a unique tool to gather images, data and samples from everywhere in the oceans, rather than those parts shallower than 6,500 meters (4 miles). With its innovative technology, Nereus allows us to study and understand previously inaccessible ocean regions," said Julie Morris, director of the National Science Foundation (NSF)'s Division of Ocean Sciences.  NSF assisted with the US$8 million project funding.Nereus will send videos and collect samples on the ocean floor at the trench's subduction zone and area during its mission."The samples collected by the vehicle include sediment from the tectonic plates that meet at the trench and, for the first time, rocks from deep exposures of the Earth's crust close to mantle depths south of the Challenger Deep. We will know the full story once shore-based analyses are completed back in the laboratory this summer. We can integrate them with the new mapping data to tell a story of plate collision in greater detail than ever before accomplished in the world's oceans," said geologist Patty Fryer of the University of Hawaii.In late December, Indonesian cargo ship MV Namse Bangdzod vanished in local waters. The tanker, gross tonnage around 1,150 and loaded with crude palm oil, had over ten crewmembers. Wikinews examined data and contacted experts and local authorities in an effort to establish further details.The exact date of disappearance is unclear, with industry publications reporting either December 27 or December 28. Crew totals are also unclear, with both eleven and twelve reported by industry sources while The Jakarta Post reports a captain and eleven other crew. Wikinews has contacted the Command and Control Centre of the Coast Guard seeking to clarify, among other things, the date of the disappearance and is awaiting a response.Wikinews is also awaiting responses from both the Coast Guard and the National Search and Rescue Agency detailing the efforts being made to find the ship, which was last known to be in the Java Sea. MV Namse Bangdzod sailed with cargo from Sampit, a port town on a river in Borneo; it was last bound for Jakarta. It is owned and operated by Indonesian companies and also registered in Indonesia. The 75 m (250 ft) ship was built in 1993 in Japan.Ships broadcast their position and other information via both the Automatic Identification System (AIS) and the Long Range Identification and Tracking (LRIT) system. AIS is a ship-to-ship safety system, but can also be detected from further afield by satellites. Marine Traffic's AIS tracking database shows a reestablishment of AIS contact by MV Namse Bangdzod on January 6, with a pattern described by Marine Bulletin as "rather hectic and kind of confused". In addition to asking local authorities, Wikinews sought expert input on the AIS data.Dr. Tristan Smith of University College London, a shipping researcher with expert experience interpreting AIS results, explained to Wikinews that crews might turn their AIS transponders off on purpose for security reasons, such as "in certain sea areas where piracy is a risk" in order to "avoid attracting unwanted attention. This can involve them being turned off for several days at a time." Doug Miller of Milltech Marine, a firm specialising in AIS, told our correspondent an AIS transponder will broadcast automatically provided it has power and antennae, even if the crew abandoned the vessel. Baslan Damang, a security official from the port of departure, on Tuesday told The Jakarta Post radio broadcasts were being used to alert other traffic such as fishing vessels to look out for MV Namse Bangdzod. He added authorities "are still waiting for updates on the tanker's condition, so please refrain from speculating that it had been hijacked". As of yesterday, no oil slicks or other evidence of accidents have been found along the scheduled route the vessel was due to take. A major search continues.Miller and Smith both acknowledged faults with the AIS system on-board as possible explanations, with Miller describing issues with the signal between the transponder and the satellite receiving it as one potential scenario for intermittent data reception. He too suggested a hypothetical scenario, in which "the AIS equipment has been tampered with or has been turned off for some of the time — either intentionally or accidentally or due to a power malfunction." Smith called the disappearance an "interesting" case; Miller said "It is a little hard to definitively say what's going on". Miller explained that while transponders generally transmit every ten seconds "even if the transponder is transmitting there is no guarantee that other vessels or MarineTraffic can see it". "It could also be a power supply issue or faulty transponder", said Smith.Smith told Wikinews "There are also some operations done on ships containing hazardous cargoes[...] where all risks of sparking/arcs need to be removed and radio transmitting equipment is sometimes turned off for this reason." He said this applied to product tankers, but the long duration of AIS downtime would in this instance be unusual if this is the reason. Smith had one more theory: Namse Bangdzod could be the victim of identity theft, with a second vessel conducting manoeuvres it wished to conceal while falsely transmitting information identifying itself as Namse Bangdzod. Smith told Wikinews this might happen in cases of illegal fishing. He stated "In this scenario, it would normally be expected that both the legal and illegal transmission would be received but depending on how Marine Traffic handle this, it's possible the two signals could be confused."Smith drew attention to LRIT as another method for search and rescue personnel to find the tanker. Unlike AIS, which is a safety and tracking system, LRIT is used for maritime security by seagoing nations. Created under the auspices of the International Maritime Organization, LRIT allows states to examine data about ships bearing their flag, visiting their ports, or in or near their waters. Like all vessels exceeding 300 tons, Namse Bangdzod is required to transmit LRIT data. Search and rescue bodies can also access this information; Smith told Wikinews he believed this would include foreign navies with ships in the Java Sea. Singapore, India, and Australia have in the past conducted emergency searches of the Java Sea: All three nations offered military assistance after Indonesia AirAsia Flight 8501 vanished in December 2014.Marine Traffic's website's most recently publicly available AIS result, as of Tuesday, showed the ship underway a few miles off Jakarta. VesselFinder listed no AIS results for the last month. Vessel Tracker's database had no sighting of the ship within the last 59 days on Tuesday; the website noted the AIS signal received from Jakarta but declared the ship was not actually there. Maritime Connector has an entry for the ship in its database but has no location data available.Local authorities, according to Maritime Bulletin, have noted other unusual AIS data. The website yesterday  suggested piracy, perhaps to obtain the valuable cargo, is now the most prominent theory. The Indonesian Palm Oil Producers Association reports a value of US$473.60 per metric ton of crude palm oil as of November 2018, with the price decreasing that month. "Its plausible that an explanation [why] the AIS transponder is not transmitting is that it had been turned off by pirates who wanted to hamper the efforts of a rescue mission" Smith told Wikinews yesterday.Yesterday the Search and Rescue Agency told The Jakarta Post it was intending to end its search on the basis of piracy, which is outside its remit; the paper also spoke to the Navy, who told it this was as-yet uncomfirmed and noted no ransom has been sought and the ship vanished from an area without previous piracy problems. Four Navy ships assisted by aircraft are searching. "We will continue searching until we find it," 1st Fleet Command's Navy Information Agency head Arba Agung told The Jakarta Post, which also today reported location data falsely showing the ship in Sunda Kelapa Port after its inaccurate position in Jakarta Bay was recorded.The British rail regulator has announced new train services for the country's premier line.New "open access" (unregulated and non-franchised) company Grand Northern is to be given space (known in the industry as "paths") to run three train services a day between London King's Cross and Bradford, Halifax, Wakefield and Pontefract in West Yorkshire. Grand Northern's sister open access company Grand Central was given an extra path to increase services between King's Cross and Sunderland.The existing franchisee of the line, National Express East Coast, was given the right to run services to London from Harrogate, Lincoln and Bradford, but not provided with paths unless the government changes the contracts of the other franchises whose territory these services would cross.Two other potential open access providers had their plans rejected by the regulator. First Group's Hull Trains had wanted to start a new service, Harrogate Trains, to run from North Yorkshire to London, whilst Platinum Trains had sought paths from London to Aberdeen in Scotland.Britain's state-owned national railway company British Rail was controversially split-up and privatized in stages between 1993 and 1997. It was replaced by a series of privately owned regional train franchises for set periods, several unfranchised open access services and a track control and maintenance company.Two railfans and a security officer who were at the  Metrolink station in Chatsworth, California on the afternoon of Friday, September 12, when Metrolink Train 111 collided with an oncoming freight train, say the train had received a green signal just before the collision. The witness accounts were published in a recent Los Angeles Times article. The wreck killed 25 passengers and injured dozens more.The accounts, if true, contradict the preliminary findings of officials investigating the crash, who have said that a red light was ignored. It was estimated that 350-400 passengers were aboard the Metrolink train when it crashed.The signal in question is located about a mile from the Chatsworth train station but, according both to witnesses and to investigators, is clearly visible from the station platform. One of the civilian witnesses, a railfan, was expecting the oncoming freight train, but says that when he looked at the signal to see whether the train engineer had an indication to proceed or not, he saw that it was green. A few days later, both he and the other civilian witness told a Federal investigator what they had seen. According to an expert interviewed by the Los Angeles Times, false green railway signals are an extremely rare event, but they do occur.It is not uncommon for eyewitness reports to disagree with each other or to be unreliable. However, in this case, the accounts of three witnesses agree with each other, and one of the witnesses is a professional security guard.  It is not known whether there are other witnesses who disagree with the three.Federal investigators have been focusing their investigation on cellphone records, which show that the engineer of the ill-fated Metrolink 111 commuter train had been sending and receiving text messages, including one only 22 seconds before the crash. They also conducted extensive tests of the signaling system. The signaling system functioned normally during the tests, and computer records show that the signal in question had been red immediately prior to the collision.Federal regulations require railroads to notify the Federal Railroad Administration any time that a false signal to proceed is known to have occurred. A number of different conditions can cause false proceed signals, including communication circuit failures, wiring errors or, more rarely, software bugs. In one instance, such a design flaw on an Amtrak line went undetected for nearly 35 years.An American Airlines flight from Washington to Dallas was forced to land in Nashville after a Dallas woman lit her flatulence to disguise its odour; several passengers noticed a suspicious smell.The Dallas woman, who had ignited her fart in the lavatory, had not been forthcoming about the burning smell noticed by other passengers.  All passengers and crew were disembarked while the plane and luggage were searched.A bomb sniffing dog located her spent matches and the woman admitted to lighting her fart to disguise odor after a "lengthy questioning" by the FBI.  She said her flatulence was caused by a medical condition.A spokeswoman for Nashville airport said "Since there was no malice involved and the incident was accidental, she was not charged with anything."After the flight resumed, the woman was not allowed back on the plane.A woman has died after the vehicle she was travelling in plus a second vehicle were both struck by a train at a level crossing in Herefordshire, England. The woman, who was aged 50, was reported to have been involved in a collision involving two cars and a train at a level crossing located near to the village of Moreton-on-Lugg at 1034 GMT on Saturday.The woman, who has currently not been identified, was airlifted to a hospital where she later died of the injuries that she had sustained.  The woman's husband, who was travelling in the same vehicle as her at the time of the crash, suffered from shoulder and pelvic injuries.  The occupents of the other vehicle — a 12-year-old girl and her mother — were also given treatment for minor injuries and shock and were subsequently discharged.The British Transport Police "are currently investigating an incident which took place at Moreton-on-Lugg level crossing in Herefordshire," according to a spokesperson for the police force. He stated: "Two vehicles were struck by a train on the crossing at 10:34AM on Saturday. The occupants of the first vehicle, a husband and wife who live locally, were taken to hospital. The female, aged 50, sustained serious injuries and was airlifted to hospital where she has sadly died. Her husband was taken to hospital by ambulance where he was treated for minor injuries."A 56-year-old Israeli woman has been hospitalized after attempting to commit suicide by letting a high-speed passenger train run her over on Sunday. Security cameras caught the entire incident on tape.The video shows the woman walking onto train tracks in the city of Beit Yehoshua as a railroad worker and bystanders watched her lie down. Seconds later, a train ran her over. After the train passed, the woman got up, brushed herself off, walked back to her car and drove away.Authorities tracked the woman down and took her to a local hospital for treatment. She only suffered minor injuries to her head.Police say she tried to end her life after losing her job as a travel agent.In the United Kingdom, the National Union of Rail, Maritime and Transport Workers (RMT) began a work stoppage at 19:00 BST (18:00 GMT) today after last-minute talks over pay, jobs and disciplinary issues broke down. The stoppage is expected to last 48 hours and could leave millions of travelers without transportation.Sky News says that there are fears that the strike may affect fan transportation for the England national football team's 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifier match against Andorra at Wembley Stadium tomorrow. Football Association (FA) chief executive Ian Watmore announced that the game would continue as planned at 20:15 BST (19:15 GMT) and encouraged spectators to arrive at the stadium early. The stadium gates will now open at 17:45 BST (16:45 GMT).No extra transport is being put on and overground trains will not stop at Wembley, and car parking and park-and-ride facilities are unavailable at the ground. Fears of lack of transportation raised the possibility that the game would be forced to play behind closed doors without the team's supporters.Watmore said that refunds will be available for supporters that do not attend the game. Last week, the FA decided to halt ticket sales at 70,000 in anticipation of a possible strike. Wembley Stadium can accommodate 90,000 fans for football matches.In years past, the RMT has been known to clash with the London Underground and its privatised contractors Metronet and Tubelines.On June 5, London Underground offered staff a four-year pay deal or a two-year deal which they called an "above inflation pay rise". However, the RMT is seeking a 5% pay raise and a commitment to no compulsory redundancies.The English national football team currently leads their group in the World Cup qualifying with 18 points and a 6–0–0 record. Andorra currently has no points and has lost all six of their matches. Although Andorra has been eliminated from competing in the 2010 World Cup, England is still competing for better placement.The world's least expensive car, the Tata Nano, has been launched in India. It will go on sale in April, and will start delivery in July. The automobile costs only 100,000 Indian rupees, or just under US$2,000."We are at the gates offering a new form of transportation to the people of India, and later I hope other markets as well," said the chairman of the auto firm, Ratan Tata, calling the vehicle a "milestone.""From the drawing board to its commercial launch, the car has overcome several challenges," Tata said. "I hope it will provide safe, affordable four-wheel transportation to families who till now have not been able to own a car."This was never conceived as the cheapest car, but as providing transport to those people who never owned a car," Tata said. "Driven mainly by the change in demand that we see elsewhere in the world, we suddenly felt we had a product that could be of considerable interest as a low-cost product in western Europe, eastern Europe, the UK and even the U.S."The Tata Nano is a four-door vehicle, and is 3 metres long, 1.5 m wide, and 1.5 m tall. It is equipped with a 33 bhp, 624 cc engine at the rear. No radio, airbags, power steering, or air conditioning are available in the basic model, although upgrades are available. The Nano Europa, a slightly larger European version of the car, is expected in 2011.According to Ravi Kant, the managing director at Tata Motors, the first 100,000 people to receive a Nano would be chosen from the initial orders by a ballot.An auto analyst for Bombay's Angel Broking, Vaishali Jajoo, predicted that the Nano will add only three percent to Tata's revenues even if it can sell a quarter of a million such cars per annum. "That doesn't make a significant difference to the top line," Jajoo said. "And for the bottom line, it will take five to six years to break even."Environmentalists say that the car will exacerbate traffic problems already rife in India, and help increase pollution levels. Tata, however, stated that its vehicle is the least polluting car in the country.The first trains were flagged onto the Qinghai-Tibet Railway line, the world's highest railway line connecting the Tibetan capital Lhasa with Golmud in Qinghai, China. At its highest point in the Tanggula Pass, the railway line reaches an altitude of 5072 metres.The line is designed for travel at speeds of 100 km/h on frozen ground to 120 km/h on non-frozen ground. The cabins are supplied with oxygen because of the thin air at the high altitudes. The windows have ultra-violet filters to keep out the sun's glare. Cooling pipes have been used to ensure the ground remains frozen.Air trips to Tibet are expensive and road trips slow and dangerous.Three trains, each carrying 900 passengers are scheduled to run daily along the line. The basic tickets cost 389 yuan to go from Beijing to Lhasa. The trip should take just under 48 hours. According to state television the tickets for the inaugural trip sold out within 10 minutes.Speaking at the flagging-off ceremony in front of the Golmud railway station, the Chinese President Hu Jintao said, "The project is not only a magnificent feat in China's history of railway construction, but is also a great miracle of the world's railroad history,"The Chinese government states that it spent more than US$95 million reducing the environmental damage of this railway. Passengers will not be able to open the windows of the train to litter. There will be a rubbish train to pick up refuse from various sites along the line.Critics claim that the railway will be used to assert control over Tibet as the line can quickly transport Chinese troops to Tibet during unrest.They also claim that the railway will damage both the environment and the culture of Tibet. Tibet is home to many endangered species such as the Tibetan antelope. On Friday, 3 women from the United States, Canada, and Britain were detained for displaying a banner saying "China's Tibet Railway, Designed to Destroy" at Beijing's main station."It's the first direct, low-cost, quick, and easy way for migrants to arrive in central Tibet. This will lead to the overwhelming of Tibetans and competition for scarce jobs. The eventual idea is the dilution of Tibetan language, culture and identity," said Lhadon Tethong, executive director of the New York-based Students for a Free Tibet."The railway line itself is not a cause of concern for the Tibetan people," said Thupten Samphel, spokesman for the Dalai Lama's government in exile. "How it will be used is the main concern.""Despite the rosy economic forecasts and dire predictions of Chinese control, the train is unlikely to touch off social disaster or commercial windfall," said Andrew Fischer, an economics researcher at the London School of Economics."When the railroad opens the commercial service and more people move in and out of the region, I think it will be good for the outside world to know more about Tibetan culture," Zhu, the railway official, said. "No culture can develop and thrive in a closed environment."The world's largest passenger aircraft, the Airbus A380, has made its maiden flight after lifting off from Toulouse in France.The take-off, at 08:30 UTC, was apparently normal and took place exactly on time. The aircraft flew into clear blue skies with a flight crew of six (all wearing parachutes as a safety precaution) and twenty tonnes of test equipment on board.Around 50,000 people watched the maiden flight, many sitting on grass banks lining the runway. More people watched the flight on a giant screen erected in the centre of Toulouse.The test flight lasted four hours, with the aircraft flying no higher than 10,000 nor further than 100 miles from Toulouse as it circled the Bay of Biscay.The A380, known for many years during its development phase as the Airbus A3XX, will be the largest airliner in the world by a substantial margin when it enters service.The first A380 prototype was unveiled during a lavish ceremony in Toulouse, France, on January 18, 2005. Its manufacturer's serial number is 001, and it is registered F-WWOW.The new Airbus will initially be sold in two versions: the A380-800, a full double-decker configuration, able to carry 555 passengers in a three-class configuration or up to 800 passengers in a single-class economy configuration. Range for the A380-800 model is expected to be 8,000 nautical miles (14,800 km). The second model, the A380-800F dedicated freighter, will carry 150 tons of cargo 5,600 miles (10,400 km).The cost of the project so far is £8.4bn, £1bn over budget. 144 planes have already been ordered. Singapore Airlines, which will be the first company to operate the new air giant, in July 2006, have opened a reservation site for this first regular flight.The Merchant Vessel (MV) Doulos, listed in the Guinness World Records as the world's oldest active ocean-going passenger ship, has docked in the port of Muscat, Sultanate of Oman this week.  The ship was built in 1914, two years after the Titanic, but unlike the more famous luxury liner, Doulos has over 90 years of safe sailing to her credit.  This "Grand Old Lady of the Sea" has undergone several periods of rebuilding and expansion throughout the 20th century and sailed under three different names, before being purchased by a Christian missionary group, Operation Mobilisation (OM), in 1977 and converted for their use.Doulos bills itself as "the world's largest floating book fair", and carries half a million books which represent about 6,000 distinct titles, which are donated and sold for modest fees to support the vessel's operation.  The books represent Christian literature and educational material in various languages.  Sailing from port to port throughout Asia and Africa, the crew of the Doulos sometimes finds itself faced with local restrictions against the sale of Christian literature, which it handles by separating the sacred books from the secular with a canvas divider, and evangelizing the guards who are sent to control access to the banned books.Most places visited by the Doulos and its sister ship Logos II (which travels North and South America) receive them with an enthusiastic welcome.  "Most places we visit don't have Borders or Barnes and Noble," said Lane Powell, publications editor for OM. "In other countries literature is more highly valued and this can be the biggest thing in town," Powell continued in his interview with ASSIST News Service. "People line up one to two miles in some parts of the world. We have 6,000 people coming on the Logos II in one day."The OM website claims that, since 1970, the two ships have together reached 30 million people in 140 countries, in 435 ports around the world.  The crews themselves are also quite international in character, with volunteers from 50 different countries.  Powell gives credit to their shared Christian background for their ability to get along with each other despite their differences.  The names of their ships also have Christian meaning: doulos means "servant" and logos means "word", as in holy scripture.The ship recently sailed to Jordan, Lebanon, and Egypt before coming to the Gulf of Oman, and docking in its Sultan Qaboos port, where it was received in style by the Tourism Minister Rajiha bint Abdulameer bin Ali, one of three female ministers in the cabinet.  Oman is the only country in the Gulf to have its own tourism ministry, created last year to encourage visitors to come partake in Omani life and culture.Said bin Ali to the Daily Times, "We are absolutely delighted to have a roving library second to none, busy inculcating reading habits among people at a time when it matters most."Also speaking to the Daily Times, Murthadha Hassan Ali said, "The importance of such a visit can't be over-emphasised in days when reading habits are waning and people are swarming restaurants as if we were born only to eat... Book remains your best companion, TV or no TV."  Ali described himself as a "compulsive book reader", and wants someday to start a public library in the capital city of Muscat, which currently has none.The 425 foot long (130m) library will weigh anchor and continue its missionary journey starting May 9, with plans to sail to Kenya, on Africa's east coast.A gas tanker which crashed onto a preserved railway line in Wolsingham, County Durham in the north of England has been removed. Yesterday, the vehicle fell 70 feet from a road bridge onto the Weardale Railway below and left the driver with serious injuries from which he later died in hospital.The driver of the Calor Gas vehicle has been named as Peter Williams who was 25 and from the Darlington area.The tanker was said to be carrying 13,000 litres of liquefied petroleum gas at the time of the accident and nearby homes were evacuated due to fears the gas may leak from the vehicle. Chris Hockaday, from County Durham and Darlington Fire and Rescue Service, described the operation to empty the tanker of gas and remove it from the scene: "The decanting finished at about 10pm and the tanker was then dragged along the track by a tractor, where it was lifted onto another vehicle by the specialist recovery company. It was then moved to a secure site for examination. The authorities left the scene at about midnight. Before decanting the gas, we had to right the vehicle, something which had to be done under great control in an operation which took about two hours."The Weardale Railway, which operates over a five mile section of restored track between Stanhope and Wolsingham, remains closed, but the company were optimistic about resuming services on the line.Managing director of the Weardale Railway, Steve Raine, said "The tanker was moved late last night so we haven't yet been able to properly examine the track. However, the damage appears to be quite light, and we're hoping we can get that fixed today." He said that services were most likely to resume this Saturday.According to the Brazilian air force, Brazilian military aircraft have found wreckage of an airplane in the Atlantic Ocean, about 650 kilometres off the northern coast of Brazil.The wreckage is suspected to have come from Air France Flight 447, a passenger jet that went missing over the Atlantic Ocean on June 1.The debris includes airplane seats and metallic objects. Pilots from TAM, a Brazilian airline had earlier said they saw what they perceived to be a fire in the Atlantic, but French officials say that no sign of wreckage had been found.Brazilian airplanes with sensors are currently scanning the area of the ocean where the debris was found."A TAM airlines plane from Brazil supposedly saw something on fire in the Atlantic Ocean. This was an aeroplane that landed today," said Jose Alencar, the Brazilian vice president.Air France Flight AF447 was an Airbus A330 carrying 216 passengers and 12 crew members that disappeared after it went into a severe thunderstorm. Authorities are not yet certain what caused the incident, but are pessimistic as to whether any survivors will be found.After an exhaustive two year, 20 million euro ($28 million) search, the final resting spot of Air France Flight 447 has been located. The location of the wreckage is six miles north of the plane's last reported position off the coast of Brazil at a depth of 3,800 and 4,000 meters (2,070 to 2,190 fathoms or 12,467 feet and 13,123 feet).The wreckage of the Airbus A330-200, was found Sunday by a team from the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, using a Remus robotic submarine and its side-scan sonar. After the wreckage was found, another Remus robot submarine with cameras was sent down to the site, where it filmed bodies in the wreckage.Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet, France's Ministry of Ecology, Energy, Sustainable Development and Sea, confirmed to reporters: "Bodies were found. They will be recovered and identified.""We weren’t prepared for that. We are now confronted with another trauma," Robert Soulas, vice president of Entraide et Solidarité AF447, a support group for families of victims of the crash, said. Soulas lost his daughter and son-in-law, who were on board the flight when it crashed. "For me, personally I would like to leave the bodies of my children, my two children, on the seabed."The remains of the plane, which were concentrated in a 600 metres by 200 metres (1,968 feet by 656 feet) area, appear to be relatively intact which leads investigators to believe that the plane hit the water intact and did not explode mid-air. Around 50 bodies of the 228 passengers and crew on board and parts of the plane were found shortly after the crash in 2009.According to Jean-Paul Troadec, the head of France's Bureau of Enquiry and Analysis for Civil Aviation Safety (BEA), the accident investigation body for aircraft overseeing the operation and investigation, the wreckage and bodies will be bought to surface and then sent to France for investigation. The salvage operation, which will cost around 5 million euros ($7.1 million) according to estimates, will be financed by the French government. Three salvage companies who are bidding to recover the wreck have until afternoon on Thursday to submit proposals. The operation should take between three weeks to a month.On raising the remains of the plane Troadec said: "We want to know what happened in this accident, most particularly so it never happens again." Some family members agreed saying such as Michael Gaignard, whose sister was on board the plane said, "We want to know what happened in that plane." An attorney for several families said some had yet to come to terms with loss of loved ones, saying "There's been no burial, no goodbye ... just lots and lots of suffering."Soulas of Entraide et Solidarité AF447 disagreed. "There's a very traumatic side to this and it causes problems of identification. We don't know what state they are in." He added, "And it risks causing a dispute between families who want to leave the bodies at the bottom of the Atlantic and those who want them brought to the surface."However, despite the discovery of the wreckage, the plane's two flight recorders, the flight data recorder (FDR) and the cockpit voice recorder (CVR) have yet to be found at the crash site.Alain Bouillard, who is in charge of BEA's recovery effort said, "It's still a jigsaw puzzle. We do not know where the recorders might be."There are concerns that the two-year length the recorders have been submerged in seawater along with enormous pressure located at the depth of the wreck, that the data on the recorders might be unreadable. Bouillard said it is possible the recorders were damaged, but had "great confidence" in their robustness.Without the recovery of the recorders, investigators may be unable to determine the cause of the crash. The leading theory at the moment is that the crew received incorrect air speed readings from the aircraft's pitot tubes, devices which measure how fast the aircraft is travelling. Experts say the tubes may have become iced over, causing the crash.The plane's Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) sent out 24 messages over a four-minute long period stating numerous problems and warnings, including incorrect air speed warnings occurring aboard the aircraft, just prior to it going down.According to Chinese state media Xinhua, a ship carrying a hazardous cargo has sunk into the Yangtze river. The vessel took its cargo of 100 tonnes of highly corrosive hydrochloric acid down with it after colliding with another vessel today.The report cited an official with the Hubei Provincial Environmental Protection Department as saying "We are paying close attention to the water quality in this area," and that acidity is currently normal. The collision, attributed to strong winds, occurred in Jiangxi Province, where the stricken ship was registered.The crew have been rescued and authorities say they have located the chemicals and are working to recover them. That process is expected to be completed early on Monday, according to Xinhua.Stead Mashushire, a 28-year-old Zimbabwean, has admitted today to stealing a Takaz commuter bus in Harare, Zimbabwe on August 7. He told the court he stole it because he needed transport to the Vehicle Inspection Department to collect his driving licence.The man waited at the Charge Office Bus Terminus in central Harare until the driver exited the bus, destined for the nearby town of Chitungwiza, and proceeded to a nearby supermarket to buy food, leaving the engine running. Mashushire then entered the vehicle and told all the passengers and the conductor inside to exit it; when they did this, he drove away in the vehicle. He informed those on board that the police had impounded the bus, which fitted with events in the area at the time, when police were impounding numerous buses after ordering fares to be drastically cut.The bus driver then returned to his bus, in time to see it being driven away without the passengers. He then attempted to chase the bus, and managed to receive help from a passing motorist, who pursued the stolen vehicle, leading to Mashushire being caught 7km from the scene of the theft.Mashushire today told the court "I admit that I stole the bus but the engine was running. I did not use my own keys to start the bus,".The court convicted Mashushire of theft of a motor vehicle based on his own guilty plea, and ordered him to undergo a psychiatric test due to questions about his sanity, per the Mental Health Act. He has been remanded in custody until August 29, when he will be sentenced.A cargo aircraft registered in Zimbabwe crashed today at Shanghai International Airport in China. Three of the crew have been killed.Another four people were taken to the Pudong Xinqu People's Hospital after the plane went down on takeoff and burst into flame. Firefighters responded with retardant foam and thick smoke could be seen rising from the airport. The plane, which had been flying to Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan, broke apart in the accident.The crash occurred between 7:40 a.m. and 8:12 a.m. The four surviving crew are reported to be conscious. None are Chinese citizens. Police are currently securing the scene.