Leading up to the 2008 Taipei Computer Applications Show (TICA), the 8th-annual Linux Forum, accompanied with Linux Expo Pavilion, started yesterday July 30 at Taipei World Trade Center Conference Roon 3 & 4 to promote the open source applications in Taiwan.With popularity of OLPC and Eee PC, mobile applications, low-price PCs, embedded systems, and enterprise applications are enrolled into the Linux Forum by forum organizer, Industrial Development Bureau of Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Republic of China.Since Linux-related solutions were promoted at Softex Taipei 2008 by Taipei Computer Association, as well as the organizer of TICA and Softex shows, executives from industrial, academical, and governmental people mostly cautioned the importance of Linux, which had also become another choice to be built inside a computer after OLPC and Eee PC.As several required functions from business software are built in some open source software, software and platforms complied with open source had become the second choice for consumers. UPP, an open source platform built by United Daily News Digital Corporation, is a typical example on open source application integrated to a USB flash drive.Apart from basic applications, some companies also demonstrated some examples of deploying and programming on a Linux-based platform. In addition, some experts recommended enterprises to consider user needs before introducing Linux as the desktop platform in the enterprise.After the Linux Forum, the Linux Expo will also showcase solutions of open source at TICA.Yesterday, at this year's Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC), company CEO Steve Jobs unveiled iPhone 4, along with the new iOS 4 operating system for Apple mobile devices.The announcement was long-awaited but not a very big surprise. In April, the technology blog Gizmodo obtained a prototype of the new phone and published details of it online. While introducing iPhone 4, at the annual conference, Jobs started by hinting at the incident, saying, "Stop me if you've already seen this."The new iPhone was praised by Jobs as "the biggest leap we've taken since the original iPhone." It is only 9.3 millimetres (0.37 inches) thick, making it "the thinnest smartphone on the planet", a 24 percent reduction from Apple's previous model, the iPhone 3GS. Structure-wise, iPhone 4 has a new stainless steel frame, which acts as an antenna, supposedly boosting its signal reception abilities and possibly reducing the amount of dropped calls. It also has a new screen, dubbed a "retina display," which displays images at 326 pixels per inch. During the keynote, Jobs demoed the device's new internal gyroscope as well. Even though it now uses Apple's faster A4 processor (first used in its iPad tablet), iPhone 4 has a claimed seven hours of 3G talk time, up two hours from the 3GS.In addition to its design features, Jobs showed off iPhone 4's new video calling abilities. This feature is called FaceTime, and connects with other iPhone 4s via Wi-Fi. The phone has two cameras: one on the front for video chats, and one on the back for taking pictures and other videos. The rear camera has a resolution of five megapixels, is capable of recording high-definition video, and has an LED flash.The iPhone 4 will use Apple's latest mobile operating system, iOS 4. Formerly "iPhone OS," iOS 4 was first introduced by Apple in April, and includes multitasking capabilities. Jobs called the new software "the most advanced mobile operating system in the world." iOS will support Apple's new mobile advertising service, iAd, which goes live on July 1.iPhone 4 will be available on June 24 in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Japan. It comes in two colors—black and white—and two storage capacities. The 16GB version is priced at US$199 and the 32GB version at US$299. The iPhone 3GS's price will be reduced to US$99, and the iPhone 3G will be discontinued. iOS will be available as a free software update to users of compatible older Apple devices (including the 3GS) on June 21. In the U.S., iPhone 4 will only be available on AT&T's cellular network, despite calls for Apple to let the iPhone be used on other carriers, such as Verizon.Competition-wise, the BlackBerry mobile device is still the most popular smartphone right now. Apple is also facing some serious competition from web giant Google's Android operating system, as well as Palm's webOS. Earlier this year, Android phones managed to outsell iPhones. iPhone users, however, account for over half of those surfing the Internet on a mobile browser in the U.S. Jobs also noted that over five billion iOS applications, commonly called "apps," have been purchased from Apple's App Store. The App Store currently has around 225,000 different apps for sale.SAO PAULO — Big Linux 2.0 Beta 3 has been released. Big Linux is a Live Compact Disc Brazilian Linux distribution, based on Knoppix.A Linux distribution is a software set with the Linux operating system and GNU software. The source code of Linux and GNU software is freely available and can be legally distributed among users. Big Linux is a Live Compact Disc version of Linux, which means it may run directly from the CD or optionally be installed on the hard disk.According to its developers, Big Linux aims to be easy to use and comes with many programs that are used by home users and offices. Some included programs are: KDE, Java, XMMS, Kaffeine, xine, Kopete, YES, XChat, Fullt, aMSN, the Windows runtime environments Wine and Cedega, the peer-to-peer applications xMule, BitTorrent and Apollon, OpenOffice.org, GIMP and AbiWord, the email clients Kmail and Thunderbird, and the internet browsers Mozilla and the proprietary Opera browser.Some features of version 2.0 beta 3 are: 3 versions of the Linux kernel -- 2.4.25 (for those who use Winmodems), 2.4.27 (stable) and 2.6.8 (performance) --, automatic detection of printers, higher boot speed, complete system of network and servers  and an automatic hardware detection mechanism. The graphical environment (known as X11) can have several configurations separated by kernel. In this way, the user can have an accelerated graphical environment configuration and an unaccelerated graphical environment configuration at the same time. If there is some trouble with the accelerated graphical environment configuration, this allows the user to switch to the unaccelerated one.Big Linux can be downloaded without charge at Big Linux downloads. This distribution is primarily intended for Brazilian users, although anyone can use it.Bitmover, the company producing a management program for computer source code named Bitkeeper (BK), announced on April 5 that it will no longer be providing a free version of its product.As a result of Bitmover's announcement, the programmer who wrote the original Linux kernel, Linus Torvalds, stated on a mailing list that he "decided to not use BK mainly because [he] need[s] to figure out the alternatives". As to an alternative to Bitkeeper, Torvalds hinted that he is considering Monotone but that Subversion, a recent replacement for CVS, is out of the running. Bitkeeper was originally developed to allow Torvalds to manage code contributions more easily, according to Jeremy Andrews at Kerneltrap.org, and was previously provided to kernel developers free of charge, though it was restricted in its use.Bitkeeper is the software that Torvalds and hundreds of other Linux developers use to manage submissions of code to the Linux kernel, the heart of  the computer operating systems referred to as "Linux" or "GNU/Linux". Linux is distributed in many different forms, bundled with other software by companies such as Red Hat, Novell, and Linspire.While the details are not clear, it appears from Andrews' article that Bitmover's decision to stop releasing the free version of Bitkeeper is related to a dispute with Torvalds' employer, Open Source Development Labs (OSDL).According to Kerneltrap, an OSDL contractor had been reverse engineering the free version of Bitkeeper in order to make an open source replacement, which is prohibited by the license under which the free version of Bitkeeper is released. Nevertheless, Torvalds notes in his post that he is "personally very happy with BK, and with Larry [McVoy, the CEO of Bitmover]."The Blender Foundation, which maintains the open source 3D tool Blender, has announced two new projects, codenamed Peach and Apricot. Project Peach will be a new open source movie, following in the footsteps of last year's Elephants Dream project (which was initially codenamed Orange). Apricot, on the other hand, will use Blender in conjunction with open source 3D framework Crystal Space to create an open game, thereby showcasing both technologies.The Blender Foundation published the plans on its website on Sunday. In order to support these and future projects, it will also set up a permanent studio called the "Blender Institute", where software developers and artists can work together in a single location. The Peach movie project will be headed by Sacha "Sago" Goedegebure from the Netherlands and Lyubomir Kovachev from Bulgaria. Goedegebure is well known in the Blender community for the "Man in Man" animation, which won the 2006 Suzanne Award for Character Animation. Where the theme of Elephants Dream was dark and industrial, Peach will be "funny and furry", according to the project announcement. The project is to be completed within 6 months, beginning October 1.Blender's open game project is still at an earlier planning stage, and details will be announced at the Crystal Space Conference in July. According to the published plans, the project will also be completed within 6-8 months, and it will have a budget of more than 50,000 Euros.The Brazilian government news agency Agencia Brasil, or Radiobras, says that it is transmitting audio and video through the internet using free software.  Proprietary software like Windows Media Player is not necessary to watch or hear the radio and TV transmissions.According to Diogos Gonzaga, from Agencia Brasil technology division, the agency is using the following software: Icecast for  the Ogg Vorbis codec  radio transmissions and the  Ogg Theora codec for the video ones.The user who wants to hear Brazilian radio transmissions can select among the following stations from Agencia Brasil: the National Radio(AM), the National Radio (FM), the National Radio from Rio de Janeiro or the National Radio from Amazon. TV transmissions can be watched by the NBR TV channel.Agencia Brasil started the change to free software in 2003.On Tuesday, Juventud Rebelde reported that the Central Administration of Cuba is organizing a migration to free and open source software. The announcement was made during a free software workshop organized at the "Convención Internacional Informática 2005" by the director of the state office of information technology, Roberto del Puerto.The plan is to use the Linux operating system as a base, though the administration currently uses Microsoft Windows. The transition is planned to be slow and involves organizational changes, development and creating a legal framework. The Linux user base in Cuba is around 1,500 people and has its own Linux distribution. Cuba also has some free software developers and the University of Information Science, with over 6,000 students, has committed one department for the development of programs for Linux which is a good move towards open sourceThe government of Cuba decided to change the OS on thousands of its computers. These will run on GNU/Linux instead of Windows. This step made by the Cuban government raises tensions between the country and the U.S. - based company Microsoft. The idea was welcomed by several Cuban ministers. This includes Ramiro Valdez, communication minister, who at a technology conference stated his position towards moving to free software. Richard Stallman, heading the Free Software Foundation, criticized the proprietary software saying that today it is rather insecure, and that unlikeproprietary software, free software develops democratically under the control of its users.Heading one of the largest universities in Cuba, Hector Rodriguez also showed his positive attitude towards the migration of the country to free  software. He outlined that Cuban customs service has already moved to Linux and several ministries are still to migrate. Among them are the ministries of culture, of higher education and of communication.Although it will take some time for Cuba to move to free  software, Rodriguez, as quoted by the Associated Press, declined to state the time it will take for the government of Cuba to move entirely to GNU/Linux. The pace of migrating to free software and open source software is very fast in Cuba. GNU/Linux has been adopted as an operating system by millions of computer enthusiasts around the world, and a number of local, regional and national governments have also advocated its adoption.Dell Inc. (Dell) announced Tuesday that, due to public demand, they will be offering an alternative to Microsoft Windows on a selection of their desktop and laptop computers. Dell will partner with Canonical Ltd. to pre-install the recently released Ubuntu 7.04 distribution of the Linux operating system.Until recently, Linux distributions have not been adopted by mainstream computer makers due to concerns over ease-of-use. Newer distributions, such as Ubuntu 7.04, have become much more user-friendly, with features such as automatic updates and software installation.Ubuntu director of business development Chris Kenyon told the BBC that one of the reasons Ubuntu was selected was its support features and hardware compatibility. "Dell are going to work with us to make sure Ubuntu works fully on its hardware," said Kenyon. A Dell representative suggested that the Ubuntu distribution was chosen due to public demand as expressed on a Dell-run forum website, IdeaStorm. "It was overwhelming, the response we got to the survey," said Jeremy Bolen, a Dell spokesman. Tuesday's announcement was not the first for Dell's Linux offerings. They have offered servers and workstations with an optional enterprise version of Red Hat Linux for some time now. The chairman and CEO of Dell, Michael Dell, is reported to have Ubuntu installed on his own laptop. Perry Donham, an analyst with Aberdeen Group of Boston, suggested that the Dell-Ubuntu partnership will benefit Ubuntu more than it will Dell. "It's going to be a small part of [Dell's] market," said Donham. "But it's a great win for Ubuntu and for Linux in general."Dell indicated that the Ubuntu-based computers would be available in the next few weeks, from Dell USA only for the time being. The pricing structure has not been revealed, or when such computers would be available in countries other than the United States.The 3D animated short film Elephants Dream, formerly known as Project Orange, was released to the Internet yesterday. The film is available under the Creative Commons Attribution License, allowing anyone to download, modify and distribute it. The 10-minute film has been called "the first open source movie" by NewsForge. Not only is the movie itself free content, even the computer files containing the 3D models used in the film are available under the same terms.The project was first announced one year ago and was jointly produced by the Blender Foundation and the Netherlands Media Art Institute. The film tells the story of Emo and Proog, two men trapped inside a surreal machine world. Only freely available open source software was used to create the movie. Most of the work was done using Blender, a 3D modelling and rendering tool. The Blender Foundation is selling an extended edition on DVD, which includes subtitles in 34 languages, a Making Of documentary, commentary tracks, and all files used to create the movie.In spite of the successful completion of the project, the Blender Foundation "has no intention to grow or expand into a company or studio" according to the project website. "Instead, the Foundation aims at endorsing and supporting activities within (educational) institutes, universities and companies."An EU Commission-funded research studied costs and benefits of adopting open source software, such as Linux or OpenOffice.org instead of proprietary software such as Microsoft Windows or Microsoft Office. The study was conducted on six organizations from European nations. The study concluded that:In addition,The study also reported that they found "no particular delays or lost of time in the daily work due to the use of OpenOffice.org" (p. 283) instead of Microsoft Office. This is bad news for Microsoft, who is in a legal battle with European Union over its monopolist behaviors. It is also competing with a number of open source software distributors for the market. Microsoft recently released an update to its popular operating system Windows, as well as to its browser Internet Explorer and its office productivity suite Microsoft Office. These products are competing with distributors such as Red Hat, Firefox, and OpenOffice.org.After 12 years of work, the first beta version of Wine (WINE = Wine Is Not an Emulator) , entitled "version 0.9", has been released today.Wine is a free software implementation of Microsoft's Win32 API.  This means that it enables non-Microsoft operating systems to run software that was written for Microsoft's operating systems. Wine is not just a simple emulator, but a complete rewrite of the whole Windows API and standard libraries (DLL's).Written by a community of developers, which includes some companies whose businesses are based on it, Wine runs on POSIX compliant operating systems such as GNU/Linux and Unix-based operating systems. Wine allows a user of one of these operating systems to run Windows applications without having a copy of Microsoft Windows.As the beta term suggests, more work is expected before the final release is made. The pre-release status of the software has not prevented some from using it for years to run a wide range of software, including modern games, office software, and news reading applications.Wine is seen by advocates as an important tool for enabling people to migrate generally away from Microsoft's Windows operating system, or specifically to free software operating systems such as GNU/Linux and FreeBSD.  If a piece of software that is important to a person or business is only available for Microsoft Windows, it can tie that person or business to using Microsoft Windows.  Software such as Wine can free people of such ties (sometimes termed "vendor lock-in").Wine is distributed under the terms of GNU Lesser General Public License.  This means that the software can be freely used and redistributed, and its source code can be studied, modified, and redistributed. It can also be integrated into software that does not grant these freedoms (proprietary software).There are no direct competitors to Wine.  The two most related software packages are VMware and Win4Lin, but neither is free software, and both require that a copy of Microsoft Windows is installed.  Rather than working as an emulator, they allow for more than one operating system to be run simultaneously.Two related products that are based on Wine are CrossOver Office and Cedega.  Each is the flagship product of a company, CodeWeavers focusing on office and TransGaming Technologies focussing on games emulation, respectively.  While neither product is entirely free software, CodeWeavers do contribute their modifications to the Wine software back to the Wine community.Freecol, a free software (under the GNU General Public License) has been released in Piedmontese. This makes the game, clone of Sid Meier's Colonization the first game to have been released in this language which is only spoken by about two million people.Freecol, the simulation of the historical process that lead to the Declaration of Independence in North America, is the first computer game to be localized in Piedmontese language. Players of the game need to take administrative and political actions to reach its goal. Version 0.7.0 in Piedmontese was released on July 13, 2007. Speakers of regional languages hope this will serve as an examplar, so that more localizations of the game in other regional languages will be released over time.The localization was done on Betawiki, the platform which is also used for the localization of the Mediawiki software.The first phone that runs on Google Android was unveiled today by T-Mobile. The announcement of this new handset, named the T-Mobile G1, was made in an event run by T-Mobile USA which took place today.The event started at 14:30 UTC (10:30 local time) when Cole Brodman, the chief technology and innovation officer of T-Mobile USA, started introducing the people who were going to be present at the launch. These people were Andy Rubin, who represents Google, and Christopher Schlaffer, who is the CTO of Deutsche Telekom.Five minutes later Schlaffer announced that Google Android will be available for Christmas 2008 on T-Mobile for customers of Deutsche Telekom. The new phone was then revealed by Cole Brodman, who described the phone as "iconic." Commentators, however, dismissed claims that the phone was iconic.  Marguerite Reardon from CNET said that Android looks rather like the iPhone, and as a result she does not think the phone can be described as iconic. She also said that the Android device looks the Danger Hiptop device, which is also known as the T-Mobile Sidekick.The new phone will be available free in the UK for users with contracts that cost over 40GB£ (Approximately 74 US$) per month. These planned tariffs are expected to include unlimited web access.Android is completely open source, and was developed by Google and the Open Handset Alliance, a partnership of over thirty companies working to develop open source software for mobile phones.The Free Software Foundation (FSF) has announced today the release of the first version of gNewSense, a new GNU/Linux distribution based on both Ubuntu and Debian. The goal of the newly created distribution is to offer an operating system which is 100% proprietary software free.Generally, GNU/Linux distributions comes with proprietary software such as kernel drivers (eg. NVIDIA and ATI card drivers), the Opera web browser or the VoIP Skype software among others.  According to its developers: “From a philosophical perspective we wanted to create a GNU/Linux distribution where the user has access to all the sources for all software on the system. This includes everything from the heart of the kernel through to the everyday desktop applications."  Ted Teah, FSF's free software directory maintainer explained, "With all the kernel firmware and restricted repositories removed, and the reliance on Ubuntu's proprietary distribution management tool gone, this distribution is the most advanced GNU/Linux distribution that has a commitment to be 100% free." gNewSense will provide users with full security updates and is available for immediate download in LiveCD ISO format along with a version of the Ubiquity graphical installer. The developers have also created a set of tools called Builder that allows users to create their own gNewSense-based distributions.In the new 1.0 version, gNewSense has removed all non-free firmware from the kernel, removed access to the Ubuntu Restricted component (such as links to LaunchPad which are redirected to the gNewSense webpage for now) and replaced the Ubuntu logos with its own. Also the UniVerse component is enabled by default and Emacs, BSD games, NetHack, and build-essential part of the default install.There already exists such a distribution called Ututo which aims for zero proprietary software but it never really took off in popularity. A few years ago, Mark Shuttleworth, founder of the Ubuntu distribution, also initiated a similar initiative dubbed Gnubuntu but it never materialized.The Free Software Foundation released the first draft for the next version of the GNU General Public License at the International Public Conference for GPLv3 in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, today. The revisions mark the first changes to the GPL since the second version was released in 1991.According to Richard M. Stallman, the president of the Free Software Foundation, the most significant change to the license are changes to allow GPLv3 to be compatible with other popular free software licenses, notably the Apache Software License 2.0 and the Eclipse license. A second significant change, according to Stallman, is the addition of a clause prohibiting the use of GPL software for Digital rights management (DRM), "something for which there can never be toleration."As of noon EST today, the license is available in draft form on the Free Software Foundation's website. The conference about the license, which continues now and into Tuesday, is being held in Building 10, Room 250, on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Approximately 200 people attended the morning session of the conference, during which Eben Moglen gave what he called a "quick" 90 minute overview of the license changes.While Moglen's presentation covered a great deal of legal detail, it was not without levity. When the cell phone of Dave Turner, an FSF staff member sitting in the front row, rang during Moglen's speech, Stallman broke in, requesting of the audience, "If you have brought in a portable tracking and surveillance device, you should turn it off," before making other remarks about the police.The crowd at the conference included a large number of free software celebrities, including Bruce Perens, Andrew Tridgell, and Chris diBona. According to Wikinews reporter Brandon Stafford, it seemed that IBM and Sun were the corporations with the most employees present. Representing the companies were Bob Sutor, Craig Cook, and Mark Brown from IBM and Simon Phipps and Doug Johnson from Sun.  Also in attendance were representatives from Intel, Redhat, MySQL AB, Hitachi, and Qualcomm, among others.The Lower Saxony, Germany tax authority is migrating 12,000 desktops to use SuSE Linux with KDE as the desktop environment.  The systems are being migrated from Sun's Solaris x86 version 8, which has been in use at the organization since 2002.According to Eva Brucherseifer, president of the KDE community in Germany and managing director of basysKom, the migration process in its "peak phase" and is porting 300 systems every day.  The company basysKom is configuring the desktops.Brucherseifer said "The decision made by the Regional Tax Office in Lower Saxony represents an important step towards increased flexibility, enhanced usability and — last but not least — reduced training and support costs." German cities using or planning to use open source software include Schwäbisch Hall, Mannheim, Treuchtlingen, Leonberg and Isernhagen. Mannheim is planning to deploy Linux on 110 servers and 3,700 desktops.The GNOME Project announced today the release of the latest version of its free desktop environment for Linux and Unix operating systems. Version 2.12 of the GNOME Desktop has several new features including an updated look and feel, an improved file manager, a new "About Me" panel to keep a user's personal information and Evince, a new PDF and PostScript document viewer. Several components comprising the GNOME Desktop, including its Web browser, e-mail client, and multimedia applications, have also undergone significant changes.Owen Taylor, chairman of the GNOME Foundation's board, explained that "GNOME 2.12 looks better than ever before and brings greater consistency." He added that "[t]here are useful new features throughout the desktop, carefully implemented to increase usability while keeping GNOME simple and intuitive."The GNOME Desktop, which is available in 43 languages, has received some attention over the past few years with large deployments, affecting hundreds of thousands of users, reported in Spain and Brazil and several more on the way in Ireland, the United Kingdom, and China. The Italian South Tyrol province of Bolzano reported only a few days ago that 16,000 students would now be using the GNOME Desktop in private and public schools. Software vendors such as Real Networks, Mozilla (responsible for the Firefox browser), the Eclipse Project, and VMWare have adopted elements of its developer platform for software development.More than 500 people, both volunteers and employees of sponsoring companies, make up the GNOME Project, which releases a new version of the GNOME Desktop every six months. The GNOME Foundation provides organizational support to the project.On Wednesday, Mark Shuttleworth, founder of the Ubuntu operating system, announced the open source OS will end its ties with the Unity8 desktop environment and that Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Long Term Service) will be shipped with the GNOME desktop environment by default. Unity has been Ubuntu's default desktop environment since it was released six years ago in 2011.In his blog post, Shuttleworth explained growth of products are decided by the market and the community. Canonical, Ltd., the software company behind Ubuntu, could not gain investors from Unity8, Ubuntu Phone and the convergence shell. Instead, they are shifting their Ubuntu focus on to cloud and IoT (Internet of Things), which Shuttleworth notes finds application in "auto, robotics, networking, and machine learning".Canonical — after making controversial desktop environment Unity the default — launched their own smartphone in 2013, called Ubuntu Edge, with a crowd funding campaign target of US$32 million but could not cross the US$13 million mark. A couple of years later, Canonical partnered with bq, Fairphone and Meizu to launch Ubuntu phones. Unity worked  for Ubuntu phones but did not perform well in the global market. "I'm not giving up! I will do my best to keep Ubuntu touch and Unity8 standing on both it's legs!", Ubports' developer Marius Gripsgård posted on his Google+ profile on Wednesday."The choice, ultimately, is to invest in the areas which are contributing to the growth of the company", Shuttleworth wrote in the blog. Following this announcement, GNOME tweeted, "Welcome back Canonical! Ubuntu 18.04 LTS to ship with GNOME by default!". Currently, Ubuntu is available in various desktop environments like Ubuntu GNOME (GNOME), Ubuntu MATE (MATE), Xubuntu (XFCE), Kubuntu (KDE Plasma), Lubuntu (LXDE) and Ubuntu Budgie (Budgie), though Unity remains the default for the upcoming version, 17.04 (Zesty Zapus).A collaboratively-developed operating system kernel known as GNU Hurd has been made bootable using the L4 microkernel, which provides room for significant speed improvements over an existing implementation using the Mach microkernel. The newer architecture also has a more lively developer community.Developer Marcus Brinkmann made the historic step and finished the process initialization code, which enabled him to execute the first software on Hurd-L4. In a message to the L4 port of GNU Hurd mailing list, Brinkmann wrote, "We can now easily explore and develop the system in any way we want. The dinner is prepared!". [1] However, the kernel's current feature set is very limited. "With my glibc port, I can already build simple applications, but most won't run because they need a filesystem or other gimmicks (like, uhm, fork and exec), and I only have stubs (dummy functions which always return an error) for that now," he added in a later posting. [2]Compared with Linux and BSD Unix's monolithic kernel architecture, a microkernel based operating system provides developers greater modularity and isolation from hardware, a big win with L4 already being available for a large number of hardware varieties.There is a cost in speed for such abstraction, and this cost was higher on Mach, at around 15%, compared with only around 5% on L4 and it's predecessor L3, both developed by Dr. Jochen Liedtke. [3]The greater modularity and abstraction of a microkernel approach means that the microkernel itself does not need constant modification as is seen in the Linux kernel today, since it provides only the very minimum of services, and does so very carefully. Thus, the fact that L4 was developed in 1996 is seen as exemplifying this stability -- rather than showing its age -- since few, if any, improvements in approach have been imagined in the meantime.However, the Mach kernel first developed ten years earlier at Carnegie Mellon University is seen as a flawed first implementation, with the lessons learned being implemented in microkernels like L4, known as second-generation microkernels.The GNU Hurd forms the base of the GNU operating system, much of which has been widely adopted by users of other Unix-like operating systems, including Linux. The GNU Project has been developing the Hurd since 1983. In 1990, the GNU Project decided to use the Mach kernel, rather than writing their own. [4] The Hurd is released as free software under the GNU General Public License (GPL).The Hurd kernel is an experiment which aims to surpass existing Unix kernels in functionality, security, and stability, while remaining largely compatible with them. It currently runs on Intel IA32 machines. According to the GNU Hurd project, "The Hurd should, and probably will, be ported to other hardware architectures or other microkernels in the future" [5].`Hurd' stands for `Hird of Unix-Replacing Daemons'. And, then, `Hird' stands for `Hurd of Interfaces Representing Depth' - perhaps the first software to be named by a pair of mutually recursive acronyms.A limited port of Linux already runs on L4, known as L4Linux.Google announced today that they are developing Google Chrome OS. The operating system, announced on their official blog, will be based on their Chrome browser, which is now nine months old.Google said that at first it will be targeted toward netbooks, but in the future, will eventually expand.  The company said that it will continue to be developed alongside Android, their operating system currently being used on mobile devices.The system will run in a windowing system atop a Linux kernel and will be fully open source.  It is planned to be released in 2010.  On their blog, Google said, "Speed, simplicity and security are the key aspects of Google Chrome OS.  We're designing the OS to be fast and lightweight, to start up and get you onto the web in a few seconds," said the blog post written by Sundar Pichai, Vice President Product Management, and Google's engineering director, Linus Upson.Both men said that "the operating systems that browsers run on were designed in an era where there was no web" and that the new OS is "our attempt to re-think what operating systems should be".The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has dedicated $1.24 million in funding in its effort to protect open-source software. Stanford University, Coverity and Symantec have all taken up the challenge to perform daily scans of code, hunting for security bugs. An automated system to achieve this search will be in place by March '06.United States —"IBM hereby commits not to assert any of the 500 U.S. patents listed below, as well as all counterparts of these patents issued in other countries, against the development, use or distribution of Open Source Software." [1]So begins the pledge IBM has made to "any individual, community, or company" writing or using software defined as "open source" by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).The patents include software for text recognition and database management.[2]"True innovation leadership is about more than just the numbers of patents granted. It's about innovating to benefit customers, partners and society", said Dr. John E. Kelly, IBM senior vice president, Technology and Intellectual Property. "Our pledge today is the beginning of a new era in how IBM will manage intellectual property."[3]"This is not a one-time event", said Dr. Kelly. "While IBM will continue to demonstrate leadership in patent output, through measures such as today's pledge, we will increasingly use patents to encourage and protect global innovation and interoperability through open standards and we urge others to do so as well."Lawrence Lessig, law professor at Stanford Law School and free software proponent commented:  "This is exciting.  It is IBM making good on its commitment to encourage a different kind of software development and recognizing the burden that patents can impose."[4]Not all are confident of IBM's motives, though.Florian Mueller, campaign manager of anti-patent website,NoSoftwarePatents.com, accused IBM of hypocrisy because of lobbying in the European Union to push through theComputer Implemented Inventions Directive."IBM is just being hypocritical because they want to appease the open source community and make themselves popular," said Mueller."In Europe, IBM is a driving force behind the extension of the scope of patentability with respect to software. If IBM wants to assume the role of a post-Christmas benefactor, they'd better stop their aggressive patent lobbying in the EU and their shameless squeezing of small and medium-sized companies with its patent portfolio." [5]If you've always wanted to live in a world populated by elves, dwarves and wizards, you don't need to pay for a World of Warcraft subscription or buy the Special Extended DVD Trilogy Edition of The Lord of the Rings just yet. You could instead give Battle for Wesnoth a try — an open source turn-based strategy game in a fantasy setting. For the practically minded, "open-source" means that the code which the game is made of is available to anyone who wishes to use, redistribute or change it. It was created by volunteers and can be freely shared. Even the multiplayer online part of the game is free (no ads or spyware either).But Wesnoth, as it is often abbreviated, is notable not only because it is free. While its graphics are simple by modern standards, the sheer number of units and scenarios that are available for the game is staggering. This is where the "open source" philosophy comes truly into play: anyone can contribute art or new campaigns. As of May 2006, the forum where users can share and discuss their own art contained over 25,000 messages. Most of this art is made available under the same open source terms as the game itself.Battle for Wesnoth lets you command armies of units such as archers, swordmen, mages and gryphons during the course of a campaign consisting of multiple missions. Typically, your mission is to defeat an enemy leader, but some scenarios let you liberate a prisoner, find a lost artifact, traverse dangerous territories, and so on. Your best units can be taken from one mission to the next, "levelling up" in the process. Even units of the same type vary in their abilities, making the tactical use of the right unit at the right time very important.The game is reminiscent of turn-based strategy classics such as Heroes of Might and Magic or Warlords. Throughout each campaign, the player is informed of the progress of the story. For instance, in the "Heir to the Throne" campaign, the player follows the story of Prince Konrad, who must reclaim the throne of Wesnoth from an evil queen.The game was originally designed by David White, who is still the project's lead developer. We exchanged e-mails with David about the state of open source gaming, the future of Wesnoth, and the collaborative aspects of game development.David, thanks for taking our questions. Open source games suffer from the problem that very few people have all the abilities needed to make a good game: programming, graphics, story development, sound effects, music, and so on. When you started Battle for Wesnoth, how did you deal with this? Not very well.  :) Version 0.1 of Wesnoth was developed entirely by me, and it was ugly. It had awful graphics, and no sound or music at all.I think the best way to deal with the problem is to make an early version of the game which showcases the desired gameplay. Then, people with the appropriate skills who like the game will contribute. This worked out well with Wesnoth, anyhow, as I soon attracted a fine artist, Francisco Munoz, and once the graphics were decent, more people started wanting to help.I noticed that the forum allows anyone to submit art for the game. How important have contributions from ordinary players been for development?Well, as with almost any free software project, contributions from users have been very important. In the area of art, this is definitely so, though making a substantial contribution of art generally requires a reasonable amount of skill, so the number of people who can contribute art is somewhat limited.This has meant that the number of people who contribute art is much smaller than, say, the number of people who contribute bug reports or feature requests. Still, there are plenty of good pixel artists out there, and we have had many good contributions from our community.Also, within the game itself, it's possible to directly download new campaigns from the Internet, many of which have been created by players. Do you think that, in essence, we are seeing the beginnings of applying "wiki" principles to game development?On one hand, I see the ability to directly download new campaigns as a mild convenience — it wouldn't be much more difficult for the user to, for instance, go to a web page and download campaigns.On the other hand, it does blur the line between 'developer created content' and 'user created content' and so, like a Wiki, makes it much easier for any user to contribute to the game.I think that for an Open Source game, making it as easy as possible for users to contribute content is a key way to help make the game succeed. We have tried hard to do this in Wesnoth. I don't think that with something dynamic like a game, it's quite as easy to make absolutely anyone be able to edit it or contribute as easily as they can in a Wiki, but we have tried to make it as easy as possible. How do you moderate user-submitted content? Are there scenarios or graphics you have rejected because they crossed a line — sexual content, excessive violence, etc.?Well, there are basically three levels of content acceptance:'Official': content can be accepted into the game itself — the  content will reside in our SVN repository, and will be in the tarballs released by developers.'Campaign Server': Content can be allowed on the campaign server (the server which users can connect to in-game to download more content).'Disallowed': Finally, content can be disallowed on the campaign server, which means that the creator could only distribute it using their own channels (for instance, having a web site people could download it from).Content only makes it to (1) if the developers happen to like it very much. We don't have any firm rules as to what is allowed and disallowed, and a campaign that has short-comings from the developer's point of view might still be allowed if it is exceptional in other areas. As an example of this, the campaign 'Under the Burning Suns' contained explicit references to religion. To avoid controversy, we wanted to avoid references to religion in Wesnoth. However, recognizing the exceptional quality of the campaign, we decided to accept it into the official version of Wesnoth in spite of this one aspect we didn't like.Artwork containing nudity has also been a controversial point in the past, as has violence (particularly explicit depiction of blood). We generally take the point of view that we will review each item as it comes, rather than making blanket rules.With regard to whether we allow things onto the campaign server, (2), our general policy is that to be allowed onto the campaign server, the content need only be licensed under the GPL. However, we reserve the right to remove content that we consider to be distasteful in any way. Fortunately, our content submitters are generally very reasonable, and we haven't had to exercise this right.Our aim is to keep Wesnoth appropriate for users of any age and background — of course, it contains some level of violence, but this is not depicted very explicitly, and only parents who do not want to expose their children to animated violence of any level need be concerned. For this reason, we also do not allow expletives on our forums or IRC channels.How do you feel about games like "Second Life", where players trade user-generated content for money?I've never understood the appeal of games like that. I don't enjoy cheating in games, and to me buying items with real money seems like cheating — except worse, since it actually costs money.What changes to the game or gameplay do you anticipate in the coming months and years?Well, we've avoided making many gameplay changes at all, since very early on in Wesnoth's development. Wesnoth is meant to be a simple game, with simple gameplay, and 'changing' gameplay will probably lead to it being more complex. We want to keep it simple.Changes will probably focus on improving existing features, and making the engine a little more customizable. Enhancing the multiplayer component is big on the list — we've progressively added more and more features on the server. We also want to add more graphical enhancement. For instance, a particle system to allow various combat effects.If you had unlimited resources at your disposal to improve the game, what would you change about it?Wesnoth was always designed to be a simple game, with simple goals. It has exceeded all the expectations I originally had for it. There is still some 'polishing' work going on, but really I don't think there is too much I would dramatically change.Probably the largest thing I can name is a much better AI than we currently have. I'm pretty happy with the AI developed for Wesnoth — I think it's much better than AIs for most commercial games — but it could be better. That's the only area of Wesnoth that I think could really be very dramatically improved.I am pretty happy with our in-game graphics. Some people compare our graphics to modern commercial games, and think our graphics are laughably poor. We often get comments that our graphics are around the same quality as those seen in SNES or Genesis games, or PC games from a decade ago. (These people should try playing a strategy game on the SNES/Genesis/PC from this long ago; Wesnoth's graphics are much better).I am very happy with our graphics overall. I think our artists have done an excellent job of making the game look attractive without detracting from functionality. Adding 3D graphics, or changing the style of the 2D graphics would only be wasted effort in my mind — I think we've achieved a great balance of making the game easy and clear, while making it look good.With unlimited resources, I would like some more storyline/cutscene images, and a nice new title screen, but these are relatively small concerns I think.There are some enhancements to multiplayer I would like added — multiplayer campaigns is a long-time feature request. As are more options and features on the multiplayer server.Overall though, if I had 'unlimited resources', I'd much rather develop an entirely new game. We don't have enough good Open Source games — it's a waste to pour all the resources we have into one. :) Wesnoth has dwarves with guns, World of Warcraft has gnomes and goblins with explosives and flying machines — where do you, personally, define the limits of the fantasy genre? Are there scenarios playing in a steampunk world, or ones with modern technology? Would you allow those?Actually we have Dwarves with 'Thundersticks' :) — mysterious weapons that make a loud sound and do lots of damage, but are clumsy and unreliable. The developers do not comment on whether or not these 'thundersticks' are or are not like 'guns' on earth. We like to keep Wesnoth slightly mysterious, and leave some things up to the player's interpretation, rather than spell it out.We once used to have dragoons with pistols, and other weapons like that, but we made a very intentional decision to remove them.I don't like categorizing things into 'genres'. Many people debate whether Wesnoth is an 'RPG', or 'strategy game', etc. I think the debate of what genre something is in is largely irrelevant.We do have a vision for what the world of Wesnoth is like though — and Wesnoth is a world of ancient-era weaponry, with a little magic. Of Elves and Dwarves and Orcs. Very much inspired by Tolkien. I actually originally chose this setting because my focus was on technical excellence — writing a good, solid engine — not on creating a new fantasy world. I decided to stick with a very well-known, proven theme, figuring I couldn't go wrong with it.We probably wouldn't allow anything that departs dramatically from the world we've made into the official version of the game, but we'd be happy to have it on our campaign server. The main attempt at a 'total modification' of Wesnoth is a project known as Spacenoth, which has a sci-fi/futuristic theme.At this time though, there is no release of this project. I hope they do well though.How do you feel about turn-based games like "Heroes of Might and Magic" with their massive army-building and resource management? Do you think there's going to be an open source equivalent of this type of game soon?I haven't played Heroes of Might and Magic very much. The few times I have played it, I thought it was boring to be honest. I don't like the type of game where one marches armies around a 'large map' and then must 'zoom in' to a different 'battle field' every time a battle takes place. I find games like that to take far too long, and tend to become tedious.I would prefer a civilization or perhaps colonization type game. FreeCiv is nice, though it's close to being a clone of Civilization II. I'd like an original game that had the same sort of theme as civilization, but with new and innovative rules.Every online game and community is also a social space. Have you met interesting people through Wesnoth whom you would not have met otherwise? Are there other stories you can tell from the community — have there been real world meetups, chat rooms, etc.?I've come into contact with lots of very interesting people through Wesnoth, and have learned a great deal from them. The Wesnoth developers — many of whom are from Europe — used the LSM conference in France in 2004 as an opportunity to meet each other. Nekeme, an organization dedicated to developing and promotion Free games was kind enough to sponsor two developers to go. Unfortunately, I was not able to attend, but the developers who did had a very nice time.We have several IRC channels on irc.freenode.net, and the most popular ones — #wesnoth and #wesnoth-dev are usually fairly busy with both discussion about Wesnoth, and friendly discussion of other topics.Also, the developers have tried to make a habit of playing "co-operative multiplayer" games against the AI. During these games, we use the in-game chat facility to get to know each other better, and discuss improvements to the game.Are there other open source games that have personally impressed you, or that you enjoy playing?I'm afraid I haven't played many. I like RPGs, and I know lots of people love NetHack and similar games, but I much prefer party-based and generally more storyline-oriented RPGs.FreeCiv is pretty well-done, though I am happy to play commercial games, and so I think Civilization 3 and Civilization 4 are both technically superior in virtually every regard. I think that's an inevitable problem when you make an Open Source game a straight clone of a commercial game.Probably the most promising Open Source game I've seen is GalaxyMage, but it still has a long way to go.Honestly, I don't play that many games. I like playing commercial RPGs, usually console-based, with my wife, and I occasionally like playing the commercial Civilization series. To play an Open Source game, it'd have to be very good, and appeal to my tastes, and I haven't found any Open Source games like that, sadly.The United Kingdom-based mobile Linux developers OpenedHand have announced that they have been acquired by the Intel Corporation, merging the Linux company with the Intel Open Source Technology Center."We are pleased to announce that OpenedHand Ltd has been acquired by Intel Corporation," said OpenedHand in a statement it released on the acquisition. "The OpenedHand team will join the Intel Open Source Technology Center and will focus on the development of the Moblin Software Platform, the optimized software stack for Intel Atom processors."The statement continued by stating that  "Intel will continue supporting open source projects currently led by OpenedHand staff such as Clutter and Matchbox projects, and in most cases, will accelerate these projects as they become an integral part of Moblin."Rob Bamforth, an analyst for Quocirca, said that this move showed the importance of Linux on mobile devices. He said that "we saw it [large companies purchasing mobile Linux development companies] earlier this year with Nokia buying Trolltech, it's a sign that the mobile space is not as clear cut as the something like the PC one." He continued by stating that in the PC market "you have a market dominated by PCs with Macs for some specialist users, but mobiles are not like that - there's a diverse range of products, and, if anything, it's becoming more diverse." OpenedHand has previously sold its products to companies such as One Laptop Per Child, iRex, Openmoko, ST Microelectronics, Access Co., Vernier and Nokia.Three days after the Internet release of the free content 3D short Elephants Dream (see Wikinews coverage), we exchanged e-mails with Ton Roosendaal about the reaction to the film, open source filmmaking, and the changes to Blender that resulted from the production. Ton Roosendaal is the lead developer of  the Blender 3D rendering and modelling software that was used for the movie. He is also the chairman of the Blender Foundation, a non-profit organization which was formed in support of the software and projects like Elephants Dream.How much money did the Blender Foundation spend on producing the movie? Has the money been fully recouped by DVD orders and donations?We still have to finish the final bookkeeping for this project. It has been executed in co-production with the Netherlands Media Art  Institute, and we each had our own internal budgeting for the project. When you exclude expenses of pre-production and producer personnel, the  total budget was about 120,000 €, of which we covered half. Our contribution was roughly covered half by the DVD sales, and half by European Union support (http://www.uni-verse.org consortium).One of the most common criticisms of CGI films is focus on  technology over content. For instance, Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within flopped with audiences, in spite of being an undisputed technical milestone. I've seen many reviews that criticized the plot of "Elephants Dream" as too bizarre or confusing. In retrospect, are you happy with the story development process?Haha, I knew the story and plot would get a mixed acclaim. There's a couple of reasons I'd like to mention for it.First of all; the criticism resembles how people witness Blender itself, too. Many people expect that Free Software is an easy accessible  mass audience product. We get a lot of complaints by non-artists that they can't get into the software easily, whilst the complexity of commercial products like Maya or Houdini is perceived as a confirmation of its "quality". Apparently an Open Movie created similar expectations with the audience.Luckily we also got many positive reviews of the artistic result of the movie. It is quite abstract, but definitely has many layers of information, inspiring many of the viewers to see relevant real life messages hidden here.For this project we've teamed up with the Netherlands Media Art Institute, internationally renowned as a resource for video art. So for Elephants Dream, we've had the luxury to challenge ourselves to create real independent artistic content as well. The artists had a lot of freedom from the start; they were responsible for the concept, story and creative development of the entire movie. This has resulted in a lot of quite personal choices, based on what the artists liked to do themselves. I really cherish such an approach, it has resulted in a very motivated team working crazy hours the last months to get it all realized.But, most importantly; the main target of our project was not only to create a 3D movie short, but to experiment with ways to improve the efficiency and quality of open source development. On this aspect only, this project was just a huge success, and the main reason for our  sponsors (the DVD pre-sale) to support it. I know they might have liked a cartoonish funny movie with furry animals better, but for that you get already pretty well served by the bigger 3D animation studios. :)I'm the first to admit that - looking back especially - certain aspects worked out quite weakly; there's loose ends and questionable decisions,  especially in story development and continuity. That's just the risk of doing experiments, and nothing I regret really. The five artists from our user community who were invited to make the movie were young people with no professional background in filmmaking. Their personal incentive to participate in this project was also to learn from it, and to create a good portfolio for their future career. I've witnessed them grow in competence in the past year enormously, something I'm incredibly proud of.On the technical level, the only major criticism I've seen of "Elephants Dream" is the character animation, especially in the opening scene -- many reviewers felt that the movements seemed a bit unnatural. Do you agree with these criticisms? If so, what do you think can be  done to improve on that level?Yeah, the challenge the artists set themselves - to use quite realistic personages - is also something that easily works against you. In many  animation movies they introduce characters in the beginning in a way you get used to their specific characteristic movements, so you accept  a certain level of non-realism easily. (Check the weird walk cycles in The Incredibles for example). Another aspect is that we've started work on the first scenes, and ended with the last scenes. I can clearly see the animation quality increase, and that whilst the ending scenes were done in much less time due to time constraints.We also didn't schedule to do 9.5 minutes of animation either….  Originally it was more like 6. But, it's always easier to look back to define the right decisions, eh? :)I'm very happy with the reviews we got so far; luckily the movie was perceived as a professional quality product, and reviewed based on comparisons with what the big studios come up with. Even when we couldn't satisfy all these quality demands, it has luckily not been branded as a pathetic presumptuous attempt by amateurs!Do you think there is hope for a full-length open movie project in the near future? Would the Blender Foundation be interested in such a project, or do you intend to continue focusing mainly on shorts?I'd like to wait a little while with defining what a next project would look like. Given the constraints of "organizing projects to improve  open source development", we might have not much choice either. It would probably mean to work with a new team each time, so most likely  be based on shorts only. On the other hand, there's also clear signals that this approach works well, and creates excitement and involvement of a lot of people, also from producers and sponsors. That might enable us to set up a next project based on larger targets. For a full-length feature film however, we should involve a sufficient amount of experienced film makers as well, and/or invite the first team to participate again. That would put a lot of pressure on the required  budget…. You can't do that based on a 1000 DVD pre-sale target. Would more be like 20,000 or so…. :)How did the process of making the movie feed back into the development of Blender? Are there major technical changes that were  made only or primarily because of the film?Already during the pre-production phase the artists have defined the key targets for Blender development. This then was coordinated with the  online development community too. I've done the most crucial (re-)development mostly myself, though. Especially on the character animation tools, on the rendering pipeline and compositing tools.It is especially the latter I'm most satisfied with. In 3D movie production the compositing stage creates a giant content bottleneck. By   transparently integrating this in our render-pipeline, a very efficient workflow has been achieved. And, not to forget, Blender now also offers the first production-level open source compositor on the market!The current summary you can find in our work-in-progress release notes.What are the key technical features in Blender you want to add or improve for future movie projects?Depends on what the movie is about! There's always hundreds of features you can work on. However, we'll have to work on that anyway, movie project or not. There's a lot of professionals using Blender now, and they can't wait for the Blender Foundation to do movies! Look at this studio for example:http://www.plumiferos.com/I read that at least one proprietary software package, Reaktor, was used for the sound effects. Is this because no equivalent free software solution exists yet? Will future projects have a "free software only" policy?We've limited the "Open Source tools" requirement to our own Studio Orange only. That was what we could keep in control at least, and I can tell you it was not always easy even... :)For sound and music we've decided from the beginning to seek an external sponsor. We have chosen to work with the best quality studio and composer we could find, preferably using open source, but not as a prerequisite.My own competence is solely within the CG [computer graphics, Ed.] side of movie making. When it comes to music editing, or video encoding and DVD authoring, I could only decide to choose to work with external parties with proven competences in that area. I have to be practical in projects like this, especially to ensure it will be realized.Hopefully, now we've got so much attention world wide, we can involve more non-CG open source next time, too. I will definitely strive for the maximum here, but it will fully depend on the amount of professional support we can get.Blender itself was originally closed source freeware, until it was "liberated" through a fundraising campaign. If you could choose one proprietary application to "set free" where such a goal could be realistically achieved, which one would it be?Well, the "realistically achieved" demand makes it quite difficult. :) Looking back at similar cases, like Mozilla and OpenOffice.org, it  was always very circumstantial. It just happens sometimes, you can't organize something like this to happen in advance. The only common denominator is "a company in troubles"… so, who's in trouble now?What is your personal favorite computer-animated full-length film?Uuuh… that differs every week! Probably Ice Age (the first one). Mostly because they didn't overdo showcasing 3D technology so much, but created truly adorable characters and great funny gags.In the year 2000, Dries Buytaert created Drupal, a freely licensed and open source tool to manage websites, as a bulletin board for his college dorm. Since Dries released the software and a community of thousands of volunteer developers have added and improved modules, Drupal has grown immensely popular. Drupal won the overall Open CMS Award in 2007, and some speakers in Drupal's spacious developer's room at FOSDEM 2008 were dreaming aloud of its world domination.Buytaert (now 29) just finished his doctoral thesis and has founded the start-up Acquia. The new company wants to become Drupal's best friend, with the help of an all-star team and US$7 million collected from venture capitalists. Wikinews reporter Michaël Laurent sat down with Dries in Brussels to discuss these recent exciting developments.According to Wikipedia founder, Jimmy Wales, the first draft of the new version of the GNU Free Documentation License is expected to be released soon.Jimmy Wales, who is visiting Poland to establish the Polish branch of Wikia, was speaking on the occasion of the fifth "birthday" of the Polish language Wikipedia, on 23rd September. Wales, asked what he is planning to do to make usage of Wikipedia content easier, admitted that the current GFDL license (version 1.2) under which the whole content of Wikipedia is released, is very complicated and parts of it are hard to understand. However, he said that earlier in the day, he received a call from Eben Moglen, main lawyer of Free Software Foundation, which created the license, who promised that the first draft of new version of GFDL license would be released soon and it would solve the problems present in current version.The fourth major version of the K Desktop Environment, KDE 4.0, was released today after several years of development and testing.KDE is a free software project which aims to provide an easy to use desktop for UNIX and Linux workstations. As part of KDE also comes applications for many daily needs, and a complete platform for developers with the tools and documentation needed to write applications for the system.The release is a major break from the last major version, KDE 3. The most immediately obvious new feature is Plasma, a new desktop shell. Plasma provides a panel, a menu and other means to interact with the desktop and applications. Plasma also features a widget engine, that allows users to use various desktop widgets that are referred to as plasmoids.Among other major changes are Phonon, a framework independent multimedia API, Solid, a device integration framework and Oxygen, a new style guide and default icon set and a move to Qt 4, the most recent release of the Qt application development framework.KDE 4.0 packages are available for Debian, Fedora, Gentoo, Kubuntu, Mandriva and openSUSE.Kurdish Ubuntu, a Linux distribution, was promoted this week with a reception in Diyarbakir. Ubuntu was the first Linux distribution to implement Kurdish localization. Kurdish localization in Linux is an important milestone for Turkey due to ethnic conflicts. Kurdish Ubuntu was prepared by a team of hardworking translators working on the Rosetta web application [1]. In his talk at the reception, the mayor of Sur (a town in Diyarbakir) said that "Whatever language it is in, we wanted it [our service] to be accessible multilingually because multilingualism is our wealth. Our work is being conducted on Kurdish, English, and Turkish language support. ... If we can integrate multilingualism, multi-identities, and multi-culturalism in this nation, this region will be a place of peace instead of conflicts." Mehmed Uzun, a Kurdish writer, speaking about the Kurdish language, told the attendees that "Our most important problem is that the language is not standardized. The Kurdish language should be standardized." Ubuntu was later distributed to the reception's attendees.Previously, we reported that Kurdish Linux was launched in Turkey: Kurdish Ubuntu, a Linux distribution, was promoted this week with a reception in Diyarbakir. Ubuntu was the first Linux distribution to implement Kurdish localization. Kurdish localization in Linux was an important milestone for Turkey due to ethnic conflicts.According to Milliyet and Radikal, well-known Turkish newspapers, the Diyarbakir Attorney General of the Republic of Turkey started an official investigation on the mayor of Sur (a town in Diyarbakir) and on Ubuntu. Although the official cause of investigation was not specified, in the light of the ethnic conflicts in Turkey, a Kurdish operating system was not welcomed by Turkish officials. Mark Shuttleworth (founder of the Ubuntu Foundation and head developer of Ubuntu) and his team is looking at how to help ameliorate the situation. Kurdish Ubuntu was prepared by a team of hardworking translators working on the Rosetta web application. In his talk at the reception, the mayor of Sur (a town in Diyarbakir) said that "Whatever language it is in, we wanted it [our service] to be accessible multilingually because multilingualism is our wealth. Our work is being conducted on Kurdish, English, and Turkish language support. ... If we can integrate multilingualism, multi-identities, and multi-culturalism in this nation, this region will be a place of peace instead of conflicts." Mehmed Uzun, a Kurdish writer, speaking about the Kurdish language, told the attendees that "Our most important problem is that the language is not standardized. The Kurdish language should be standardized." Ubuntu was later distributed to the reception's attendees.Eben Moglen, Columbia University Law Professor, will head the newSoftware Freedom Law Center (SFLC).  An initial 4 million dollars has been provided by Open Source Development Labs (OSDL) to fund the project.The law center will provide free legal service for open source projects and developers.  In 2004 OSDL established a separate $10 million Linux Legal Defense Fund providing legal support for Linus Torvalds, Linux kernel creator and end user companies subjected to Linux-related litigation by the SCO Group. The new law center will not be affiliated with the OSDL."This is about taking care of the goose that laid the golden egg and not letting wolves come in the middle of the night and steal it away," Moglen said during a press conference. "This is a legal firm not involved so much in litigating and defending as it will be for counseling and advising and nurturing non-profits and to prevent millions of dollars in litigation."Moglen will serve as chairman and director-counsel of the non-profit organization. Also on board as directors are: Lawrence Lessig, law professor at Stanford Law School; Daniel Weitzner, director of the World Wide Web Consortium's technology and society activities; and Diane Peters, general counsel at the OSDL. Daniel Ravicher, executive director of the Public Patent Foundation, will help manage as legal director.Moglen, one of the world.s leading experts on copyright law as applied to software, will run the new Law Center from its headquarters in New York City. The Law Center will initially have two full-time intellectual property attorneys on staff and expects to expand to four attorneys later this year. Initial clients for the Law Center include the Free Software Foundation and the Samba Project.Other services provided by the SFLC include: asset stewardship, to avoid intellectual property claim conflict; license review and compatibility analysis; legal consulting and lawyer training.Major distributors of the operating system Linux have agreed on a new standard that includes common elements for desktop software, in a move to make Linux a more effective competitor to Microsoft Windows.The Free Standards Group (FSG) will unveil the Linux Standard Base (LSB) 3.1 on Tuesday at the Desktop Linux Summit in San Diego.  The first distribution to include LSB 3.1 support, Xandros, is expected to be released on May 1, followed shortly by versions by Red Hat, Novell, and others.  The status of Ubuntu's upcoming version is still unclear [1].The standards aim to resolve difficulties that programmers face in developing software for Linux.  Because Linux, developed by Finnish programmer Linus Torvalds, defines the kernel or core of the operating system, there is a wide variety of graphical interfaces for it and differing software libraries.  LSB 3.1 standardizes core pieces of Linux to make development easier."One of the big things that's difficult is consistency, and that's Windows' biggest strength," Jim Zemlin, executive director of the Free Standards Group, told the Associated Press.  "If you buy a Windows program, you know it will run on a Windows computer, and Linux needs to work the same way. [...] If you really want to become a broadly adopted and used technology, you have to have that degree of standardization," he said.Mountain View, California — According to Google's 2004 Year-End Google Zeitgeist report, Linux scored fifth on a list of most-searched technology terms, beating out all other operating systems. Linux was the No. 4 technology search term on Google in 2002.This ranking follows a banner year for the community-built operating system.  The 2.6 kernel, deemed the first enterprise-level release of the software, became available for users in 2004 and made significant inroads into the enterprise computing industry.  The IDC recently reported a prediction that the worldwide market revenue for Linux will exceed $35 billion by 2008.  "SCO" was the No. 1 company query for 2004 in Google's report. High-profile lawsuits by SCO against IBM and other companies for alleged copyright or patent infringement were filed and dominated Linux news throughout the year.Over the summer a customized distribution of the Linux (or GNU/Linux) operating system was installed on 2,460 desktops in the Italian South Tyrol province of Bolzano. This deployment included all 70 of the province's private and public schools and affects more than 16,000 students.The distribution installed, FUSS Soledad GNU/Linux, is a customized version of the popular Debian GNU/Linux distribution.  FUSS Soledad GNU/Linux has multi-language support and uses the GNOME desktop environment.In addition to the desktops in the schools, more than 20,000 LiveCDs are scheduled to be created and given free of charge to the students and their families. These LiveCDs allow students to use the same software on their home computers that they are going to use at school.Project co-director Antonio Russo said, "With the participation of all the public and private schools, this will give to all the students, families, teachers, and operators from the educational world the opportunity to use a entirely free operating system, both at school and at home."The switch was funded by the province of Bolzano, the European Social Fund, and the Center for Professional Formation in Italian Language.Four major cell phone makers, Motorola, NEC, Panasonic, and Samsung, and two wireless providers, NTT DoCoMo and Vodafone, have announced they will work together to provide a Linux-based platform for cell phones.  This move could threaten the dominance Symbian and Microsoft in the operating systems market for cell phones.Peter Gorham, an independent market analyst, said "Linux is also rock solid, unlike some of the existing operating systems.  It would mean no more taking your batteries out of your phone to get it to reboot. And this would make things a lot easier for application developers."On the lack of U.S. provider's support in this alliance, Gorham said "I am surprised that there aren’t any American carriers involved in this alliance, but they are probably skeptical about the longevity of these kinds of alliances.  But Motorola and Samsung have a vested interest in the success of this thing, in part because they have a large customer, Vodafone, involved."This alliance is not the first effort to standardize on Linux for cell phones.  Several groups are currently working on this, including Linux Phone Standard Forum, Open Source Development Lab, and Electronics Linux Forum.According to Christy Wyatt, vice president of market development at Motorola, said this effort differs from other efforts because it will establish a common platform for all participating manufacturers.Linux is already being utilized on some mobile devices.  Motorola has already shipped five million of these including the Ming model for China and Rokr E2 music phone in Asia.  The Rokr E2 will be available in Europe soon.Microsoft Corporation  announced on Wednesday it has finished all work on its long-delayed Windows Vista operating system (OS) and plans to release it to consumers January 30 2007.The announcement means Microsoft is on track to meet its revised release schedule.Jim Allchin, co-president of the Microsoft division that includes Windows, said that Windows Vista's code was released to begin manufacturing copies early on Wednesday."This is a good day," Allchin declared. Microsoft previously announced that it would release Windows Vista to large business clients at an event at the NASDAQ Stock Market on November 30 2006, and make it available to consumers sometime in January 2007.The release will be the first major upgrade in more than five years to the OS of the company that powers most of the world's PCs. Vista claims to have  improved graphics, more effective tools for finding documents, pictures and other items on PCs, and a new Internet browser.Vista's release has been victim to a series of delays, the most recent delay was blamed in part on efforts to improve security of the OS. In its quest to get Vista up and running, Microsoft also has had to scrap some of its original goals, including getting rid of a more sophisticated method for sorting and organizing information. Analysts have said that scaling back the system could hurt the company if people don't see enough of a reason to upgrade.The most recent delays also forced Microsoft to miss the holiday season, possibly dealing a blow to computer makers and retailers who would have been hoping for the new OS to boost holiday gift sales.Microsoft and other computer manufacturers are offering holiday shoppers coupons good for a free or discounted Vista upgrade.It's not clear how quickly big businesses will start using Vista. It can often take months if not years for companies to test a new operating system and make sure it will work well with the other programs they rely on.Allchin said Microsoft is providing tools that allow companies to test for compatibility problems more quickly than with past Windows releases. He also said he hopes the security improvements would drive companies to upgrade faster.Microsoft estimates that the new OS could set off a hike of 10% or more in Windows software sales in the financial year to June 30, with most of the increase coming in the second half of the year.Microsoft shares rose 3 cents (from US$ 28.95) to close at US$28.98 Wednesday on the NASDAQ.Last month Microsoft Corporation made accusations against the European Commission, stating that it may cause delays in the final release of their latest operating system, Windows Vista (formerly known as Longhorn).Microsoft's general counsel, Brad Smith, stated:"We recognize that the European Commission does not give 'green lights' for new products, and we have not asked for one. We appreciate the constructive dialogue we have had with the Commission and the guidance the Commission has provided," Smith added. Based on this guidance, we have made changes to ensure that we're in compliance with our competition law obligations.". The news should be welcomed by all those anticipating Windows Vista within the European community, with Microsoft showing compliance to follow the regulations set out by the European Commission.The entire debate started when Microsoft were responding to a letter received by the European Competition Commissioner, Neelie Kroes, that showed concerns over "The possible bundling into Vista of certain products, such as internet search and certain security features that are currently available on a standalone basis from Microsoft and other vendors". In July, Smith had made a statement that Microsoft had offered to create changes to its system to comply with the commission, and that it had asked the commission to state which changes would make Vista apply to its standards and regulations."We told the Commission that we would be prepared to do any one of four things and they could simply tell us which of those things they wanted us to do" said Smith.Since Bill Gates announced the removal of WinFS from its new operating system in October 2003, the company has been plagued by many setbacks and legal issues. Only time will tell whether Brad Smith's announcement from Microsoft is entirely truthful instead of a way of covering Microsoft's back.Matthew Aslett. "Microsoft backtracks on EC blame for potential Vista delays" — Computer Business Review, October 16, 2006Shaun Nichols. "European Vista launch on schedule" — VNUNet, October 16, 2006Steve Ranger. "Vista: we're keeping an eye on it, says EC" — Silicon, October 16, 2006Microsoft has recently made changes to the Windows license agreement, saying that, “An upgrade of the motherboard is considered to result in a new personal computer to which Microsoft OEM operating system software cannot be transferred from another computer."This will force users who upgrade their motherboard, even via the OEM, to purchase a new license agreement.  The only exception is a defect for which the OEM replaces the motherboard.Microsoft claims it needs to have "one base component left standing that would still define that original PC. Since the motherboard contains the CPU and is the heart and soul of the PC, when the motherboard is replaced (for reasons other than defect) a new PC is essentially created.”Microsoft has asked its OEM partners to begin enforcing the new policy when they upgrade a client's computer.Software giant Microsoft's chief lawyer Brad Smith claimed in an interview published in the magazine Fortune on Monday that open-source software products violate 235 of Microsoft's patents. The main transgressors are claimed to be Linux (107 patents) and OpenOffice.org (45), with e-mail programs infringing 15 patents. Microsoft wants royalties to compensate for the patent breaches.According to Microsoft's Vice-President of intellectual property and licensing, Horacio Gutierrez, the company wants to negotiate with the open-source companies rather than sue them. "If we wanted to litigate we would have done that a long time ago. Litigation is not an effective way of going about solutions," Gutierrez said. According to him, Microsoft has over the last years tried to work towards a "constructive" solution to the alleged problem of patent violation.Microsoft in the past has used the strategy of cross-licensing to get royalties from companies who infringe their patents, for example in their deal with Novell. On a company blog, Novell reiterated that their deal "is in no way an acknowledgment that Linux infringes upon any Microsoft intellectual property.""We don't think that customers will want to continue on without a solution to the problem," Gutierrez said about Microsoft's approach to guaranteeing companies that they won't get sued because they use the allegedly patent-infringing Linux operating system.The upcoming third version of the GPL licence, the licence under which Linux is released, will prohibit Linux distributors to agree to patent royalty deals. Microsoft called these "attempts to tear down the bridge between proprietary and open-source software that Microsoft has worked to build with the industry and customers."A related U.S. Supreme Court ruling from April 30th showed how software patents can be subject to court challenges; basically, if the innovations patented are "obvious", the patent is weakened. Joe Lindsay, information officer for a mortgage company, pointed out that the Unix code that Linux is based upon preceded Microsoft Windows, which might also be a reason for some patents to be invalid.Red Hat, the biggest Linux distributor, said in a statement on Monday:Larry Augustin, former CEO of a company called VA Linux (now VA Software), responsible among other things for launching SourceForge.net, an open-source software development community, posted a message on his blog under the title "It's Time for Microsoft to Put Up or Shut Up":According to the Fortune report, more than half of the Fortune 500 companies are estimated to use Linux in their data centers.In recent days, reports have surfaced that Microsoft may plan to backport its WinFS system to Windows XP.The technology, intended to track file metadata for better organization and searching capability, had previously only been planned as part of the forthcoming Microsoft Windows Longhorn operating system release.Support for Windows XP, while surprising, may aid developers in speeding adoption of the new technology in their applications.According to a 2002 email exchange obtained by lawyers in an Iowa case, Microsoft executives wanted to "whack" Dell because it was focusing on Linux  deals a little too much. The first email by Bill Veghte, currently a company vice president, describes a Linux panel where a Dell executive explains their plans to increase Linux in the enterprise market.  The responses to his email start in a worried tone over market competition but quickly escalates as Paul Flessner, a senior vice president in Microsoft's server applications unit, states: Paul Flessner then goes on to describe the advantages to promote Linux over Windows for Dell:A recent study funded by the EU Commission concluded that "in almost all the cases, a transition toward open source reports of savings on the long-term costs of ownership of the software products." In addition, Microsoft has long been at the center of criticism and allegations over its alleged unfair and anticompetitive business tactics in Europe and elsewhere.As Microsoft had previously announced, they will stop supporting three older versions of their flagship Windows operating system software, Windows 98, Windows 98 Second Edition and Windows Millennium Edition (Me).On July 11, 2006 technical and public support and critical security updates for these products will end, as part of the Microsoft Lifecycle Policy. In their customer notification about the change, the software giant says they are ending support "because [these products] are outdated and these older operating systems can expose customers to security risks", and that customers are advised to upgrade to the company's newer Windows XP.IDC analysts say that seventy million will be affected by the change. Because of the lack of security updates for Windows 98, it is possible that any still-existing security problems can be exploited.Support questions on the Microsoft website relating to the software products can still be accessed and will remain for at least another year. Microsoft ended free support for these products in 2003. The end date of Extended Support for Windows 98 was originally January 16, 2004.As Microsoft had previously announced, they will stop supporting the first service pack of their flagship operating system software, Windows XP. The company will not provide any security updates or incident support options for Windows XP Service Pack 1 (SP1) and Service Pack 1a (SP1a).On October 10, 2006 support and security updates for these two products will end, as part of the Microsoft Lifecycle Policy. In their customer notification about the change, the software giant advises customers to update to the newer Service Pack 2 (SP2), released in 2004.Windows XP SP1 was released on September 9, 2002, offering more than 300 security updates in one package. Other than the security updates, SP1 also introduced USB 2.0 support and a new utility, Set Program Access and Defaults, which let users to have control over Microsoft's bundled products. On February 3, 2003, the service pack was re-released as Service Pack 1a which, as a result of a lawsuit with Sun Microsystems, removed the Microsoft virtual machine (VM), which provided support for Java programs.The support end date for SP1 was originally September 17, 2006.Microsoft announced yesterday that the next version of Microsoft Office, currently code-named "Office 12", will support PDF format exportation.  Microsoft Senior Vice President Steven Sinofsky said Microsoft receives 120,000 requests monthly to save documents created in Office as PDF files.PDF is a file format created by Adobe Systems that ensures files appear similarly on any computer operating system. PDF is an open standard, and programs can read and write PDFs royalty-free. Adobe distributes software at no cost to read PDF files on many platforms. Many open source readers are also available.There are many ways to create PDFs from Office documents. Users can purchase Adobe Acrobat Standard (MSRP US$299.00), and can already export any Microsoft Office document to PDFs using the free Office Suite OpenOffice.org software. They can also use one of the many free programs that act as print drivers such as the open source PDFCreator. Adobe also offers a somewhat slower, but free online PDF converter on their website. While such options have long been available, the high cost, moderate difficulty and lack of awareness has discouraged PDF use in most daily exchanges of Office created documents.Because Microsoft has no plans to create a PDF importer, it will be impossible for the Office PDF export functionality to fulfill Massachusetts' recent requirements Open Standards drive for official, state created documents.The first, or beta version, of Office 12 is expected in November.On December 29th 2005, Microsoft applied for a patent that allows the operating system to require users to pay attention to ads shown on their computers. According to the patent, a user will be asked to identify her / himself to a webcam or provide some data regarding the advertisement to be entered. The technology that is part of this patent is meant to give Microsoft the right to repossess one's computer if one does not pay attention to advertisements. According to the patent, the technology will be used so that the The stated aim of the technology is so that telephone companies, internet service providers, or leasing companies, can provide computer systems etc. to users either free or at reduced charge and recoup the cost of the system through sale of advertising.At 9:00 p.m. PDT Monday (0400 UTC Tuesday), Microsoft rolled out the first stable Internet Explorer 9 (IE9) release, available in 39 languages, for Windows Vista and Windows 7. Internet Explorer is the most used web browser, responsible for 56% of webpage hits. The new version adds support for new technologies with relation to the HTML5 specification and several feature changes. The browser was released as a beta with a campaign promoting the benefits of HTML5.It includes support for SVG and the HTML5 canvas, audio, and video tags. It has a failing Acid3 score of 95/100, below Mozilla Firefox 4.0's 97/100, rating and the 100/100 in Google Chrome 10. The program is the first of its series not to run on Microsoft Windows XP. It includes a redesigned layout of the address bar and the ability to pin sites to the taskbar on Windows 7, along with several minor improvements.The browser received mixed reviews. "IE9 as a Consumer Browser — Not Worth It," Jason Mick, DailyTech, concluded. A study by Which? on Tuesday showed that IE9's Tracking Protection Lists, an optional anti-tracking feature, may mislead users. "We're disappointed with the way these lists work, and feel consumers who install multiple lists could be left with a false sense of security." Dr. Rob Reid, Which? Policy senior advisor, said.In a more positive review, a PC Magazine reviewer said that the positives of the new browser outweighed the negatives, and it is "a major improvement over its predecessor."The announcement comes after the company launched a campaign to get Internet Explorer 6 usage down to 1%. Microsoft delayed the Japanese release "to reduce load on network bandwidth at such a critical time" with reference to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan this past Friday.On Wednesday, Microsoft announced that the next version of Windows Mobile OS series, Windows Phone 7, had been released to manufacturing after more than 6 months of its development. The announcement outlined some of the changes in this version, and was generally positive about the milestone.The term "release to manufacturing", also known as "going gold", is a term used to indicate that the software has reached a point that it is ready to be provided to the customer. After the event,  Windows Phone 7 code has been locked down. The work in progress is the testing of Windows Phone 7 on other hardware, software, and networks. The structure of the system itself is not expected to be changed any more before the final release. "We are ready," Terry Myerson said."Today is the day that the Windows Phone team has been driving towards, and we’re very excited to say that we’ve reached the biggest milestone for our internal team – the release to manufacturing (RTM) of Windows Phone 7", Terry Myerson announced in a post on the official Windows Phone Blog.The internal testing of the system had been finished. It included usage of the operating system by the development team itself on regular basis, and  millions of hours of automated tests daily, as Terry Myerson said: "We had nearly ten thousand devices running automated tests daily, over a half million hours of active self-hosting use, over three and a half million hours of stress test passes, and eight and a half million hours of fully automated test passes."The system is now named "Windows Phone" instead of "Windows Mobile", with a redesigned user interface and a changed development environment, which is called "Windows Phone Developer Tools". It features a combination of Silverlight, XNA technologies, and Visual Studio 2010 to make use of these possible in the applications developers create.Microsoft did not confirm any planned commercial release date, calling October as an optimistic estimate.File:Vista-folder windows.pngMicrosoft confirmed today that it will ship Vista, the latest version of its Windows operating system, in Europe and South Korea as scheduled, despite warnings from the European Commission competition committee and Korean fair trade regulator. A press release on the Microsoft website said it had been in 'constructive dialogue' with both bodies. According to Brad Smith, the company's general council, Microsoft has agreed to several changes set out by the EU body.The discussion mostly centers around the inclusion of Google search facilities, Adobe PDF creation tools, and Microsoft's own security software in the operating system. As Microsoft Windows is used by 90% of the consumer computer market both committees expressed concerns that the bundling of these services and software would push companies offering similar products out of the market. In September Microsoft raised the possibility of the Vista launch being delayed in the EU and Korea however the companies CEO Steve Balmer last night confirmed this would not be the case. At the time Microsoft said it was unsure what changes the commission required to its new OS. Warnings were apparently first received by the company in March when EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said there could be issues with the new software.This is not the first time the software giant has clashed with EU legislators. In 2004 it was ruled to have abused it's position as market leader to push Media player using Windows. A record €497 million fine was imposed at the time and a further €280.5 million in July this year (after courts ruled Microsoft had not complied with the ruling). In the 2004 action Microsoft was required to share information stored on its servers with competing companies, something it has so far failed to do. The company now faces a €300 million a day fine for each day it does not comply.Microsoft  announced Thursday that it plans to release seventeen security bulletins, known as patches, to address 64 security flaws on Tuesday. Nine of the patches are deemed "critical" and eight as "important."The enormous number of security flaws addressed in the April Patch update is a record for Microsoft. The company also released seventeen security bulletins in December, but these addressed 40 flaws, only two being rated as critical; also a record is the number of flaws being addressed in the update; the most previously addressed was 49 in the October 2010 update, reports  Jason Miller of Shavlik Technologies. The April update covers security vulnerabilities in Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP and various Windows Server editions, as well as versions of  Office applications, Visual Studio, .NET Framework, Graphics Device Interface,  Internet Explorer (IE) including IE6 (which Microsoft is seeking to discontinue) and other applications.Although Microsoft did not provide details, Microsoft said the update will address a SMB browser bug, discovered in February,  that  could potentially cause a denial-of-service attack, and the Windows MHTML flaw which has allowed  client-side scripts to be run by an attacker in "limited, targeted attacks," Microsoft has said. "This is a huge update and system administrators should plan for deployment," disclosed Wolfgang Kandek, CTO of Qualys.With development of Microsoft's Internet Explorer 9 (IE9) browser almost complete, Microsoft announced on Friday that it is time for IE6 users to move away from the antiquated 10-year-old browser. Microsoft has replaced it with three newer versions.  On a new website, "The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown", Microsoft has  launched an aggressive  campaign to persuade users to stop using IE6 and update to a newer IE. Its goal is to decrease IE6 users to less than one percent."[Ten] years ago, a browser was born. Its name was Internet Explorer 6. Now that we’re in 2011, in an era of modern web standards, it’s time to say goodbye," Microsoft says on "The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown".Internet Explorer's market share is slipping. IE's various versions accounted for  70 percent of the market in 2009; this has dropped to approximately 56 percent today. Mozilla Firefox, its main rival,  has been actively  increasing its market share while the recently released Google Chrome is also quickly gaining users. PC World's recent analysis of its own web traffic statistics concluded, "Usually, Internet Explorer is the #2 browser after Firefox, but over the past 30 days it's been #3, a couple of points behind Safari-and nearly tied with Chrome. It might be a statistical blip. But if it isn't, and Chrome continues to surge, IE could fall to fourth place."  Web developers face  big problems with IE6. As they design their web pages for the newer browsers with  advanced web technology and geared to  the newest web core markup language HTML 5, they are forced to   accommodate  older out-of-date technology to support IE6 users. Also, not mentioned on Microsoft's "The Internet Explorer 6 Countdown" site, are the numerous security vulnerabilities putting the browser  at  risk of being hacked.  The Internet security firm Secunia.com, has said that as of March 4, 2011, IE6 has 277 vulnerabilities;  39 percent of these  are rated "highly critical". Microsoft says that the latest versions of Internet Explorer  provide the user with enhanced protection from these attacks and threats.Microsoft's Internet Explorer 6 is one of the most successful software products ever as measured by  its durability and the massive numbers of people who have used it. IE6 shipped with Windows XP, nearly a decade ago. But it has outlived its usefulness, and Microsoft no longer wants to support it.Mozilla's new browser Firefox 3.0 has been downloaded over 8 million times in 24 hours. The Mozilla Foundation has encouraged users worldwide to download their latest browser in an attempt to enter the Guinness Book of World Records, with what is referred to as Download Day 2008. The target of five million downloads was reached long before the 24 hour period was over.The 24 hour download session ended at 18:16 UTC on June 18th, one hour later than the original time of 17:00. This delay is due to technical problems which included the servers being overwhelmed. For a while after the specified launch time, the Firefox website linked to a download for Firefox 2.Over 2.88 million of the downloads were from the European Union; 2.56 million were from the United States.The unofficial, unaudited final number of downloads during the 24 hour marathon was 8,320,331. This figure still needs to be checked by the Guinness Book of Records for validity. If the unofficial figure is accurate, almost 100 copies of the application were downloaded every second.John Lilly, the CEO of Mozilla commented on the release of Firefox 3. “We’re really proud of Firefox 3 and it just shows what a committed, energized global community can do when they work together,” he said.On Friday, several free knowledge, culture and open source oriented organisations — Creative Commons, Mozilla, and the Wikimedia Foundation, amongst others — collectively announced a three-year commitment for a free-culture fellowship to honour Bassel Khartabil's continuing influence on the open web, during the Wikimedia's annual conference Wikimania in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Palestinian-Syrian Khartabil was held in captivity under the Syrian government starting in 2012 and went silent in prison in 2015.  Early this month his wife confirmed Khartabil had been executed in 2015.Khartabil worked as a computer engineer and contributed to Mozilla and Wikipedia. A supporter of free access to knowledge and culture, Khartabil co-founded Syria's first hackerspace, Aiki Lab, and led Creative Commons' Syrian project.The fellowship to honour Khartabil aims to promote free culture in various forms, including art, music, software, and community. On their official blog, Creative Commons said they would encourage applications from the Levant, Middle East, and North Africa.Amazon Web Services is to act as a supporting partner and the fellows would receive a stipend of US$50 thousand over the course of ten months. The fellowship is to be awarded on a one-year basis, which could be renewed. Additionally, the organisations are to provide up to US$3000 for the candidates to purchase equipment and software.Promoting candidates from "closed societies" from the countries with a history of oppression of freedom of expression and access to free knowledge, the fellowship laid three requirements for the eligibility. The applicants must have a history of contribution to the open source/access or free culture communities, and propose in their application an initiative promoting free culture values, and in which the fellowship would be their primary work focus. The fellowship applications are to be accepted from February, and the fellowship is to be awarded in April.Apart from contributing to Mozilla and Red Hat, Bassel Khartabil developed "Aiki", an open source framework which is currently used by Open Clip Art and Open Font Library. He was listed among Top Global Thinkers by Foreign Policy, and given a Digital Freedom Award by the Index on Censorship.Khartabil was arrested by the Syrian military in March 2012.  Following time in a Syrian General Intelligence Directorate facility, nine months after his arrest he was transferred to Adra Prison, and permitted family visits. He was relocated to an undisclosed facility in October 2015, and executed soon after. His wife, Noura Ghazi Safadi, confirmed Khartabil's death on August 1 via a Facebook post.The German city of Munich has delayed the start of its planed migration to Linux till 2006. The migration was originally due to start this year, three years after the decision to migrate to Linux was made. Peter Hofmann, the project leader of the migration said the delay was because the "pilot was more important than we first thought and should last longer." Once the pilot is completed all the departments will eventually be migrated to Linux and OpenOffice.org.On May 28, 2003 Germany's third-largest city, voted to move to open source software. Munich made the decision to switch after Microsoft discontinued support for their current OS, Windows NT 4. While Suse was very involved in the early phases, Debian was ultimately selected to replace Windows on 14,000 desktops. The migration is estimated to cost between 30 and 34 million euros, once complete would affect approximately 16,000 users.The first department to migrate to Linux and OpenOffice.org will be the office of the Lord Mayor planed for the middle of 2006, though not all of the department's computers will be immediately migrated.  Peter Hofmann  said "Some departments will start with OpenOffice on Windows, others will start with OpenOffice on Linux," he said. "It depends on their infrastructure, for example, if a department has a small number of simple [Office] macros and templates but a large number of complex applications, it is easier to do OpenOffice on Windows first."AOL has decided to discontinue development of the Netscape web browser which brought surfing the Internet to the masses, until its user base began to erode during the "browser wars" of the mid-1990s and resulted in the birth of Mozilla project.Tom Drapeau, the director of Netscape inside AOL announced on the Netscape blog that support for the recently released Netscape Navigator 9 and all of Netscape's browsers back to version 1.0, will end because it was unable to gain market share and a low number of users that continues to dwindle. Drapeau noted, "AOL's focus on transitioning to an ad-supported web business leaves little room for the size of investment needed to get the Netscape browser to a point many of its fans expect it to be," and that "the success the Mozilla Foundation has had in developing critically-acclaimed products, we feel it's the right time to end development of Netscape branded browsers, hand the reins fully to Mozilla and encourage Netscape users to adopt Firefox."Netscape's origins lie at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where Netscape's co-founders, Marc Andreessen and Eric Bina wrote their first copy of NCSA Mosaic which became the first popular web browser and opened up the web for the first time to the general public and started the rise of the Internet in everyday life. Andreessen along with Jim Clark, the founder of Silicon Graphics, started the Mosaic Communications Corporation and released their first product Mosaic Netscape 0.9 in October 1994. A month later the company became the name it is today, the Netscape Communications Corporation to avoid legal problems from NCSA. A year later, had a successful IPO on August 9, 1995 and the stock closed the day at $75.Netscape's early success and virtual monopoly of the browser market was short-lived however as Microsoft viewed Netscape's idea of a consistent browser across various operating systems a threat and quickly began development of its own browser, Internet Explorer.This competition between Netscape and Microsoft became known as the browser wars, where both companies tried to outdo each other with their increasingly unstable browsers including: new features that did not always work, not providing bug fixes, deviating from Web standards (including the infamous <blink> and <marquee> HTML tags), program crashes and security holes.By the end of 1997, Netscape's glory had run out and it experienced it's first bad quarter, which resulted in layoffs in January 1998. The new year also brought the world with the arrival of what would eventually become Mozilla and later Firefox, when Netscape decided to make the source code for their browser open source. A year later, Netscape was out of steam and was no longer an independent company but now a subsidiary of America Online.The most recent version of the Netscape browser, Navigator 9, was for the most part was a re-skinned version of Firefox developed internally by a small group of people inside AOL. Netscape's actual browser development division was closed back in July 2003 and the workers laid off.However, AOL continues to run Netscape as a brand including a web portal, including a Digg-like social news aggregator which was branded as Netscape.com from June 2006 till September 2007, when it was spun off into a renamed site called Propeller. Netscape.com is now a dually branded AOL Netscape web portal, which is a duplicate of AOL.com. Netscape is also used as a brand by AOL as a low-cost dial-up Internet service provider.Firefox's third version is currently available as a beta and Microsoft is expected to release Internet Explorer 8 sometime in 2008.Sources close to three distributors of the GNU/Linux operating systems have announced that Progeny, Mandriva and TurboLinux are working together on a new Enterprise Linux distribution in the hope of competing with Novell's and Red Hat's products. The new distribution will be Debian-based, making it the first Debian-based enterprise Linux distribution. According to eWeek.com, the distribution will support both Debian's native .deb package format (including APT) and Red Hat's original RPM system, in order to remain compatible with the many Red Hat-based enterprise distributions such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux and SUSE - according to one vendor, "Basically the objective is to produce a distro that can act like Debian, use the Debian repository, but any Red Hat engineer should be comfortable with it." The distribution will also include a (within Debian) pioneering Web-based service manager for easy system administration, comparable to RHEL's tools of late.Hundreds of developers of freely licensed and open source software from all over Europe met in Brussels, Belgium this weekend for FOSDEM 2008. The 8th edition attracted considerably more visitors than previous editions, mainly from Belgium and its neighbouring countries the Netherlands, Germany, France and the United Kingdom, but also from other European countries and even from the United States.During the conference weekend, presentations touched on programming languages, build systems, gaming (such as Battle for Wesnoth, Crystal Space, Globulation 2), packaging, virtualisation and web applications. The conference also has rooms (called DevRooms) were developers who usually work together via the internet can meet in real life and share thoughts on their projects; CentOS, Fedora, CrossDesktop, Drupal, GNOME, KDE, Mozilla, OpenSUSE and X.org had the biggest rooms this year. The corridors were filled with stands from organisations such as the Free Software Foundation Europe and the Free Knowledge Foundation, Debian, Ubuntu, OpenOffice.org, etc.Since FOSDEM brings many European open software developers to Brussels, it also provides an important networking opportunity. FOSDEM traditionally kicks off Belgium-style on Friday with a beer event, but during the entire weekend several groups hold parties all over town. Wikinews reporters attended a barbecue hosted by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) on Friday for an interview with EFF and Open Rights Group representatives about the upcoming E.U. proposal to extend copyright for performers to 95 years. Wikinews also interviewed Drupal founder and Acquia CTO Dries Buytaert about Drupal and how Acquia will relate to the Drupal developer community.Although there are many open source games in development, few development teams have the motivation and expertise needed to mature their game from beta status, indicated by version numbers less than one (0.6, 0.7, etc...), to "1.0". This remarkable milestone was accomplished recently by the developers of the computer game Battle for Wesnoth. Wesnoth is a turn based strategy game set in a fantasy environment reminiscent of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings literature, featuring unit types like Elves, Dwarves, Orcs, and even tree people.Development of the game began over two years ago when creator David White released the first development version, 0.1, on June 18, 2003. All code and contents of the game were released under the GNU GPL license, and all versions were distributed freely over the internet. The game was also packaged for various GNU/Linux distributions such as Debian and many others. Wesnoth's ability to run on Unix and Linux, Mac OSX and Microsoft Windows systems and solid playability earned it popularity among the open source community. The game drew not only players, but also programmers, artists, and campaign writers; developers who create stories and scenarios using the mechanics and art of the core Wesnoth engine. The quick pace of development and early popularity considerably increased the number of people working on the game in their free time and allowed it to reach a quality and completeness not often seen in GPL games."1.0" contains several campaigns of varying length, in which you play alone against computer opponents. Wesnoth also offers various multiplayer modes, from a hot-seat mode for multiple players on one computer, to an online lobby where you can play games with players from all over the world. In this case, multiple players can either play in teams against others, or join a team against the computer opponent.There is also a campaign server accessible from inside the game where players can download many additional user created campaigns, maps, and even units. Almost all aspects of the game are scriptable using an HTML-like language which allows users to easily create their own content and contribute it to the campaign server.Sun Microsystems released version 3.0 of its free and open source (FOSS) office suite Openoffice.org on Monday. It has been reported that the new version comes with a number of performance enhancements and new features. Openoffice.org 3.0 now claims to work out of the box in  Mac OS X as a native  Aqua application.News sources report the official download servers of OpenOffice.org crashed soon after the release due to heavy downloads. Downloads are however available from a number of mirror sites.Openoffice.org 3.0 suite includes  spreadsheet,  word processor,  equation editor,  presentation tool,  relational database and  vector drawing software. Full interoperability is available for  Microsoft Office 98/XP formats, but offers read only support for  OOXML file formats. This version supports the new  ODF 1.2 document format. The software is available for many platforms including  Linux,  Microsoft Windows and Mac, as well as in multiple languages.Users report OpenOffice.org 3.0 has introduced a new graphical and text-based hybrid equation editor, a  mail merge wizard, improved label templates and better interface for outlining. Solver, a spreadsheet add-on for  combinatorial optimization problems is included in this version.Other enhancements highlighted by enthusiasts include collaborative options that allow multiple users to edit documents at the same time and improved drawing and charting tools. OpenOffice.org 3.0 can now display multiple pages during editing and workbooks up to 1024 columns in each spreadsheet.The download size of OpenOffice.org 3.0 is 163 MB for Mac and requires OS X Tiger or later and an Intel Mac. The installer for Windows is about 145 MB in size. "As government after government, enterprise after enterprise adopt the Open Document Format, they frequently adopt OpenOffice.org and love it. With 3.0, the application is more interoperable with MS Office, more capable, more extensible. It frees the desktop from vendor lock-in," claimed Louis Suárez-Potts, community manager of OpenOffice.org.This interview intends to provide some insight into OpenSync, an upcoming free unified data synchronization solution for free software desktops  such as KDE, commonly used as part of the GNU/Linux operating system.Apple is being accused of anti-gay discrimination after it made available  a free app for the iPhone and iPad that aims to help "homosexual strugglers" through bible teaching. The app was released in mid-February by Exodus International, a Christian ministry that wants to provide a "refuge for people looking for help in their journey out of homosexuality." To date, over 130,000 people have signed a petition requesting Apple to withdraw the app.The app was developed  by Exodus International. The statement on its website says, "Exodus is a Christian ministry that supports those wanting to reconcile their faith with their sexual behavior." It stresses that Apple has given the app a "4+" rating meaning it  contains "no objectionable content." The app gives users "freedom from homosexuality through the power of Jesus", according to the group.Truth Wins Out, a gay rights activist group that campaigns against "ex-gay" ministries  encouraging people to change their sexual orientation,  launched a petition on the website of  change.org requesting that Apple remove the app. It accuses Exodus of using "scare tactics, misinformation, stereotypes and distortions of LGBT life to recruit clients." It says Exodus is attempting to reach young people with a   message that is especially "dangerous" in light of recent suicides of LGBT youth.Wayne Besen, leader of Truth Wins Out, says the message of Exodus International constitutes hate speech.Jeff Buchanan of  Exodus International, said the app is intended to reach those that  share the church's beliefs. "We are reaching those with unwanted same sex attraction," he said. "We were disappointed to see this petition. What we're asking for is fair and equal representation on the Apple platform. We see this as a religious freedom." The issue highlights the problems Apple faces if it becomes involved in policing the content of the countless religious apps in its store, any of which has the potential to be offensive to someone. "It's an issue of tolerance," Buchanan said. "We're simply asking that we have the same opportunity to voice our message as others."Apple is well known for strictly monitoring the content of  the apps offered to users of its gadgets, and excludes sexually explicit material, offensive speech and images, and last November banned an app that entreated users to speak out against gay marriage.A major security hole was discovered in the pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) of the Debian version of OpenSSL. OpenSSL is one of the most used cryptographic software, that allows the creation of secure network connections with the protocols called SSL and TLS. It is included in many popular computer programs, like the Mozilla Firefox web browser and the Apache web server. Debian is one of the most used GNU/Linux distributions, on which are based other distributions, like Ubuntu and Knoppix. The problem affects all the Debian-based distributions that were used to create cryptographic keys since the September 17, 2006. The bug was discovered by Luciano Bello, an argentine Debian package maintainer, and was announced on May 13, 2008.This vulnerability was caused by the removal of two lines of code from the original version of the OpenSSL library. These lines were used to gather some entropy data by the library, needed to seed the PRNG used to create private keys, on which the secure connections are based. Without this entropy, the only dynamic data used was the PID of the software. Under Linux the PID can be a number between 1 and 32,768, that is a too small range of values if used to seed the PRNG and will cause the generation of predictable numbers. Therefore any key generated can be predictable, with only 32,767 possible keys for a given architecture and key length, and the secrecy of the network connections created with those keys is fully compromised.These lines were removed as "suggested" by two audit tools (Valgrind and Purify) used to find vulnerabilities in the software distributed by Debian. These tools warned the Debian maintainers that some data was used before its initialization, that normally can lead to a security bug, but this time it was not the case, as the OpenSSL developers wrote on March 13, 2003. Anyway this change was erroneously applied on September 17, 2006, when the OpenSSL Debian version 0.9.8c-1 was released to the public. Even though the Debian maintainer responsible for this software released a patch to fix this bug on May 8, 2008, the impact may be severe. In fact OpenSSL is commonly used in software to protect the passwords, to offer privacy and security. Any private key created with this version of OpenSSL is weak and must be replaced, included the session keys that are created and used only temporary. This means that any data encrypted with these keys can be decrypted without a big deal, even if these keys are used (but not created) with a version of the library not affected, like the ones included in other operating systems.For example any web server running under any operating system may use a weak key created on a vulnerable Debian-based system. Any encrypted connection (HTTPS) to this web server established by any browser can be decrypted. This may be a serious problem for sites that requires a secure connection, like banks or private web sites. Also, if some encrypted connection was recorded in the past, it can be decrypted in the same way.Another serious problem is for the network security software, like OpenSSH and OpenVPN, that are used to encrypt the traffic to protect passwords and grant the access to an administrative console or a private network protected by firewalls. This may allows hackers to gain unwanted access to private computers, networks or data traveled over the network, even if a not affected version of OpenSSL was used.The same behavior can be applied to any software or protocol that use SSL, like POP3S, SSMTP, FTPS, if used with a weak key. This is the case of Tor, software used to offer strong anonymity on the TCP/IP, where about 300 of 1,500-2,000 nodes used a weak key. With 15-20% of weak Tor nodes, there is a probability of 0.34-0.8% circa to build a circuit that has all tree nodes weak, resulting in a full loss of anonymity. Also the case of only one weak node begin used may facilitate some types of attack to the anonymity. The Tor hidden services, a sort of anonymous public servers, are affected too. However the issue was speedily addressed on May 14, 2008.The same problem also interested anonymous remailers like Mixmaster and Mixminion, that use OpenSSL to create the remailer keys for the servers and the nym keys for the clients. Although currently there is no official announcement, at least two remailer changed their keys because were weak.The Brazilian government news agency Radiobrás (ABr) website has completed a move to free software. As of January 9th, the agency's website is in compliance with the Brazilian government's program to use free software throughout the public sector.Free software is software which, once obtained, can be used, copied, studied, modified and redistributed. It is often made available online without charge or offline for the cost of distribution; free software is not limited to being given away, but can be "free as in free speech" and sold for profit. Some of the most well-known examples of free software are the Linux operating system, the Mozilla web browser and the OpenOffice office suite. About 25 people worked on this change. The change has taken about a year and a half, since the first changes of some workstations and servers of Radiobrás. The switch to free software is being implemented by the National Institute of Technology of Information (ITI), inspired by similar decisions made in another countries. A reduction in service costs is expected.Schools in the United Kingdom have been advised not to upgrade to the newest Microsoft products, Vista and Office 2007, according to a report by the British Educational Communications and Technology Agency (BECTA). Becta said that there were no "appropriate benefit" that would offset the additional cost and possible compatibility issues created by upgrading. An agency of the UK department for education and skills, Becta oversees the procurement of all IT equipment and e-learning solutions for schools. One of the main reasons given is also compatibility, especially the new Microsoft document format OOXML (Office Open XML), a competitor to the ISO standard ODF (Open Document Format). The report says that "Microsoft should provide native support for the ODF file format increasingly used in competitor products and those that are free to use". Schools that do upgrade are advised not to use the OOXML format. Other reasons were that upgrading graphics hardware to support the new Windows Aero Graphics system used in Windows Vista, which would cost additional money according to PC WorldThe report also says that "Schools and colleges should make pupils, teachers and parents aware of the range of free-to-use products (such as office productivity suites) that are available, and how to use them". BECTA is not the first government institution to advise against upgrading to newer Microsoft products, media reports about a similar move by the Department of Transportation in the US were reported last year according to InformationWeek.According to PC World, the cost of upgrading would be £175 million (US$350 million), with a third of that going to Microsoft.On Monday, San Jose, California, US-based software company Adobe Systems announced their plans to acquire California-based e-commerce handling web service Magento Commerce for 1.68 billion US dollars (USD). After Adobe made the announcement via their official website, Adobe's stocks rose by around one percent, ending Monday extended trading at USD 238.10 per share.Magento provides services for the creation of digital ads and handling of online transactions. Magento's services are used by Nestlé, Coca-Cola, Warner Music, and Canon. The acquisition, which is expected to take place in the third fiscal quarter of this year, is to be an all-cash deal. Adobe is to acquire Magento from Permira equity firm. In 2015, Permira bought Magento from eBay, an eCommerce website. Adobe, in their official statement, said, "Magento Commerce Cloud will enable commerce to be seamlessly integrated into the Adobe Experience Cloud".Adobe also announced a buyback of shares worth USD eight billion by 2021. Magento's CEO Mark Lavelle said, "Adobe and Magento share a vision for the future of digital experiences that brings together Adobe's strength in content and data with Magento's open commerce innovation [...] We're excited to join Adobe and believe this will be a great opportunity for our customers, partners and developer community".After the announcement, stocks of Magento's competitors Shopify, Inc dropped by about 4.8%. They finished extended trading at USD 137.60 after the announcement.Santa Clara, CALIFORNIA — Computer vendor Sun Microsystems released on Tuesday the first offerings of its OpenSolaris operating system code for free, under a license which allows anyone to use or work on the code and distribute the changes they make..The full operating system is expected to be released for download sometime in the second quarter of 2005. Following along with the system source code are 1,670 patents Sun will make available for use by open-source developers. Sun hopes to leverage greater innovation in software from the open source community, in return for allowing the code to be used without charge."This is not an EOL (end of life) release. It's a supercharged, turbocharged rocket launching," Sun CEO Scott McNealy said. "No one else has done what we have just done."The move follows a recent move by IBM to grant use of 500 patents freely to open source software developers. Open source developers had been becoming concerned that bureaucracy and legal issues associated with software patents could be damaging to their livelihoods and to innovation. The moves by Sun and IBM seem intended to placate this growing fear.Dynamic Trace, or DTrace is the first OpenSolaris component to be released. DTrace is a performance-analysis tool that tells developers how to optimize their applications for maximum performance. The code is to be released under Sun's own licensing scheme, the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL) Version 1.0. This license has been approved by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).Sun's license is based on the Mozilla Public License. The Free Software Foundation has stated on its website that Sun's license, while free, is not compatible with the GNU Public License (GPL) used for the popular open source Linux operating system. This does not mean that Linux software and OpenSolaris software cannot be used together, but limits the extent of integration which may be achieved.Sun had previously allowed free use of the operating system Solaris by some users, for example students. This move greatly extends the range of free uses permitted, and allows users to read and modify the source code without charge or non-disclosure agreement.Sun Microsystems, the company behind the UNIX-based Solaris Operating System, the Java platform as well as OpenOffice.org, has announced that it is acquiring MySQL AB, the company behind the open source database application MySQL, for a reported US$1 billion: $800 million to purchase MySQL's stock, and $200 million worth of options.Sun CEO Jonathan Schwartz said in his blog Wednesday that in addition to this acquisition, Sun will provide global support offerings for the popular database platform. Sun already provides support for another database platform, PostgreSQL.MySQL is used by many web sites, such as Facebook, LiveJournal, Google, as well as the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation and the MediaWiki software that powers it.In the wake of Bitmover CEO Larry McVoy's decision to end the free distribution of the Linux version of the source code management system Bitkeeper, Linux founder Linus Torvalds has written a program called "git" to access the Linux source code repositories, Torvalds wrote in a post to the Linux kernel mailing list. The program, resting at version 0.04 as of April 13, is, according to Torvalds's README file: "a stupid (but extremely fast) directory content manager. It doesn't do a whole lot, but what it _does_ do is track directory contents efficiently."When Bitmover changed its licensing scheme, Torvalds wrote that he was looking into using Monotone; he added that he did not want to use Subversion (SVN). According to Kerneltrap.org, on April 7, Torvalds noted, "I detest the centralized SCM model, but if push comes to shove, and we just _can't_ get a reasonable parallell merge thing going in the short timeframe (ie month or two), I'll use something like SVN on a trusted site with just a few committers . . ."While Torvalds characterized Monotone as slow, he was hopeful that it could be sped up. He anticipated using the pre-Bitkeeper system of "people email patches to Linus" until the 2.6.12 kernel is released in the next month or so.The Turbolinux operating system, a variety of GNU/Linux free/open source software, has been chosen as the in-house server software for the front-end banking operations of China's largest bank, replacing SCO Unix.  The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC) announced the migration on Thursday, April 28.The announcement is significant in terms of the sheer size of the bank.  "This is the biggest Linux implementation in China," said General Manager Claude Zhou of Turbolinux China.  The ICBC serves more than 108 million customers and manages their combined assets of US$640 billion (5.3 trillion renminbi).  Its 390,000 employees are scattered across 20,000 branch offices throughout China.  The planned deployment will be undertaken in steps and is estimated to take three years.  Zhou described the reasons for the planned migration as the stability and security of Linux.  Nielse Jiang, an analyst at IDC, also attributed the switch to insufficient support by the SCO Group.  "In China, SCO Unix offers very weak support for customers; they have so few employees," Jiang said.ICBC selected Turbolinux over its various competitors, including Microsoft Corporation, in part because of its need to maintain its custom-written Unix-based software.  The increasing scalability and stability of Linux also were factors in the decision.Turbolinux has been China's number one source of Linux for the past 4 years.  In 2004, Turbolinux held 62.0% of the Chinese server market, and also had 24.9% desktop market share, a much larger portion of desktop share than GNU/Linux holds in the United States.Turbolinux is an Asian-Pacific distribution of Linux with its corporate headquarters located in Tokyo, Japan, and offices in China and the United States.  Turbolinux claims that its "Turbolinux 7 Server was the first-ever to conform to Internationalization standards to help simplify development of applications that require multiple language support — a critical requirement for software distributed globally," and supports the use of its software in the Japanese and Chinese languages.Turbolinux was also used as the operating system of choice for China's recent supercomputer, the Dawning 4000A.  With its unveiling on November 15, 2004, China became the third country, after the U.S. and Japan, to surpass the 10 teraflops level of performance in a single machine. The computer, located in Shanghai Supercomputing Center, contains 2,560 64-bit Opteron processors from AMD, each running at 2.2 GHz, and at its introduction was the 10th fastest computer in the world.Turbolinux is being spread throughout China, both throughout government and the business sector, in key areas such as transportation and telecommunications.  In December 2004, ZTE Corporation, the largest telecommunications manufacturer in China, partnered with Hewlett-Packard and Turbolinux to bring the benefits of GNU/Linux software to that industry.The other three largest banks in China have either already announced plans for major migrations to GNU/Linux servers running various distributions, or are expected to do so later this year.The Ubuntu Foundation released its fourth version of the popular GNU/Linux operating system distribution yesterday.  Codenamed "Dapper Drake", the release improves on its predecessor, Breezy Badger, or 5.10.  The 6.06 LTS version will be the first to offer Long Term Support: three years on the desktop and five years on the server.Upgrades to existing Ubuntu 5.10 installations can be accomplished by running the update manager program, where an option to upgrade to 6.06 will be displayed.Because the software in the GNU/Linux operating system comes with permission for everyone to modify and redistribute it, there are many versions (called "distributions") of the operating system available.  Ubuntu builds on the popular Debian GNU/Linux distribution.  Like Debian, it is made almost entirely of free software.Users quickly swarmed Ubuntu's servers and mirrors trying to download the new version. The servers are currently responding slowly; moderators at the Ubuntu Forums suggested that users download with BitTorrent if at all possible, which is much less prone to such slowdowns.Since its first official release in October 2004, Ubuntu has become one of the most popular Linux distributions.  It is intended to be user-friendly without being insecure by design, a charge sometimes leveled against other beginner-friendly distributions like Linspire.  The distribution is offered for free, and CDs are available for order via the Internet without charge (including shipping).The Ubuntu Foundation released its third version of the popular GNU/Linux operating system distribution yesterday.  Codenamed "Breezy Badger", the release improves on its predecessor, Hoary Hedgehog, with updated versions of packages such as OpenOffice.org, new computer management tools, special installation modes for computer manufacturers, and a "thin client" mode for large networks of homogenous computers.  The new version also improves support for laptop computers, portable media players, Bluetooth devices, PowerPC processors, and other hardware.Because the software in the GNU/Linux operating system comes with permission for everyone to modify and redistribute it, there are many versions (called "distributions") of the operating system available.  Ubuntu builds on the popular Debian GNU/Linux distribution.  Like Debian, it is made almost entirely of free software.Users quickly swarmed the Ubuntu Foundation's servers trying to download the new version. The servers are currently responding slowly; moderators at the Ubuntu Forums suggested that users download with BitTorrent if at all possible, which is much less prone to such slowdowns.Although its first release was only a year ago, Ubuntu Linux has quickly become one of the most popular Linux distributions.  It is intended to be user-friendly without being insecure by design, a charge sometimes leveled against other beginner-friendly distributions like Linspire.  The distribution is offered for free, and CDs are available for order via the Internet without charge (including shipping).On Monday, two US Republican Party legislators, Greg Walden and Frank Pallone Jr., respectively the chairman and the ranking member of the United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce, co-wrote a public letter to Jim Zemlin, executive director of The Linux Foundation, about open-source software (OSS) and improving its security. They requested Zemlin to answer their questions by no later than April 16.The letter contained the following four questions; each of the first two has a further two follow-up questions. Has the CII [Core Infrastructure Initiative] performed a comprehensive study of which pieces of OSS are most crucial to the "global information infrastructure"?   If not, does the CII plan to perform such a study?  What would the CII need in order to do so?  Has the CII, or any other organizations, compiled any statistics on OSS usage?     If not, does the CII plan to perform such a study?   What would the CII need in order to do so?   In your estimation, how sustainable and stable is the OSS ecosystem? Based on your response to the previous question, how can the OSS ecosystem be made more sustainable and stable?Walden and Pallone exemplified Heartbleed, a "critical cybersecurity vulnerability" that allowed the hacking of websites and passwords, and millions of medical records in 2014. They also wrote that, in response to that vulnerability, The Linux Foundation established a multi-million dollar project, the Core Infrastructure Initiative, intended to improve the global infrastucture of such software.The politicians noted large tech companies like Microsoft, Apple Inc., and Adobe Systems respond more quickly to such critical vulnerabilities than distributors and developers of open-source software.Open-source software is "publicly accessible" and usually freely-licensed for a wide range of use, such as modification and commercial uses. Walden and Pallone also expressed praise toward open-source software and cited a 2015 survey conducted by Black Duck Software saying 78% of companies used such software.After 6 months of development, the Inkscape project released today a new version of their SVG-based GPLed vector drawing program. It features improved performance and many new features, such as a Layers dialog, better PDF export, configurable keyboard shortcuts and support for clipping and masking. Inkscape runs on  Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X. Inkscape started in 2003 as a fork of the vector drawing editor Sodipodi. Inkscape does not yet have as many features as the best commercial vector editors, but it is currently suitable for a wide range of applications. Inkscape's implementation of SVG and CSS standards is incomplete; most notably, it has not yet fully implemented SVG filter effects, animation, and SVG fonts. Inkscape is currently under active development, which is indicated by the version number below one; new features were being added regularly.The Volkswagen emissions scandal continued yesterday with the company announcing 800,000 mainly diesel vehicles may also be affected by carbon dioxide emissions problems.The company stated "the safety of the vehicles is in no way compromised". They estimated potentially this could cost them €2bn on top of the €6.7bn set aside to pay for the cost of correcting 11 million cars affected when the scandal broke, in addition to fines by regulators. This follows Monday's revelation that the emissions scandal has affected up to 10,000 vehicles sold in the USA by brands in the Volkswagen group, although the company refutes the allegation. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the regulatory body which has been investigating Volkswagen, claims the company fitted a number of recent Audi, Porsche, and Volkswagen models with technology that initiates secret components during emission tests to ensure the results are favourable.The scandal began with damaging revelations that the car manufacturer has been using illegal software to enable diesel cars to cheat on mandatory emissions tests. This lead to a public apology on September 20 by then-chief executive Martin Winterkorn and the promise of an outside inquiry. He then resigned on September 23, and was replaced by Matthias Müller. The new allegation about Porsche is of particular concern for Müller, because he had previously been in charge of Porsche.The company is expected to foot the bill for the recall of close to 500,000 VW and Audi cars affected at the time. There is also the possibility of Volkswagen having to pay federal fines of up to US$18 billion dollars because the US Clean Air Act sets a maximum fine of US$37,500 for each vehicle that contravenes the requirements of the Act.An investigation into alleged breaches of environmental law was originally initiated on the advice of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a European non-governmental organisation. The EPA requested tests be carried out by West Virginia University, where the secret software was discovered.The software, known as a "defeat device", enabled cars to identify when they were being tested and to switch on the emission control system. The devices may have been adding urea to the car exhaust because that would reduce the amount of nitrogen dioxide. The car would release a fraction of the nitrogen oxide compared to when they were being driven normally. Emissions of nitrogen oxide contribute to smog and are thought to have caused a rise in respiratory illnesses like asthma.Chief Executive of Volkswagen Martin Winterkorn issued on Sunday a public apology and announced an outside inquiry would be carried out, after the company became engulfed in a scandal about diesel emissions tests.Over the weekend there were damaging revelations that the car manufacturer has been using illegal software to enable diesel cars to cheat on mandatory emissions tests. An investigation into alleged breaches of environmental law was originally initiated on the advice of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a European NGO. The United States Environmental Protection Agency requested tests be carried out by West Virginia University, where the secret software was discovered.Volkswagen has suffered a significant drop of almost a fifth in the value of its shares. There have been knock-on effects for other car manufacturers who have also seen their share values fall after suggestions that the scandal could extend much further than just Volkswagen. The company will have to foot the bill for the recall of close to 500,000 VW and Audi cars. There is also the possibility of paying federal fines of up to US$18 billion dollars because the US Clean Air Act sets a maximum fine of US$37,500 for each vehicle that contravenes the requirements of the Act.The software, known as a "defeat device", enabled cars to identify when they were being tested and to switch on the emission control system. The devices may have been adding urea to the car exhaust because that would reduce the amount of nitrogen dioxide. The car would release a fraction of the nitrogen oxide compared to when they were being driven normally. Emissions of nitrogen oxide contribute to smog and are thought to have caused a rise in respiratory illnesses like asthma.The French web survey provider XiTiMonitor reports that in their study conducted from Monday, July 2 to Sunday, July 8, 2007 on 95,827 websites, web browser Mozilla Firefox reached a 27.8% share in Europe, compared to 21.1% during the same period last year.Firefox has its biggest market share in Slovenia and Finland where it amounts to 47.9% and 45.4%, respectively, while only 14.6% of people from the Netherlands and 15.2% of surfers in Denmark used Firefox in this survey. The share rose most in Ireland: from 24.9% to 38.6% (i.e. +13.7 points).Microsoft's web browser Internet Explorer remains the most used browser in Europe with a market share of 66.5%. Opera and Safari have a 3.5% and 1.7% share respectively, with other browsers at less than 1%.Oceania remains the region with the highest usage of the freely licensed and open source software browser Firefox, with 28.9%. The continent with the strongest relative increase in market share is South America, where there is a 30% increase compared to last March. Numbers from the U.S.-based company Net Applications Inc. last month showed a fall in Firefox's share from 15.42% in April to 14.54%.After three days of presentations, discussion and general community interactions, the fifth annual Wikimedia conference, Wikimania, has completed, and attendeess are returning home. Wikimania 2009 — held in Buenos Aires, Argentina — was the first Wikimania held in the southern hemisphere as well as the first in a Spanish-speaking country.Over 80 presentations, panels and workshops were held over the three day conference. Among the many topics presented were presentations on the Wikimedia Communities, how Wikimedia and related projects operate within Latin America, and the technology which relates to Wikimedia and free content. There were also panels on Wikipedia's Growing Pains, Wikimedia chapters, and Semantic MediaWiki. Many presentation offered simultaneous live audio translation into English and Spanish.Richard Stallman presented the opening keynote titled "Before, after, and around Wikipedia". In his keynote, he discussed what he calls the four freedoms. He also addressed what he perceives to be the issues with Wikipedia, and particularly with the Spanish Wikipedia. Jimmy Wales, the founder of Wikimedia, also presented his annual report on the The State of the Wiki. In her keynote, Executive Director of the Wikimedia Foundation, Sue Gardner addressed a number of the concerns within the Wikimedia Foundation. Among these concerns, she noted that Wikimedia sites currently underperform in Asia. According to a comScore report, approximately 16% of Internet users in Asia use Wikipedia compared with the approximately 1/3 world average. Gardner also said to help address that issue, the Foundation has been working with the Chinese government to help open lines of communication. To assist the development of Wikimedia sites in India, representatives of the Wikimedia Foundation visited India this year to conduct media interviews assist in holding a Wikipedia academy. They also discussed was to help the development of an Indian chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation. Starting August 25 and continuing throughout Wikimania, the MediaWiki developers were hard at work in the basement of the Centro Cultural General San Martín at the Wikimania Codeathon. Wikimedia developer Brion Vibber presented the highlights of the Codeathon in a presentation on the third day. Among the new features and changes are support for jQuery, allowing improved AJAX support, an overhaul of the maintenance scripts, new upload features including upload via url, several image editing functions, LiquidTreads and new AJAX editing helpers. Other features now under development are new maps support, an eventual migration to a database based configuration system, as well as a new system that allows for much quicker updates for translated MediaWiki messages.The Frugalware Development Team describes ­­Frugalware as a general purpose Linux distribution, designed for intermediate users who are not afraid of text mode. Frugalware also plans to offer a live CD with desktop options, to be developed by one of its teams. A live CD enables running the Linux software on most compatible Intel and AMD chipset architectures, without having to partition a drive.A freelance journalist writing for Wikinews interviewed the founder of Frugalware Linux, Miklós Vajna.Wikinews: Frugalware is a slack distribution at present. Are there plans for developing binary package management platforms of it?Miklós Vajna: Our package manager is called pacman, and its primary purpose is to install binary packages. If you want to install packages from source, you can use our "repoman" tool.Wikinews: What are your visions for the future of Frugalware, do you plan to globally distribute it as a product, and would you consider allowing a major corporation to sponsor your efforts?Miklós Vajna: The second. Frugalware is free, but maintaining it needs hardware, mirrors, money. We got several donations already (build servers), and we continuously need them. If a corporation want to sponsor us, I think that is totally O.K. :-)Wikinews: What is Arch Linux in relationship to your project? And how do their efforts fit into your game plan?Miklós Vajna: The common [thing] in Arch Linux and Frugalware is the package manager. (To be strict: nothing else.) Developing our package manager is a common effort. If anyone [is] interested in its development, he/she can subscribe to the pacman development mailing list.Wikinews: I've successfully installed Frugalware, OpenSUSE, and WinXP on the same box. Do you see a lot of people doing this sort of thing in the future?Miklós Vajna: We support having more than one operating system on a single machine — though this matters only in case Frugalware is the last installed operating system. We do not have any statistics about what operating systems do other people use besides Frugalware, if they have more than one.Wikinews: Is it possible that PearPC and Frugalware may have a relationship to distribute the PearPC Emulator with Frugalware in the future?Miklós Vajna: It is already available [1].Wikinews: What kinds of software might you include with further editions of Frugalware? Is Muse part of the base package for electronic musicians, or will you have those sorts of things?Miklós Vajna: No [2]. It is not available at the moment. You can request a package by filing a feature request to our Bug Tracking System, at [3].Wikinews: Is the autoupdating feature of Frugalware unique to Frugalware and perhaps a keystone to future developments?Miklós Vajna: I have never tried other autoupdating features. What one can see is that upgrading even from the previous stable release — which means installing 6 months of update at once — requires only a few tricks, and these are documented. So it works as it should, and we always pay attention not to break this great feature.Wikinews: What can new users of Frugalware do to test and relay infotmation back to the developers through the correct channels?Miklós Vajna: We have released stable versions two times a year. There are testing releases every two months. If one would like to help us, then download these releases, test them, and if something is broken, then file a bug report to the BTS (mentioned above already).Frugalware has new X Windows video drivers that provide a major speed improvement over available patches for previous editions of Linux. Alex Smith has been working on them as a developer.In addition, the PearPC emulator mentioned above, which comes with the package manager, may, with proper tuning and installation of a legal copy of Mac OSX, enable many Intel and AMD Frugalware users to use the Apple OS on their desktops. Alex Smith is also a contact person for the PearPC project, which can also be found in irc://irc.freenode.net and at http://www.pearpc.net.The official release time of the latest edition frugalware-0.4 was Mar 30 07:42:21. The developers can be reached for comment through IRC at #frugalware in the irc.freenode.net network.File:BRUCE LAWSON OPERA.pngWikinews interviewed Opera, a Norwegian software company, about its contributions to open-source, such as software. Questions discussed current workflow, dynamics of contributions, and background.((Wikinews))  What caused your initial interest in open-source software?Bruce Lawson: Opera has long been involved in open source software — we've often used open-source software, enhanced it and committed it back before including it in products. Opera began the specification that's now called HTML5, bringing rich internet capabilities that were previously only available in proprietary plugins such as Flash and Silverlight into the open standard that is HTML.Most recently, we've moved to using the open-source Blink rendering engine and have established a team dedicated to enhancing Blink and Chromium so that it's better for everyone.((WN))  What is your current workflow regarding open-source contributions?Bruce Lawson: Branch, commit, rinse and repeat.((WN))  What would you say had changed during your contributions to open-source projects throughout the years?Bruce Lawson: The power and popularity of Github.((WN))  How would you describe the role of open-source software today?Bruce Lawson: Open source or closed source are equally valid; the vital glue is open standards for data interchange so that a user isn't locked into one vendor.((WN))  What effort do you put into localisation of your products? both open and not?Bruce Lawson: Opera is available in 54 different languages. So, a lot of effort!((WN))  Do you hire people for work remotely? How would you describe the dynamics of such trend over the years?Bruce Lawson: No; we have offices in Norway, Poland, and Sweden but find it works best with everyone being physically close.The 10.10 version of Ubuntu (codename Maverick Merkaat), a free operative system is to be released in the next few days. French Wikinews contributor Savant-fou (Baptiste) has interviewed Fabrice (fabrice_sp on Ubuntu), an Ubuntu's MOTU (Master Of The Universe), member of the development team of the operative system.Ubuntu is a computer operating system, based on Debian, which is created collaboratively by thousands of people. There are three official Ubuntu versions: Ubuntu Desktop Edition (for desktop and laptop PCs); Ubuntu Netbook Edition (for netbooks); and Ubuntu Server Edition (for use in servers).Developers involved in open source products across Taiwan gathered together at the 2008 Taiwan Open Source Development Conference on Saturday and Sunday to present a variety of research relevant to the open-source community.A variety of different issues were discussed at the conference, including 3D Graphical User Interfaces,web developing tools, new software platforms,and various hardware. Google, Yahoo, and Canonical also gave talks about Google Gears, Yahoo UI, and Ubuntu Mobile.A co-operation between the KDE group - makers of a free desktop for Linux - and the Wikimedia Foundation has been announced at the LinuxTag Conference in Karlsruhe. They intend to build a protocol which will make it possible to access Wikimedia project's data from any application, but especially from the KDE suite.The KDE Group will try to integrate some of the applications from the package with Wikimedia data. For example, AmaroK, media player, will use Wikipedia data to show information about music being played at the moment. Some other applications, including chemical database Kalzium, a database of information about the sky KStars and office suite KOffice will use data from Wikipedia, or from its sister projects.It will be based on SOAP/WSDL technology, which is already used by the Google API. It could be used on almost every platform and programming environment.It is also possible to include the Wikipedia archive in some of KDE's CD editions to make it possible to use the data from Wikipedia on machines without an internet connection.Engineers at China's Yellow Sheep River have developed a desktop computer, called a Municator, which costs only €123 ($150 US).  The machine is designed to help bridge the digital divide in China and to expand China's small domestic semiconductor industry. Its development has been heavily subsidized by local governments.The Municator measures 14.5 x 18 x 3.7 cm. (5.7 x 7.1 x 1.5 in.),  and weighs 0.65 kg. (1.4 pounds).  It is expected to use an existing TV as a monitor. The operating system is a GNU/Linux distribution, known as Thinix 3.0, which is developed by YellowSheepRiver Inc. itself and overseen by the Chinese government for security reasons. The Municator was shown last week at the 2006 CeBIT Fair in Hannover, Germany.Video coverage from CeBIT 2006 speculated that the Municator will include applications such as: Firefox for web browsing, Thunderbird for e-mail, Gaim for instant messaging, Skype for VoIP, Red Office (99 percent compatible with Microsoft Office and based on Open Office) for Linux for word processing, and MPlayer for audio/video playback. The Skype application for VoIP is currently only available from Skype on i386-32 processors under Linux, but CeBit's video briefly shows a beta version of Skype running on the Municator's screen.The 64-bit Godson 2c 400-800 MHz CPU used in the machine has a MIPS-like instruction set, and is roughly as fast as a 500-mHz Pentium III.  The Godson II is made exclusively in China, and consumes relatively little power for its speed in comparison to x86 Intel and compatible AMD chips.  A similar Chinese laptop project called the Longmeng also uses the Godson II.No version of Microsoft Windows supports the Godson II, and due to the independent nature of the Chinese government, the Municator is unlikely to ever run Microsoft Windows or its applications. Banners at CeBIT 2006 proclaim "Say No To Wintel Try Now!"The MIT Media Lab has a similar initiative to develop an inexpensive Linux machine, known as the $100 laptop, which seeks to begin production by the end of 2007.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.If the protected page is an archived published Wikinews article with a factual error, the edit will have to take the form of a {{correction}}.Note: Do not "subst" this template as {{subst:editprotected}}, simply use {{editprotected}}.