The new generic top-level domain, ".asia", met with an Internet landrush following the February 20 launch of the Asia-Pacific domain. Applications have not only come from Asian countries, but also from Europe and North America. Asia accounted for 35% of all applications with Europe and North America taking 40% and 24% respectively.According to the DotAsia Organization, global application on launch were approximately 266,700. Currently Dotalliance Inc. & EuroDNS S.A. are the top two registrars.With the ".asia" domain having become notable, many more applications are expected before the closing date of March 12.Randy Pausch, professor of computer science, human-computer interaction, and design at Carnegie Mellon University has died at the age of 47. Pausch died from pancreatic cancer early this morning.He was born Randolph Frederick Pausch on October 23, 1960 in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. He was known for his "The Last Lecture" speech on September 18, 2007 at Carnegie Mellon University.The Pittsburgh City Council declared November 19, 2007 to be "Dr. Randy Pausch Day."Finally, Brown University professor Andries van Dam followed Pausch's last lecture with a tearful and impassioned speech praising him for his courage and leadership, calling him a role model.Pausch repeated his "Last Lecture" speech to the Oprah Show.On May 18, 2008, Pausch made a surprise return appearance at Carnegie Mellon, giving a speech at the commencement ceremony, as well as attending the School of Computer Science's diploma ceremony.He leaves behind his wife Jai and their three children: Dylan, 6, Logan, 4, and Chloe, 2.In a report on cloud computing issued this week, the environmental group Greenpeace rated ten top Internet companies, including Apple, Google, Twitter and Amazon, on several factors such as each company's willingness to be transparent by providing information on its energy sources and the energy efficiency of its data centers.In the report entitled "How Dirty is your Data", Apple, while receiving good marks for transparency, rated at the bottom for energy efficiency, primarily because its huge, new data center in North Carolina, called iDataCenter, relies largely on coal. Although Apple claimed its California operations used cleaner energy than that produced by most grids, iDataCenter has an estimated energy demand three times Apple's current use, significantly increasing Apple's environmental footprint. As Apple increases the online products it delivers from its iTunes platform, it will enlarge its cloud computing operations further. "Apple's decision to locate its iDataCenter in North Carolina, which has an electrical grid among the dirtiest in the country (61 percent coal, 31 percent nuclear), indicates a lack of a corporate commitment to clean energy supply for its cloud operations," Greenpeace said in its report. About 2 percent of worldwide energy use is consumed by data center computer servers, and this amount is increasing by 12 percent a year, Greenpeace reports, an energy demand that is more than that of Russia. Greenpeace said many IT companies do not reveal the environmental impact of their energy consumption, and concentrate more on energy efficiency that on using clean energy. Most of their energy is supplied by coal and nuclear energy. Companies are locating their data centers in areas that afford cheap, abundant coal-powered electricity.Yahoo was praised by Greenpeace for placing its data centers near sources of clean energy and its minor use of coal-based power. Greenpeace noted that Google says that it is conscious of the need to use renewable sources of electricity to power cloud computing, but it does not acknowledge the size of its carbon footprint. The company claims it has seven data centers worldwide, but it is estimated to have 20 to 30.The carbon footprint of cloud computing is a recent emphasis of Greenpeace in its attempt to disprove the belief that the biggest polluters are manufacturers. In a response to the report, Timothy Prickett Morgan criticized Greenpeace for focusing on data centers which are responsible for using about 3 per cent of the US power generation and globally account for 1.5 to 2 percent. He noted that "the data centers of Amazon, Google, Yahoo!, Facebook, Twitter, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Apple, and Akamai . . . are probably not much different from the business where you work every day when it comes to dependency on coal for electricity generation. And ditto for the home that you return to every night."Morgan quotes data from a 2008 report by the International Energy Agency and cited  by the World Coal Association, now known as the The World Coal Institute, that showed coal plants produce over 40 percent of the global electricity. The Institute determined that United States receives half of its power from coal plants. Some other countries, such as South Africa, Poland and China, use more coal. "The world is still dependent on non-renewable energy sources – coal and nuclear with a smattering of oil and gas – to generate electricity," he says, suggesting the IT companies should not be singled out. Morgan is also critical of Greenpeace's methodology in gathering the data, as it included only a sample of the data centers of these companies, and some that were not yet completely operational. He noted that because the companies were not always cooperative in disclosing information, Greenpeace estimated a portion of the data. He said that the reader has to "drill down into the report" to see the the complete picture. Another criticism of Greenpeace is its definition of coal and nuclear power as "dirty energy". Because it does not discharge greenhouse gases, nuclear power is rated more favorably than coal by some environmental organizations. Greenpeace is adamantly against nuclear power's radiation risks.Matthew Wright, host of British television programme The Wright Stuff, has apologised for remarks he made on the show in relation to the murder of Liam Aitchison.On the edition of the Channel 5 programme broadcast on Tuesday, the murder of Liam Aitchison was being examined as part of a newspaper review segment. At this point, Wright said the words "there's been another murder" while using a false Scottish accent, as a reference to the UK television crime drama Taggart. Charlie Baker, who appeared on the panel alongside Wright, remarked that the investigation into Aitchison's death would be like "the longest episode of Taggart of all time". The audience can be heard to be laughing at this point. "There's a lot of downtime in between," Baker continued.In the statement, the family of Liam Aitchison found what they called the "insensitive and offensive nature of the comments made" to be "very upsetting and insulting for, not just the family, but for the whole community of the Western Isles." On the website for The Wright Stuff, Liam Aitchison's father Norman wrote a comment which read: "Would your panel members be making a joke of this if it was one of their own children? My son's death is no joke and I am disgusted with every single one of you on that panel. Let my son rest in peace".On the edition of The Wright Stuff broadcast yesterday, Wright said he would "like to apologise" if any viewers had been offended by his comments. "Certainly, no intention on my part to belittle the seriousness, or the tragedy of this story, or to offend anyone who knew Liam," Wright clarified. "You know me, I have been touched by death too many times to belittle anything like that." Channel 5 believe that Wright had made his apology "clear", according to a spokeswoman for the channel. However, Wright mentioned that he had "[n]ot [been] helped by people running campaigns 'report Matthew Wright to Ofcom'," a UK media regulator. He advised such people to "grow up".Channel 5 subsequently revoked access to Tuesday's episode of The Wright Stuff from its on demand service. The comments have also been removed from their website.Angus MacNeil, the MP for Na h-Eileanan an Iar, described the behaviour of Wright as "beyond belief" and told of his intention to complain to Ofcom. The comments "disgusted everyone," MacNeil said. Comhairle nan Eilean Siar, a local authority within the islands, has complained to Ofcom. A page on the social networking website Facebook, entitled 'Report The Wright Stuff to Ofcom', has attracted in excess of two thousand likes. Ofcom is currently "in the process of assessing those complaints", according to a spokesperson. As of yet, the regulator has not "made any decision to investigate those complaints at this stage", although the concept of an investigation is currently a possibility.Earlier this month, the Northern Constabulary, which has not made any statement regarding this matter, launched a murder inquiry in the aftermath of Liam Aitchison's death, having considered his death to be as the result of a murder following an autopsy. He was last sighted in the town of Stornoway on November 22 of this year. His remains were found in an abandoned building in Steinish on November 29.The University of Southern California developed a simulation system that provides real effects of battlefield. The simulation is called Virtual Iraq and it is now being put in practice by the University of Reading. Virtual Iraq represents a fully-immersive system created as part of a therapy that aims to help soldiers with post-traumatic stress disorder to handle their psychological issues. The Director of the Visualization Center at University of Reading, Professor Paul Sharkey, has been developing the system together with two professors from the USC Institute for Creative Technologies, Albert Rizzo and Jarrell Pair. They created a virtual room at the Visualization Center where patients can experience the effects of the battlefield.Scientists will provide in their Virtual Iraq sounds, sights and smells of the battlefield so soldiers or military staff would experience real combat scenarios but in a low threat context. Thus the therapists are able to add to the virtual world roadside bombs, the smell of burning rubber, as well as the sound of gunfire and buzzing of the helicopter. Till now four patients were treated and they all reported improvement in the symptoms.  Scientists state that the aim of the new system is to re-expose patients to relevant traumatic events and not to re-traumatize them. They look forward to manage people’s emotional responses so to make them more flexible in everyday situations.Friday, a song by US teen singer Rebecca Black, has gone viral after the song's music video was uploaded onto video sharing website YouTube. The video has attracted over thirty-five million views since its February 10 upload — and critics think it could be the world's worst. Ark Music Factory produced the song and video, using US$2,000 (£1,223, C$1,964, €1,412) from Black's mother. Friday's video was shot at Black's father's house, with her family and friends as extras. The song beat an alternative track when choosing what to record.The single is climbing up the iTunes singles chart in the United Kingdom and the United States, gaining a higher position in the US than Canadian singer Justin Bieber.Despite the song's popularity, it has received a largely negative reception. According to Newsbeat, critics have cited Friday as being "the worst song of all time." On YouTube, the video attracted approximately thirty-six thousand 'likes' versus over 314,000 'dislikes'. The song itself has been ridiculed for its lyrics and criticised for its use of Auto-Tune.Feeling "like [she was] being cyber-bullied," Rebecca Black said "[w]hen I first saw all these nasty comments I thought this is all my fault, ... this was all because of me." Black says of "[t]hose hurtful comments", the worst was "I hope you cut yourself and I hope you get an eating disorder so you look pretty. I hope you cut and die." Clarence Jey, of Ark Music Factory, offered to take the video off YouTube, but Black declined.In contrast, British music executive Simon Cowell has expressed a positive interest in Rebecca Black. "I love her and the fact she's gotten so much publicity," Cowell commented. "People are so upset about the song, but I think it's hysterical. I want to meet her. Anyone who can create this much controversy within a week, I want to meet. I love people like that."Rebecca Black herself wants to record a duet with Justin Bieber. "I have Bieber fever — I am in love with Justin Bieber," Black commented. The teenager said it "would be unbelievable and make my life".Ten billion songs have been downloaded from the iTunes Store, an online digital media store which is owned by Apple Incorporated. Louie Sulcer, of Woodstock in Georgia, downloaded "Guess Things Happen That Way" by American musician, Johnny Cash, which became the ten billionth song downloaded from iTunes. Sulcer won an iTunes gift card worth US$10,000 (approximately £6,550 or €7,380), after purchasing a song on the iTunes Store to win the prize.Beforehand, Apple had launched a competition entitled "Countdown to 10 Billion Song Downloads", where the person to make the ten billionth "entry" of a song from the iTunes Store would win the gift card. An "entry" could be created by either downloading a song from the iTunes store, or by filling in a form on the Apple website. The rules of the competition stated that "the downloading of the 10 billionth song is considered to be either the downloading of the 10 billionth song from iTunes or the receipt of the non-purchase entry after the download of the 9,999,999,999th song, whichever comes first." Below is a table of the twenty most downloaded songs of all time from Apple's iTunes Store. The list was initially placed on the website.The ten billionth update, or "tweet", has been uploaded to Twitter, a social networking website. The statistic was reported by GigaTweet, a group that keeps archives in relation to Twitter messages. The update was placed onto Twitter at approximately 0100 GMT on Thursday.The identity of the user who placed the ten billionth "tweet" on the website and the message itself cannot be discovered due to the fact that the update was uploaded from a protected profile. A protected profile is a profile which cannot be viewed by all internet users.Twitter was first launched in March 2006. The first message to be sent onto Twitter read out: "just setting up my twttr". The website reached its billionth "tweet" in November 2008 and its five billionth in November 2009. GigaTweet have predicted that the twenty billionth update will be put onto the website by October 2010.Yesterday, Zomato, a food ordering and restaurant finding company, announced security breach of more than 17 million accounts, via their official blog. A hacker operating under the alias nclay uploaded evidence to prove they had the stolen data — hashed passwords and emails — for sale, Hackread.com reported. Zomato later announced they contacted the hacker, who asked Zomato to organise a bug bounty programme.The food ordering company, with 120 million monthly users, said the payment information of the users was not located with this data and was not leaked. Zomato said it uses PCI Data Security Standards.As a security measure, all the passwords of the involved Zomato accounts were reset and all of the accounts were forcibly  logged out from the application and website. The company said only hashed passwords were compromised. Hashed passwords are encrypted and, per Zomato, every password had a different "salt", for cryptographic salting was performed before hashing the original password. A "salt" is a random set of characters added before encryption to make decryption to obtain the original passkey more difficult.The hashed password itself can not be used to access the account. In the blog post before contacting the hacker, saying "internal (human) security breach", Zomato suggested this could have happened after a worker's development account was hijacked. After contacting the hacker, and promising a bug bounty programme on Hackerone, they said, the hacker agreed and removed the stolen data which was put on sale on the dark web. Zomato said they are looking forward to working closely with the ethical hacker community on security vulnerabilities.2007 Intel Developer Forum Taipei, held at Taipei International Convention Center, started at October 15-16. With the great technology trends of wireless networking, this time, Intel Global led Navin Shenoy, Anand Chandrasekher, Shmuel Eden, and Gadi Singer talked about the WiMax, productive quantity of 45nm technology, and the development of mobile technology.Forecasting the WiMax Forum by Taipei Computer Association (TCA) next week, Intel Taiwan invited Mei-yueh Ho (Chairman of Council for Economic Planning and Development) to introduce M-Taiwan and the future of WiMax in Taiwan."Not only WiMax, laptop manufacturers will respect on functions such as compatible with High-Definition Videos, power saving, hardware mobilization. In the future, UMPC should be conjuncted with GPS, PDA, and laptop computer and it should mainly have lots of useful functions such as entertainment, mobility, performance, and wireless communication. This is the future object what manufacturers should do." Navin Shenoy mentioned."The mobile platform of UMPC will not 'Windows only', with the participation of Asianux by Red Flag of China, HAANSOFT of Korea, and Miracle Linux of Japan, the UMPC competition will be in a great change. So not only Asianux platform, but Ubuntu will be available in the future." Gadi Singer remarked after the showcase of non-Windows UMPC.After the Opening Keynote, the VIPs summarized topics on 45nm fabs, UMPC, and mobility. Intel predicted that the development of microchip will take effect on the trend of UMPC, it needs the integration on software and hardware contributors and WiMax technology. With the sequences above, the mobility of UMPC will be speed up.The 28th-annual COMPUTEX Taipei show, the second largest IT show in the world, is the largest one since they held their first show in 1982 since expanding to TWTC Nangang. Not only were vast ICT products showcased from upper, mid, and lower-stream vertical and horizontal OEMs, OBMs, and world-class stellar companies like Intel, AMD, ASUS, Foxconn, Acer, BenQ, and Kingston, but also  featured products related to green technology. Companies from Korea will be hosting the biggest international pavilion to catch the buyers' eyes.The Taipei Computer Association (TCA), one of the show organizers, will hold the 2008 WiMAX Taipei Expo at the Taipei Show Hall 2. It will allow the networking industry to chain the WiMAX Pavilion located in the TWTC Nangang and echo the basic infrastructure construction of WiMAX. Organizing the show and promoting the ICT industry are considered major tasks by newly-elected President of the Republic of China Ying-jeou Ma. Pavilions like "mega trends", "multimedia", and "green technology" will be re-arranged to host trendy and energy-efficient products launched prior to this show.According to Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), there were several seminars like "e21 Forum", "DRAMeXchange Forum", "Next Generation Networks Taipei", "Taiwan Design Center Forum", "CE Summit", "Green IT Forum" held at the Taipei International Convention Center. TWTC Nangang was  organized for buyers and companies to glance the vision of global ICT industry during the show hours. Since Jonney Shih, Chairman of ASUStek, showcased Eee PC before its launch during 2007 e21 Forum, seminars were progressively respected by industrial businessmen, especially international buyers.Not only will there be a senior competition - Best Choice of COMPUTEX, mainly promoted by the TCA, but also the TAITRA will cooperate with International Forum Design (iF) holding the "Design and Innovation Award of COMPUTEX". Its goals aims at discovering innovative and brand-new IT products to elevate the notability of Taiwan's innovations.TAITRA and TCA, the organizers, promised to do the be the best at services for transportation (Shuttle Buses, Taxis, MRT, International Airlines), living (Hotels), networking (TAITRA Lounge), and business (Trade Opportunity Rooms and Business Center) for the best quality of COMPUTEX.2008 Computex Taipei (a.k.a Taipei International Information Technology Show), the second largest IT show in the world, will start on June 3 to 7 at the TWTC Hall 1 & 3, Taipei International Convention Center (TICC), and TWTC Nangang, in conjunction with 2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei, which will start earlier at the Taipei Show Hall 2. With two IT-related industry shows will be concurrently showcased in different venues, it will bring on many convergences and opportunities for networking and mobile-related industries worldwide including Taiwan.Since the Taipei Computer Association, Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA), and Industrial Technology Research Institute preliminary imported the "WiMAX Forum Showcase & Conference" into the TICC, WiMAX-related topics were mostly focused by several worldwide media and industrial elites. In extremity, some technologies and solutions like eSNG, wireless medical care, wireless transmission, and mobile entertainment were showcased there. And the MOEA also signed MOUs with 5 world-class WiMAX companies to help the networking industry last year in Taiwan.Even though the signing of MOUs and new technologies will bring opportunities for WiMAX-related industries, and the mobile devices will be progressively popular in the future and more slim like an UMPC, but some companies from information security industry were worried about the future trend because of invisible threats on the Internet.As of "Asia-pacific IT Security Forum" and "IT Security Pavilion" of SecuTech Expo 2008, there were several changes on participation from IT industry, but due to a major impact of "Edison Chen's photo scandal", several crisis were exposed with improper habits on modern people when using the Internet.It's a real deal that the WiMAX will bring different kind profits and benefits for different industries, but before the WiMAX became the trend, if Internet users didn't cultivate proper habits on using the Internet, the WiMAX will still bring on threats for end-users and industries.2008 COMPUTEX, famed as the 2nd-largest ICT trade show in the world, started today at the Taipei World Trade Center, Taipei International Convention Center, and TWTC Nangang with 1725 companies' participation including top 5 nations - Hong Kong, South Korea, China, France, and Japan. With the newly-launched TWTC Nangang, the COMPUTEX set its record with its exhibition scale expanding by 53% and the number of participating manufacturers increasing by 29%.This year of COMPUTEX has some special features including "Design and Innovation Award of COMPUTEX", set to discover innovative designs world-wide, "Environment-related topics", highly respected by environmentalists and industrial businesspeople with many ICT products related to energy-efficiency and green technology showcased at "Mega Trends Pavilion".With another concurrent trade show - "2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei", located at Taipei Show Hall 2, Taipei Computer Association, one of the show organizers, will mainly promote the "WING"-conceptual products like WiMAX, ICT crossovers, Notebooks, and Green IT products this year. In addition, DRAMeXchange Compuforum, e21Forum, Taiwan Design Forum, and Next Generation Network Forum will be held in conjunction with the COMPUTEX to attract international businesspeople from vast industries.This year's COMPUTEX Taipei showcased vast ICT products and innovative designs. According to the Taiwan Design Center (TDC), Taiwan positioned a stable place in industrial and students' designs after winning several international design awards including G-mark, Red Dot, and iF.To promote the design of Taiwan into the world, not only pavilions from the Taiwan Excellence Gold & Silver Awards, d & i Award of COMPUTEX, Best Choice of COMPUTEX, and Taiwan Design Innovation Pavilion, the TDC & Taiwan External Trade Development Council also held the "Design Think Forum" to examine and forecast the design industry in Taiwan on the 2nd Day of COMPUTEX (June 4).In the "TAITRA ICT 5-Stars Press Conference", Walter Yeh, Vice President of Taiwan External Trade Development Council, talked to Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen about "Design", he said:Besides of the "iF Design Award Pavilion" at TAITRONICS 2008, the 2008 2nd Taiwan International Culture and Creative Industries Exhibition (a.k.a Creative Taiwan), which will be showcased at Taipei World Trade Center on October 23 - 26, will be a critical trade show for cultural, design, and creative industries. As a result, the growth of design industry will pulse the future of the other industries including the ICT.2008 COMPUTEX Taipei, the largest trade fair since its inception in 1982, featured several seminars and forums, expansions on show spaces to TWTC Nangang, great transformations for theme pavilions, and WiMAX Taipei Expo, mainly promoted by Taipei Computer Association (TCA). Besides of ICT industry, "design" progressively became the critical factor for the future of the other industries. To promote innovative "Made In Taiwan" products, pavilions from "Best Choice of COMPUTEX", "Taiwan Excellence Awards", and newly-set "Design and Innovation (d & i) Award of COMPUTEX", demonstrated the power of Taiwan's designs in 2008 COMPUTEX Taipei.Seminars and forums always played key roles to forecast the future of ICT industry worldwide after the COMPUTEX became more and more critical for businesspeople. Not only e21FORUM, the DRAMeXchange Compuforum was progressively respected by DRAM industry since 2006.Since the mobile devices have become popular in the presence, the supply of DRAM modules is still inadequate to meet the demand. "The abandonment of 12-inch fabs and the suspension of 8-inch fabs are considered critical issues in this incident. If the Mainland China wants to enlarge its market stably, the supply chain and costs of material should be cautioned." stated DRAMeXchange Technology.Mass storage devices with high capacity often linked with enterprises. With innovations of information technology, capacity of USB flash drives and mobile drives are larger and larger. "Capacity, costs of production, prices, and efficiency on writing and reading are critical factors to determine an user on choosing SSDs, hard disks, or flash drives." stated Hitach Corp.. "The market shares on storage will transform from enterprises to digital storage with a significant grown-up of Internet users within four years." stated Seagate Technology.The opening day of COMPUTEX 2008, e21FORUM was held at the Taipei International Convention Center on June 3 to forecast the future of ICT industry world-wide. To connect with the topic of "WiMAX" mainly promoted by Taipei Computer Association, e21MagicMedia, convener of e21FORUM, entitled the forum topic as "Leading to a Bright Future with Technology".Since the e21FORUM was initially held from 2001, the dialogue between Microsoft and Intel became a key topic in this event. This year, executives from Microsoft and Intel confronted here again.In the opening keynote, Sean M. Maloney, Executive Vice President of Intel Corporation, started his speech to forecast the future of WiMAX. "WiMAX will become a must-have trend. When it matured[sic], it will bring on the utilization percentages on mobile devices like MID and UMPC." stated Maloney. In addition, he also demonstrated the application of SSD by shocking and stunning its device to prove its sustainability and damage-proof in front of forum participants.On the other hand, Microsoft participated in the COMPUTEX 2008 entitled "It's better with Windows" to demonstrate the advantages of Microsoft Windows with "Trusted", "Familiar", and "Compatible". In the second keynote, Steven Guggenheimer, Vice President of Microsoft Global OEM Department, explained the opportunities which OEMs and ODMs can provide to elevate users' experiences by optimizing Microsoft Windows to the best performance.Finally in the executive panel, DigiTimes and experts from ICT industry in Taiwan forecast the future of WiMAX. Executives coordinately commented that the basic infrastructure will be a critical factor when developing the WiMAX applications in Taiwan.Google Developer Day 2008 took place on June 18 at the Wharf 8 Venue Complex in Sydney, Australia. This is the fourth event after Japan, China, and Taiwan. Thirteen Google Developer days have been scheduled for 2008. About 650 local developers participated in this conference.Internet APIs on websites and enterprises was emphasised at this event, in addition to discussions on Google Apps Engine, Google Maps, and Android.Alan Noble, Engineering Director of Google Australia and New Zealand, hoped potential talents and developers can be discovered in this conference, and also commented about the Internet era to local media: "Developers took hold of the notion that the web itself is truly the platform of the future - an open playing field where anyone can build innovative applications."Last Saturday June 14, 2008 Google Developer Day made its first appearance in Taiwan at the Taipei International Convention Center. Approximately 1,000 developers participated in this conference.Unlike the first two Developer Days held in China and Japan, this event focused more on demonstrations of "OpenSocial" and "Google App Engine".Kai-fu Lee, Founding Chairman of Google China, proposed the theory on different generations and leaders on the Internet.Li-feng Chien, Engineering Director of Google Taiwan, commented about the theory to Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen:2008 The 2nd-annual Google Developer Day started its tournament in Pasifico Yokohama, Japan as its first stage. According to Google, this programmer-based event is similar to Google I/O, the largest programming event which is only available in USA and held earlier on May 28 & 29 in San Francisco, California.Takuya Oikawa, Software Engineer of Google Japan, analyzed the future trend on programming and redefined the "3C". "There are three key features to drive on the next generation programming, that is, 'Client' [user-oriented], 'Connectivity', and 'Cloud Computing'," stated Oikawa.Fumitoshi Ukai, the Software Engineer of Google Japan, has pointed out the importance of Google App Engine, and performed a SWOT analysis using the Sichuan earthquake as an example, and said: "The failure or success of Cloud Computing will be determined by three critical factors - ability of offline computing, language support, and quotas of databases."After the Japan Stage, 2008 Google Developer Day will be held in China, Taiwan, Australia, Mexico, and Brazil during the month of June. The Europe Tour of Google Developer Day will kick off from London, England on September 16.To showcase achievements of Taiwan's Internet industry, the Institute of Information Industry of Taiwan (III) held the 2008 IDEAS Show this Wednesday June 25. The IDEAS Show is similar from the DEMO, an Internet investment trade show in United States since 2006.Chris Shipley, Producer of DEMO Conference, was invited to make a speech in the opening keynote. She mentioned about evolutions and transformations of the Internet, especially on business models and change of leaders. Her words mostly echoed some theories proposed during the 2008 Google Developer Day in China by Kai-Fu Lee, Founding Chairman of Google China.In this exhibition, thirty websites from mobile networking, Web 2.0, social networks, application services, and hardware integrations were showcased there. The website evaluation from professional judges was also held during the showcase to encourage excellent websites promoted into the world.2008 Taipei AMPA, not only showcased automotive parts and accessories, but there were also several seminars in progress at the TWTC Nangang. In addition, the "Taiwan IT Solution Pavilion", organized by IT industry including Industrial Technology Research Institute and the other 14 companies, showcased not only solutions for automotive industry including manufacturing, e-commerce, and logistic managament, but also industrial applications like RFID, Barcode, and ERP.According to some statistics by TAITRA, the export value of service industry reached USD$284 millions, more than 67% ratio of GDP in Taiwan.After the Taipei AMPA, the TAITRA scheduled to promote this cross-industry solutions in not only Taiwan but also China, Japan, Hong Kong, and South-east Asia countries by participating different trade shows like Tokyo Game Show in Tokyo, Japan and AMAZIA, the first-ever gaming and entertainment industry trade show in Hong Kong.The 18th Taipei Computer Applications Show (2008 TICA), organized by Taipei Computer Association (TCA) and Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), started its five day trade show at the Taipei World Trade Center. Unlike COMPUTEX Taipei, TICA focused on selling electronic goods to consumers in the local area.To attract local residents, the show used several arcade machines from the recent "Digital E-Park" trade show. The event also hosted displays on Linux Applications, Robots, Digital Content , e-Learning, and Science. These displays were co-organized by TCA, TAITRA, and Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) to demonstrate achievements of Taiwan's R&Ds.According to TAITRA, technology giants such as Micro-Star International, Advanced Micro Devices, Intel, D-Link, Hewlett-Packard Company, and Sony participated in the event, in addition to local companies such as 3J Tech, Omni Motion, International Games System, and TransAVA, will showcase different trendy and incident-involved products in this show.Taipei City Government, the supervisor for the event's transport, announced a plan to deal with the amount of traffic going to the event, which expected to peak in visitor numbers of the weekend.The 2008 Taipei Game Show, organized by the Taipei Computer Association (TCA), ended on Monday, and was different from shows of past years. This could be seen in the gaming population, industry, and exhibition arrangements.Thursday at the Taipei International Convention Center, the winners of the Gold and Silver Awards were announced at the 2008 16th-annual Taiwan Excellence Awards, an event created to promote products made in Taiwan. They were announced by the Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), which also organized the event.This year, 601 products competed for the eight gold medals and twenty-one silver awards. In the ICT category, the competition was especially fierce as 388 ICT products were on display from the IT industry. In total, 308 products from 102 companies were entitled as "Taiwan Excellent Products".Several world-class experts judged the nominated products, in order to select the final twenty-nine based on four critical factors including R&D, design, quality, and marketing. In addition, the TAITRA also had categories where people could vote over the Internet or using their mobile phones.ASUSTeK picked up two Gold Awards and six Silver Awards and was the biggest winner in the "Taiwan Excellence Awards". Eee PC 4G, with features like mobility, reliability, and connectively, not only won a Gold Award, but was also voted as the "Most Popular Product" as awarded by Internet and mobile users.Leading up to the 2008 Taipei Computer Applications Show (TICA), the 8th-annual Linux Forum, accompanied with Linux Expo Pavilion, started yesterday July 30 at Taipei World Trade Center Conference Roon 3 & 4 to promote the open source applications in Taiwan.With popularity of OLPC and Eee PC, mobile applications, low-price PCs, embedded systems, and enterprise applications are enrolled into the Linux Forum by forum organizer, Industrial Development Bureau of Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Republic of China.Since Linux-related solutions were promoted at Softex Taipei 2008 by Taipei Computer Association, as well as the organizer of TICA and Softex shows, executives from industrial, academical, and governmental people mostly cautioned the importance of Linux, which had also become another choice to be built inside a computer after OLPC and Eee PC.As several required functions from business software are built in some open source software, software and platforms complied with open source had become the second choice for consumers. UPP, an open source platform built by United Daily News Digital Corporation, is a typical example on open source application integrated to a USB flash drive.Apart from basic applications, some companies also demonstrated some examples of deploying and programming on a Linux-based platform. In addition, some experts recommended enterprises to consider user needs before introducing Linux as the desktop platform in the enterprise.After the Linux Forum, the Linux Expo will also showcase solutions of open source at TICA.Leading up to the 2008 COMPUTEX show, the "2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei" is being held. Co-organized by Taiwan External Trade Development Council, Taipei Computer Association (TCA), the Industrial Development Bureau of the Ministry of Economic Affairs (MOEA), M-Taiwan Office, and WiMAX Forum, the expo will be held in Taipei Show Hall two. It is planned to run for five consecutive days commencing on June 2. In addition, the 2008 WiMAX Forum Operator Summit will be also held at Far Eastern Plaza Hotel on June 2 & 3.According to the Taipei Computer Association (TCA), there will be sixty networking companies and manufacturers participating in this show. Their aim, to demonstrate the telecommunications technology in Taiwan. About seventy world-class operators from the networking industry will be invited to join the Forum Summit.Following the Ministry of Economic Affairs signing an extended Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Intel on April 21, both will work together to promote the WiMAX industry in Taiwan. Intel, participating in both COMPUTEX and the WiMAX expo has a number of WiMAX Segways to demonstrate the technology. Their involvement will also include acting as hosts for the 2008 e21FORUM where Mobile Web 2.0 will be discussed.A bus promoting the WiMAX expo will also be in service with Far EasTone Telecommunications and First International Telecom doing live demonstrations of their enterprise offerings.Aaron Swartz, a fellow at Harvard University's Center for Ethics and an open source programmer involved with creating the RSS 1.0 specification and more generally in the open culture movement, has been arrested and charged with wire fraud, computer fraud, unlawfully obtaining information from a protected computer, and recklessly damaging a protected computer after he entered a computer lab at MIT in Cambridge, Massachusetts and downloaded two-thirds of the material on JSTOR, an academic journal repository.According to the indictment, Swartz is accused of sneaking a laptop into MIT, hooking it up as a guest on the MIT network, and then running a script to download files from JSTOR. After being caught, Swartz returned the hard drive containing the downloaded documents to JSTOR who intend not to pursue civil litigation against him, but he has been indicted by the U.S. District Court in Massachusetts. He has been bailed on a $100,000 unsecured bond after pleading not guilty to all charges.Swartz had previously downloaded around 20% of the U.S. Government's PACER database of court decisions, prompting the FBI to investigate his actions. In 2006, Swartz ran for the Wikimedia Foundation's Board of Trustees and also wrote an influential essay on "Who Writes Wikipedia?".Following Swartz's indictment, Greg Maxwell, a contributor to Wikipedia and Wikimedia Commons, has published a torrent on The Pirate Bay containing 33Gb of papers from the Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society that were published before 1923 and are thus public domain in the United States, but previously only available at a cost from JSTOR.Adobe Systems, Inc. announced today that they will acquire Macromedia, Inc. for an estimated $3.4 billion in stock. Bruce Chizen, the chief executive officer of Adobe said that "Customers are calling for integrated software solutions that enable them to create, manage and deliver a wide range of compelling content and applications -- from documents and images to audio and video.  By combining our powerful development, authoring and collaboration software -- along with the complementary functionality of PDF and Flash -- Adobe has the opportunity to bring this vision to life with an industry-defining technology platform."The acquisition is expected to close in the fall, subject to approval by the stockholders of both companies and regulatory approvals. Under the terms of the agreement holders of Macromedia stock will receive 0.69 shares of Adobe stock for every share of Macromedia stock. Macromedia stockholders are expected to own approximately 18 percent of the combined company.The two companies have in the past been rivals and some of their products compete in similar niches.  For example, both Adobe Photoshop and Macromedia Fireworks are graphics editing programs, and both Adobe GoLive and Macromedia Dreamweaver are webpage design applications.In the combined company, the current CEO of Adobe, Chizen will continue as CEO. Stephen Elop, president and CEO of Macromedia, will become president of worldwide field operations.  The combined company will keep the name "Adobe", and will focus on integration and growth.  Additional details are available from Adobe Investor Relations.The creation of the proposed "adult-only" Top-Level Domain name, .xxx,  has again been rejected today by the board of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), which manages the Internet's domain name systems. The creation of the TLD was opposed by a 9 to 4 vote, with one abstention on the part of ICANN CEO Paul Twomey.The domain was first proposed in 2001, with reasons stated as creating an "adults-only" section of the Internet, making it easier to filter out pornographic or otherwise unsuitable websites for children. The proposal was approved in June 2005, with a final decision to be made in December of the same year. However, in May 2006, the decision was reversed, and the approval was revoked. In January of this year, the proposal was reopened.The rejection of the creation of the TLD today was focused on the main reason of ICANN not wanting to become involved in "content regulation". Steve Goldstein, ICANN board member, told the Associated Press that "the last point in our board's resolution that under the revised agreement that we, ICANN, would be forced to assume ongoing management and oversight roles regarding the content, and that is inconsistent with ICANN's technical mandate."On September 4 and 5, at least 4,000 anti-Scientology videos were removed from the video sharing website, YouTube. The videos removed were done so by a single Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) notice by an alleged 'rights group' called the American Rights Counsel LLC, which Wikinews has confirmed does not exist beyond the scope of those requests.In an exclusive interview with Wikinews the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) acknowledged that they "don't know anything about" the Counsel and that any attempt to intentionally commit fraud by filing false DMCA requests, could lead to criminal charges."We don't know anything about this group. However, if these DMCA notices were sent improperly, there could be legal remedies. The particulars would depend on the particulars of the situation," Rebecca Jeschke, a spokeswoman for the EFF, told Wikinews.The EFF first broke the story regarding the requests. YouTube received the notice all at once, in a single request. When Wikinews asked the EFF if they knew the names or links to the material in question, they stated that they do not know the names and that they have not seen the notice filed with YouTube.According to Jeschk, the "EFF fights abuse of the DMCA. ..." but did not state where the EFF heard about the request."We have not seen the notices, merely heard about them [and] we don't know enough to know if the DMCA has been abused here. However, only copyright holders can issue DMCA takedowns," Jeschke said.The EFF is investigating the incident, and it is not yet known who or what was behind the DMCA request. Some have speculated that the Counsel is a front for Scientology operated by a Dr. Oliver Schaper. In an exclusive interview with Wikinews, Schaper denied any involvement with the DMCA requests and also denied having any knowledge whatsoever of the Counsel. "As many other people, and even members of the Church of Scientology received information about a company that removed anti-Scientology content from YouTube, shit hit the fan and members of Anonymous went on a full attack on me. I still have to this date no information about the American Rights Counsel and I have no connection, knowledge or involvement in this company which I have been informed of does not even exists," Schaper said.Producer of XenuTV Mark Bunker defends Schaper and does not believe he is responsible. Bunker also believes that the Counsel is a fraud and called the DMCA requests a crime."I next did a Google search for American Rights Counsel LLC which brought up absolutely no results so clearly this was fraud from the beginning. I had never heard of Schaper before he was accused of this. I don't know anything about him other than he contacted me and said he was not involved. I don't know who was responsible. 4000 deletions in a matter of hours is a pretty major feat. It would be worth a subpoena to find out who committed this crime," Bunker said.Currently the EFF does not represent any of the users or groups who were affected by the mass take-down.According to the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), a rights group called the American Rights Counsel LLC has attempted to have at least 4,000 anti-Scientology videos removed from the video sharing website YouTube. Upon further investigation, Wikinews found that most videos and clips were added to YouTube by the copyright holders of the material; as DMCA requests are for the purposes of requesting removal where service providers host material that infringe on the copyright of the complainant, the merit of these requests remain questionable. It was also discovered that the alleged rights group does not exist as a physical entity. In an in-depth report, Wikinews investigated the incident and obtained exclusive information and comments from individuals, including XenuTV producer Mark Bunker.Within the past 24 hours, according to the EFF, the Counsel "sent out over 4000 DMCA takedown notices to YouTube, all making copyright infringement claims against videos with content critical of the Church of Scientology." A DMCA notice, or Digital Millennium Copyright Act notice means an attempt to limit the use of copyrighted material that is often infringing on the rights of an alleged copyright.Wikinews made attempts to contact American Rights Counsel LLC for comment on the take-down notices, but was unable to obtain contact details for the alleged organisation. One post on a YouTube discussion page related to the organization states that they "do not appear to exist outside of these claims on YouTube." Wikinews contacted YouTube several times asking them if they have a process of verifying DMCA requests from individuals or entities claiming copyright infringement, but when they responded, they directed Wikinews to their terms of service saying, "item 8 addresses the DMCA and 8 B addresses counter-notice procedures."YouTube's terms of use in regards to filing DMCA requests states that only "A physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed" can make such claims. It also goes on to say, "Identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site."The EFF says the videos attempting to be removed had shown clips from Anonymous protests of the Church and news footage from Australia and Germany which were critical of Scientology. Some videos were also messages from Anonymous to Scientology, and vice versa. Others were also video clips from a City Commission meeting in Clearwater, Florida. Accounts hosting the material were "suspended by YouTube in response to multiple allegations of copyright infringement."YouTube does, however, have a process for users that wish to file a counter-notice against a take-down under the DMCA. After the DMCA notices were sent, YouTube users began to revolt, by sending "DMCA counter-notices" to YouTube. The EFF states that the counter attack resulted in many of the accounts being reinstated and their videos restored.One user claimed that he had shot and uploaded one of the videos that was taken down. "How can someone else file a claim against a video I MADE?," said ShadowVsScientology, one of the YouTube users who had a video deleted. Since he owned the rights to the video, he alleges that the American Rights Counsel had no legal grounds to request its removal.A video posted on YouTube by a user called 'Church0fScientology', who was responsible for the original 'Message to Scientology' in January of 2008 created after the Church had a video of a Tom Cruise interview removed from the site, states that the organization responsible for the DMCAs does not exist and is run by a man named Dr. Oliver Schaper. They state that he "fronts" the organization for Scientology. It also calls Schaper's actions "deceptive". Schaper also had an account on YouTube which has since been suspended. Wikinews obtained a cached version of his account page in which he states to the group Anonymous, "I respect your efforts as long your efforts remain within the limits of the law and remain fair. Although I don't censor any postings, I would appreciate if any conversation could remain civil and insult free." Schaper also states that he "will not censor because I strongly believe in the freedom of speech." They accuse him of running and owning media companies that distribute gay pornography, something Schaper later admits, but only that it's an "adult television network." Homosexuality is not accepted within the Church of Scientology and is not tolerated. Scientology believes that homosexuality is a disease and can be cured.A user named "Oschaper" has written articles on the online encyclopedia Wikipedia about Peephole TV and Volksmusik TV. Oliver Schaper is the founder of Peephole TV, and is also involved with Volksmusik TV. In an e-mail to Wikinews, Wikipedia user Oschaper claims that his first name is Olaf, and that he is "not related" to Oliver Schaper. "Olaf" writes: "My name is Olaf Schaper and I use the handle oschaper on Wikipedia. I'm not related to Oliver Schaper and we share only the last name ... If you like to contact Oliver Schaper please see his companies website at www.acos.tv". When asked how he managed to get an e-mail address with that last name, Olaf replied, "I got the email because my best friend works for his networks hence the creation of my postings on Wikipedia."Wikinews contacted Schaper for exclusive comments. Schaper replied saying that he is a "very strong advocate for the Church of Scientology, the religion of Scientology and a free speech advocate" and "I don’t need to go into details but I felt that my family and myself have been direct targets and in an attempt to control the situation, I started to track down and remove online links between me and my religion. This included postings made by HouseSpiderAnon on his videos, who publicly connected the dots and made them available to a larger audience.""I requested several times to have my information removed from his videos as I wanted no association with his work but he refused, even after I stated several times that he has the right to protest but that I would like to enforce my right of privacy. He refused and demanded documentation of the attacks, something I refused because it was not my attention to allow more documents to be available online in public hand," added Schaper who also said he has been a victim of identity theft and now has the FBI involved in investigating his claim."Tustin PD [police department] has been on the case and now the FBI is involved as well. Social Security has been notified and we have seen about 200 attempts to use the SSN [social security number] for fake credit cards applications," Schaper told Wikinews.Schaper admits that he contacted YouTube to have videos which contained images of him that were being used without permission and videos "which violated [his] privacy removed." Those requests made by Schaper were eventually accepted by YouTube but "videos that contained just a text messages directed against me or my church remained," he added. He also admits to owning "several broadcasting companies, ACOS Broadcasting Corp. (eight mainstream television and two radio networks) & Media House Enterprises, Inc. (adult television network PEEPHOLE TV).""I had the power to go fully against copyrighted material because we own or licensed large amounts of content. But it was not my responsibility to enforce all copyright violations on YouTube. In addition with the attacks on our servers, websites and infrastructure, no time would have been available to take on a fight," added Schaper.Schaper also denies any involvement with the alleged rights group and also states he was just notified that it doesn't even exist."As many other people, and even members of the Church of Scientology received information about a company that removed anti-Scientology content from YouTube, shit hit the fan and members of Anonymous went on a full attack on me. I still have to this date no information about the American Rights Counsel and I have no connection, knowledge or involvement in this company which I have been informed of does not even exists," Schaper told Wikinews.One critic of Scientology, television producer Mark Bunker also had his accounts deleted by YouTube, but had them quickly restored. Bunker also believes that the American Rights Counsel does not exist."American Rights Counsel LLC does not exist. When I got my take-down notices from YouTube I tried to file a DMCA counter-notice but in order to do that you need to get the name of the contact person to be served with the notice and the contact information of the company which the government lists on the web," said Bunker to Wikinews who also added that their name is not registered with the United States copyright office."I next did a google search for American Rights Counsel LLC which brought up absolutely no results so clearly this was fraud from the beginning. I contact[ed] YouTube and they quickly restored everything to my account and others," added Bunker.Wikinews has also learned that a contributor on Wikipedia, claiming to be a member of Anonymous, has posted what is allegedly personal information of Schaper. The edit, made to the article Peephole TV states that he is a lawyer, employed with a firm on Ricklinger, Stadtweg in Hanover, Germany. It also stated that he is affiliated with the "Tustin Org" in California. In what seems to be a gathering of information on Schaper from other online sources, according to Enturbulation.org, the result of releasing the information has resulted in legal and physical threats from Schaper to someone, known as 'HouseSpiderV2' on Enturbulation, who has claimed to have released e-mail correspondence between him and Schaper."Don't think I will not be able to track you down and serve you with papers. I would make the case so expensive for you that you would not be able to even fight this on your own funding as I have the money at my disposal," allegedly states Schaper to 'HouseSpiderV2' in an e-mail. "You have 24 hours to remove the postings or I will start to make this a legal issue. That makes it simple," he added.Despite the claims that the Wikipedia contributor is Oliver Schaper, he claims to have never registered an account with Wikipedia. He also says he has never made any threats of physical harm to members of Anonymous."I had not the need to register an account with Wikipedia and after all this trouble will not get involved at all. There has never been any threat of violence against Housespideranon or any other member of Anonymous made by me," Schaper told Wikinews.Bunker, who recently spoke with Schaper, says he believes Schaper is not involved, but that he also doesn't know who or what was responsible for filing the DMCA requests."I had never heard of Schaper before he was accused of this. I don't know anything about him other than he contacted me and said he was not involved. I don't know who was responsible.  4000 deletions in a matter of hours is a pretty major feat.  It would be worth a subpoena to find out who committed this crime. I wouldn't blame Schaper without knowing he did it," Bunker added.Amazon.com's Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) experienced outages Thursday, taking down major websites, including Reddit, Foursquare, Hootsuite, and Quora. The company reported on its Web Services "Service Health Dashboard" that it first noticed "instance connectivity, latency and error rates" at 1:41 a.m. PDT (08:41 UTC) Thursday morning.The outage, which occurred at Amazon's northern Virginia data center, affected some of the company's US EC2 clients for much of the day. EC2, which hosts thousands of websites, is an elastic cloud computing platform.Quora, an online knowledge market, was taken offline by the outage. Reddit, a social news site, was accessible by mid-Thursday, but was still running at limited functionality. Location-based social network Foursquare experienced disruptions in service early Thursday, but appeared to have resumed normal operation by the afternoon. Other sites, such as Hootsuite and SCVNGR, displayed error messages instead of their normal home pages.Amazon has experienced outages before, including one in 2008 that lasted two hours due to technical problems at a data center. The company did not comment on the cause or scope of Thursday's outage, but continued to post public updates on its health dashboard. By Thursday evening, Amazon said it had resolved most of the issues affecting EC2, but one service availability zone had still not recovered.AMD filed an antitrust complaint against Intel Corporation two days ago in U.S. federal district court for the district of Delaware under Section 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act, Sections 4 and 16 of the Clayton Act, and the California Business and Professions Code.According to the complaint, Intel has unlawfully maintained its monopoly by, among other things:Forcing major customers such as Dell, Sony, Toshiba, Gateway, and Hitachi into Intel-exclusive deals in return for outright cash payments, discriminatory pricing or marketing subsidies conditioned on the exclusion of AMD;According to industry reports, and as confirmed by the JFTC in Japan, Intel has paid Dell and Toshiba huge sums not to do business with AMD.Intel paid Sony millions for exclusivity. AMD’s share of Sony’s business went from 23 percent in ‘02 to 8% in ‘03, to 0%, where it remains today.Forcing other major customers such as NEC, Acer, and Fujitsu into partial exclusivity agreements by conditioning rebates, allowances and market development funds (MDF) on customers’ agreement to severely limit or forego entirely purchases from AMD;Intel paid NEC several million dollars for caps on NEC’s purchases from AMD. Those caps assured Intel at least 90% of NEC’s business in Japan and imposed a worldwide cap on the amount of AMD business NEC could do.Establishing a system of discriminatory and retroactive incentives triggered by purchases at such high levels as to have the intended effect of denying customers the freedom to purchase any significant volume of processors from AMD;When AMD succeeded in getting on the HP retail roadmap for mobile computers, and its products sold well, Intel responded by withholding HP’s fourth quarter 2004 rebate check and refusing to waive HP’s failure to achieve its targeted rebate goal; it allowed HP to make up the shortfall in succeeding quarters by promising Intel at least 90% of HP’s mainstream retail business.Threatening retaliation against customers for introducing AMD computer platforms, particularly in strategic market segments such as commercial desktop;Then-Compaq CEO Michael Capellas said in 2000 that because of the volume of business given to AMD, Intel withheld delivery of critical server chips. Saying "he had a gun to his head," he told AMD he had to stop buying.According to Gateway executives, their company has paid a high price for even its limited AMD dealings. They claim that Intel has "beaten them into ‘guacamole’" in retaliation.Establishing and enforcing quotas among key retailers such as Best Buy and Circuit City, effectively requiring them to stock overwhelmingly or exclusively, Intel computers, artificially limiting consumer choice;AMD has been entirely shut out from Media Markt, Europe's largest computer retailer, which accounts for 35 percent of Germany's retail sales.Office Depot declined to stock AMD-powered notebooks regardless of the amount of financial support AMD offered, citing the risk of retaliation.Forcing PC makers and tech partners to boycott AMD product launches or promotions;Then-Intel CEO Craig Barrett threatened Acer’s Chairman with "severe consequences" for supporting the AMD Athlon 64 launch. This coincided with an unexplained delay by Intel in providing $15-20M in market development funds owed to Acer. Acer withdrew from the launch in September 2003.Abusing its market power by forcing on the industry technical standards and products that have as their main purpose the handicapping of AMD in the marketplace.Intel denied AMD access to the highest level of membership for the Advanced DRAM technology consortium to limit AMD’s participation in critical industry standard decisions that would affect its business.Intel designed its compilers, which translate software programs into machine-readable language, to degrade a program’s performance if operated on a computer powered by an AMD microprocessor.Technology giants Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) and ATI Technologies Inc. (ATI) today announced plans to merge. Canadian ATI will be bought by the Californian AMD for 5.4 billion dollars ($4.2 billion in cash and $1.2 billion in stock).The ATI Technologies Inc. (ATI) acquisition is being funded by a $2.5 billion loan, plus cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances of approximately $3.0 billion. That’s total funding of $5.5 billion.Many people believe Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) to be taking too much of a risk, that AMD is "betting the farm on a deal that might be very questionable."The new firm will employ near 14900 people for 7.3 billions dollars earning.The two firms announced they'll plan no job cutting in the process of merging.AOL and Warner Bros. have announced plans to allow subscribers to be allowed to watch thousands of episodes of dozens of vintage shows online and for free. In2TV will be launched in January 2006, providing full episodes of many classic shows, such as Welcome Back, Kotter, Falcon Crest, Beetlejuice, Lois and Clark: The New Adventures of Superman, Babylon 5, La Femme Nikita and Growing Pains.In2TV will be offered exclusively through AOL, and will not be syndicated on TV. Each show will have two minutes of commercials for every thirty of programming. The new AOL service differs from the new iTunes Video service in that iTunes offers only new programming. iTunes also sells shows at $1.99 per episode as opposed to offering programs that are fully advertising supported.In addition to full-length episodes, In2TV will provide interactive quizzes, games, and trivia. The TV series will be orgainized into genre-themed channels, some of which are:Starchives - Episodes featuring current stars before they became truly famous, such as Brad Pitt on Growing PainsPunchlines - Classic comedy clipsTV Karaoke - Sing-alongs to favorite TV-show themesClassic Crème de la Crème - Showcases of some of the most memorable  episodes of a showBetcha Didn’t Know!: The Ultimate TV Quiz - Allows fans to test their knowledge of triviaRetroRunway - Classic fashion from TV seriesStarFavs - Some of the stars' favorite episodesWhere Are They Now? - Find out where the stars are now"This service will bring an unprecedented collection of popular TV series to a totally new platform, revolutionizing the distribution of television programming," said Eric Frankel, President, Warner Bros. Domestic Cable Distribution. Many companies are now making efforts to avoid going the way of the music industry, by preemptively providing legal, cheap methods of viewing TV episodes online. The notion that online delivery can be particularly advantageous to vintage television shows was sparked by an MP3 Newswire article that appeared a few days after Apple announced its iTunes video service. The essay titled "Can iTunes Resurrect Old Time TV?" made a business case that older television content squeezed out of traditional television delivery schemes can be revived by new online revenue models.Today, AOL had announced that it is launching a new VoIP service to be named TotalTalk. TotalTalk is much like Google Talk due to its unification of verbal conversation and instant messenger into one client. However, much like Skype, client-to-phone conversations are possible. Other features include caller ID, voice mail integration with e-mail, three-way calling, and more.Unlike AOL's current VoIP service, TotalTalk will not require AOL membership. However, access to this service may cost upwards of $34.99 per month.Later this week, AOL will also release its new instant messenger client, Triton. Triton will contain a softphone feature that can be used with TotalTalk.At the company's own Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC) keynote at the Moscone West center in San Francisco, Apple CEO Steve Jobs introduced the next generation of software products from Apple. Apple unveiled Lion, the new version of their Mac OS X operating system for desktop and laptop computers that brings new features to the software. They also demonstrated iOS 5, a new version of the operating system that powers iPhones, iPod Touches, and iPads. Alongside both announcements, Jobs also announced a new iCloud service to sync data among all devices. All 5,200 participating developers will spend the rest of the week in workshops with Apple employees; developer releases of each product were made available today.Mac OS X Lion will be shipped in July through the online Mac App Store available on Mac computers for US$29. According to Apple, the update adds over 250 new features to the OS. Employee Phil Schiller discussed new multitouch gestures along with a dynamic task manager named Mission Control that shows open applications. During the keynote, Schiller said, "The Mac has outpaced the PC industry every quarter for five years running and with OS X Lion we plan to keep extending our lead." It also adds full support for the Mac port of the popular App Store, full screen applications, iOS-style app icon lists called Launchpad, and other iOS-like features including a revamped Mail and Auto Save among others. Mac OS X Lion was announced at a different Apple event several months ago and will replace Mac OS X Snow Leopard, which was released in 2009.Soon after, the company also introduced the latest installment in its popular mobile operating system iOS. The fifth version (iOS 5) introduces around 200 new features, including a revamped notification system, which combines messages and notifications from all applications installed on the user's device. Scott Forestall, an Apple employee, also revealed that iOS devices would no longer require a computer for setup, allowing users to 'cut the cord' between their devices and PCs. Magazines and newspapers also have a new folder interface; the Twitter social network is now integrated significantly into iOS devices. Improvements to the mobile Safari browser were also announced; tabbed browsing and a Reader feature introduce desktop-like functionality. Finally, new camera features are built in, including the ability to take snapshots from the lock screen, as well as iMessages, a new messaging platform for iPhones and iPads.CEO Steve Jobs returned to the stage to reveal Apple's new cloud services offering, iCloud. The service integrates with Lion and iOS applications and syncs data between a user's iOS devices. For example, calendar events created on a user's laptop would be sent to their iPhone through iCloud. Apps, books, documents, photos, and more purchased or created on one device will be shared with others. The service is intended to launch in the fall of 2011 alongside iOS 5 and will be available with 5 gigabytes (GB) of storage for 10 devices for free. Earlier this year, Apple opened a 500,000 square foot data center in North Carolina intended to facilitate this new service. Jobs rounded the services off by unveiling a new iTunes feature that mirrors a user's library in the cloud, allowing them to listen and download music to authorized devices. "We are going to demote the PC to just be a device. We are going to move the digital hub, the center of your digital life, into the cloud,” said Steve Jobs during the keynote. iCloud and iOS 5 will be released in the fall of 2011; Apple announced no new hardware products.On Monday, computer company Apple announced that they had had two billion downloads from the iTunes App Store. The 1 billionth application, or app, was downloaded in April 2009 and the 1.5 billionth app was downloaded in July. This announcement means that in the space of just five months, the number of apps downloaded from the App Store has doubled.There are currently over 85,000 apps available on the App Store. In comparison to this number, rival platform Google Android has roughly 10,000 apps, whereas Palm Pre has less.There are about 50 million iPhone and iPod Touch users worldwide. There are over 125,000 developers in the iPhone Developer Program. Steve Jobs, Chief Executive of Apple, said: "The rate of App Store downloads continues to accelerate with users downloading a staggering 2 billion apps in just over a year, including more than half a billion apps this quarter alone. The App Store has reinvented what you can do with a mobile handheld device, and our users are clearly loving it."On Monday, the iPhone was also voted the number 1 "coolest brand of 2009" in a CoolBrands survey, causing former leader of three years Aston Martin to lose the number 1 position. The iPhone also beat the iPod, Nintendo, YouTube, Google, PlayStation, Xbox amongst other popular brands. In a statement released CoolBrands chairman Stephen Cheliotis said: "The iPhone is something everyone's been talking about. There has been such a buzz around it - and people that haven't got one, want one."Apple Inc.'s iPhone and iPad periodically send location information back to the company, according to new reports. The data is transmitted to a secure database that only it can access, Apple claims.Bruce Sewell, an attorney for Apple, sent a letter to two US Representatives last year, discussing the company's data collection techniques and policies. The thirteen-page letter states that location information is recorded and sent to Apple every twelve hours, but only if the user enables the device's location settings.Apple began building a location database of its own when it decided to stop using similar services offered by Google & SkyHook Wireless. Location data is used in social networking applications and call routing.In a statement to the Associated Press,  Democratic Massachusetts Representative Edward Markey said, "Apple needs to safeguard the personal location information of its users to ensure that an iPhone doesn't become an iTrack."Such data collection is not unique to Apple. Google's Android operating system uses similar technology to provide location-based services to its users. Google has said that it also uses the data collected to provide accurate traffic data through its "Maps" applications on both Apple and Android devices. However, the company declined to comment on the latest findings regarding its data collection.Apple was also recently in the spotlight after it was discovered that the iPhone and iPad were retaining location data on the device itself. This information is collected in an unencrypted file and is not transmitted elsewhere. The data file reportedly contains a variety of information, including longitude and latitude, cell phone tower identification data, wireless hotspot identification, and timestamps.Apple Computer CEO and co-founder Steve Jobs gave his annual opening keynote to the World Wide Developers Conference (WWDC) at Moscone Center in San Francisco, California on Monday. He announced a seamless integration of podcasting with iTunes, and, to the amazement of many, that future Apple Macintosh computers will feature Intel processors.Jobs welcomed everyone to the event and announced that there were 3,800 attendees. There are 500 Apple engineers at what is their largest developers conference in the past decade. There are over 500,000 developers of Apple programs (apps).  Jobs said that Apple has 109 retail stores, with one million visitors per week, creating over $500 million yearly in revenue. The Mac market share is up 82% from 9 months ago.Jobs then moved on to talk about a very anticipated announcement- Podcasting. Steve called podcasting “Wayne’s World for radio”.  He called it the “hottest thing going in radio”, and, “exciting”. There are over 8,000 podcasts. Steve Jobs announced that automatic podcasting subscription would be built in to iTunes and iPod seamlessly. He also announced that QuickTime 7 would be soon available for Windows.Moving on, Jobs announced that there have been 2 million copies of Tiger sold in the 6 weeks that it has been available. He demoed the Wikipedia Dashboard widget.  Steve announced that Mac OS X Leopard would be released in 2007, the same time as Microsoft’s Longhorn.In a surprising move, Steve Jobs announced that Macintosh computers would begin to be shipped with Intel processors, the same as in Windows machines, ending the eleven year partnership with IBM and Motorola. This is said to be out of Apple's increasing frustration at IBM's inability to deliver faster and cooler processors, though it is interesting to note that Intel has recently added Digital Rights/Restrictions Management (DRM) to its latest processors. This 'switch', he said, would happen beginning next year.  Jobs said that Mac OS X has had “a secret double life” and OS X had “been compiled [for Intel processors] for five years.”  He talked about the easiness for developers to port their Mac apps to Intel (x86) processors.  Current PowerPC programs can be run on Intel processors due to a new Apple technology.  He said that Apple is “getting ready” for the transition from PowerPC to Intel.Apple's lawyers are reportedly pursuing legal action against persons whom they claim are wrongfully using icons, interfaces, and other copyright- or patent-protected materials from its new iPhone on other smart phones, which may have features similar to the iPhone's.  Apple has also reportedly contacted at least one blogger who posted screenshots of iPhone icons with "cease and desist" requests, although it should be noted that in the one reported case referenced below, the blogger had also posted a download link to an interface containing features allegedly appropriated from the iPhone.  Apple's new gadget was demonstrated at Macworld 2007. Protecting intellectual property can involve a balance between (among other things) allowing some unauthorized use of such material in order to obtain "free promotion" of a company or product, and preventing competitors from "piggybacking" upon original research or upon an established reputation.The Beatles' label Apple Corps lost its court case against Apple Computer today in the High Court. Apple Corps argued that the iTunes Music Store was a breach of the 1991 settlement reached between the two parties. The 1991 agreement was that Apple Computer would not sell music branded with an apple. Mr Justice Anthony Mann agreed with Apple Computer's defence that, while the iTunes Music Store is branded, the music it sells is not - "I conclude that the use of the Apple logo ... does not suggest a relevant connection with the creative work." During the case Apple Corps showed the court just how many times the Apple Computer logo appeared during a typical download. The song purchased during the demonstration was Le Freak by Chic.After the case closed Apple Computer CEO Steve Jobs extended an invitation to the record label, "we have always loved the Beatles, and hopefully we can now work together to get them on the iTunes Music Store". Apple Corps have decided to take the case to the Court of Appeal. Speaking for Apple Corps, manager Neil Aspinall said, "with great respect to the trial judge, we consider he has reached the wrong conclusion."Mark Papermaster, formerly an Apple Inc. executive overseeing hardware engineering for the company's iPhone, is stepping down from his post. The move came after Apple received criticism last month for the placement of the antenna on their most recent iPhone model, iPhone 4.Apple confirmed that Papermaster, 49, had left the company, but did not say whether he decided to leave or was forced out. Papermaster did not comment on the situation.According to The New York Times, who first broke the news about Papermaster's departure, an anonymous individual "with direct knowledge of the situation" claimed that the former executive had been ousted over various hardware issues, some related to the iPod Touch.When Apple CEO Steve Jobs first introduced iPhone 4, he praised the device's antenna design. However, many consumers reported that, when holding the phone in a certain location, reception would decrease and sometimes lead to dropped calls. Apple's response to the issue, dubbed "Antennagate" by the media, was first to recommend holding the phone in a different location. They later found a related software glitch that caused the signal strength to be misreported on the device. In a July 16 press conference, Jobs said that all iPhone 4 buyers would be eligible to receive a free case, or "bumper," which alleviates the signal problem.Citing people familiar with the situation, The Wall Street Journal reported that Papermaster had been pushed out due to an incompatibility with Apple's corporate culture. The sources claimed that Papermaster was not used to the environment or corporate politics and did not possess the creativity the company wanted to see. They also said that it was Jobs, not Papermaster, who made the decision to proceed with iPhone 4 development even though the company had been aware of potential signal problems resulting from the antenna placement as early as a year ago.Papermaster's post will be filled by Bob Mansfield, Apple's senior vice president for Macintosh engineering. Mansfield was already involved in iPhone development, overseeing processor and display engineering.Papermaster had been with Apple since November 2008, but a United States federal judge barred him from working until April 2009. He had previously held a senior position with IBM, where he had worked for 25 years. IBM sued Papermaster in an attempt to block him from joining Apple, but a settlement was reached after he testified that no IBM corporate secrets had been disclosed to Apple.Steve Jobs, the chief executive officer of Apple Inc., announced Monday in an internal memo that he would be on medical leave for an undetermined period of time. The statement caused a sharp decrease of Apple share prices in foreign markets, while US markets were closed in honor of Martin Luther King.Monday's email announcement marked the third time in the past decade that Jobs, aged 55, has taken medical leave. He fought pancreatic cancer in 2004 and took six months off in early 2009, later revealing he had undergone a liver transplant. Jobs has not yet mentioned what prompted his decision this time around, but said he will still be the company's CEO. He left current chief operating officer Timothy D. Cook in charge of day-to-day operations, the same move made in Jobs' last two absences.While no additional comment has been officially made by Apple, The New York Times reported that someone familiar with the situation said Jobs's health has "ups and downs" due to problems with his immune system, problems frequently experienced by those who have had liver transplants. The insider, who asked to remain anonymous, said that, over the past few weeks, Jobs' health appeared to be deteriorating and that he was becoming thinner. Lewis W. Teperman, a doctor at New York University, said, "It’s very common for transplant patients to have issues that are not life-threatening."On its website, Apple released the text of Jobs's email, which reads:Team,At my request, the board of directors has granted me a medical leave of absence so I can focus on my health. I will continue as CEO and be involved in major strategic decisions for the company.I have asked Tim Cook to be responsible for all of Apple's day to day operations. I have great confidence that Tim and the rest of the executive management team will do a terrific job executing the exciting plans we have in place for 2011.I love Apple so much and hope to be back as soon as I can. In the meantime, my family and I would deeply appreciate respect for our privacy.SteveThe American computer company Apple has reached 78 percent increase in its profits during the last quarter, which ended December 30, 2006. This fact is explained by great demand enjoyed by Apple's iPod digital music players during the Christmas and New Year sales period.As a result of successful Christmas sales, the very beginning of the financial year marked a double increase of the Apple's sales if compared to the $ 565 million profit reaped during the same period of the last year. The company gained the record-breaking $ 1 billion. The overall annual revenue of the company made up $ 7.1 billion in 2006, having boosted from $5.8 billion in 2005. The company's revenue growth is partially explained by the fact that the laptops produced by Apple are also found among the bestsellers. Even the Wall Street experts have not broadcasted such remarkable results for the Apple computer company. Apple's results were way ahead of market expectations. Its net profit has made up $1.14 per share, while Wall Street expected just 77 cents. During the first quarter of the financial year Apple Inc. sold more than 21 million iPod players and about 1.6 million computers - it implies the respective growth of 28% and 50% again compared to the previous year. As soon as the results were announced at the New York Stock Exchange, the shares of the American computer company increased by 5 percent. It should be mentioned that the stock capital of Apple Inc tripled in 2004, doubled in 2005 and increased by 16 percent in 2006. The steady growth is also due to considerable sales of its iPods and computers. Last week the company presented the iPhone.In a media event on March 2, Apple Inc. unveiled its iPad 2 tablet computer, the successor to the company's iPad. The announcement was made at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California. CEO Steve Jobs appeared at the event and introduced the new product, with FaceTime video messaging (with front and rear cameras) as well as a new dual-core Apple A5 processor.The iPad 2 is an all new design and has several improvements over the original iPad. The device runs on an dual-core Apple A5 CPU. According to Jobs, the CPU's new dual-core capability enhances multitasking and doubles the processing speed. Apple additionally introduced a magnetic 'Smart Cover' accessory that snaps to the front screen of the device along with several new apps ported from the Mac OS X operating system and the iPhone. These include iMovie, GarageBand, and Photo Booth. The new iPad introduces front and rear cameras which enable FaceTime. The new tablet is 15% lighter and 33% thinner than the previous version - thinner than an iPhone 4 - and has beveled edges. It will be available in black and white. The device continues to be capable of ten hours of battery life on a single charge.The announcement comes after months of rumors about a successor to the original iPad. Competitors have designed tablets to compete with the iPad such as Motorola's Xoom powered by the Android operating system. One research analyst predicted that iPads would still make up at least 20 million of the more than 24 million tablet computers sold in the United States in 2011. Another analyst credited the Apple's App store for iPad's continued success. The device will become available in the United States on March 11, 2011, available in 16, 32, or 64 gigabytes. iPad 2's 3G models can connect to the wireless networks of AT&T or Verizon Wireless and Wi-Fi. The iPad 2 will start at US$499. In tandem with the announcement, Apple reduced the price of its original iPad to US$399. Shares of Apple inc. rose $2.81, closing at US$352.12 the day of the announcement.Apple Inc. announced Monday it has settled its decades-long trademark dispute with the Beatles' record company, Apple Corps. Under this new agreement, Apple Inc. will own all Apple trademarks and will license some to Apple Corps, and will continue to use its name and logo on its iTunes music service.This new settlement replaces the 1991 agreement between the two companies, which defined the context in which the two companies could use the Apple trademark."We love the Beatles, and it has been painful being at odds with them over these trademarks," said Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs. "It feels great to resolve this in a positive manner, and in a way that should remove the potential of further disagreements in the future.""The years ahead are going to be very exciting times for us," said Neil Aspinall, manager of Apple Corps. "We wish Apple Inc. every success and look forward to many years of peaceful co-operation with them."It was not disclosed whether the Beatles' music catalog was part of the deal.Apple Inc. today has introduced the much-anticipated iPhone at the Macworld Conference in San Francisco.The iPhone is claimed to be "a revolutionary mobile phone" as stated on the Apple website. The device appears to be running a mobile version of the Apple operating system Mac OSX. It is approximately the same size as a 5th generation iPod, it has a 3.5-inch LCD touchscreen display that is used to access all features of the phone including number dial, as well as making phone calls. The iPhone plays music, movies, displays pictures and is able to connect to a wireless network.Apple CEO Steve Jobs unveiled the device by walking onto the stage and taking the iPhone out of his jeans pocket. During his 2 hour speech he stated that "Today Apple is going to reinvent the phone, We are going to make history today".Today Apple also released their Media Center device - Apple TV. It will directly compete with Microsoft's Media Center operating system. Apple has taken a different approach to the media center market; rather than storing content (such as movies, music and photos) on the device, Apple TV connects to a computer (Mac and Windows) over a wirless network connection and plays all content stored on that computer. This makes it substantially easier for users to organize their media content.Apple Computer today launched a 3G version of its iPhone device. Steve Jobs, the Apple Chief Executive Officer, announced the development at a developers' conference, where he promoted the iPhone by saying that, “just one year after launching the iPhone, we’re launching the new iPhone 3G that is twice as fast at half the price.”Apple has claimed that the 3G iPhone will provide internet access at double the speed of the internet access provided by the previous versions.The price for the iPhone has also been reduced to $199 in the US, with prices in other countries equal or below that of within the US.For several months there has been speculation among Apple fans about the launch of a 3G iPhone.According to a recent patent published by Apple Computer, Inc., future Mac laptops will come with built-in video cameras. Ostensibly, they would be used with the company's iChat AV video conferencing software, which allows for four-way video conferencing, and up to ten-way audio conferencing.The patent reveals plans for a laptop with a swiveling lid, which rotates on the base. The camera, or, as the patent describes, "data capture device," would be placed on top of the lid of the laptops, where it would "secure the lid to the base," according to the patent. The patent is not unclear; it is firmly in the direction of developing a video camera built into a laptop.However, it is not entirely focused on laptops; a quote from the patent says it all: "For example, although the invention is primarily directed at a camera latch for a laptop computer, it should be noted that concepts disclosed herein may also be applied to other electronic devices, including but not limited to PDAs, music players, mobile phones and the like or I/O devices such as monitors, televisions and the like."The camera could be configured to produce either streaming video, video stills, or images taken at intervals, and the camera would most likely have a built-in microphone.Within one month of the iPod nano and iTunes phone special event, Apple Computer announced today another special event to be held on October 12. It is to be held at the California Theater in downtown San Jose, California.The invitation reads, "One more thing...", the teasing tagline of Steve Jobs. The words were atop a picture of closed theater curtains.Recently Apple has been gaining rights to sell music videos from record labels. This has increased rumors of a video iPod(vPod) along with this event. AppleInsider is claiming that there are sources that have seen the new iPod. Alongside this rumor, AppleInsider claims to have seen a wireless device similar to Apple's Airport Express that supports video.Other rumors for this event include a major iTunes Music Store update and a Macintosh with a Intel processor.Apple Computer is planning to sell full-length feature films for download via the online iTunes Music Store. The store currently sells digital music tracks, and more recently has begun to sell TV episodes.Apple executives are in negotiations with film studios to arrange the deal and settle on pricing structures. It is expected that films will retail for around $9.99 US dollars, although some studios are reported to want to set a higher price.iTunes is currently by the biggest online retailer of digital music, with its software tightly integrated with the popular iPod line of products. Newer versions of the iPod include a colour screen capable of displaying videos, and so consumers could watch the films on the devices, but it is not yet clear how many people will want to do this.Apple CEO Steve Jobs is also the largest single shareholder of Disney, which now owns animation studio Pixar, however he could end up playing a wider role within the film industry if iTunes becomes the dominant online distributor.A full-length TV movie, 'High School Musical' from Disney, is already available on iTunes, suggesting that the technical infrastructure is already in place.During a media event held at its Cupertino headquarters, Apple released the long awaited iPhones Software Development Kit (SDK) and the associated iTunes "App Store" and iPhone Developer Program. The SDK will allow third party software developers to create applications for the iPhone and then distribute them on the iTunes Apps Stores. Any members of the iPhone Developer Program can add applications to the store for free; the program costs $99 (USD) to join. Developers will be able to set the price of the applications or release them for free. All applications will have to be approved by Apple before being allowed on the store. Some of the disallowed categories are"porn", excessive bandwidth users and anything malicious or illegal. VoIP applications would be allowed over Wi-Fi only. Enterprises can setup private pages on the store to distribute internal applications. At the event several third party developers that had been given early access to the SDK demonstrated their applications. Among the applications demonstrated were EA's Spore, AOL's AIM instant messenger and a client for epocrates, a drug reference service. The company also announced the iPhone 2.0 update that was released as a closed beta for developers and is scheduled for public release in June. In the new version Apple has been focusing on enterprise features in an attempt to compete with rivals like RIM's BlackBerry and Microsoft’s Windows Mobile. The update adds support for ActiveSync, which Apple has licensed from rival Microsoft, WPA2 and virtual private network support. The update will also be available to iPod Touch users for what Steve Jobs described as “a nominal charge”, as Apple have done in the past with the previous iPod Touch and MacBook Wi-Fi updates.On Tuesday, Apple Inc. introduced a new peripheral, the Magic Trackpad, and refreshed its line of iMac and Mac Pro computers, as well as the Apple Cinema Display.The Magic Trackpad, a multi-touch trackpad for Macintosh computers, allows end users to use certain gestures to control on-screen actions. It supports gestures already seen on the MacBook and MacBook Pro trackpads, as well as the iPhone, iPod Touch, and iPad, such as swiping, tap-to-click, and pinch-to-zoom. However, the Magic Trackpad also supports physical clicking and supports one- and two-button commands. The Magic Trackpad, which is retailed for US$69, connects wirelessly to a computer using Bluetooth technology and has a claimed four months of battery life. At 5.17 inches (13.13 centimetres) long and 5.12 inches (13 centimetres) wide, the glass and aluminium device is slightly larger than Apple's laptop trackpads.In addition to the Magic Trackpad, Apple also began selling the US$29 Apple Battery Charger accessory, a charger pack with six rechargeable batteries usable in the Magic Trackpad, Apple Wireless Keyboard, and Apple Magic Mouse. Apple claims that the nickel-metal hydride (NiMH) batteries can last up to ten years before they lose their ability to hold a charge. The Magic Trackpad uses two AA batteries, and can be used with any Bluetooth-enabled Macintosh computer running Mac OS X 10.6.4.Another major announcement that came on Tuesday was the first iMac update since last fall. The update included mostly internal upgrades, giving consumers a choice of newer Intel processors: the dual-core Core i3 and Core i5, and the quad-core Core i5 and Core i7. In addition, the SD card slot was expanded to allow support for the Secure Digital Extended Capacity (SDXC) format. The iMac is still available at 21.5-inch (54.61-centimetre) and 27-inch (68.58-centimetre) display options, but has upgraded graphics cards as well. The screens use in-plane switching (IPS) technology, allowing for a greater viewing angle. The base model is still priced at US$1,199.Apple's line of Mac Pro computers were also given a refresh on Tuesday. Consumers now have the option to purchase a Mac Pro with twelve processing cores, using two six-core Intel Xeon processors. Four-, six-, and eight-core options are still available. The update also includes the choice of adding up to four, 512GB solid state drives, instead of conventional hard drives. The base model is priced at US$2,499 and will be sold starting in August.Apple also released a new, 27-inch (68.58 centimetre) LED Cinema Display, a 60 percent increase in display area from the older 24-inch (60.96 centimetres) Cinema Display. The new monitor can reach a resolution of 2560-by-1440 pixels, or Wide Quad High Definition, and has a built-in microphone, webcam, speakers, USB hub, and ambient light sensor, which changes the display's brightness based on external lighting levels. It is priced at US$999 but will not be available for purchase until September.Apple has released an application that limits the volume produced from its iPod portable music players.  The software update, iPod Software 1.1.1, works with the iPod Nano and the Video version. Apple released the program in response to complaints that it had not taken necessary measures to prevent hearing loss in iPod users. In California, a class-action lawsuit was filed against Apple in January over claims of hearing loss from iPod use.Apple's worldwide vice-president of marketing for the iPod, Greg Joswiak, indicated that this patch is available for people who want "an easy-to-use option to set their own personal volume limit." It is available for free download.The software also has the option of being used with parental controls to prevent children from modifying the volume.iPods sold in France already have the volume limited, as the law forbids a sound louder than 100 decibels (dB). The American Speech Language Hearing Association published a study where it appears that iPod's (and mp3 players's) power is 120 dB, comparable to a live concert. A gunshot is 140 dB.Yesterday, Apple Computer revealed the third-generation version of its iPod Shuffle model, which introduces new features including a voice that tells the user what song is playing in their playlist through the user's headphones. Apple stated that the iPod will have 4 gigabytes of space, which is enough to hold approximately 1,000 songs, twice as much as the second-generation Shuffle.In the announcement of the device, Apple told the media that the new voice system, called "VoiceOver", will completely replace all of the button controls on the device, and will allow the user to find information about the current song, playlist, and the current battery life remaining. It will be available in 14 languages, which include English, Japanese, German, and French. The new model is also about two times smaller than the second-generation Shuffle, being described as slightly smaller than the size of a AA Battery."You previously couldn't have multiple playlists on the iPod Shuffle because you couldn't really switch between them as there was no way to know how you would switch. So now instead of seeing, you get to hear," said Greg Joswiak, the Vice President of iPod Marketing at Apple.The new iPod was stated to be available in two colors, silver and black, and is expected to be priced at $79, $10 higher than the previous model. The current second-generation's 1 gigabyte and 2 gigabyte models will continue to be sold after the release of the device."These are exactly the kinds of products you need to come up with in the midst of a recession. It's not a stripped-down experience. It has a new cool user interface that isn't even on the high-end iPods. Apple has worked hard not to make this a race to the bottom," said a market analyst for Jupiter Research.Pre-orders of the recently announced iPhone 4 began Tuesday, overwhelming Apple and AT&T.Many buyers experienced issues connecting to Apple's website and customer service line. Some had difficulty finishing their orders online, while others endured long waits at Apple's retail stores due to the online issues. Some customers reported that Apple had set a recording on their phone lines telling people to call back at a later time, and others even tweeted about their experience.Since the original iPhone was released in 2007, web servers for both Apple and AT&T have experienced issues at every new device launch. Today's glitches were apparently in the transaction authorization process, the point when Apple transfers information over to AT&T servers. Other retailers, including Best Buy and Radio Shack, did not appear to be having the same problems.Representatives at several Apple Stores in the United States said that buyers should try again tomorrow. Neither company made any official statement about the technical issues.The newest iPhone, iPhone 4 was introduced by Apple CEO Steve Jobs at the company's 2010 Worldwide Developer's Conference less than two weeks ago. It is slated for a U.S. release on June 24, starting at US$199. Ben Reitzes, with Barclays Capital, estimated that over eight million iPhones will have been sold by the end of the current financial quarter, which ends on June 26. Shares of Apple Inc. rose US$5.41 yesterday in regular trading, continuing their trend of having risen 23 percent this year.Yesterday, at this year's Apple Worldwide Developers Conference (WWDC), company CEO Steve Jobs unveiled iPhone 4, along with the new iOS 4 operating system for Apple mobile devices.The announcement was long-awaited but not a very big surprise. In April, the technology blog Gizmodo obtained a prototype of the new phone and published details of it online. While introducing iPhone 4, at the annual conference, Jobs started by hinting at the incident, saying, "Stop me if you've already seen this."The new iPhone was praised by Jobs as "the biggest leap we've taken since the original iPhone." It is only 9.3 millimetres (0.37 inches) thick, making it "the thinnest smartphone on the planet", a 24 percent reduction from Apple's previous model, the iPhone 3GS. Structure-wise, iPhone 4 has a new stainless steel frame, which acts as an antenna, supposedly boosting its signal reception abilities and possibly reducing the amount of dropped calls. It also has a new screen, dubbed a "retina display," which displays images at 326 pixels per inch. During the keynote, Jobs demoed the device's new internal gyroscope as well. Even though it now uses Apple's faster A4 processor (first used in its iPad tablet), iPhone 4 has a claimed seven hours of 3G talk time, up two hours from the 3GS.In addition to its design features, Jobs showed off iPhone 4's new video calling abilities. This feature is called FaceTime, and connects with other iPhone 4s via Wi-Fi. The phone has two cameras: one on the front for video chats, and one on the back for taking pictures and other videos. The rear camera has a resolution of five megapixels, is capable of recording high-definition video, and has an LED flash.The iPhone 4 will use Apple's latest mobile operating system, iOS 4. Formerly "iPhone OS," iOS 4 was first introduced by Apple in April, and includes multitasking capabilities. Jobs called the new software "the most advanced mobile operating system in the world." iOS will support Apple's new mobile advertising service, iAd, which goes live on July 1.iPhone 4 will be available on June 24 in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Germany, and Japan. It comes in two colors—black and white—and two storage capacities. The 16GB version is priced at US$199 and the 32GB version at US$299. The iPhone 3GS's price will be reduced to US$99, and the iPhone 3G will be discontinued. iOS will be available as a free software update to users of compatible older Apple devices (including the 3GS) on June 21. In the U.S., iPhone 4 will only be available on AT&T's cellular network, despite calls for Apple to let the iPhone be used on other carriers, such as Verizon.Competition-wise, the BlackBerry mobile device is still the most popular smartphone right now. Apple is also facing some serious competition from web giant Google's Android operating system, as well as Palm's webOS. Earlier this year, Android phones managed to outsell iPhones. iPhone users, however, account for over half of those surfing the Internet on a mobile browser in the U.S. Jobs also noted that over five billion iOS applications, commonly called "apps," have been purchased from Apple's App Store. The App Store currently has around 225,000 different apps for sale.Apple Computer announced on Tuesday the first generation of their products to use Intel processors.  The iMac and the new MacBook Pro - a notebook computer replacing the PowerBook - are said to be up  to four times faster than their predecessors (up to two times faster in the iMac, four times for the MacBook.)These new lines of computers have been set up to support the newest collection of Mac software entitled iLife, which has added internet publication software to its high-end graphics, video, and sound tools.In a music-themed media event yesterday, Apple Inc. unveiled three new iPod portable music players, as well as an upgraded Apple TV system. Apple also announced updates for its iTunes software and iOS mobile operating system.The annual event started at 10 a.m. PDT (1700 UTC) in the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California. Apple CEO Steve Jobs, who led yesterday's keynote speech at the event, was dressed in his typical black long-sleeved shirt, blue jeans, and tennis shoes. He began by discussing new international Apple Stores, an update to the company's iOS mobile operating system, and the release of a new gaming app, Game Center. Jobs then turned his attention to what he called the "entrée" of the day.Apple will release new versions of its iPod Shuffle, iPod Nano, and iPod Touch lines next week in what Jobs called "the biggest change in the iPod line ever." The iPod Shuffle's VoiceOver capabilities have been extended to playlists, meaning that it will now be able to read off the names of songs, artists, and playlists. The new device is priced at US$49.Jobs also showed off the company's new iPod Nano. The Nano, now smaller and without a click wheel, features a new multi-touch screen that allows users to touch virtual buttons to control the device. The new design is 42 percent lighter and 46 percent smaller, but still includes functions on previous Nanos, such as an FM radio and a pedometer. The 8 GB version will cost US$149, while the 16 GB version will be priced at US$179.Jobs announced an updated iPod Touch as well, an announcement that had been widely expected for some time. The new, thinner Touch has been upgraded with features matching some already on the company's recently-released iPhone 4, including the high-resolution "Retina" display and dual video cameras. One camera, located on the back the of the iPod Touch, is for recording video, while the other camera, located on the front, is for use with Apple's FaceTime video calling program. FaceTime allows users of the latest iPhone and iPod Touch models to conduct video chats with each other over Wi-Fi networks. The iPod Touch starts at US$229 for a 8 GB model, US$299 for 32 GB, and US$399 for 64 GB.Another major product refresh unveiled yesterday was the Apple TV. The digital media receiver was first released in 2007, but was never very popular. Jobs even admitted that, although Apple has "sold a lot of them, they've never been a huge hit." The US$99 second-generation Apple TV is both smaller and cheaper than its predecessor, which was priced at US$229. The new version will let consumers stream content from online sources, including Netflix, and rent both movies and television shows. Apple has made a deal with Fox and ABC to let users rent episodes of shows for 99¢, instead of buying programs. "We think the rest of the studios will see the light and get on board with this pretty fast," added Jobs. High-definition movies can be rented for US$4.99, and the new Apple TV will be available for purchase in around four weeks.Among the less-hyped updates was one to AirPlay, previously named AirTunes. AirPlay lets users stream music, photos, and videos from iOS devices to other Wi-Fi-enabled systems. AirPlay would let a video on an iPad be played on a television via Apple TV.Along with an iOS update came one for Apple's online music store application, iTunes. The biggest news involving iTunes 10, which is available for download now, is Apple's new music-based social network, Ping. "It is sort of like Facebook and Twitter meet iTunes," described Jobs. "It is not Facebook. It is not Twitter. It is something else we've come up with. It's all about music." Built into iTunes, Ping allows a user to follow both friends and artists to find new music and concert tours, and anyone with an iTunes account will be able to access Ping upon updating to iTunes 10. Ping will have settings for privacy as well, giving users the option to approve followers. Jobs also introduced a new iTunes logo, which does not include an image of a CD on it because music sales on iTunes are expected to overtake CD sales soon.Jobs concluded the event by bringing out Chris Martin, a member of the award-winning band Coldplay. Martin, who played a few songs on the piano, including the hit song "Yellow," jokingly called his performance "the toughest closing gig I've ever had."Although many of yesterday's announcements had been predicted ahead of time, some had speculated that Apple would go even further. Apple defied expectations of a new cloud-based music service. They also did not extend the amount of time a buyer could sample music on iTunes, as some had guessed.In a Wednesday media event, Apple Inc. released a new lineup of MacBook Air laptops and the 2011 version of the company's iLife software suite. The "Back to the Mac" event also included a preview of Apple's forthcoming Mac OS X Lion operating system, to be released in mid-2011.Apple CEO Steve Jobs unveiled the new products at the Cupertino, California event, saying the company has "been inspired by the work [it has] done on the iPad, and [it wants] to bring it back to the Mac." Apple has plans to import more features of its iOS mobile operating system to the Mac OS X operating system.Jobs announced today that the "Lion" release to OS X, which is scheduled for release next summer, will include more support for multitouch and a desktop version of the company's App Store. He said that the App Store will be available for Apple's current OS "Snow Leopard" within 90 days, and that applications can be submitted starting next month. Jobs also announced that a beta version of FaceTime, Apple's IOS video calling application, would be available for OS X users immediately. Several new applications will be added in OS X Lion, dubbed "Mission Control" and "Launchpad."In his keynote address Wednesday, Jobs announced the release of Apple's iLife '11 software suite, which includes the iPhoto, iMovie, and GarageBand programs. iPhoto has new slide show templates, while iMovie has added audio editing capabilities. GarageBand now includes several new piano- and guitar-playing lessons. iLife '11 was released on Wednesday as a US$49 upgrade, and is also available free with new Mac purchases.In another move to bring iOS functionality to Macintosh computers, Jobs announced an updated MacBook Air series of laptops, on sale now. The new MacBook Air uses flash memory rather than a traditional hard drive, and has no CD/DVD drive, an approach seen on the iPad tablet computer. In addition, the laptop's battery life has been extended, even though it is only 0.68 in (1.73 cm) thick and weighs less than 3 lbs (1.36 kg). "We think it’s the future of notebooks," said Jobs. There are now two models of the MacBook Air: an 11.6-inch (29.46-cm) version and a 13.3-inch (33.78-cm) model. Analyst Shawn Wu says the company "priced it really aggressively," referring to the computer's base price of US$999.Jobs said that his company sold 13.7 million Macs last year, totaling US$22 billion. In the last financial quarter, Mac sales increased 22 percent, comprising 24 percent of total revenue for Apple. However, the original MacBook Air did not fare so well. Sales and hype over the first Air decreased soon after its introduction, and the line was overshadowed by the release of Apple's 13-inch (33.02-cm) MacBook Pro. The MacBook Air had not been significantly updated since 2008.In a special media event, Apple Computer reveiled a new wave of media products. The new products include: a revamped iPod nano in assorted colors, a new iTunes that offers movie and game downloads, a new 5th generation iPod that has had a price reduction, and iTV that is set to come out 1st quarter of 2007 which will wirelessly link iTunes to your TV. There was no mention of the rumored iPhone or the 6th generation iPod.The new iMacs include the latest version of the Mac OS, the Mac OS X Tiger that was also released last week. The newest machines include a choice of a 1.8GHz G5 or a 2.0GHz G5 processor. A 160GB hard drive is standard on the lower two models and a 250GB drive on the top-end model. All three models will have 512MB of RAM and feature an ATI Radeon graphics chip with 128MB of video memory. The new iMacs start at $1,299USD with a 17-inch LCD, 1.8GHz G5 CPU,  512MB of DDR RAM, and a 160GB Serial ATA hard drive.Apple also updated its eMac line of computers targeted at the education market. The two new systems both have a 1.42GHz PowerPC G4 and start at $799USD.From Apple's PR site:Apple ignited the personal computer revolution in the 1970s with the Apple II and reinvented the personal computer in the 1980s with the Macintosh. Today, Apple continues to lead the industry in innovation with its award-winning desktop and notebook computers, OS X operating system, and iLife and professional applications. Apple is also spearheading the digital music revolution with its iPod portable music players and iTunes online music store.Shares of Apple Computer (AAPL) closed at $37.15 Wednesday, up $0.94.A class action suit has been filed on Tuesday by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) against the telecom giant AT&T. The suit, filed in San Francisco, alleges that AT&T violated federal laws by collaborating with government to eavesdrop on U.S. citizens.The Bush Administration and NSA have come under fire over the issue.  They defend the program by saying they are only listening in on suspected terrorists.The EFF claims that AT&T turned over 2 databases consisting of their subscribers' communication and internet usage records.Attorney Kevin Bankston representing the EFF said the government could not conduct their surveillance without the help of companies like AT&T.  He also said their goal is to tell AT&T that it is not in their fiscal best interests, along with not being legal, to cooperate with the President's wiretap program.According to the class action suit, AT&T granted "access to all or a substantial number of the communications transmitted through its key domestic telecommunications facilities, including direct access to streams of domestic, international and foreign telephone and Internet communications." The lawsuit is seeking damages of $22,000 for each AT&T customer in addition to punitive fines.AT&T is also facing scrutiny from the Federal Communications Commission and possibly fines for failing to properly certify that customer records were safeguarded.Australian Defence Force Academy (ADFA) cadets Daniel McDonald, 19, and Dylan De Blaquiere, 18, were arrested  and appeared in court Friday after allegations were made that they filmed a female cadet having sex and then broadcasted it over the internet, lying about it afterwards. They were released on bail.The female complainant, 18, stated that while the sex was consensual, the transmission via the chat host Skype to another room on the grounds of the academy, was done without her knowledge. In addition, she stated that photos were taken and "distributed to other people."Police allege that on March 29, the footage captured on Mr. McDonald's webcam was sent via Skype to Mr. De Blaquiere's room where he and five other cadets watched the stream on a laptop computer. McDonald told De Blaquiere in advance. Police say De Blaquiere sent a text message to McDonald saying, "I just had a fuckin sick idea pop into my head, fuck her n film it." The friend replied, "Oh friggen hell is she aware of this or not?" McDonald's answer was "Nope."Mr McDonald said in a Facebook chat with another friend: "I'm about to root a girl n have webcam set up to the boys in another room."McDonald's attorney applied for a suppression order in court yesterday to protect Mr McDonald’s name for reasons of national security, but was the request was denied. The two cadets now face charges of using a "carriage service" to offend. McDonald faces a further charge of committing an act of indecency without consent which carries a maximum penalty of a five-year jail term.Bail has been granted for both men under provisions they do not contact the complainant or any witnesses involved with the case outside regular ADFA classes.When the complainant went public with her allegation, there was a flood of anger from the public. The Australian government in connection with the defence force has responded by launching of a series of investigations into the treatment of women in military service, including systematic bullying and harassment that could reach the point of sexual assault. The ADFA is considering taking action against the two cadets charged in this case, including possible suspension.The Australian Federal Police (AFP) has stated that the whistle-blowing website known as WikiLeaks has committed no crimes in Australia by publishing over 250,000 United States diplomatic cables. An investigation by the AFP into the release of the cables revealed that Wikileaks had not broken any laws under Australian jurisdiction."[The AFP has] not identified any criminal offences where Australia has jurisdiction and as a result have not commenced an investigation," said Robert McClelland, attorney-general of Australia in a statement to the press. "As has previously been stated, given the documents published to date are classified by the United States, the primary jurisdiction for any investigation into the matter remains the United States."The investigation into Wikileaks actions came after the Australian Government referred the release of U.S. diplomatic cables to the AFP. McClelland stated that the Government's reaction to the WikiLeaks issue was "prudent." Further cables that the Government queries the legality of would also be forwarded to the AFP as well. He also added that the government remains "concerned" about the situation and "unauthorised and irresponsible distribution of classified material."Controversy had also been raised today after Julia Gillard changed her stance on the release of the cables from calling the action "illegal," to calling it "grossly irresponsible," after the AFP had released their findings. Ms Gillard said at a press-conference in Sydney today that she did not intend to say that the release of the cables was illegal, but that their theft was. Deputy leader of the opposition (Liberal Party) Julie Bishop said there was no room for Ms Gillard to "weasel out of it.""She is a lawyer. She well knows about the presumption of innocence," said Bishop. She added that the prime minister's legal background did not warrant her comments. Calls have also been voiced by the Green's Senator, Scott Ludlam, for Ms Gillard to retract her comments.Wikileaks has been the subject of past investigations in Australia. In March of 2009, the proposed Australian Communications and Media Authority internet blacklist was leaked to the website. That matter was also referred to the AFP, who later abandoned pursuing criminal charges."It's my understanding from the AFP that they considered the prospects of success under their guidelines, but it wasn't sufficient to get a prosecution," said Chairman Chris Chapman during a Senate Estimates Committee meeting in February.The residents of Speed, a small town in the south-east of Australia, have made the decision to modify the name of the town for one month in an attempt to improve road safety in the country. The name of the town will be adjusted to SpeedKills across next month.The idea was created by the Transport Accident Commission (TAC). A campaign was launched on the social networking website Facebook, saying that if 10,000 'liked' the campaign page, the name of the town — which has a population of 45 — would be changed. 'Rename Speed' has now gone on to achieve over 33,000 likes.Previously, the government had used various advertising campaigns in an attempt to get motorists to reduce speed. However, these campaigns were in large part unsuccessful. In 2010, Australia experienced a 25% increase in deaths on rural roads . TAC spokesperson Phil Reed has stated that, with this new name change campaign, "[w]e're trying to get people to stay within the speed limits, obey road safety rules" and cause motorists to "realise that when they don't, people die".One inhabitant of Speed has also made the decision to change his name during March. Phil Down, who grows wheat and raises sheep, has decided to change his name to Phil Slow Down. Speaking to the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Down explained: "It's virtually on the road to somewhere else, so we've taken our quirky name and run with it to bring the attention to the campaign of trying to get people to slow down on country roads and especially through small towns".MP3s for the people? The Pirate Party, a new Swedish political party first publicized in January, wants to legalize sharing music, movies, and other copyrighted content using the Internet.  What may seem like a doomed effort by a small group of idealists is attracting significant media attention, in part due to a recent police raid on The Pirate Bay, an extremely popular BitTorrent tracker (see Wikinews coverage). The Pirate Bay allows people to download content listed in its database using the BitTorrent protocol (including the latest Hollywood movies or computer games) and has gained something of an international cult status, in part for its public and irreverent responses to legal threats received from copyright lawyers of major corporations.  The site was reopened days after the raid on Dutch servers (but is now back in Sweden again). Rickard Falkvinge, leader of the Pirate Party, argues that regardless of the legal outcome in the case, the web site demonstrates that copyright law in its current form is not sustainable.Adopting the moniker of the maligned "Internet pirates", the party argues for drastically limiting the scope and enforcement of copyright law, abolishing patent law, and protecting privacy in what it sees as a "control and surveillance society". The party is hoping to garner enough votes in the September election to become a small but important faction in the next Swedish parliament.  Rickard Falkvinge found some time in between interviews and party work to answer our questions.There are rumours that the Swedish government was indirectly acting on behalf of the U.S. MPAA in shutting down the site. Do you feel that your government is beholden to U.S. interests?Oh, the MPAA said so themselves in a press release, it's more than a rumor. Check their press release "Swedish authorities sink Pirate Bay". [Ed.: see below]And yes, this particular fact has caused something of an uproar in Sweden. It's widely believed that Swedish authorities were more or less ordered by a foreign power to act forcefully against an entity that was in, at worst, a legal gray area according to Swedish law.The raid must have boosted your recognition. How many members do you currently have, and how successful has your fundraising effort been so far?Our member count is at 6540, no, 6541, no wait, 6543... well, you get the picture. Our members register themselves on our website after paying the membership fee electronically, which helps reduce our admin load considerably.Fundraising brought in 108,000 SEK [Ed.: approx. 14,700 USD or 11,600 EUR], enough to buy 3 million ballots, which is some kind of at-least-we're-not-starving minimum. We're not full, but we're not starving, either. Following the raid on the Pirate Bay, we have received another 50K in donations. My sincere thanks to everybody who wants to help out; we are now looking into getting more ballots to make sure we don't run out on election day. (10 million ballots was our initial full-score aim.)Do you think you will be able to cover future expenses such as radio and television ads?Following the raid on the Pirate Bay, and our tripling of the member roster, we don't need advertising. We've been mentioned almost every news hour across all channels on national television in the last week.Also, the established parties have now started to turn, following our success. Parties representing almost half of the elected parliament are now describing today's copyright situation as not working. They still don't understand why, though, they are just echoing what we say without understanding what the words mean. We'll get around to teaching them — them and the voters alike.This might be hard for people not following the Swedish media to grasp, but we have made a big splash. Today, our Minister of Justice was quoted as saying that he's open to changes to copyright laws that would make file-sharing legal, with the headline "Bodström (his name) flip-flops about file sharing." Immediately underneath were the Pirate Party's comments to his suggestions. Let's take that again: when a minister makes a statement about file sharing, media calls us for comments, and publishes them next to that statement. That's how big we have become since the raid on the Pirate Bay.The Minister of Justice later denied having made that statement to the press that reported it.We will never be able to pay for television ads, the way I see it. Unless a very wealthy donor comes on stage. (If any such person is reading this, we have planned how to spend up to $375,000 in a cost-efficient way up until the elections, on the chance that donations appear. That spending does still not include any TV ads.)Are you aware of similar initiatives in other countries?Some are trying, but none have achieved the necessary momentum and critical mass that we have. We expect that momentum to happen once we get into Swedish Parliament and show that it can be done.[Ed.: A United States variant of the party was recently launched. See also: Intellectual property activism category on Wikipedia]The name "Pirate Party" seems to identify the party with what is currently defined as a crime: piracy of software, movies, music, and so on. Will a name like "Pirate Party" not antagonize voters, given that the label is so negatively used? How about potential allies abroad who argue for a more balanced copyright regime, such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation or Creative Commons?Oh, it is a crime. That's the heart of the problem! The very problem is that something that 20% of the voters are doing is illegal by punishment of jail time. That's what we want to change. Where the established parties are saying that the voters are broken, we are saying it's the law that is broken.Besides, it's a way of reclaiming a word. The media conglomerates have been pointing at us and calling us pirates, trying to make us somehow feel shame. It doesn't work. We wear clothes saying "PIRATE" in bright colors out on the streets. Yes, we are pirates, and we're proud of it, too.Also, the term is not that negative at all in Sweden, much thanks to the awesome footwork of the Pirate Bureau (Piratbyrån), who have been working since 2003 to educate the public.If you are elected, and have the opportunity to become part of the next government of Sweden, do you intend to focus only on the issues in your platform (IP law and privacy)?Our current plan is to support the government from the parliament, but not be part of it. If we're part of it, that means we get a vested interest to not overthrow it, which puts us in a weaker position if they start going against our interests.Overall, our strategy is to achieve the balance of power, where both the left and right blocks need our votes to achieve a majority, and then support the issues of whichever government that agrees to drive our issues the strongest. Basically, we sell our votes on other issues to the highest bidder in exchange for them driving ours.Have you already made any contacts in Swedish politics?Contacts... I'm not sure what you mean. Several of us have been shaking hands with some of the established politicians, particularly in the youth leagues, if that's what you mean.I was thinking along the lines of exploring possible modes of cooperation with established political parties — are you already taken seriously?We are taken seriously by most of the youth leagues and by at least one of the represented parties. In particular, which is what counts, we are now taken seriously by national media. However, we can't tie contacts that explore modes of cooperation quite yet — since our strategy depends on holding the balance of power, we need to not express a preference for whom we'd like to cooperate with, or we'd put ourselves in a weaker bargaining position.What is your position on moral rights, as recognized by European Union copyright laws: the right of attribution, the right to have a work published anonymously or pseudonymously, and the right to the integrity of the work. Do you think these rights should be preserved?We safeguard the right to attribution very strongly. After all, what we are fighting for is the intent of copyright as it is described in the US constitution: the promotion of culture. Many artists are using recognition as their primary driving force to create culture.Publishing anonymously or pseudonymously happens every day on the Internet, so no big deal there either.The right to integrity, however, is an interesting issue. We state that we are for free sampling, meaning you can take a sound that I made for my tune and use it in your own tunes, or for that matter, a whole phrase. That's partially in line with today's copyright law on derivative works; as long as you add your own creative touch to a work, you get your own protection for the derivation. We want to strengthen that right.You might want to consider the alternative. In the 50s and 60s, a lot of rock and roll bands started doing covers of old classical music. This would almost certainly have been considered to violate the integrity of the original artist — and was considered to do so by many — but in the eyes of many others, it was instead great new culture of a previously unseen form and shape.So I don't have a definite answer on the integrity issue. While I am leaning towards the promotion of new culture taking precedence over a limitation right, there may be unconsidered cases.Do you feel that trademark law is adequate as it is?Yes. We have not seen any hidden costs to trademarks that outweigh the benefits of reducing transaction costs on a market where seller and buyer are not personally acquainted.How do you intend to deal with EU treaties which define certain legal frameworks for the protection of intellectual works?What can they do? Fine us? Send us an angry letter?Come on, countries need to think more like corporations. If the fine is less than the cost to society, which it is in this case, then the right thing to do is to accept the fine with a polite "thank you".Actually, national media just called me about this very question; the Department of Justice has stated that we can't allow file sharing, as it would break international treaties. My response was that it is more important to not have 1.2 million Swedes criminalized, than it is to avoid paying a penalty fee.Do you think that weaker intellectual property laws would lessen the amount of products released in Sweden by foreign companies, such as Hollywood studios?As long as they believe that they will have a revenue here that exceeds the cost of operations, they will keep coming here. Anything else would be wrong from a corporate standpoint.Besides, you need to remember what we are doing is to change the map according to what reality looks like. We do not want to change people's behavior. We want to change the law so it reflects what the world actually looks like.So, as they apparently make a profit today, I expect that to continue.Do you feel that the music industry in its current form will still be needed in a world where non-commercial copying is permitted?It's not so much if they are needed where non-commercial copying is permitted, rather if they are needed when they're not necessary any more to be the middle man between consumer and artist.The music industry will lose its current chokepoint, because they don't add any value to the end product any longer. They will probably survive as a service bureau for artists, but they will not be able to control distribution.It's actually quite simple: if they get their act together and provide a service that people want to buy, they will remain. If not, they will vanish. Today, they have legislated that people must buy their service regardless of whether it adds value or not, and that's not gonna hold in the long term.Why fight against intellectual property laws, instead of focusing your energy on creating freely licensed content, such as Creative Commons films or open source software?I want to raise the issue a level, to show that it's not about payment models or what level of control the copyright holder chooses to exert over his or her work.Let me put it this way: we have achieved the technical possibility of sending copyrighted works in digital, private communications. I can send a piece of music in e-mail to you, I can drop a video clip in a chat room. That technology is not going away, leaving us with two choices.So — if copyright is to be enforced — if you are to tax, prohibit, fee, fine, or otherwise hinder the transmission of copyrighted works in private communications, the only way to achieve that is to have all private communications constantly monitored. It's really that large.Also, this is partly nothing new. We've been able to do this since the advent of the Xerox copier — you could photocopy a poem or a painting and put it in a letter in the mail. Again, the only way to discover or stop that would have been for the authorities to open all letters and check their content.So we're at a crossroads here. Either we, as a society, decide that copyright is the greater value to society, and take active steps to give up private communications as a concept. Either that, or we decide that the ability to communicate in private, without constant monitoring by authorities, has the greater value — in which case copyright will have to give way.My choice is clear.The Pirate Bay was shut down and re-opened days later on a Dutch server. According to a Swedish newspaper report, traffic has doubled since then. How long do you think the cat and mouse game will continue?Until one of two things happen: The authorities realize they can't enforce laws that require monitoring all private communications, especially given the large international level of grassroots support, or [they] actually start monitoring all private communications.Access to search engine Google has been limited and most of Google's online services cannot be accessed in Turkey. The access limitation happened due to the blocking of an IP set that belongs to Google. These IP addresses were shared between YouTube and other Google services.The Turkish news site Hürriyet Daily News reports that Turkey's Telecommunications Communication Presidency (TCP) (a government agency that manages Turkish ISPs) indefinitely shut off access to several Google services. The shut-off came after the banning of YouTube for alleged insults against Turkish Republic founder Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. TCP released an official statement Friday, saying it had blocked access to some Google IP addresses "because of legal reasons". Under Turkish law, it is an offence to "insult Turkishness."Softpedia states that the limited access to Google could be a result of the government trying to block specific DNS addresses that relate to Google, as part of its ongoing attempts to block YouTube. Since Google services share common software and IP addresses, the search engine itself suffers from access restrictions. Turkish citizens are concerned that this move of the governmental agency was another step towards a complete ban on Google, as exists in China.Several Internet sites have been banned in Turkey in recent years, and although some of them were subsequently unbanned, most of them remain inaccessible. Engelli Web, a website listing banned sites reports that currently YouTube (since May 2008), Last.fm (since June 26, 2009), and Spanish newspaper El Mundo (since May 14, 2010) are among the banned sites in Turkey. MySpace and WordPress were also among banned sites for a period of time. Websites will be blocked following a court decision or if TCP decides to block on its behalf.RetweetToday reports that Turkish citizens on Twitter have also reported access problems. Comments about the blockage are being shared using hashtags such as TurkeyCensorGoogle and TurkeyGoogleBan, as well as NoGoogleNoWeb.With little ceremony, one of the most innovative and radical new media projects in decades, the Creative Archive was officially launched today by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC).In partnership with the Open University, Channel 4, British Film Institute and Creative Commons, the Creative Archive will allow UK residents access to selected items from the archives of British public service radio and television broadcasting.The Archive has been in pre-development stages for several years, and today's official launch saw the creation of the Creative Archive website and the Creative Archive License, a special copyright license developed with Oxford University and the Creative Commons project.  Under the license British citizens will be able to download and modify clips from the archive without having to pay royalties.Over the summer, the BBC will be releasing archives of documentaries, particularly from its acclaimed Natural History collection, under the Creative Archive License, while Channel 4 has commissioned a special selection of programmes which will not be broadcast, but will be available on the internet.  The BFI will be releasing silent movies from the early 20th century on the Creative Archive.Other organisations expressing an interest in the Creative Archive include Teachers' TV, the Natural History Museum and Independent Television News.The BBC are going to release their iPlayer to other broadcasters around the UK.Eric Huggers, Director of Future Media and Technology at the BBC, announced that the BBC iPlayer would be opening up to third-party broadcasters. He made the announcement at the IBC 2009 conference in Amsterdam, Netherlands. He said that the broadcaster would be willing to accept outside content. The sharing of technology with other broadcasters means that ITV and Channel 4 shows could be featured with the same technology. This would mean that British viewers would get the chance to watch shows like popular singing competition show The X Factor and long-running soap-opera Coronation Street.Huggers explained: "The concept of opening up our investment and technology infrastructure, user experience and design is central for us in helping other broadcasters achieve their goals of continuing to have a direct relationship with users rather than being disintermediated by third-party aggregators. The iPlayer isn't something you can stick on a DVD, install and run. We can offer other free-to-air broadcasters a chance to share in our investment and get into on-demand."Huggers also said: “It is about making sure each of the broadcasters around the world can continue to have a direct relationship with their users. The investments are going to be made available to public and private companies so that they don’t have to invent the iPlayer or look at how to deliver free-to-air."The corporation's governing body have yet to approve the proposals made for the "open iPlayer".The Beatles' song Hey Jude became the best-selling song of the band on iTunes, since their songs became available there earlier this week.Hey Jude was released as single by the band on August 26, 1968, and was composed and written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney. It reached number one in both the UK Singles Chart (September 11–18, 1968) and the US' Billboard Hot 100 (September 28–November 23, 1968). Hey Jude was also the number-one single of the year in the United States.According to The Daily Record, Hey Jude is followed by Twist and Shout, Let It Be and Strawberry Fields Forever in popularity, although none of the songs have reached the Top 40.The Beatles' songs had not been available previously on iTunes due to a copyright dispute with Apple Inc.The Beatles' Apple Corps has filed a lawsuit against computer and electronics maker Apple Computer in a London court this week, the third such lawsuit in a long running trademark dispute between the two companies. Apple Corps claims that Apple Computer's iTunes Music Store violates an agreement reached between the two companies in 1991, which barred Apple Computer from using the "Apple" brand in certain uses in the music business.The trial is set to begin on Wednesday in the Royal Courts of Justice, located in central London. Presiding Judge Martin Mann has stated that he owns an iPod portable music player, which is made by Apple Computer and marketed alongside the iTunes Music Store.Apple Corps has twice before sued Apple Computer over its use of the "Apple" name. The first lawsuit was settled out of court in 1981, with the young computer maker paying $80,000 and agreeing to stay out of the music business.In the late 1980's Apple Computer added audio recording abilities to its Macintosh computers, prompting Apple Corps to file suit again in 1989. That lawsuit was settled in 1991, also out of court, with Apple paying $26.5 million. The settlement included a more specific agreement over the boundaries between the two brands: Apple Computer was allowed to use its name to market "goods or services...used to reproduce, run, play or otherwise deliver such [music] content," but barred from distributing music on a physical medium such as CD or cassette.Apple Corps' latest suit, filed in September 2003, claims that the computer company violated the 1991 agreement with its iTunes Music Store, which sells digital music that can be downloaded to personal computers. A statement from Apple Computer stated that "Apple and Apple Corps now have differing interpretations of this agreement and will need to ask a court to resolve this dispute." Some observers have suggested that the wording of the 1991 agreement, which did not explicitly bar digital music distribution, could be to Apple Computer's advantage.A similar suit was filed simultaneously in California, Apple Computer's home state, but on September 21, 2004 the parties agreed to have the case heard by the UK court.Beatles songs have not been licensed for digital download on any of the online music services.Apple Corps was founded by the Beatles in 1968. Apple Computer was started by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak in 1976, and launched the iTunes Music Store in 2003.SAO PAULO — Big Linux 2.0 Beta 3 has been released. Big Linux is a Live Compact Disc Brazilian Linux distribution, based on Knoppix.A Linux distribution is a software set with the Linux operating system and GNU software. The source code of Linux and GNU software is freely available and can be legally distributed among users. Big Linux is a Live Compact Disc version of Linux, which means it may run directly from the CD or optionally be installed on the hard disk.According to its developers, Big Linux aims to be easy to use and comes with many programs that are used by home users and offices. Some included programs are: KDE, Java, XMMS, Kaffeine, xine, Kopete, YES, XChat, Fullt, aMSN, the Windows runtime environments Wine and Cedega, the peer-to-peer applications xMule, BitTorrent and Apollon, OpenOffice.org, GIMP and AbiWord, the email clients Kmail and Thunderbird, and the internet browsers Mozilla and the proprietary Opera browser.Some features of version 2.0 beta 3 are: 3 versions of the Linux kernel -- 2.4.25 (for those who use Winmodems), 2.4.27 (stable) and 2.6.8 (performance) --, automatic detection of printers, higher boot speed, complete system of network and servers  and an automatic hardware detection mechanism. The graphical environment (known as X11) can have several configurations separated by kernel. In this way, the user can have an accelerated graphical environment configuration and an unaccelerated graphical environment configuration at the same time. If there is some trouble with the accelerated graphical environment configuration, this allows the user to switch to the unaccelerated one.Big Linux can be downloaded without charge at Big Linux downloads. This distribution is primarily intended for Brazilian users, although anyone can use it.Bill Gates will step down from his daily roles at Microsoft by July 2008.  Gates, who founded the company, has been running it for three decades now.  Gates plans to spend more time working on health and education at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.Taking place immediately, Ray Ozzie, Chief Technical Officer, will assume the title of chief software architect.  Also happening immediately, Craig Mundie, Chief Technical Officer, will become chief research and strategy officer.Gates said "Our business and technical leadership has never been stronger, and Microsoft is well-positioned for success in the years ahead. I feel very fortunate to have such great technical leaders like Ray and Craig at the company.  I remain fully committed and full time at Microsoftthrough June 2008 and will be working side by side with Ray and Craig to ensure that a smooth transition occurs."Gates, who will remain chairman of the corporation, also said he believes "the road ahead for Microsoft is as bright as ever."While it has taken almost a year, the non-profit Encyclopedia of Life project launched yesterday. It gained so much attention, that the site quickly crashed. It went back online Tuesday afternoon (EST), but went down again the next morning.During five-and-a-half hours, the site logged 11.5 million hits, including visitors who reached the "503 error".EOL is estimated to have cost US$110.5 million so far.The site has limited information on 30,000 species, and full profiles of 25 species. These fleshed-out profiles include an article with scientific references, maps of where the species are found, and are illustrated with photos and video. One million placeholder pages have been set up so far, and the plan is to eventually catalog all 1.8 million species.The Wikimedia Foundation launched a similar project in August 2004, Wikispecies. Perhaps the least known of Wikimedia projects, it "was created to provide an open source forum for taxonomic and biological information." It has logged 120,247 species, under a free license. The US government runs an Integrated Taxonomic Information System, with 464,081 scientific names. It is created in partnership with similar Canadian and Mexican databases.There is also a Tree of Life Web Project, and a Catalogue of Life, the latter being the most successful; it is a compilation of 1,008,965 species, from 47 taxonomical databases. ZipcodeZoo offers descriptions of over 3 million species of plants and animals, with 250,000 photos, maps, pronunciations, and definitions in 13 languages. ARKive collects media of species, and the All Species Foundation was a failed early attempt at a web catalog.Bitmover, the company producing a management program for computer source code named Bitkeeper (BK), announced on April 5 that it will no longer be providing a free version of its product.As a result of Bitmover's announcement, the programmer who wrote the original Linux kernel, Linus Torvalds, stated on a mailing list that he "decided to not use BK mainly because [he] need[s] to figure out the alternatives". As to an alternative to Bitkeeper, Torvalds hinted that he is considering Monotone but that Subversion, a recent replacement for CVS, is out of the running. Bitkeeper was originally developed to allow Torvalds to manage code contributions more easily, according to Jeremy Andrews at Kerneltrap.org, and was previously provided to kernel developers free of charge, though it was restricted in its use.Bitkeeper is the software that Torvalds and hundreds of other Linux developers use to manage submissions of code to the Linux kernel, the heart of  the computer operating systems referred to as "Linux" or "GNU/Linux". Linux is distributed in many different forms, bundled with other software by companies such as Red Hat, Novell, and Linspire.While the details are not clear, it appears from Andrews' article that Bitmover's decision to stop releasing the free version of Bitkeeper is related to a dispute with Torvalds' employer, Open Source Development Labs (OSDL).According to Kerneltrap, an OSDL contractor had been reverse engineering the free version of Bitkeeper in order to make an open source replacement, which is prohibited by the license under which the free version of Bitkeeper is released. Nevertheless, Torvalds notes in his post that he is "personally very happy with BK, and with Larry [McVoy, the CEO of Bitmover]."Blizzard Entertainment has won a federal ruling in the U.S. Court of Appeals against the programmers of bnetd, a software package that emulates Blizzard's Battle.net service. The court reaffirmed the original judgement, given in October,  that the Digital Millennium Copyright Act and click-through EULA's prohibited the reverse engineering of Blizzard's software in order to improve their playability. This was the first real test of the DMCA's applicability.Bnetd, released under the GNU General Public License, was created to enable users to play multiplayer games, bypassing Blizzard's freely accessible Battle.net servers, which have sometimes been unreliable or slow for gamers. The software also disabled the CD-Key check which is present in Battle.net to prevent users of pirated copies from being able to connect to Blizzard's servers. Offers by bnetd developers to incorporate Blizzard's CD-Check system were declined.The CD-Check system itself has faced controversy, with some users complaining it borders on breaching privacy in the same way as adware and other malevolent software. This is not confined to Blizzard: controversy occurred when Sony Online Entertainment's EverQuest had a similar system which was later disabled due to complaints. Other games designed for network play are also known to have similar systems in place, the most prominent perhaps being Valve Software's Steam system developed for Half-Life 2.Blizzard has produced many popular titles such as Starcraft, World of Warcraft and the Diablo series.Blogshine Sunday, a national effort among webloggers to publicize the importance of open access to government information is scheduled to take place on March 13, 2005.  On that day, FreeCulture.org will organize web-based writers to relate their experiences and thoughts on open-access to governmental records and freely available public information. Webloggers will be encouraged to highlight the need to have public records available in electronic formats to facilitate easier searching of information and more widespread access. Another goal of Blogshine Sunday is to emphasize that open access to governmental information should be granted to everyone, unpaid reporters and bloggers as well as professional journalists. Recently, bloggers have played an important role in shaping public opinion about issues that were initially overlooked by traditional media. Freerepublic.com blogger Harry W. MacDougald was the first to scrutinize documents that suggested that President Bush was derelict in his military service in the 1970s. CBS News reported on the documents as if they were legitimate, but MacDougald discovered that the documents used a typestyle that was not available at the time they were supposedly written. Following MacDougald’s blog posts questioning the documents, CBS said that they regretted reporting on the documents as though they were authentic. Since bloggers are generally unpaid and do not have the editorial restrictions of professional journalists, as the MacDougald example illustrates, they are sometimes better able to research and report on issues not covered by traditional media.Blogshine Sunday is held in conjunction with Sunshine Sunday, when professional journalists and news media will publish articles and editorials on the importance of the open records.  Freeculture.org was started last April by two college students in an effort to show that technology can  better facilitate public affairs involvement. More information on Blogshine Sunday can be found at: BlogShine.orgThe battle between the two high definition optical disc formats, Blu-ray and HD DVD has ended after sole HD DVD manufacturer Toshiba has announced it will no longer produce HD DVD players.In a press conference yesterday, Toshiba president Atsutoshi Nishida announced and confirmed that Toshiba will terminate the R&D plan on HD-DVD products. The key issue to force Toshiba terminating their HD-DVD R&D plan was Warner Bros., who changed their R&D plan from HD-DVD to Blu-ray on January 4.In what is a reverse of the VHS vs Betamax format war, Sony's Blu-ray has come out on top with the backing of major studios and retailers such as Warner Bros. but also Wal-Mart, Best Buy, Netflix, and Blockbuster who announced they would only support Blu-ray exclusively this past month.Even though Toshiba is currently about to change their R&D plan from HD-DVD to NAND flash drives and micro drives and plan to build two factories in Iwate, Japan, the company will provide the maintenance service on discs and players in the future 8 years.Sony bundled Blu-ray into their PlayStation 3 game system. Microsoft's competing Xbox 360, comes with a $200 HD DVD add-on player, whose fate is now undetermined with the demise of HD DVD. Microsoft has said they will wait for what Toshiba has to say.Recently in Sunnyvale, CA, Blue Coat Systems and AT&T are confirmed to join the Family Online Safety Institute (FOSI), an international non-profit organization dedicated to identifying and promoting best practices, tools and methods for online safety.Apart from AT&T, Blue Coat recently announced "K9 Web Protection" software and promoted "Community Outreach Program" for parents to strengthen Internet security on kids. In addition, Laurie Coffin, Director of Marketing Communications at Blue Coat, was confirmed to join FOSI's board of directors to assist in governing FOSI's strategic direction and initiatives.A bomb exploded at 7:24 pm on Tuesday at the PayPal headquarters, a subsidiary of eBay, located in San Jose, California, causing the evacuation of employees from the building. Authorities stated that the explosion was "not an accident." Spokespeople for eBay said that the incident was "isolated" and that there were no injuries or deaths reported."It's definitely not an accident. Everything else there is accounted for. This was not any kind of accident or malfunction," said San Jose Police Sgt. Nick Muyo. He added that authorities have yet to find any kind of explosive device or material."We believe this is an isolated incident. We're working closely with local authorities. We have everything under control," said Amanda Pires, a spokeswoman for the PayPal division of the company.The blast was seen from the street and was located in an area where workers take breaks. The initial damage reported was a broken window near the blast site.Fire officials do not yet know the specifics of the bomb's makeup."Whatever it was, it disintegrated. Whatever caused this was pretty strong," said San Jose Fire Department Captain Jose Guerrero.The San Jose Police are working with agents from the Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives Bureau (ATF) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), but it is reported that the San Jose Police are in charge of investigating the blast. There are no suspects at this time.The 2005 Cyberarts Festival, which runs through May 8, 2005, opened with a gala at the Hotel@MIT, a hotel near the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The gala, which took place in a series of function rooms on the third floor of the hotel, started at 6:00 p.m. and ran past its stated end time of 9:00 p.m. The event featured food and drink, as well as computer art from a variety of artists whose work will be featured in the festival.Local Wikipedia contributor Samuel Klein displayed a customization of Daniel Wunsch's rcbirds program, which converts Wikipedia recent changes feeds into a series of bird calls and other sounds from the open-sound peep project, differentiating edits by the anonymity of the user, the name and namespace of the article involved, and the user's contribution history.  Different types of edits produced different bird calls; once or twice during the evening, conversation was briefly interrupted to undo vandalism signaled by the stream of sound.Martin Wattenberg, a researcher at IBM's local research lab, who has also developed software to visualize the history of changes to Wikipedia pages, exhibited his visualization of the decision tree of a computer playing chess, described jokingly as "Tiny Blue."Other presenters included Newbury Open.net's new Boston Music Project .Oil company BP has reportedly lost a laptop containing the personal information of approximately 13,000 people who filed claims against the company following the Deepwater Horizon disaster last year.Tom Mueller, a spokesperson for the company, confirmed they had written to "individuals impacted by this event to inform them about the loss of their personal data and to offer them free credit monitoring services to help protect their personal information." Mueller said the laptop was lost during "routine business travel," and was reported to have the ability to be deactivated remotely.BP refused to comment about the employee who lost the laptop. The data on the laptop contained the names, addresses, Social Security numbers, phone numbers and the dates of birth of claimants, which was unencrypted even though the laptop itself is protected by a password.The data on the laptop concerned claimants against the company after one of its oil platforms in the Gulf of Mexico exploded, sending up to 4.9 million barrels of oil into the ocean, which eventually reached the southern U.S. coastline. One resident affected by the the oil disaster and the lost laptop expressed his outrage at BP when interviewed by NPR. "It's terrible, I kinda work hard for the things I have," he said. "I wouldn't want somebody with a computer to be able to take it from me. It's very disturbing. It's like another gallon of gas thrown on the fire."The Brazilian government news agency Agencia Brasil, or Radiobras, says that it is transmitting audio and video through the internet using free software.  Proprietary software like Windows Media Player is not necessary to watch or hear the radio and TV transmissions.According to Diogos Gonzaga, from Agencia Brasil technology division, the agency is using the following software: Icecast for  the Ogg Vorbis codec  radio transmissions and the  Ogg Theora codec for the video ones.The user who wants to hear Brazilian radio transmissions can select among the following stations from Agencia Brasil: the National Radio(AM), the National Radio (FM), the National Radio from Rio de Janeiro or the National Radio from Amazon. TV transmissions can be watched by the NBR TV channel.Agencia Brasil started the change to free software in 2003.The auction for the mobile spectrum capable of carrying 4G mobile broadband services in the United Kingdom got underway on Thursday. The auction process is expected to take several weeks and will take place online. Mobile network operators are expected to roll out services by July. 4G mobile network technology will bring faster downstream speeds than the current 3G connections allowing for data-intensive surfing on the move such as video streaming. Some mobile users have criticised the industry regulator Ofcom for having taken a long time to start rolling out the 4G technology, with the United Kingdom falling behind many other European countries.EE (Everything Everywhere) launched the UK's first 4G network in a number of cities last year, however many people complained due to them being the only service provider. The bidders include the current main UK mobile network operators — Vodafone UK, Telefónica UK (O2), Everything Everywhere and Hutchinson 3G (3) — as well as British Telecommunications.Ed Richards, the Chief Executive of Ofcom, said of the auction: "It will release the essential raw material for the next wave of mobile digital services. This will change the way we consume digital media in both our personal and working lives and deliver significant benefits to millions of consumers and businesses across the country."Each bidder is competing with one another to win combinations of the 28 spectrum 'lots' available from the 800MHz and 2.6GHz spectrum bands.On December 7, BBC News reported a story about Dr James Anderson, a teacher in the Computer Science department at the University of Reading in the United Kingdom.  In the report it was stated that Anderson had "solved a very important problem" that was 1200 years old, the problem of division by zero.  According to the BBC, Anderson had created a new number, that he had named "nullity", that lay outside of the real number line.  Anderson terms this number a "transreal number", and denotes it with the Greek letter                     Φ              {\displaystyle \Phi }  .  He had taught this number to pupils at Highdown School, in Emmer Green, Reading.In the United Kingdom, PRS for Music has announced that the total royalties that artists in the music industry receive has decreased by 1%. This is the first time that such a decline has ever occurred.The company has reported that the total was £611.2 million (US$977.8 million, €693.9 million) in 2010, a decrease of overall annual revenue of 1%, or £7 million (US$11.2 million, €7.9 million), from 2009. PRS for Music has claimed that this fall was due to lower sales of Compact Discs and DVDs, as well as digital copyright infringement.The collection society, which is a representation of seventy-five thousand writers, composers and publishers of music, gathers royalties from music being used in excess of twenty-five billion times annually by various means, including television / radio, commercial businesses, musical venues, Compact Discs and DVDs.Robert Ashcroft is the Chief Executive Officer of PRS for Music and is responsible for being the representative of such British music artists as Adele, Jessie J and Florence Welch. Speaking about this news, Ashcroft said: "The loss of high street outlets, the slowdown in physical music sales as well as the challenges capturing the full value of music usage online has meant that for the first time we have seen royalties collected dip. Previously, any reduction from falling physical sales had been offset by our strong performance in music licensing both in the UK and internationally. In 2010 slower growth at home and abroad failed to fully mitigate the decline."In 2010, the sales of music physically and digitally grew by 7% to achieve 120 million units. Meanwhile, sales of compact discs fell by 12.4% to a total of 98.5 million. British global entertainment retail chain HMV has attempted to save money by closing down sixty of its shops in the UK. In 2010, royalties' growth reduced in speed to 4.3%.Simon Neil, of Scottish rock group Biffy Clyro, explained that "[t]he thing about PRS is for a lot of bands it's the only way you make money. In our first six years of being in a band that was the only kind of income we had. It's the bread and butter for bands. It's almost your only guaranteed source of income."PRS for Music has stated that its payout to its members was decreased by £800,000 (US$1,3 million, €900,000), due to improved society efficiency and a reduction in costs related to administration. According to Newsbeat, the small royalty drop may trigger a larger decline, causing new musical composers and writers to avoid joining the music industry. The company believes that further action needs to be taken to prevent the lack of CD sales and compete with illegal downloads, including the development of legal download services.The Metropolitan Police, a British police force based in the capital city of London, has announced its intention to commence a new investigation related to allegations of computer hacking. The force has received numerous allegations of computer and email hacking relating to journalists since January of this year, prompting the launch of the probe, codenamed Operation Tuleta. According to a spokesperson for Scotland Yard, computer hacking allegations have already been brought into account, but now, "some aspects of that operation are being moved towards investigation".These allegations occurred during Operation Weeting, which has investigated alleged phone hacking offences. The Metropolitan Police said that the computer hacking claims were not within the remit of the phone hacking allegation probe, so a separate investigation had to be launched. Operation Tuleta consists of a fresh team of detectives, who will provide information to Operation Weeting deputy assistant commissioner Sue Akers.Meanwhile, the legal representatives for Glenn Mulcaire, a private investigator for the former British publication News of the World (NotW) have stated that he was proceeding "on the instructions of others". Sara Payne, the mother of the murdered girl Sarah Payne, was informed that Mulcaire possibly hacked into her phone and gathered her contact information. Payne was said to be "very distressed and upset" by the allegations. Mulcaire was sentenced to prison in January 2007 along with Clive Goodman, the royal editor for the NotW.The final edition of the NotW was published this July, amid the phone hacking scandal within News Corporation. A public inquiry relating to the affair was launched, triggered by allegations of phone hacking and police corruption.British singer Susan Boyle has agreed to be admitted to a local clinic for exhaustion, according to media reports. Boyle is said to have been taken by ambulance to the Priory clinic after she began to act strange in her hotel room, reportedly suffering an "emotional breakdown."Staff for Britain's Got Talent allegedly called police after they noticed her acting strange while backstage after the finale of the popular talent contest. Boyle went to her hotel room and on the arrival of police she was ordered to be taken to a clinic under the Mental Health Act."Police were called to doctors assessing a woman under the Mental Health Act. The woman was taken voluntarily by ambulance to a clinic. At the request of doctors, police accompanied the ambulance," said Scotland Yard as quoted by The Sun.Boyle, 47, from Blackburn, West Lothian, in Scotland, came in second place on Britain's Got Talent. Boyle was beaten by the dance group Diversity on Saturday who got 24% of the public vote, with Boyle receiving 20%. She took the world by storm after her debut appearance on April 11 singing "I Dreamed a Dream" from the award-winning musical Les Misérables. Just a day after appearing on the show, Boyle became a YouTube sensation with her performance receiving nearly 9 million views. To date, the YouTube clip has been viewed by nearly 65 million people worldwide.Britain's Got Talent issued a statement supporting Boyle saying, "Following Saturday's show, Susan is exhausted and emotionally drained. We offer her our ongoing support and wish her a speedy recovery."Simon Cowell, the show's owner and panel judge of the contestants, also issued a statement saying, "We're going to look after her. We've never had a runner-up like Susan before. She won over a lot of fans - not just with her voice, but with her graciousness."It is not known how long Boyle will be staying at the clinic, but according to reports, she agreed to take time off from singing on advice of her doctor not long before being admitted.BT Global Services this week laid out its vision for the next three years: its revenues to double in the USA, Japan, India and China, and £400m of annual savings, achieved through offshoring and slashing its procurement costs.  £200m of this will come from a reduction in what it spends on technology from vendors on large systems integration projects.CEO Andy Green admitted that BT had been slower than rivals such as IBM and Accenture to ramp up its offshore headcount.  But he claimed that BT Global Services is thriving as the fastest-growing division within BT.  He said that the division was outperforming its closest rivals, T-Systems, Orange Enterprise and AT&T Enterprise, which had all posted revenue declines for the most recent quarter.  He said BT was fast becoming a familiar brand to businessmen in New York, Tokyo, Mumbai and Shanghai.He disclosed a few revenue figures not revealed before.  For the financial year ending March 2006, UK revenues rose just 2% to £5.5bn, while overseas revenues shot up 48% to £3.3bn.  And of the £8.8bn total revenue, £1.6bn was captive work for its parent, while of the remaining £7.2bn, 18% came from the UK government sector and 17% from financial services.  BT said it still harbours ambitions to conquer America, despite the failure of the 'Concert' partnership with V in the 1990s.In a separate story, BT announced it has chosen Chinese vendor ZTE to develop a dual-mode handset -- 3G and DAB-IP -- for launch by its BT Movio subsidiary next year.  DAB-IP (in other words, IP over the DAB digital radio network) will enable BT Movio to broadcast four TV channels at acceptable quality to the handset.3G will enable video-on-demand, so that the users can specify what video clips or programmes they wish to watch.  UK legislation specifies that no more than 30% of the DAB spectrum can be used for non-radio purposes, so BT is lobbying for more DAB spectrum to be released, to enable higher quality video and/or more TV channels.Microsoft’s officials admitted that the company’s Windows Live OneCare security suite has been accidentally deleting e-mails of those users that worked with Outlook and Outlook Express.Microsoft’s OneCare forum included postings that stated the cause of message deletion. Thus the issue occurred thanks to an antivirus application that finds e-mails containing viruses. The problem with the software was that the antivirus, instead of deleting or quarantining the hazardous e-mail, deleted all messages from the personal folder.The forum, however, gave hope in a post saying that some messages might be recovered but only in case they were quarantined. Thus users are able to find those e-mails in OneCare’s quarantine facility.The administrator of the forum, Stephen Boots, outlined that he was very unhappy with the issue which, he said, appeared over a year ago and the company thought it fixed the problem with the release of 1.5 version. Boots said that the beta version of the program worked fine but when the final version was launched the problem occurred once again. According to the statement, reported by the spokesperson of the software giant, Microsoft is now working to fix the problem and release an updated version of OneCare on March 13.OneCare was criticized after it failed to pass an independent test of security products that provided a certain certification. In addition to this the program did not provide enough protection for Windows Vista users.A survey of 251 North American companies revealed that less than 10% of their computers have Windows XP Service Pack 2 installed. The results of the study, conducted by AssetMetrix, were released this week after 136,000 PCs running Microsoft's Windows operating system were examined. Although many of the companies in the poll are still using earlier releases of Windows, such as Windows 2000 and Windows 98, only 24% of businesses using Windows XP had successfully rolled out SP2.Released in September 2004, SP2 includes security improvements for the Windows XP operating system, including an enhanced firewall and a pop-up ad blocker for Internet Explorer. [1] When it was first made available, businesses could opt to postpone installation of the service pack so that their respective IT departments could prepare for the update. However on April 12, Microsoft will force users to upgrade to SP2 via their automatic Windows Update system, which delivers software over the Internet. AssetMetrix believe this move will catch out unprepared companies."Microsoft allowed a significant period of time to accommodate companies' demand to test and validate Windows XP SP2 within their IT infrastructure," explained AssetMetrix Research Labs' managing director Steve O'Halloran.He added: "Based on our research, a substantial number of companies have yet to decide whether to accept or embargo Windows XP SP2. To date, we have observed that 40 percent of companies using Windows XP have actively avoided upgrading to SP2, and only 7 percent have actively accepted it. The other 52 percent of the companies showed no direction or policy towards SP2, and may find themselves having support issues by allowing multiple editions of Windows XP to exist in their infrastructure."Two police officers are now on administrative leave after an incident in which they used pepper spray on protesters at U.S. University of California, Davis. The students were protesting in support of the Occupy Wall Street movement, and expressing support for University of California, Berkeley protesters who police used batons against on November 9.The incident was videoed and distributed  on YouTube and social networking websites including Facebook and Twitter. The footage shows a police officer spraying numerous students sat alongside each other on the ground at close range while walking past them. The video also displays officers detaining students as members of the crowd repeatedly shout the words "shame on you".According to CBS News, ten individuals were arrested by police at the scene. Nine students that were sprayed were given medical treatment at the location; Two were hospitalised, but later released.Linda P.B. Katehi, university chancellor, has accepted "full responsibility for the incident" and has launched an investigation. She described the use of such methods as "chilling"; the video displays, "sad and really very inappropriate" enforcement and the incident has prompted "many questions about how best to handle situations like this".Meanwhile, the Davis Faculty Association, representing academic staff, condemned the actions taken by the University of California, calling the actions of the police officers "unprovoked, disproportional and excessive". The association statement requested the chancellor of the university resign for what they called a "gross failure of leadership". Katehi has refused to resign, believing that she had not "violated the policies of the institution". She also stated: "I have worked personally very hard to make the campus a safe campus for all."Charles J. Kelly, who used to work as a lieutenant for Baltimore Police Department, defended the actions of the police officers as-seen in the video, calling it to be "fairly standard police procedure". Kelly explained that the use of pepper spray is preferable to physical force in such situations, as opposed to attempting to lift up protesters. "When you start picking up human bodies, you risk hurting them," explained Kelly. "Bodies don't have handles on them."University of California, Davis Police Chief Annette Spicuzza also defended the officers' actions, claiming "[t]he students had encircled the officers". They "needed to exit" and "were looking to leave but were unable to get out".Sutter, CA —An elementary school in northern California has been testing a radio frequency identification (RFID) tag-based identification program on its 7th and 8th grade students since January 18th, 2005. According to the ACLU, this is the first time that public school students in the United States have been required to wear devices that enable automatic identification. RFIDs have previously been used to track students in Japan.RFID tags contain antennas to enable them to receive and respond to radio-frequency queries from an RFID transceiver, enabling identification of pupils when they are in the vicinity of the detectors.Each student is required to wear an ID card on a lanyard around their neck. An RFID tag, manufactured by local Sutter corporation Incom, is attached to the card. The school has installed RFID detectors at the doors of seven classrooms as well as the bathrooms, though they claim that the bathroom units were not turned on, and subsequently been removed after complaints from parents.While some parents have complained about the system, local high school teacher Tim Crabtree told the San Francisco Chronicle, "It's baffling why so many people are bothered by the district being able to tell them where their kids are at,"On the other side, the San Francisco Chronicle quotes the 13-year-old daughter of Michelle and Jeff Tatro as saying:"Look at this. I'm a grocery item. I'm a piece of meat. I'm an orange." Another couple in Sutter, Michael and Dawn Cantrall, filed a complaint with the American Civil Liberties Union, or ACLU. The complaint centered on the violation of privacy and concerns about safety.The University of Toronto SciNet Consortium went online yesterday with the IBM System x iDataPlex Supercomputer.U of T's IBM System x is now the fastest computer outside of the United States, the largest Intel processor based IBM installation internationally and the twelfth most powerful globally. It will be used for a wide variety of operations, such as analysing climate change models, aerospace, astrophysics, genetics, bioinformatics, chemical physics, medical imaging research and other highly calculation-intensive tasks. The C$50 million dollar supercomputer can perform 300 trillion calculations per second and uses the equivalent amount of energy which would power 4,000 homes. The supercomputer will be cooled by outdoor winter air  assisted by a water based cooling system during warmer summer months.The computer will provide computations for the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) that started preliminary experiments on September 10, 2008 at CERN in Geneva, Switzerland. The LHC will produce cataclysmic collisions that will mimic the conditions that existed shortly after the beginning of time. The IBM System x's 30,240 Intel 5500 series 2.53 GHz processor cores — arranged in 45 file-like stacks — will examine the results of the particle collisions.Gary Foster, a British cancer patient, has died after a hospital computer error. The twenty-seven-year-old was undergoing a trial at the University College London Hospital when an apparent computer system error led to him repeatedly receiving double the amount of chemotherapy needed.Foster had been treated for testicular cancer since June. He had improved temporarily after the overdose but died due to drug toxicity. Another patient suffered an overdose during the trial but survived.Gary Foster was engaged, with wedding plans this month. He had been working as a graphic designer when he was diagnosed with cancer and a sixty percent survival rate. According to his fiancée, Paula Collins, the couple had been relieved to be included in drug trials as they had been told his chances of survival would increase. He had slowly received the overdoses over a period of four months. His mother said he had been "slowly poisoned."University College London Hospital reviewed its procedures and has made sufficient changes for future patient safety. The lesson it has learned, hospital officials stated, was to include "a second separate check by senior pharmacy staff  … for every patient before repeated doses are given." Suspected overdoses were reported through written letters, which hospital staff left unopened for two days.While a coroner's report is in progress, investigators said the drug had not directly caused Foster's death despite his health deteriorating after the overdoses began.The officials from CBS stated on Monday that the company is going to invest in virtual world content developer Electric Sheep Co., which develops 3D properties in several virtual worlds like the one called Second Life.In recent months corporate investors are paying more attention to virtual worlds. This is mainly due to the fact that the audience is shifting from TV to Internet. Another advantage of virtual worlds is that they can help in marketing products and promoting brands.The Interactive President of CBS, Quinsy Smith, sees the virtual worlds as platforms for the next generations. The Chief Executive of Electric Sheep, Sibley Verbeck, mentioned in an interview that the company has the goal of helping entertainment companies to gain their clients from virtual worlds like Second Life. Then Electric Sheep will provide more entertainment experiences for clientèle. With money invested by CBS, Electric Sheep plans to develop software that will create virtual worlds for mainstream consumption.Electric Sheep developed several projects for CBS, including "The L-Word in Second Life". CBS also filmed a commercial within Second Life in order to promote its show called "Two and a Half Men."Currently Electric Sheep is developing inside Second Life a Star Trek-themed area for CBS.Russian chess grandmaster, Vladimir Kramnik lost the final match of his man versus machine match against the Deep Fritz chess program.  The six game match in Bonn, Germany had a final result of 4-2 for the German-developed chess program which runs on readily available computer hardware.The first match which concluded on November 25 was a draw, Kramnik lost the second game to the computer with some indications that he overlooked a mate in one win.  Third through fifth matches were all draws.Kramnik, whilst the current world chess champion, is actually ranked third in the world.  A contributory factor in this is his health problems.  The world champion suffers from a rare form of arthritis which makes sitting playing in tournaments extremely painful for him.A "homophobic" comment on Facebook by Chilean deputy Enrique Estay has generated some controversy."[The government is] worried about the queers and not about the swarm of concerted bureaucrats who obstruct everything, so that the benefits do not reach to the poorest and middle class," said Estay on his Facebook profile on June 2. "I will not be quiet, until I see changes! [...] It is frustrating to me. A government that is thought to be right-winged, yet it governs with the left-winged ideas and people," he added in a comment."Well done, deputy! Simply speak out loud, well spoken, we are only making a country full of queers and lesbians, that's the only thing they [Concertación politicians] care about, instead of leaving them alone and dedicate themselves to work for the poorest," said one of the comments in response to Estay's status."It seems like these energumens don't live in Chile; it seems like these persons, so sons-of-bitches, don't understand the reality; it seems like these fucking mummies [momio, pejorative word to call a right-winged person] have their brains connected to their asses, because every thinking, every word [they say] is worth like that, a royal shit (with all the due respect shit deserves)," Facebook user Millaray Essence said on No a Piñera 2010.Estay's comment was denounced before the Committees of Human Rights (of which Estay is a member) and Ethics of the Chamber of Deputies by the Movement for Homosexual Integration and Liberation (Movimiento de Integración y Liberación Homosexual, MOVILH) on Monday. In a press release, the MOVILH said that "Estay's statements clearly seek to denigrate people because of their sexual orientation and gender identity, which implies a violation of human rights, as well as inciting social, cultural, and political odiousness, which is not at the level of his investiture."Enrique Estay responded to MOVILH's comments by saying that "[f]or queers we are referring to homosexuals. The term 'gay' is a new expression which means 'similar' and is unrelated to homosexuality." He also said that when calling homosexuals "queers" (maricones), he "didn't mean it to be offensive, though I often say things by their name, as they are, and I have always understood that in Chile homosexuals are the queers." He concluded, saying, "It is my Facebook, and that's the way I used it to specifically mention the homosexuals."Enrique Estay has represented District 49 (Araucanía Region) in the Chamber of Deputies of Chile since 2006, having been elected twice for the office. He is a lawyer and member of the Independent Democrat Union (UDI), one of Chile's right-wing parties. As of Wednesday, Estay deleted his Facebook status.Longmeng, which means Dragon Dream in Mandarin, is the name of a low-cost laptop computer. It was developed by the Institute of Computing Technology (ICT) under the Chinese Academy of Sciences. There are conflicting reports about the price: Bloomberg reported the laptop would be priced at 1,500 yuan (about USD 187 or EUR 153), while People's Daily and Shanghai Daily reported a lower price of 1,000 yuan (about USD 125 or EUR 102). The lower price would make the laptop competitive with the One Laptop Per Child project initiated by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).The Longmeng has a Godson II processor, which is equivalent in processing power to the Pentium III. It is actually a computer, a DVD player and a video game player, using the Linux operating system. It is the size of a textbook, 14 x 17 cm. (5 1/2 x 6 3/4 in.) and weighs about half a kilogram (1.1 pounds).The new laptop was announced by Zhang Fuxin, an ICT engineer. According to Fuxin, the purpose of this project is to provide everyone with a personal computer.The laptop is marketed by the Menglan Group from the eastern city of Changshu in the province of Jiangsu. They plan to sell 100,000 of the low-cost laptops in 2006. The Longmeng is intended for low-income groups as well as rural-area students.China's Central Government Procurement Center, citing Microsoft's shutdown of Windows XP security support on April 8, issued a notice this week banning use of the Windows 8 operating system (OS) on new desktops, laptops and tablets by government agencies. Personal machines are not affected by the ban.The Windows XP shutdown comes thirteen years after the launch of XP, and deprives XP users of ongoing security updates against attacks by hackers and computer viruses.As Windows XP still enjoys wide use in China, the official Chinese news agency Xinhua has stated "The Chinese government obviously cannot ignore the risks of running OS without guaranteed technical support", in response to the shutdown. "It has moved to avoid the awkwardness of being confronted with a similar situation again in future if it continues to purchase computers with foreign OS." According to a Microsoft spokesperson, the ban from China also includes an online message prohibiting  bids from Windows 8 for government contracts.Microsoft has officially responded to the notice and expressed their desire to continue providing assistance in reaching a solution.  "Microsoft has been working proactively with the Central Government Procurement Center and other government agencies through the evaluation process to ensure that our products and services meet all government procurement requirements", said a Microsoft spokesperson. Microsoft has also reportedly said their earlier operating systems such as Windows 7 would still be made available to the Chinese government.Chinese software security companies have offered their assistance in maintaining security standards for Windows XP following Miscrosoft's shutdown. Xinhua reported Linux based operating systems are in development for the Chinese market, and the announcement presents business opportunities for those working in the information technology sector.A group of Chinese nationalist hackers calling themselves "Revenge of the Flame" has temporarily called off a planned attack on the website of news channel CNN. The group had organized the attack in protest of the network's coverage of unrest in Tibet, which they believed was overly critical of China and biased in favor of the Tibetans.The group planned to take the CNN website offline by flooding its servers with internet traffic, in what is known as a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack. The attack was scheduled for April 19, but was canceled because too many others had become aware of their plan."Our original plan for 19 April has been canceled because too many people are aware of it and the situation is chaotic," the group said in a statement released April 17. However, they repeatedly stated that the attack would commence on another day. "The attack hasn’t been cancelled; it will be carried out on an unspecified day in the near future," the statement read.Despite the attack being called off, some had apparently decided to proceed earlier than expected. On Thursday, CNN reported attempts to disrupt its website, prompting countermeasures that affected the site's availability for some users in Asia. "CNN took preventative measures to filter traffic in response to attempts to disrupt our Web site," the network said in a statement. "A small percentage of CNN.com users in Asia are impacted."CNN and other Western media outlets have come under criticism from Chinese viewers in the past weeks for their coverage of China and Tibet. The movement against CNN has spawned the website anti-cnn.com, which aims to "expose the lies and distortions in the western media". The site generates over five million hits a day, according to its founder, Rao Jin. The movement also spawned the slogan "Don't be too CNN", which is the basis for two songs that have become increasingly popular among Internet users in China. In a statement, CNN responded to the criticism of their reporting. "CNN's reputation is based on reporting global news accurately and impartially," the network stated, "while our coverage through the use of words, images or video always reflects a wide range of opinions and points of view on every story."According to computer security expert Bruce Schneier, a widely-used cryptography algorithm, known as SHA-1, has been broken by three researchers at Shandong University in China. Designed by the US intelligence agency NSA, SHA-1 has been adopted as an official US government standard and has become widely-used in security applications worldwide, notably digital signatures. The three female researchers, Xiaoyun Wang, Yiqun Lisa Yin, and Hongbo Yu, have reduced the amount of time needed to find two documents with the same signature by a factor of more than 2000.The SHA-1 algorithm is used to compute a short string of numbers, known as a hash, for any digital document. The algorithm is constructed such that small changes in the document cause the hash to change drastically. By this means, the hash can be used to verify that a document has not been tampered with.The attack that Schneier describes is a "collision attack," rather than the more useful "pre-image" attack. In a pre-image attack, the codebreaker is able to find a document with different contents that matches an existing hash and so can claim an existing signature was on something else. In the somewhat less valuable "collision attack," the codebreaker is able to devise two documents that both have some particular hash. A adversary might use this to claim that an altered document is the original on the grounds that they have the same hash. A crafty adversary might also be able to trick someone into signing an innocuous document, one of a pair from a collision. The other document, which might not be as harmless, would then also appear to have been signed by the same person. If collisions can be found for SHA-1, then digital signatures will no longer vouch for a document's authenticity.The attack, for now, is more of a theoretical than a practical kind: it would currently take thousands of years on a modern personal computer, and would still be slow even if a large number of computers were used in parallel.Xiaoyun Wang is currently a professor at Shandong University, while Hongbo Yu is a doctoral candidate at the same institution. Yiqun Lisa Yin is currently a visiting researcher at the Princeton Architecture Laboratory for Multimedia and Security (PALMS). Last year, Xiaoyun Wang and Hongbo Yu also took part in breaking a series of similar algorithms, including the widely used MD5 hash, as documented in their paper presented at the Crypto 2004 conference.Officials from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) have recently recommended dropping SHA-1 in favor of stronger, slower algorithms, such as SHA-256, Federal Computer Week reported on February 7, 2005, just 7 days before Schneier announced the SHA-1 break. Despite deprecating SHA-1, William Burr, the head of NIST's security technology group, said that "SHA-1 is not broken, and there is not much reason to suspect that it will be soon."University of Cambridge security expert Professor Ross Anderson has blasted the EMV system used worldwide for credit and debit card transactions, and known in the UK as Chip and PIN, after his research team discovered a serious vulnerability.  The group were able to carry out purchases using a card, even without knowing the associated personal identification number (PIN), by using a "man-in-the-middle" attack.Retail terminals at the point of sale require the cardholder to insert their card and enter their secret PIN before a transaction can be authorised. They then communicate with the microchip built in to the card itself, which holds the PIN. If the correct number has been given, this chip returns a standard verification code (0x9000) to the terminal.In the researchers' attack they inserted a genuine card into a second reader, connected to a laptop. The laptop is linked by thin wires to a fake card, which is inserted into the retailer's terminal. The laptop relays the communications between the terminal and the stolen, but genuine, card, up until the stage where the PIN is to be checked. At this point it intercepts and responds with the verification code, no matter what number was entered. The retailer's terminal then believes that the correct PIN has been entered, and the card can be told that a signature was used to verify the cardholder instead.Their technique has been tested successfully on cards from six different issuers: Bank of Scotland, Barclaycard, Co-operative Bank, Halifax, HSBC and John Lewis.The group say that not much technical skill is required for the attack, and suggested the equipment needed could be kept in a backpack, with the wires to the fake card running down a user's sleeve. They believe the equipment could be miniaturised to the size of a remote control."In practice how this attack would work is that one reasonably technically skilled person would build a device that carries out the attack and then sell this equipment on the internet just like criminals already do," said Dr Steven Murdoch who worked on the project.Professor Anderson claimed that the attack could already be in use by criminals. "We have many examples of people who have had their cards stolen and then purchases made using the chip and pin," he said. "They are adamant they didn't use it but if the banks say chip and pin has been used you have to pay. I think many of these people would have been victim of the kind of technique we have developed."He was scathing about bank claims that the system was secure. "The banks are wrong. All the banks are lying. They are maliciously and wilfully deceiving the customer. If there was any justice then the police would be looking into this. The system is not fit for purpose."Consumer group Which? have also called for an investigation, stating that in a recent survey one in seven people said that money had been taken from their accounts without authorisation. Around half of these did not have the money refunded by the bank."We want the banks to look into these potential flaws," said Cathy Neal from Which? Money, "because we have had many examples where the banks have said a pin was used and the customer said it hasn't."Over 90 percent of UK card transactions at point-of-sale use chip and PIN, according to the UK Payments Administration. The attack does not affect ATM transactions, which use different standards. Mark Bowerman, a spokesman for the group which represents card companies, said that there was no evidence the attack was in use and emphasised that card fraud had fallen with the introduction of chip and PIN."We are taking this paper very seriously, as maintaining excellent levels of card security is paramount," he said. "However, we strongly refute the allegation that chip and PIN is broken."The research paper has been made available as a working draft, and is due to be published at the IEEE Security and Privacy Symposium in May 2010. Members of the banking industry were informed of the vulnerability in early December last year.Less than a year after the discovery of a record size prime number, the same team from the Central Missouri State University discovered yet another record holder on September 4, 2006. The primality of this number was verified on September 11, 2006. The team were participants of an online project called Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search.The number is 232,582,657 − 1, extending out to an astonshing 9,808,358 decimal digits. These rare prime numbers are known as Mersenne primes. So far, only 44 of these are known.Although the number is just shy of the 10 million digits required for the $100,000 prize offered by the Electronic Frontier Foundation, participants are always looking forward to new primes.CNN television news gave extensive coverage starting around 5:30 PM EST today to a new computer virus, a worm dubbed  rbot.cbq.  Its reporting suggested that it had the potential to become one of the most virulent and costly yet seen.  This story was unique among cyber-attacks reports as the network apparently learned of the virus through becoming one of its early victims.  Media organizations ABC and the New York Times were affected as well.  Perhaps first-hand experience gave the studio more insight on the virus while providing an early notice.  The coverage that followed, however, raises concerns that the network's perspective was skewed, and that perhaps the damage even diminished its reporting ability.CNN treated the story as a potential global crisis in its manner of coverage as well as in the advice given to viewers.  For over 45 minutes, by one viewer's tally, CNN devoted exclusive air-time to this topic.  Home users were advised to turn off their computers for safety, while businesses were warned that if continued operations prevented this measure, they were at high risk.  CNN.com sported a bold red headline above its usual content area, warning of the virus.  CNN stated they were requesting reports from key sources across the nation, including California governor Arnold Schwarzenegger.After some time, the network eventually obtained a Microsoft statement describing the virus as "low-impact" and only affecting computers running Windows 2000.  CNN also learned from Microsoft that there was a patch available at Microsoft's web site.  CNN's coverage contrasted with a lack of actual evidence of widespread infections, in this reporter's view.  Much of the discussion and advice came from experts probably not officially associated with CNN, so there is a question of who is at fault.Chris Carboni of the Internet Storm Center speculated that "The fact that CNN, ABC and the NYTimes got it may be as simple as reporters from these organizations visiting the same event and connecting to an infected network. While a firewall may have protected their office network up to now, these infected laptops were able to take out the network from the inside once they connected back to it."Atlanta-based CNN journalist Octavia Nasr, 20-year veteran of the network and senior editor for Middle East affairs, was reprimanded for a Twitter comment published on Sunday in which she expressed sadness at the death of Iraqi-born Lebanese Grand Ayatollah Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah. In the post, the journalist stated that she was "Sad to hear of the passing of Sayyed Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah.. One of Hezbollah's giants I respect a lot..".According to a New York Times blog, after Parisa Khosravi, the CNN senior vice president, "had a conversation" with Ms. Nasr she was formally asked to step down. She left the network on Wednesday. Brian Stelter of the Times reports that the issue was originally brought to the public's attention by online supporters of Israel, who republished the comment widely. They criticised her for being a "Hezbollah sympathizer" for a man who was "committed to the destruction of Israel." Critics point to comments Fadlallah has made in the past about the Holocaust, in which he questions the veracity of the agreed-upon figures of Jewish deaths in concentration camps."Is this the sort of extremist figure that CNN's Senior Editor of Mideast Affairs should be professing her respect for?" asked HonestReporting, the media watchdog group which purports to defend Israel "against prejudice in the media." Salon reporter Glenn Greenwald has responded to these allegations of "prejudice" by pointing to similar cases in which no controversy arose: "The Washington Post lavished editorial praise on the brutal, right-wing tyrant Augusto Pinochet, and that caused no controversy...Benjamin Netanyahu formally celebrates the Terrorist bombing of the King David Hotel that killed...78 civilians and nobody is stigmatized for supporting him.  Erick Erickson sent around the most rancid and arguably racist tweets, only to thereafter be hired as a CNN contributor."Lebanese author and academic Dr. As'ad Abu-Khalil has also argued that commentators have not properly placed Fadlallah in context, and pointed to the schools and orphanages he founded in Beirut and southern Lebanon. Amira Al Hussaini of Global Voices quotes Abu-Khalil's post, saying "His [Fadlallah's] relationship with Hizbullah is always misunderstood...he broke from Wilayat Al-Faqih...and developed a new liberal thinking especially on issues of personal status laws." He also "urged for a closer relationship between science and religion", which drew the ire of both Iran and Hizbullah. Nasr herself clarified her comment the day before her dismissal on a post to her CNN blog, saying that she used the words "respect" and "sad" because "to me as a Middle Eastern woman, Fadlallah took a contrarian and pioneering stand among Shia clerics on woman's rights. He called for the abolition of the tribal system of 'honor killing.' He called the practice primitive and non-productive. He warned Muslim men that abuse of women was against Islam."The cleric has been a controversial figure in the West and has been blacklisted by the United States as a terrorist for several years, along with Hizbullah's leader, Hassan Nasrallah. He is thought to have been the target of a 1985 car bombing in Beirut, which killed 80 people but not the Ayatollah himself. The BBC reports it may have been "the work of the CIA, possibly in conjunction with regional intelligence agencies friendly to the US", while David Kenner of Foreign Policy writes that the plot was all but confirmed by Bob Woodward through interviews with then-CIA Director William Casey.Computer Associates are warning of a current three pronged, co-ordinated malware attack on computers that are using Microsoft Windows and are connected to the Internet. The attack involves the use of three different Trojan horses called Glieder, Fantibag and Mitglieder. The goal is to create a botnet consisting of a large number of compromised computers. Access to this group of compromised machines will then be available on a black market, at prices as low as five cents per machine.Win32.Glieder.AK: The first of the three, this Trojan horse attempts to de-activate an extensive list of security/antivirus related processes and services running on the target computer. It also attempts to lower security settings in order to facilitate easier access for subsequent Trojan horses.Fantibag: This second Trojan horse creates filters on the target machine in order to prevent access to a large number of antivirus companies' Web sites. Thus, not only is the target computer now well and truly compromised, but an average Windows user will be completely unable to remove these violations of their system.Mitgleider: Once the first two Trojan horses have largely eliminated any possibility that the target will be able to defend itself, this one finishes the job. It opens port 38884 and configures it to act as a SOCKS 4 proxy, but the compromised system can now also be commanded to do the following:-Changing the backdoor port numberUpdating the trojanDownloading and execute filesUninstalling the trojanInitiating an SMTP server on TCP port 25, which can be used to relay spam.Executing files on the infected computerDownloading and executing files via an URLIt should be noted that these Trojan horses only affect the Microsoft Windows family of operating systems. No other operating systems (such as Linux and Apple's OS X) are vulnerable.  In order to prevent infection, Windows users are advised to ensure that they have the latest operating system patches from Microsoft, that their chosen antivirus software is up to date, and that they are using firewall software where appropriate.File:Turing1.jpgMore than 50 programmers, scientists, students, hobbyists and fans of the A.L.I.C.E. chat robot gathered in Guildford, U.K. on Friday to celebrate the tenth birthday of the award winning A.I.  On hand was the founder the Loebner Prize, an annual Turing Test, designed to pick out the world's most human computer according to an experiment laid out by the famous British mathematician Alan Turing more then 50 years ago.  Along with A.L.I.C.E.'s chief programmer Dr. Richard S. Wallace, two other Loebner prize winners, Robby Garner and this year's winner, Rollo Carpenter, also gave presentations, as did other finalists.The University of Surrey venue was chosen, according to Dr. Wallace, not only because it was outside the U.S. (A.L.I.C.E.'s birthday fell on the Thanksgiving Day weekend holiday there, so he expected few people would attend a conference in America), but also because of its recently erected statue of Alan Turing, who posed the famous A. I. experiment which inspired much of the work on bots like A.L.I.C.E.   University of Surrey Digital World Research Centre organizers Lynn and David Hamill were pleased to host the event because it encourages multi-disciplinary interaction, and because of the Centre's interest in interaction between humans and computers.File:ALICE Birthday Cake.jpgDr. Wallace gave a keynote address outlining the history of A.L.I.C.E. and AIML.  Many people commented on the fact the he seemed to have moved around a lot in the last ten years, having lived in New York, Pennsylvania, San Francisco, Maine, Amsterdam and Philadelphia, while working on the Alicebot project.  The A.L.I.C.E. and AIML software is popular among chat robot enthusiats primarily because of its distribution under the GNU free software license.  One of Dr. Wallace's PowerPoint slides asked the question, "How do you make money from free software?"  His answer: memberships, subscriptions, books, directories, syndicated ads, consulting, teaching, and something called the Superbot.Rollo Carpenter gave a fascinating presentation on his learning bot Jabberwacky, reading from several sample conversations wherein the bot seemed amazingly humanlike.  Unlike the free A.L.I.C.E. software, Carpenter uses a proprietary learning approach so that the bot actually mimics the personality of each individual chatter.  The more people who chat with Jabberwacky, the better it becomes at this kind of mimicry.  In another interesting presentation, Dr. Hamill related present-day research on chat robots to earlier work on dialog analysis in telephone conversations.  Phone calls have many similarities to the one-on-one chats that bots encounter on the web and in IM.  Dr. Hamill also related our social expectations of bots to social class structure and how servants were expected to behave in Victorian England.  He cited the famous Microsoft paperclip as the most egregius example of a bot that violated all the rules of a good servant's behavior.Bots have advanced a long way since philanthropist Hugh Loebner launched his controversial contest 15 years ago.  His Turing Test contest, which offers an award of $100,000 for the first program to pass an "audio-visual" version of the game, also awards a bronze medal and $2000 every year for the "most human computer" according to a panel of judges.  Huma Shah of the University of Westminster presented examples of bots used by large corporations to help sell furniture, provide the latest information about automotive products, and help customers open bank accounts.   Several companies in the U.S. and Europe offer customized bot personalities for corporate web sites.Even though Turing's Test remains controversial, this group of enthusiastic developers seems determined to carry on the tradition and try to develop more and more human like chat bots.Hugh Loebner is dedicated to carry on his contest for the rest of his life, in spite of his critics.  He hopes that a large enough constituency of winners will exist to keep the competition going well beyond his own lifetime.  Dr. Wallace says, "Nobody has gotten rich from chat robots yet, but that doesn't stop people from trying.  There is such a thing as 'bot fever'.  For some people who meet a bot for the first time, it can pass the Turing Test for them, and they get very excited."New reports indicate that the proliferation of the Conficker computer worm (also known as Kido or Downadup) has nearly quadrupled in the last four days. The worm has gone from just over 2 million Microsoft Windows computers infected to 8.9 million, according to estimates by anti-virus company F-Secure. Though Microsoft issued a patch with a severity rating of "critical" in mid-October 2008, just days after Conficker was first discovered, many business computers still have not applied the patch. Most to all of the infected computers are on corporate networks; Conficker cannot spread through the Internet or e-mails. Instead, when an infected laptop connects to a corporate network, the worm searches for vulnerable computers and attempts to guess its password. Conficker also infects any network shares the user may be connected to. The worm has a list of about one hundred common passwords, including "password" and "qwerty". Conficker also infects USB sticks, which then infect any Microsoft Windows computer the stick is plugged in to. After it gains access to the computer, Conficker adds itself to the Windows processes "services.exe", "explorer.exe" and "svchost.exe", then makes a copy of itself as a DLL file with a random five- to eight-character name.  The worm also disables Windows services such as Windows Update and Windows Defender. Conficker also blocks access to most security-related sites, including Windows Update. The worm then checks several websites for the current date, then generates a domain name based on that date and downloads infected files from that domain.  This domain is believed to be in Ukraine. Conficker makes itself very hard to remove by registering the downloaded files as kernel drivers and the DLL copy of itself of a service.Microsoft has advised users to install the patch (security bulletin MS08-067), then run the latest edition of the Windows Malicious Software Removal Tool.A controversial blog that posts personal details about many workers at New Zealand's Child, Youth and Family Services (CYFS) has been relaunched after Google's Blogger removed the site due to a death threat.The controversial blog, named CYFSWATCH NEW ZEALAND posts personal stories about how CYFS workers have treated them and their family, and then posts personal details about those workers. It also is targeting the chief executive of the Ministry of Social Development. The recent relaunch sees 127 more CYFS workers' personal details being posted on the online blog.The site is now hosted by a Masterton, New Zealand man known as, "Kiwi 1960", Wikinews suggests that the man's first name is Peter. Russell Brown, media commentator, found out that "Kiwi 1960" was hosting the new site. "Kiwi 1960" could be charged with criminal offences, but says that he is not worried about it, stating that he is a "victim" of CYFS. However Ursula Cheer, associate professor at Canterbury University said that although the content could be described as defamatory, no criminal charges are likely as there is nothing stopping anyone from setting up Internet sites.The death threat posted online that led to Blogger removing the blog, was aimed at being the first political assassination in New Zealand. It was made against Sue Bradford because of her publicly unsupported bill that would make smacking, or correcting, a child illegal.Ms Bradford says that she is disappointed that the blog is now running again.A controversial development training course called "Landmark Forum" is cited in religious discrimination lawsuits in United States federal courts in New York and Washington, D.C. The seminars are run by a San Francisco, California-based for-profit training company called Landmark Education. The company evolved from Erhard Seminars Training "est", and has faced criticism regarding its techniques and its use of unpaid labor. The sperm bank and surrogacy company Los Angeles-based Growing Generations is named as a defendant in the New York lawsuit, and the Democratic political action committee Twenty-First Century Democrats is a defendant in the Washington, D.C. case.In separate lawsuits filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in Manhattan, New York, and in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in Washington, D.C., former employees are suing their employers for monetary damages and claiming religious discrimination after their employers allegedly mandated that they attend courses at Landmark Education.In the US$3 million federal lawsuit filed in New York, Scott Glasgow is suing his former employer Growing Generations and its CEO Stuart Miller. Growing Generations maintains sperm banks and also arranges surrogacy for gay couples who wish to have children. The company has offices in New York and Los Angeles, and has done business with celebrities including actor B. D. Wong of Law & Order: SVU. Glasgow was marketing director of Growing Generations, and claims he was fired in June 2007 after refusing to continue attending Landmark Education seminars. Glasgow is also suing for sexual harassment, and claims Miller came on to him in September 2006. He made approximately $100,000 per year as the company's marketing director, and was the company's only employee based out of New York City. The company's main offices are in Los Angeles."I was shocked when I was fired. It took me months to right myself. I want them to stop imposing Landmark on the employees, and I want an apology," said Glasgow in a statement in The Village Voice. Brent Pelton, one of Glasgow's attorneys, stated that: "The Landmark philosophy is deeply ingrained in the culture of the company". Glasgow said that the Landmark Education training courses were "opposite" to his Christian beliefs. According to Glasgow he was questioned by Miller in May 2007 after he walked out of a Landmark Education course, and was fired shortly thereafter. "We stand by the allegations contained in the complaint and we look forward to proving them at trial," said Pelton in a statement to ABC News.Ian Wallace, an attorney who represents Growing Generations, claimed that Glasgow wasn't fired but walked away from his position. "Growing Generations and Mr. Miller are very confident that these claims will be dismissed ultimately, and there's no factual basis for them whatsoever," said Wallace in a statement to The Village Voice. Lawyers representing Growing Generations and Stuart Miller declined comment to The New York Post, and did not immediately return a message from ABC News.In Glasgow's complaint, entered into federal court record on April 18, he asserts that Landmark Education constitutes a "religion", and "perceived their philosophy as a form of religion that contradicted his own personal beliefs". He states that when he was promoted to Director of Marketing, he asked Miller if he could stop attending the Landmark sessions but was told that they were mandatory for all of the company's executives and that Landmark is "very much the language of the company." Glasgow said his performance at the company was assessed based on how he was "touching, moving and inspiring" others, a phrase from the Landmark philosophy, as opposed to his business accomplishments at the company. The complaint claims that the actions of Miller and Growing Generations violated Federal, New York State and New York City civil rights laws.The lawsuit filed in federal court in Washington, D.C. deals with a separate plaintiff and company, but the plaintiff in the suit also claims that religious discrimination took place for allegedly being mandated to attend Landmark Education courses. Kenneth Goldman is suing the United States Democratic political action committee Twenty-First Century Democrats (also 21st Century Democrats) and its former executive director Kelly Young. Goldman was formerly the communications director of 21st Century Democrats. According to Goldman's complaint, three employees of 21st Century Democrats were fired after refusing to attend the Landmark Forum course. The complaint asserts that Landmark Education has "religious characteristics and theological implications" which influenced the mission of 21st Century Democrats and the way the organization conducted business. Goldman's complaint states that in addition to himself, a training director and field director were also fired after they made it clear they would not attend the Landmark Forum. Goldman says executive director Young infused Landmark Education jargon terms into staff meetings such as "create possibilities", "create a new context", and "enroll in possibilities". He also claims that Young "urged" staff members to participate in Landmark Education events outside of the workplace, drove employees to and from Landmark functions, and used funds from 21st Century Democrats to pay for employees to attend those functions. Goldman's complaint asserts that he was discriminated against in violation of the District of Columbia Human Rights Act. In a statement in The Washington Times, the executive director of 21st Century Democrats, Mark Lotwis, called the lawsuit "frivolous" and said: "we're going to defend our organization's integrity". Landmark Education spokeswoman Deborah Beroset said that the Landmark Forum "is in no way religious in nature and any claim to the contrary is simply absurd," and stated: "While we are not a party to this lawsuit and have no firsthand knowledge of it, we can only assume that we are being used as a legal and political football to further the plaintiff"s own financial interests."The New York lawsuit was filed April 14, and is still in early filing stages. A conference with the federal court judge in the case has been scheduled for June 17. The Washington, D.C. suit began in November 2007, and entered mediation this past March. As of April 15 the parties in the case were due back to court on July 11 to update the court on the mediation process. Landmark Education is descended from Erhard Seminars Training, also called "est", which was founded by Werner Erhard. est began in 1971, and Erhard's company Werner Erhard and Associates repackaged the course as "The Forum" in 1985. Associates of Erhard bought the license to his "technology" and incorporated Landmark Education in California in 1991.This is not the first time employees have sued claiming mandatory attendance at "Forum" workshops violated their civil rights. In a lawsuit filed in December 1988 in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia, eight employees of DeKalb Farmers Market in Decatur, Georgia sued their employer claiming their religious freedom and civil rights were violated when they were allegedly coerced into attending "Forum" training sessions. "Many of these training programs, particularly at large corporations, claim to be purely psychological, aimed at improving productivity and morale and loyalty. But in fact they are religious," said University of Denver religious studies professor Carl Raschke in a statement to The Wall Street Journal.The DeKalb Farmers Market employees were represented by lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union. Consulting Technologies Inc., an affiliate of Transformational Technologies Inc., was named as a party in the lawsuit. Transformational Technologies was founded by Werner Erhard, and was not named as a party in the suit. The "Forum" course that the employees claimed they were mandated to attend was developed by Werner Erhard and Associates. Employees said that they were fired or pressured to quit after they objected to the Forum courses. The workers claimed that the Forum course contradicted with their religious beliefs. The plaintiffs in the suit included adherents of varying religious backgrounds, including Christianity and Hinduism. "The sessions put people into a hibernating state. They ask for total loyalty. It's like brainwashing," said Dong Shik Kim, one of the plaintiffs in the case. The plaintiffs said they lost their jobs after objecting to a "new age quasi-religious cult" which they said was developed by Werner Erhard.The DeKalb Farmers Market denied the allegations, and an attorney for the company Edward D. Buckley III told The Wall Street Journal that employees were encouraged, not coerced, to attend the training sessions. According to The Wall Street Journal, The Forum said it would not sanction workers being coerced to attend its training sessions. The parties in the DeKalb Farmers Market religious discrimination case came to a settlement in May 1989, and the case was dismissed with prejudice in June. The terms of the out-of-court settlement were not made public, but the employees' attorney Amy Totenberg told The Wall Street Journal that the case "has made employers come to grips with the legitimate boundaries of employee training".According to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, employers must "reasonably accommodate" their employees' religious beliefs unless this creates "undue hardship". In September 1988, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission issued a policy-guidance notice which stated that New Age courses should be handled under Title VII of the Act. According to the Commission, employers must provide "reasonable accommodation" if an employee challenges a training course, unless this causes "undue hardship" for the company.In October 2006, Landmark Education took legal action against Google, YouTube, the Internet Archive and a website owner in Queensland, Australia in attempts to remove criticism of its products from the Internet. The company sought a subpoena under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in an attempt to discover the identity of an anonymous critic who uploaded a 2004 French documentary of the Landmark Forum to the Internet. "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" (Voyage to the Land of the New Gurus) was produced by Pièces à Conviction, a French investigative journalism news program. The Electronic Frontier Foundation represented the anonymous critic and the Internet Archive, and Landmark withdrew its subpoena in November 2006 in exchange for a promise from the anonymous critic not to repost the video.Landmark Education itself has come under scrutiny for its controversial labor practices. The company has been investigated by the United States Department of Labor in separate investigations originating out of California, Colorado, and Texas. Investigations focused on the heavy reliance of unpaid labor in the company's workforce, which Landmark Education calls "assistants" and deems volunteers. An investigation by the U.S. Dept. Labor based out of Colorado found that activities performed by Landmark Education's "assistants" include: "office, clerical, telephone solicitation and enrollment, as well as greeting customers, setting up chairs, handling microphones during the seminars and making coffee. Additionally, a number of volunteers actually teach the courses and provide testimonials during and after the courses." The Colorado investigation's 1996 report found that "No records are kept of any hours worked by any employees." According to a 1998 article in Metro Silicon Valley: "In the end the Department of Labor dropped the issue, leaving Landmark trumpeting about its volunteers' choice in the matter." Metro Silicon Valley reported that Landmark Education at the time employed 451 paid staff, and also utilized the services of 7,500 volunteers.After an investigation into Landmark Education's labor practices by the U.S. Dept. Labor's offices out of California, the company was deemed to have overtime violations. According to the Department of Labor's 2004 report on the investigation, back wages of $187,569.01 were found due to 45 employees. An investigation by the U.S. Dept. Labor in Texas which concluded in 2005 stated: "Minimum wage violation found. Volunteers (Assistants) are not paid any wages for hours worked while performing the major duties of the firm. The assistants set up rooms, call registrants, collect fees, keep stats of classroom data/participants, file, they also are answering phones, training and leading seminars." The Texas investigation also discovered an overtime violation. Landmark Education agreed to pay back wages for the overtime violation, but did not comply with the overtime violation found by the U.S. Dept. Labor for the "assistants". Landmark Education denied that the "assistants" are employees, though the Department of Labor report concluded: "Interviews reveal that the employees are taking payments, registering clients, billing, training, recruiting, setting up locations, cleaning, and other duties that would have to be performed by staff if the assistants did not perform them."According to the 2004 investigative report by Pièces à Conviction in the "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" program, Landmark Education was investigated by the French government in 1995. In the "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" program volunteers were filmed through a hidden camera and shown performing duties for Landmark Education in France including manning phones, recruitment and financial work for the company, and one volunteer was shown cleaning a toilet. Le Nouvel Observateur reported that after "Voyage au pays des nouveaux gourous" aired in France, labor inspectors investigated Landmark Education's use of unpaid volunteers. According to Le Nouvel Observateur, one month after the labor investigation took place the French branch of the company had disbanded. A former "Introduction Leader" to the Landmark Forum, Lars Bergwik, has recently posted a series of videos to YouTube critical of the company and its practices. Bergwik appeared on a 2004 investigative journalism program on Sweden's Channel 4, Kalla Fakta (Cold Facts). According to Bergwik, after the Kalla Fakta program on Landmark Education aired, "Landmark left Sweden".A court in Istanbul has issued an order to block all access to YouTube in Turkey, after a series of insults between Greek and Turkish users of the site escalated. The largest internet provider and privatised state company, Türk Telekom, has put the order into effect, while some smaller internet providers still allow access to the site.Internet users accessing via Turk Telecom get a message in Turkish saying "Access to this site has been denied by court order! ..." and in Turkish and English "Access to www.youtube.com site has been suspended in accordance with decision no: 2007/384 dated 06.03.2007 of Istanbul First Criminal Peace Court."The row between Turkish and Greek YouTube users started when Greek videos claimed that Atatürk, the founder of the Turkish state, and the Turkish people, were homosexual. There were also profanities on the Turkish flag. A Turkish user responded saying that Greece was the birth place of homosexuality. The dispute received a lot of attention in the Turkish media, which they labelled a "virtual war".YouTube agreed to take down the offending videos, but nonetheless the prosecutor in Istanbul got a court order, based on charges of insulting Atatürk, which is illegal in Turkey. YouTube responded that it had taken down the videos and was cooperating with the government, adding that "While technology can bring great opportunity and access to information globally, it can also present new and unique cultural challenges."Article 301 of the Turkish penal code, which makes insulting Turkishness a crime in Turkey, received a lot of attention because it resulted in the prosecution of intellectuals like Literature Nobel Prize Winner Orhan Pamuk and murdered journalist Hrant Dink.The European Commission has shown concern over the law article, and Turkey has pledged to revise it. Turkey wants to join the European Union but the negotiations have not been without obstacles so far, for example in the field of freedom of expression.On Tuesday, Juventud Rebelde reported that the Central Administration of Cuba is organizing a migration to free and open source software. The announcement was made during a free software workshop organized at the "Convención Internacional Informática 2005" by the director of the state office of information technology, Roberto del Puerto.The plan is to use the Linux operating system as a base, though the administration currently uses Microsoft Windows. The transition is planned to be slow and involves organizational changes, development and creating a legal framework. The Linux user base in Cuba is around 1,500 people and has its own Linux distribution. Cuba also has some free software developers and the University of Information Science, with over 6,000 students, has committed one department for the development of programs for Linux which is a good move towards open sourceDocuments leaked on Wikileaks and seen by Wikinews have revealed that Cuba signed a confidential deal with Venezuela to ensure that Cuba gets access to a high speed internet connection by 2010.The document stated, in Spanish, that the countries aim to "build and operate a line of fiber optic cables between Venezuela and Cuba." Julian Assange, an investigative editor on Wikileaks, claimed that the information in the documents "adds weight to Cuban statements that the United States economic embargo of the island has forced it to rely on slow and expensive satellite links for Internet connectivity."The document then says that cable will "extend between two terminals located at the coast of both countries."Information week has reported that the cable is expected to cost several million US dollars. They base this on a fact that a cable between Cuba and Florida, which is a much shorter distance than between Cuba and Venezuela, would cost half a million dollars. The US government has prevented the building of the Florida cable.The government of Cuba decided to change the OS on thousands of its computers. These will run on GNU/Linux instead of Windows. This step made by the Cuban government raises tensions between the country and the U.S. - based company Microsoft. The idea was welcomed by several Cuban ministers. This includes Ramiro Valdez, communication minister, who at a technology conference stated his position towards moving to free software. Richard Stallman, heading the Free Software Foundation, criticized the proprietary software saying that today it is rather insecure, and that unlikeproprietary software, free software develops democratically under the control of its users.Heading one of the largest universities in Cuba, Hector Rodriguez also showed his positive attitude towards the migration of the country to free  software. He outlined that Cuban customs service has already moved to Linux and several ministries are still to migrate. Among them are the ministries of culture, of higher education and of communication.Although it will take some time for Cuba to move to free  software, Rodriguez, as quoted by the Associated Press, declined to state the time it will take for the government of Cuba to move entirely to GNU/Linux. The pace of migrating to free software and open source software is very fast in Cuba. GNU/Linux has been adopted as an operating system by millions of computer enthusiasts around the world, and a number of local, regional and national governments have also advocated its adoption.The return of Michael Dell as the Chief Executive Officer of computer making giant Dell marked a series of changes. In his memo to the employees of the company he founded, Michael Dell said that there will be no bonuses and that the company will reduce its management in an effort to cut costs.2006 was not a financial success for Dell. It lost its leading market position to Hewlett-Packard, and the SEC started investigating Dell for possible accounting improprieties. Several executives also left during recent months. The daily newspaper Austin American-Statesman reported the Rollins memo and posted on its website a copy of the e-mail. The e-mail was confirmed by Dell's spokesman for the Associated Press. Michael Dell's memo also outlined the fact that all bonuses would be replaced by so-called "limited discretionary awards". The beneficiaries of such awards will be all but senior management. There will also be a shortening in the period of stock investing.File:CyanogenMod Cid.svgThe developers of CyanogenMod, an open source free Android-based operating system for smartphones, announced yesterday their incorporation following a successful venture capital campaign which netted the open-source project a US$7 million nest egg, and plan to roll out a simple installation app on Google Play for their Android firmware.Android runs nearly 80% of new mobile devices; CyanogenMod operates on at least 7 or 8 million of those. CyanogenMod replaces the read-only-memory image in android devices which have been 'rooted' —control acquired of the device's superuser account— allowing continuing development for, and backporting abilities of new generations of the operating system to, older devices. Investor Mitch Lasky wrote on his blog "We believe that CM is poised to become one of the largest mobile operating systems in the world." Benchmark Capital and Redpoint Ventures are part of the capital providers to form Cyanogen Inc."The only limitation we have right now is with the number of engineers and designers we currently have. As we hire more people and build this company, we’ll be able to work on so many cool things", said Koushik 'koush' Dutta, who took questions alongside Steve 'cyanogen' Kondik and team social media manager Abhisek "ciwrl" Devkota in a Reddit Ask Me Anything event shortly after making the announcement on the CyanogenMod blog. The team of 17, including Boost co-founder Kirt McMaster as CEO, are in Palo Alto, California and Seattle.Kondik says Cyanogen mod is named after him. "I'm terrible with names, so I just slapped 'mod' onto the end of my handle and ran with it", he explained in the incorporation announcement.An early question raised in the Reddit event concerned profit-making: "Monetization isn't an immediate concern and our investors [...] feel the same", said Dutta, adding "Creating disruption in a multibilion dollar market is enough to make any investor raise their eyebrow." This means CyanogenMod would continue to be free. Follow questions asked if the company was planning to release their own model of android device. "We certainly couldn't take on the monumental task of building/testing hardware [right now]. Hardware would be one of many potential very long term paths we could take", said Dutta.The firm's first announced step is to improve the process of installing the software on owner's devices, which Kondik described as "hideous".  A new installer app is planned to be released "in the coming weeks" on Google Play. The installer app will not require rooting the device, instead installing by simply clicking a button.A further step, broadly described without any details, is a project with an unnamed original equipment manufacturer (OEM). "We have a least one OEM partnership in the works, there will be an announcement next week regarding our plans there", said Kondik. The team mentioned OEM licensing several times during the Q&A session on Reddit.In addition to these corporate steps, there were questions regarding the roadmap for development of the ROM, which already has improvements regarding privacy and security over the native android loader. With "plenty of things in the product pipeline already" Dutta lists additional security features, AirPlay mirroring, screen recording, and Voice+ as upcoming. The mood throughout the event was jovial, with humourous questions such as "can you guys PLEASE release a CM build for my toaster? I'm not sure what model it is, but it's white and I got it at Savers." Kondik promised "Ship it to me and I'll duct tape a G1 running CM to it". Dutta said his "10 of your favorite lines of source code" are "The ones that worked when they shouldn't have."Dan Savage, author of the sex advice column Savage Love, has won a Webby Award for his work on the It Gets Better Project. He started the project in 2010 to address a series of incidents of suicide among LGBT youth. Savage and his husband, Terry Miller, co-edited a book featuring selections from the It Gets Better Project. The book, It Gets Better: Coming Out, Overcoming Bullying, and Creating a Life Worth Living, includes a piece from President of the United States Barack Obama – who also filmed a video for the online project. In both the book and the online project itself, individuals submitted contributions with messages of hope and optimism directed towards LGBT teenagers.In an interview published Thursday with Fenuxe Magazine, Savage commented on his initial response when contacted by the Obama Administration to receive a video contribution from the President for the It Gets Better Project: "You could have knocked me over with a feather when the White House called and said the President would record a video. And they not only recorded a video, they were calling me to let me know and they were giving it to us first to release on the 'It Gets Better' website."The Webby Award is presented anually by the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, for excellence on the Internet. Savage was selected for recognition with a Special Achievement Award for his work on the It Gets Better Project. His project focuses on combatting bullying directed against teenagers who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender.Some personal details of 3 million British learner drivers who had applied for the 'theory test' component of their Driving licence have been lost in Iowa, in the USA.The data was lost on a hard drive that was owned by Pearson Driving Assessments Ltd, a private contractor to the UK driving standards agency.Details were given by the UK Transport Secretary, Ruth Kelly, in the House of Commons at 1730 UTC yesterday. It is the first major loss of data in the UK since information on 25 million people was lost by HM Revenue in October.In her statement to MPs, Ruth Kelly confirmed that no banking information was contained within the lost data, nor were individuals' dates of birth. She highlighted that security measures had been taken, and that the information that had been stored was not in a format "readily usable or accessible" by standard means.Political figures in the UK continue to raise concerns about both the specific loss of this information, and the nature of governments ability to safely gather and maintain information. Susan Kramer, representing the Liberal Democrats stated "This constant attempt to gather data, to get more data, to know more about you, to link it more together, all of that it seems to me is what comes into question."Dell's share price has been in a sharp decline as the company has struggled to deal with declining PC and server revenues.  Now it has been forced to delay its 2Q financial report as it deals with state and federal accounting investigations.  Dell revealed last month that the SEC was looking into its past financial statements.  As a result, it has been forced to put its stock buyback programme on hold until the market can be confident the share price is right.  To correct its course, Dell has also announced in the past week:Dell, the world's largest manufactuer of home computers, is recalling 4.1 million lithium batteries used in laptop computers because of the risk of their bursting into flame. There have been at least six incidents since December of laptops catching fire because of overheated batteries.The Consumer Product Safety Commission in the United States says it is the largest recall of electronic products in its history. Scott Wolfson, spokesperson for the CPSC, says the affected laptops should only be run off of a power cord and not the battery. Dell says that the computers are safe to use if the batteries are removed entirely. At risk are those Dell Latitude, Inspiron, XPS and Precision laptops shipped between April 2004 and July 2006."In rare cases, a short-circuit could cause the battery to overheat, causing a risk of smoke and or fire," said Dell spokesman Ira Williams. "It happens in rare cases but we opted to take this broad action immediately." Customers with concerns can call a special toll free number, 1-866-342-0011 or go to http://www.dellbatteryprogram.com to determine if their batteries are subject to the recall.An Intel spokesperson confirmed Thursday that Dell would no longer be offering servers with Intel Itanium CPUs.  The spokesperson said "Losing Dell as an Itanium customer is unfortunate but frankly, we see their impact as negligible."  Servers with Itanium CPUs are no longer promoted on Dell's website, though a few can be found by searching.Dell is the largest seller of computers with Intel processors. Dell currently sells 10.5 percent of all servers worldwide. The majority of Dell servers use an IA-32 (colloquially "x86") chip, but a growing number use the 64-bit Intel Xeon. Sales of Itanium servers have been very poor; last year Dell sold only 1,371 Itanium servers, up from 12 the previous year. In February, IBM also phased out Itanium-based servers, replacing them with IBM Power CPUs. Fujitsu, HP, Hitachi NEC, SGI and Unisys are the only major manufacturers to still offer Itanium-based servers.The Intel Itanium was designed in the early 1990s. It was intended to be the processor of choice for 64-bit computers, but the processor suffered from several major flaws preventing widespread adoption. Unlike competing AMD64 chips, the Intel Itanium uses a different instruction set from IA-32 chips. An emulation feature allows them to run IA-32 code, but only very slowly; users were forced to choose between accepting greatly-reduced performance and expending time and programmers' salaries porting their software.  Even Intel has acquiesced to AMD's leadership in this field, designing chips with a compatible EM64T technology.Dell Inc. (Dell) announced Tuesday that, due to public demand, they will be offering an alternative to Microsoft Windows on a selection of their desktop and laptop computers. Dell will partner with Canonical Ltd. to pre-install the recently released Ubuntu 7.04 distribution of the Linux operating system.Until recently, Linux distributions have not been adopted by mainstream computer makers due to concerns over ease-of-use. Newer distributions, such as Ubuntu 7.04, have become much more user-friendly, with features such as automatic updates and software installation.Ubuntu director of business development Chris Kenyon told the BBC that one of the reasons Ubuntu was selected was its support features and hardware compatibility. "Dell are going to work with us to make sure Ubuntu works fully on its hardware," said Kenyon. A Dell representative suggested that the Ubuntu distribution was chosen due to public demand as expressed on a Dell-run forum website, IdeaStorm. "It was overwhelming, the response we got to the survey," said Jeremy Bolen, a Dell spokesman. Tuesday's announcement was not the first for Dell's Linux offerings. They have offered servers and workstations with an optional enterprise version of Red Hat Linux for some time now. The chairman and CEO of Dell, Michael Dell, is reported to have Ubuntu installed on his own laptop. Perry Donham, an analyst with Aberdeen Group of Boston, suggested that the Dell-Ubuntu partnership will benefit Ubuntu more than it will Dell. "It's going to be a small part of [Dell's] market," said Donham. "But it's a great win for Ubuntu and for Linux in general."Dell indicated that the Ubuntu-based computers would be available in the next few weeks, from Dell USA only for the time being. The pricing structure has not been revealed, or when such computers would be available in countries other than the United States.PC manufacturer and Apple Computer competitor Dell, Inc. has stated that it is interested in shipping computers running Apple's Mac OS X.  Michael Dell, founder and chairman of Dell Computers, made the comments while talking to David Kirkpatrick of Fortune magazine."If Apple decides to open the Mac OS to others, we would be happy to offer it to our customers," Dell wrote in an email to Kirkpatrick.  Apple recently announced that it would begin using Intel x86 microprocessors in its computers next year, but has continued to deny reports that they will allow their OS to be run on non-Apple hardware.The C programming language creator and co-developer of the Unix operating system Dennis Ritchie died at home on October 8 after an extended illness, at the age of 70. Former colleague Rob Pike first publicly announced the death, which Alcatel-Lucent then confirmed.Ritchie, born in Bronxville, New York on September 9, 1941, joined Bell Labs in 1967.  There, with Ken Thompson, he helped develop Unix, an operating system on which are based many modern systems such as Linux and Mac OS X. Unix provided the infrastructure that led the creation of the Internet. Between 1969 and 1973 he developed the C, one of the most used programming languages, that influenced many languages like C++, Java, and PHP. After Unix was rewritten, C was key to its portability. In 2007 he retired from his post as Bell Labs' head of systems software research.Ritchie and Thompson were awarded the Turing Award in 1983, the IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal in 1990, the National Medal of Technology and Innovation in 1998, and the Japan Prize in 2011.On Monday, digital security researchers Mathy Vanhoef and Frank Piessens of Belgium's KU Leuven university publicly disclosed a security vulnerability in the WPA2 Wi-Fi (wireless local-area networking) protocol, which they called KRACK (for Key Reinstallation Attack). Their study claimed KRACK affects every modern device using Wi-Fi; it can be fixed by a software update, researchers said.Vanhoef wrote, "Attackers can use this novel attack technique to read information that was previously assumed to be safely encrypted. This can be abused to steal sensitive information such as credit card numbers, passwords, chat messages, emails, photos and so on." Vanhoef notified vendors about the flaw in July, including UNIX-like operating system OpenBSD. "If your device supports Wi-Fi, it is most likely affected. [...] In general, any data or information that the victim transmits can be decrypted", he wrote.The study papers, which were submitted for review on May 19, were kept in confidence allowing companies to fix the security flaw. The United States-based Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT) informed vendors on August 28. The Wi-Fi Alliance said it "could be resolved through a straightforward software update." OpenBSD released their software patch on August 30.Exploring the flaw which affected every device the researchers had tested, National Cyber Security Centre of the UK said "the attacker would have to be physically close to the target". But due to this flaw, an attacker can send malware or ransomware on the websites, Vanhoef claimed. Linux-based operating systems including Android v6.0 and higher are especially affected by this flaw, while Windows and iOS are not as vulnerable as Android by this flaw as they do not fully implement WPA2.Microsoft reportedly has released security patches for Windows 7, 8, 8.1 and 10. Google said Android operating systems would receive the updates in the software update scheduled to be made available on November 6. Apple has implemented the patch in the beta versions of their operating system iOS, macOS, tvOS and watchOS, however it is yet to roll out patches for stable operating systems.WPA2 protocol has been used for more than a decade, and has been compulsory for Wi-Fi since 2006. KRACK would also affect various home appliances which can be controlled over Wi-Fi, within the so-called "Internet of things". Andrew Martin from Oxford University said, "We can be sure a lot of these devices won’t be patched[...] Whether that matters for this attack or only for some future attack is yet to be seen."The study and its findings are scheduled for presentation at the ACM (Association for Computing Machinery) Computer and Communications Security conference on November 1.The Walt Disney Company has finalized a US$7.4 billion deal to acquire its long-time partner Pixar in an all stock buy-out. The deal will make Steve Jobs, current Pixar and Apple CEO, Disney's largest shareholder with about 7% (valued at over $3.5 billion) and a member of the board of directors. The merger was speculated all day Tuesday on the stock market and the announcement came just after trading closed for the day. Terms of the merger include Pixar's John Lasseter becoming Disney's new chief creative officer in charge of animation at the combined Disney-Pixar Animation Studios, as well as principal creative advisor at Walt Disney Imagineering, the unit of the company responsible for research and development of Disney theme parks worldwide.Jobs purchased what became Pixar for $10 million in 1986 from George Lucas's computer animation division at Lucasfilm. Toy Story, its first feature film, came a decade later, and began a long string of animation hits, including Finding Nemo. Such successes proved to be increasingly elusive for Disney to manage on its own. The partnership between the two studios had become shaky in recent years, as former Disney head Michael Eisner clashed with Jobs over the renewal terms of their agreement. In 2003, prior to his dismissal from Disney, Eisner infuriated Pixar's creative team by predicting Finding Nemo would be a failure. Steve Jobs broke off negotiations in January 2004, having told one executive previously, "I don't see how the relationship can continue as long as Eisner is there."Results published in the science journal Nature suggest previous Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) predictions will need to be revised upwards.Climateprediction.net has released it's first results, indicating that global temperatures could rise by up to 11° C, even if global carbon dioxide levels are limited to twice those found before the Industrial Revolution; levels that high are expected to be reached in the middle of this century.The results indicate that carbon dioxide emissions will have an even bigger affect on the global climate than previously thought.The Climateprediction.net is a distributed computing project. More than 95,000 people around the world have downloaded the software which runs calculations when the user's computer is idle, releasing computer power greater than that of even the largest supercomputers.The project is a collaboration between several UK universities and the Met Office, funded by the British Natural Environment Research Council and the Department of Trade and Industry. In the summer of 2004 the project joined forces with the SETI program, with University of California computer scientists developing a version of the SETI software to run climate change models.On December 15, 2005, a computing effort of the Central Missouri State University (CMSU), led by Curtis Cooper and Steven Boone, as part of the distributed computing project known as the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search (GIMPS), discovered the largest known prime number, divisible only by the number 1 and itself: 230,402,457-1. The discovery, which marks the 43rd known Mersenne prime and the 9th discovered by GIMPS, was made by running a free downloadable program called Prime95. The CMSU team is currently the highest-ranked contributor to GIMPS with over 700 computers running Prime95.NASA is awaiting the arrival of very precious cargo from space.The Stardust Spacecraft is scheduled to land at around 5:12am (eastern time) on Sunday January 15, 2006. Onboard are dust particles that have been collected from the comet Wild 2. When the capsule gets to Earth and enters the atmosphere, at about 5am (eastern time), it is expected to put on quite a light show for folks in Northern California, Oregon, Nevada, and Utah. The capsule will look much like a shooting star going across the sky. The capsule will be traveling at about 12.8 km or 8 miles per second, fast enough to go from San Francisco to Los Angeles in one minute. Stardust will set a new all-time record for being the fastest spacecraft to return to Earth, breaking the previous record set in May of 1969 during the return of the Apollo X command module. “It will move over the west coast of northern California and will light the sky from California through central Oregon and on through Nevada and Idaho and into Utah,” Tom Duxbury, Stardust's project manager said.The capsule will then release a parachute approximately 32 km (105,000 feet) and descend into the Salt Flats of Utah. If weather is permitting, it will be recovered by helicopter teams and taken to a cleanroom at the Michael Army Air Field, Dugway Proving Ground, for initial processing.The capsule itself, only weighs 45.7 kilograms (101 pounds) and resembles a mini Apollo capsule.Not only will it break the record for the fastest spacecraft to return to earth, Stardust Principal Investigator Don Brownlee of the University of Washington, Seattle, says “We are nearing the end of quite a fantastic voyage – our spacecraft has traveled further than anything from Earth ever has – and come back. He also added that “We went half-way to Jupiter to meet the comet and collect samples from it. But the comet actually came in from the outer edge of the solar system, out beyond the orbit of Neptune, out by Pluto."If the capsule makes it safely back to earth, scientists hope to unlock many secrets about the formation of our universe. "Locked within the cometary particles is unique chemical and physical information that could be the record of the formation of the planets and the materials from which they were made," said Dr. Don Brownlee, Stardust principal investigator at the University of Washington, Seattle."Comets are some of the most informative occupants of the solar system. The more we can learn from science exploration missions like Stardust, the more we can prepare for human exploration to the moon, Mars and beyond," said Dr. Mary Cleave, associate administrator for NASA's Science Mission Directorate.Stardust is bringing back the first samples of contemporary interstellar dust ever collected, and is also the first mission to return samples from a comet, as well as the first sample return mission from the Galaxy. Not one grain of contemporary interstellar dust grain has ever been examined in a laboratory before."We think a significant fraction of comets will be stardust particles actually older than Earth and older than the Sun, and for drama the stars, and the way you identify those is by their isotopic ratios," Stardust Principal Investigator Don Brownlee said. "There are fabulous tools now to analyze these and a very anxious group of scientists waiting for these samples."Stardust's main mission was to capture dust particles from comet Wild 2, but it is also believed to have captured dust from distant stars, perhaps created in supernova explosions less than 10 million years ago.The dust can only be found using using a high-magnification microscope with a field of view smaller than a grain of salt. But now they have the difficult task of trying to find all these millions of particles, which takes more time and man power that NASA has. That's where NASA decided to try Distributed Computing.Distributed computing has been a huge success. Most of the credit of the success of distributed computing, can be given to the scientists at the University of California, Berkeley. Scientists there have had and continue to have huge success with a program they created called SETI@home, which now uses the distributing platform BOINC.With the success of BOINC and other distributed computing platforms, NASA hopes to achieve its goal in half the time with the public's help by creating the project Stardust@home"Like SETI@home, which is the world's largest computer, we hope Stardust@home will also be a large computer, though more of a neural network, using brains together to find these grains," said Bryan Mendez of the Center for Science Education at the Space Sciences Laboratory. But, the project is not for everyone. First, you will go through a web-based training session and then you must pass a test to qualify to register and participate. In the test, the volunteer is asked to find the track in a few test samples. To judge the reliability of the user, they also plan to throw in some ringers with and without tracks. If at least two of the four volunteers viewing each image report a track, that image will be fed to 100 more volunteers for verification. If at least 20 of these report a track, UC Berkeley undergraduates who are expert at spotting dust grain tracks will confirm the identification.After passing the test and registering, you will be able to download a virtual microscope (VM). The VM will automatically connect to their server and download so-called "focus movies" -- stacks of images that we will collect from the Stardust Interstellar Dust Collector using an automated microscope at the Cosmic Dust Lab at Johnson Space Center. The VM will work on your computer, under your control. You will search each field for interstellar dust impacts by focusing up and down with a focus control.The other neat thing is that there are no limitations and the more images you examine, the better chance you have at finding an interstellar dust grain.Any interstellar dust particles that you find, then you will appear as a co-author on any scientific paper by the Stardust@home collaboration announcing the discovery of the particle.Currently the project is only accepting pre-registration and will be available to the public in mid-March, even before all the scans have been completed in a cleanroom at Houston's Johnson Space Center. In all the project is expected to need at least 30,000 person hours, to go through all the images, at least 4 times by 4 different participants.Berkeley will host and maintain the project, but it is unlcear as to whether or not the project will use the BOINC platform.The virtual microscope was developed by computer scientist David Anderson, director of the SETI@home project, along with physics graduate student Joshua Von Korff.The Stardust spacecraft was launched on February 7, 1999, from Cape Canaveral Air Station, Florida, aboard a Delta II rocket. The Stardust project is expected to cost $170-million-dollars with a journey that will have lasted over 7 years and actually went around the Sun three times, and "back in time to 4.5 billion years in time to gather these primitive samples that just were released from a comet’s nucleus," Duxbury later added.On Friday, a network of diverse Internet-connected devices targeted the Dyn domain registration service provider. It took down Dyn clients, including several popular websites such as Twitter, Netflix, Spotify, Reddit, New York Times, and Wired.The attack involved targeting Dyn's domain name system servers with a large volume of requests, rendering it incapable of serving replies to legitimate requests — a DDoS (distributed denial of service) attack. Users' browsers and other clients sent requests to Dyn to resolve the respective web sites' domain names to an IP, but did not get a reply within the time required.The first attack started at about 7am local time (UTC-4) and was resolved in two hours. A second attack started at mid-day, and a third attack started at about 4pm local time. Tens of millions of malicious request sources were observed, interfering with legitimate Dyn traffic.The reports noted the malicious devices included internet-connected devices — not only servers and desktops, but also webcams, digital video recorders, routers — referred to as the Internet of Things.On Friday evening Dyn said a security company Flashpoint and a cloud services provider Akamai identified symptoms of malware Mirai participating in the attacks. The malware infects the devices by brute forcing their passwords. This strategy may work as a consequence of users' negligence towards password security of stationary devices, which the users do not directly interact with in their everyday life while leaving them exposed to the Internet.Matthew Prince, the CEO of an Internet infrastructure company Cloudflare said it's a known issue, "There's nothing really new about [this type of DDoS attack]. We've seen them for at least the last three years, they tend to be difficult to stop".Public release of Mirai source code was announced at Hackforums on September 30.Dyn's corporate headquarters are in New Hampshire.A spokesperson for the Justice Department in the Netherlands has confirmed to the Dutch magazine Intermediair that it will temporarily suspend access to Wikipedia for its 30,000 employees, following recently revealed vandalism by staff members.The magazine has confronted the department with some untasteful edits to the Dutch Wikipedia which originated from their IP addresses. Anonymous users are registered through these unique internet fingerprints when they edit Wikipedia. The magazine exposed the vandalism through Wikiscanner.nl, a website which combines a database of Wikipedia alterations with a server database from large institutions. The site can be used to reveal which organisations are behind anonymous Wikipedia editors.One of the edits involved the article on the murder of controversial filmmaker Theo van Gogh by a muslim extremist, which shocked the Netherlands and led to an intense debate about integration and the safety of public figures. In 2005, the vandal added to the article that Mr. van Gogh was riding his bicycle through a street in Amsterdam "with his penis hanging out of his pants" when he was shot.Another incident involved the Dutch article on prominent politician Lousewies van der Laan, where an anonymous editor added that her nickname was "casual shag".The magazine revealed that while a limited number of edits were on legal topics, there were also edits to articles on Jesus Christ, pop stars, witchcraft, Donald Duck and masturbation. On the talk page of one of the anonymous users is a list of some 50 articles where vandalism occurred. Most vandalism was reverted quickly by other editors.Elly Waterman, chair of Wikimedia Netherlands, pointed out to the magazine that not only civil servants, but also court personnel could have been behind these modifications.Because of legal limitations on the time internet activity can be stored, it will probably not be possible to find out who exactly committed the vandalism, the spokesperson added.Dvdrs.net, a usenet search engine targeted by the Motion Pictures Association of America (MPAA) in its recent anti-piracy campaign, has closed while the site is restructured. Part of the restructuring will be the deletion of its usenet index.In a statement posted on dvdrs.net just days before its disappearance, Descds, a site administrator, said, "The site will be closed for restructure. All reference to Usenet will be removed, the logo adapted (its a long time coming anyway) and NZB indexing sections dropped."Descds reports that he is unhappy about Dvdrs.net being seen as a piracy network, as it has been since news of the MPAA's actions. "Since the PR press release broke we have been seen as an organized pirate network and this is unacceptable. In the first day of the press release we had 100 new members sign up looking for pirated movies. This has continued everyday since and we will not allow DVDRS to be used this way. We have not, will not and never shall host illegal files here," he said."We also understand that DVDRS will always be seen, in light of recent press, as a site that dealt in illegal file sharing. We feel there is no way we can recover from this and thus will re-launch Talk DVD with some of DVDRS database and ideas." Descds also stated that he hoped the MPAA could see that he was happy to work with the MPAA to reach a resolution, maintaining that he had done nothing wrong and that the site was far more than a usenet indexing site. "Indexing Usenet is still a part of the site granted, but we are now far more than that with in depth articles on DVD-R/W, DVD+R/W, DVD+R DL, DVDRAM, BLU-RAY and HD DVD media, software and hardware technology. We also have a healthy movie, game and hardware review section as well as active news. Our forums are also more about technology than Usenet," Descds said in his statement.RFID chips, the major component of e-passports, emit radio signals that can be read at a short distance by an electronic reader. Lukas Grunwald and Christian Bottger realised that they could clone an identical and undetectable e-passport. They downloaded the data from their own passport using an RFID reader (available from eBay) and then onto a blank chip thanks to a software they have developed, called RFdump. Doing so, they were able to clone an e-passport in less than five minutes. Ironically, a spokesman from the UK Home Office said: A European Union funded network of IT security experts has come out against the e-passport scheme. The experts said that it is not too late to roll back and rethink the ePassport.Wikinews previously reported that Turkey, where there seems to be no discussion about the controversies surrounding RFID chips, is switching to e-passports towards the middle of next year.On the back of new restrictions being imposed on eBay users in the United Kingdom requiring that sellers offer PayPal payments for all sales, eBay Australia is mandating that only PayPal payments will be acceptable as of June 17.  PayPal is a wholly-owned subsidiary of eBay, and charges a 30¢ transaction fee, plus a commission between 1.1% for high volume traders, and 2.4% for low value or low volume traders.  These higher costs will be passed onto buyers.Cash payment on pick up will be the only other payment option, and it may only be offered in conjunction with PayPal.eBay has brought in this restriction under the guise of improving customer protection, bolstering its  "Paypal Buyer Protection" insurance programme to allow claims up to A$20,000 instead of the previous maximum of $3,000, however as of June 17 many of the items which would exceed $3,000 are no longer covered by the programme, such as services, vehicles, real estate and businesses.eBay Trust and Safety director Alastair MacGibbon said this change was not in response to the once-off fund established in March to refund eBay buyers who lost their non-existent holiday accommodation packages from the Melbourne eBay seller Robert Kobis.  Mr MacGibbon said "It is part of a much larger initiative".In addition to these measures, Paypal will be withholding funds from some sellers for 21 daysThe Australian Competition and Consumer Commission has held discussion with eBay, but declined to comment.  The Australian Consumers Association spokesman Christopher Zinn said the unique use of PayPal could give rise to competition issues, however if the costs charged stayed as they were, they had no further concerns.eBay's PayPal and cash on delivery policy was blocked on Friday by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) after it released a draft ruling citing that it was an "anti-competitive effect" and calling on eBay to postpone its policy which is due to take effect next week.ACCC's final ruling is still pending however it is unusual for the ACCC to reverse draft rulings once issued.In a statement eBay said that it was "disappointed" by the ruling and that "eBay believes the consumer benefits of this initiative are worth fighting for on behalf of its buyers which will ultimately benefit sellers."eBay and VeriSign announced an agreement late Monday for eBay to acquire VeriSign’s debit and credit card processing division. This division would become a part of eBay’s PayPal.eBay will pay VeriSign $370 million in cash and stock for this division. Starting in the coming year eBay will begin using two-factor authentication from VeriSign.  Two-factor authentication is a type of transaction protection that gives users digital certificates or one-time passwords helping to protect against identity theft."This acquisition allows PayPal to give our customers more choice in payment services and grow our merchant services business even more quickly," said president of PayPal Jeff Jordan."In working with PayPal and eBay, we are going to be offering them our security technology, allowing them to offer their users stronger forms of authentication," said VeriSign CEO Stratton Sclavos.Last year VeriSign's gateway business processed $40 billion in transactions. It is expected to generate an additional $100-million revenue for eBay in 2006. It is also expected to increase the customer base by 100,000. The acquisition is expected to close this quarter.Online US-based auction company eBay is in talks to acquire Voice-over-IP (VoIP) provider Skype for US$5 billion. Many believe that eBay intends to enter the rapidly expanding VoIP market and give recent entrants, Google and Microsoft, a run for their money.The speculation that eBay may buy the small Luxembourg-based company sent their shares down four percent on Wall Street.Last month, Rupert Murdoch, CEO of News Corporation, was in talks with Skype to possibly buy the company. The talks ended when Skype said the company was not for sale.VoIP is becoming an increasingly significant threat to traditional telephone companies, since most calls between computers are free and some users wonder why a separate land line is still needed.Skype was founded by the creators of the P2P file-sharing program KaZaA.Online US-based auction company eBay, the world's largest online marketplace, agreed to buy Voice-over-IP (VoIP) firm Skype, the company providing the most popular internet telephony service, for $2.6 billion USD in cash, stock, and rewards, and may pay a further $1.5 billion if the company's financial targets are met in 2007 and 2008.Skype technology is to be introduced on eBay's website, allowing sellers to receive calls or leads from the sites users, for a fee.It is the biggest acquisition in eBay's history. The company hopes to diversify its profit sources and gain popularity in areas where Skype holds a strong position, such as China, Eastern Europe, and Brazil.EBay expects to cut 2006 earnings per share by $0.12 due to the acquisition.According to an announcement on Monday by United States-based on-line auction website eBay, the option to accept payments via PayPal service will be mandatory for United Kingdom sellers beginning in April 2008, with the exception of auctions relating directly to the sale of motor vehicles.The announcement claims that the move will help improve confidence as well as further reducing the limited amounts of fraud which occur on some types of transaction. Sellers with low feedback, or who list specific items, such as computer software are already required to accept payment via PayPal.Under the new policy, sellers will however still be able to accept payments via other services, provided they are on eBay's approved list. Google Checkout, a competitor to PayPal in the field of retail payment services, is notably absent from the list of accepted payment methods.An Egyptian blogger, Abdul Kareem Suleiman Amer, known online as Kareem Amer, was sentenced to four years in prison on Thursday for insulting Islam on his weblog.  Blogs had been considered a relatively safe means of expression for citizens of countries with restrictive Islamic laws. Mideast governments have harassed and arrested bloggers before, but Kareem is the first to receive jail time.Kareem had written about becoming a human rights lawyer and working for the betterment of Muslim and Arabic women; however, the Al-Azhar University expelled him in 2006 for criticizing the school's religious leaders.He had criticized various Muslim beliefs and suggested that there was no God. The court took special interest in his posting to Coptic blogs, i.e. those run by Egyptian Christians.His arrest last November inspired rallies in Washington, Rome, Paris, London, and Stockholm.Gamal Eid, the Executive Director of the Arabic Network for Human Rights Information, said that the most repressive regime for blogging had been Tunisia, followed by Saudi Arabia, Syria and Libya, which have blocked sites and limited internet access.  Expressing surprise at the severity of the sentence given Egypt's recent history, he said it was a "gloomy day for all the advocates of freedom of expression", not only in Egypt but also around the world.Reporters Without Borders, the Paris-based advocacy group for press freedom condemned the sentence. Pointing out that President Mubarak had promised in 2004 to end prison terms for press offenses, it called the sentence a "message of intimidation" to Egyptian bloggers who, it said, were emerging as an "effective bulwark" against what it called the regime’s authoritarian excesses.An Egyptian man in his early twenties has named his newborn daughter 'Facebook' following the 2011 Egyptian Revolution which was almost solely organized on the social-networking site Facebook.  The father, Gamal Ibrahim, told the Egyptian newspaper Al-Ahram that he gave his child the name to "express his joy at the achievements made by the January 25 youth." The protests, which were largely organized on social media sites such as Twitter and Facebook, began on January 25 and led to the end of Hosni Mubarak's 30-year reign as president of Egypt.  The Al-Ahram report stated that, "The girl’s family, friends, and neighbors in the Ibrahimya region gathered around the new born to express their continuing support for the revolution that started on Facebook.  'Facebook' received many gifts from the youth who were overjoyed by her arrival and the new name. A name that shocked the entire world."The Egyptian spelling of 'Facebook' is فيس بوك.Ahmed Shafik, Egypt's acting prime minister, has resigned, the Supreme Council of the Armed Forces, now in control of the country, announced yesterday.Shafik was appointed to his position by then Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak during the 2011 Egypt anti-government protests, not long before Mubarak decided to resign as president on February 11, 2011. Meanwhile, a number of his cabinet ministers have retained their positions. Shafik had received criticism for his negative attitude towards young protesters and his "inadequate vision", according to the Los Angeles Times.In response to the announcement of Shafik's resignation, Wael Ghonim, a Google executive, credited with organizing the first demonstration and a former political prisoner, wrote on Twitter, a micro-blogging website, "Power to the people!" During the Egyptian protests, one of the key demands of the protesters was that Shafik step down  from his acting minister status. Mohamed ElBaradei, another pro-democracy activist and co-recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize, tweeted on Twitter that Egypt is "on the right track." The statement released by the Council also announced Essam Sharaf as the new prime minister. "The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces decided to accept the resignation of Prime Minister Ahmed Shafiq and appointed Essam Sharaf to form the new government," the armed forces  said on social networking website Facebook.Sharaf formerly held the position as the Minister of Transportation. The Los Angeles Times reports that he departed from that position five years ago, during the aftermath of numerous train collisions in which the Egyptian government was accused of carelessness.Former Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak was considered persona non grata by Egypt on Monday, as was his family. According to BBC News Online, Mubarak is not in the good health and has yet  been  seen or heard from in public  since his resignation.Despite having achieved one of their aims, protesters intend to continue demonstrating with mass rallies on Friday because all their demands have yet to be met. The removal of a current emergency law is amongst those demands. The law allows the Egyptian government to place people under arrest without charges brought against them. In a statement, the January 25 Youth Coalition said that they "still demand a specific time frame to achieve the rest of the revolution's basic demands." The protesters also continue to request the removal of ministers with ties to the old regime.The California-based non-profit organization Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) filed a brief on Wednesday claiming that AT&T has been illegally forwarding Internet traffic directly to the National Security Agency.The EFF has asked that the forwarding be stopped immediately. According to EFF staff attorney Kevin Bankston, "The evidence that we are filing supports our claim that AT&T is diverting Internet traffic into the hands of the NSA wholesale, in violation of federal wiretapping laws and the Fourth Amendment. More than just threatening individuals' privacy, AT&T's apparent choice to give the government secret, direct access to millions of ordinary Americans' Internet communications is a threat to the Constitution itself. We are asking the Court to put a stop to it now."The motion was filed under seal allowing only the judge and litigants to view the complaint. The procedure allows AT&T five days to explain to the court their reasons for keeping the information from the public.In the class action lawsuit, EFF is representing all AT&T residential customers nationwide.The California-based non-profit organization Electronic Frontier Foundation, as well as the Attorney General of Texas, has filed a law suit against Sony Computer Entertainment of America for their controversial use of anti-piracy software.The EFF claims that the digital rights management software on the CDs BMG Music (a subsidiary of Sony) produces acts as spyware, which the EFF claims is against Texas law. The program, known as XCP, is said to install software on one's system when they insert the CD into their computer for purposes such as adding to iTunes music software.Sony currently rejects the idea of XCP technology being considered as spyware, however they have agreed to replace CDs with the software and to temporarily discontinue the installation of it on their CDs.Among the controversy that Sony's moves to counter piracy have raised is the accusation that their software leaves a machine more vulnerable to attacks across the Internet.  A trojan horse has already been found in the wild that utilizes one of the anti-piracy software's functions.Encyclopædia Britannica (EB), the authoritative reference book first published in 1768, is planning to let readers edit its entries, Jorge Cauz, its president said Friday, as it battles to keep pace with online Internet encyclopedia projects like Wikipedia. Starting next week, readers, visitors and contributing experts to EB's free, online version, Britannica.com, will be allowed to submit proposed changes and contributions to Britannica editors, who will then review the edits and make the necessary alterations.  This move is meant to let readers help keep the reference work up-to-date by collaboration. In expanding and maintaining entries online, users whose editorial suggestions are accepted and published entirely or in part will be credited by name in the section of the article that lists contributors.The new website features will be available on the site within the next twenty-four hours. According to the Sydney Morning Herald, "Cauz is promising a 20-minute turnover on these edits, but that number could go up dramatically if the company cannot anticipate a large influx of edits at once." Britannica, however, explained that it would not allow a Wikipedia form of editing which allows a wide range of users to make contributions. EB's novel user choice will include enrollment of experts in a reward scheme and invitation of selected readers to contribute.  Several readers will also be allowed to use Britannica materials to contribute their own articles that will be featured on the site. "We are not abdicating our responsibility as publishers or burying it under the now-fashionable 'wisdom of the crowds'," wrote Jorge Cauz in his blog. "We believe that the creation and documentation of knowledge is a collaborative process but not a democratic one," Cauz noted, explaining further that "these experts would sit alongside the encyclopaedia entries and the official material would carry a 'Britannica Checked' stamp, to distinguish it from the user-generated content."Cauz also announced the unveiling by Britannica of a beta (trial) version of what will become the finished Britannica Online website, which will include a re-design and the addition of web-based tools for readers and users to upload their own reference materials. The new features that Britannica will roll out over the next six months also include an article rating system and a comprehensive list of contributors by subject area.Articles developed by Britannica's own editors also appear in the printed volumes, which are published every two years, though material created by what Cauz called their "community of scholars" will only appear online.“Wikipedia contributes to the spread of information and many people are happy with it as their only source of reference, as are many people happy to eat McDonald’s every day,” said Cauz, who discussed differences between Britannica and Wikipedia features of online editing.  “That’s the last thing we want to be. We are a different type of animal, catering to a different type of crowd,” he added.Cauz said the company will retain its staff of about 100 full-time editors and over 4,000 expert contributors. “I think the future is likely going to be that in every media segment there has to be a symbiotic relationship between editor and reader,” said Cauz, adding that each article will have a detailed history showing changes and who made them, as in Wikipedia. In 1933, Britannica became the first encyclopaedia to introduce a "continuous revision" policy, with continuous reprinting such that every article is updated on a regular schedule.Unlike Wikipedia, which allows anonymous edits through a user's IP address being logged, Britannica's new features strictly require contributors or users to register, revealing their real names and addresses, prior to modifying or creating their own articles. Contributions from non-academic users will sit in a separate section.A new or changed feature called “Suggest Edit” button will allow readers of a particular article to suggest information clarification, post questions to contributors or add to the existing text, subject to Britannica editors' approval. "What we are trying to do is shifting … to a much more proactive role for the user and reader where the reader is not only going to learn from reading the article but by modifying the article and - importantly - by maybe creating his own content or her own content," wrote Cauz.Cauz faulted Google for setting Wikipedia higher in pagerank than Britannica. He explained that, in EB, new efforts to participate in online collaboration of encyclopedic content are deemed by recognizing experts as a requirement in order to achieve objectivity and high quality. During his tenure, officials from Britannica have become outspoken in their criticism of Wikipedia articles' contents. In July 2006, Cauz personally entered the fray in an interview in New Yorker Magazine, in which he stated that Wikipedia had "decline(d) into a hulking, mediocre mass of uneven, unreliable, and, many times, unreadable articles" and that "Wikipedia is to Britannica as American Idol is to the Juilliard School."The 241-year-old publication, Encyclopædia Britannica, is a general English-language encyclopaedia published by a privately held company, Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc., and is the oldest English-language encyclopaedia still in print. The Britannica articles are directed at educated adult readers. First published between 1768 and 1771 in Edinburgh, Scotland, it quickly grew in popularity and size, with its third edition in 1801 reaching over 21 volumes.Britannica's latest 15th edition has a unique three-part structure: a 12-volume Micropædia of short articles (generally having fewer than 750 words), a 17-volume Macropædia of long articles (having from two to 310 pages) and a single Propædia volume created to give a hierarchical outline of human knowledge. The Micropædia is devised for quick fact-checking and as a door to the Macropædia.At present, Britannica offers optical disc, online and mobile versions. The Britannica Ultimate Reference Suite 2006 DVD has over 55 million words and just over 100,000 articles, including 73,645 regular Britannica articles. The Encyclopædia Britannica Online website has more than 120,000 articles and is updated regularly. EB's virtual space was founded in 1994 and contains articles comprised of over 46 million words.In February 2007, Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. said that it was working with AskMeNow to launch a mobile encyclopedia, to enable users to send questions via text messages. Replies would then be forwarded by AskMenow based on Britannicas' articles. As Britannica is a business, the company needed to charge, and Web access to the archives cost $70 a year. In April 2008, "Britannica Webshare," a version of the online Encyclopaedia Britannica has been available for free, but only for Web publishers. The simple process requires signing up, giving a site URL, a description, and approval by the company. “This program is intended for people who publish with some regularity on the Internet, be they bloggers, webmasters, or writers. We reserve the right to deny participation to anyone who in our judgment doesn’t qualify,” said TechCrunch.In June 2008, Britannica announced an initiative to facilitate collaboration between online expert and amateur scholarly contributors for Britannica's on-line content (in the spirit of a wiki), with editorial oversight from Britannica staff. According to its statement titled "Britannica's New Site: More Participation, Collaboration from Experts and Readers," approved contributions would be credited, though contributing automatically grants Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. perpetual, irrevocable license to those contributions.PC World has, however, reported that it became clear how steep of a climb Britannica faces. "Wikipedia received a massive 97 percent share of the online encyclopedia market or visits U.S. Web surfers made to online encyclopedias last week," Web monitoring company Hitwise said Friday. "MSN Encarta was second with 1.27 percent of visits, followed by Encyclopedia.com (0.76 percent), Fact Monster (0.72 percent) and, in fifth place, Britannica.com (0.57 percent). Britannica.com's share of U.S. visits dropped 53 percent last month compared with December 2007," Hitwise added.While Britannica.com has 1.5 million visitors per day, Wikipedia attracts about six million, The Times reported. Hitwise also said that as of last week, Wikipedia ranked the 13th-most-visited site on the Web overall, while Britannica.com was 2,349th. The essential difference is Wikipedia does not charge any fee, while Britannica.com requires a paid subscription for access of some contents. Britannica, however, is issuing a "Encyclopaedia Britannica 2009 Ultimate Edition" - the £40 2009 DVD edition of its famous print encyclopaedia."One of the big questions still on the table is whether Britannica will open its content or maintain its premium membership paid wall. In order to compete with Wikipedia in the Google [search results], Britannica needs to build up inbound links. If content is locked up behind the paid content walls, people will be much more likely to link to other websites with free content -- such as that available on Wikipedia," Hitwise analyst Heather Hopkins noted.Wikipedia, a not-for-profit collaborative online encyclopedia, in its Wikipedia Foundation's recent drive for public donations, had aimed to raise $US6 million over the course of six months. On January 1, "it had met the target, from more than 125,000 donors," said Wikipedia head honcho and co-founder Jimmy Wales. He has invoked Wikipedia's "free-culture movement", and its mission "to bring free knowledge to the planet, free of charge and free of advertising"."Wikipedia is the new frontier of human knowledge," wrote Anonymous, donating $US100. American Patrick Culligan left another comment, saying, "Accurate information is what enables society to act in the appropriate way in which we can change the world. History cannot be left for the winners to write." Another said: "Wikipedia is one of those 'big ideas' which will change our world for the better."After Encyclopedia Britannica's announcement that it is introducing a more open editing system, web 2.0 giant Wikipedia has considered attempts to move away from its free and open editing system. Academics, scholars and others have long criticized the writing principles fostered by Wikipedia amid vandals having often changed Wikipedia entries resulting to erroneous reports. Now, for the first time, the online encyclopedia has considered restricting the edits that users can make. The system known internally as "Flagged Revisions," has been sparked off by inaccurate changes after a Wikipedia user "Gfdjklsdgiojksdkf" and an anonymous editor respectively edited articles to say that both U.S. Senators Ted Kennedy and Robert Carlyle Byrd had died. The errors were caught and duly corrected after about five minutes, but they were up long enough for the Washington Post, among other media outlets, to notice.In just the latest incidents in a long and rich history of vandalism since its 2001 launch, Vernon Kay and Apple's CEO Steve Jobs, among others, have also been falsely reported as dead on Wikipedia. Wiki means "fast" in Hawaiian and it certainly is, even amid subtle vandalism, since anyone can amend its 2.7m entries. Wikipedia has long struggled with such prankery, and has ever since worked closely with its community to overcome it without adopting harsh protections. As Wikipedia itself acknowledges, "Allowing anyone to edit Wikipedia means that it is more easily vandalized or susceptible to unchecked information, which requires removal." In the proposed process, only registered or reliable users could have their material or edits immediately appear to the general public visiting Wikipedia. Other contributors' edits or changes will first be reviewed, signed off, or “flagged” by reliable users. “This nonsense would have been 100 percent prevented by Flagged Revisions,” said Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales under the header “Why I Am Asking Flagged Revisions Be Turned On Now,” on his user page. “[Instances of misinformation] could [...] have been prevented by protection or semi-protection, but [..] [many are] breaking news [stories] and we want people to be able to participate (so protection is out) and even to participate in good faith for the first time ever (so semi-protection is out)," explained Wales who calls for monitoring to prevent false entries.   Wales said that a poll revealed 60 percent of Wikipedians favored the new proposal and that it would be a “time limited test.” He noted that the delay should be less than the German Wikipedia allowed: “less than 1 week, hopefully a lot less, because we will only be using it on a subset of articles, the boundaries of which can be adjusted over time to manage the backlog.”Wales issued a statement requesting implementation of the extension: “To the Wikimedia Foundation: per the poll of the English Wikipedia community and upon my personal recommendation, please turn on the flagged revisions feature as approved in the poll.” But the community response was further debate. As of February 2, his request hasn't been implemented.Apparently the Wikipedia German edition has been using a form of the Flagged Revisions system since May as a test case. It has, however, led to a delay of up to three weeks in getting some new articles and edits published, for critics have said that the system is very labor intensive and comments can take weeks to appear. Wales, however, pointed out that the system he was proposing was only for biographies of living people. Wikipedia has provided comprehensive and up-to-minute entries on the Virginia Tech massacre in April 2007 and the Mumbai terrorist attacks this past November as the events were still taking place.While some participants in the debate have argued that the rule change is unnecessary, some have described it in terms of an ethical imperative. As one administrator wrote: "In the vast majority of cases, a Wikipedia article on an individual will be the very highest-ranking search engine result when a search is conducted on the name of that person. This affects the lives of the people we write about on a daily basis. To suggest that Wikipedia does not have profound obligations to do its best to keep these articles free of defamatory, gossipy and privacy-invading material is to suggest that we are without obligation to consider the real-world impacts of our actions and the work we are doing." Others have argued that practical considerations should prevent a change that could result in a large backlog of unreviewed edits. "Flagged revisions will suffocate under its own weight," claimed administrator DragonflySixtyseven. Still other Wikipedian editors further argue that the current system works just fine.Some consider the split could ultimately threaten the future of the dominant online encyclopedia. "The big issue is that while we have majority support, we don't have consensus, and that's the way we have always made our decisions," Jake Wartenberg user and member of RC patrol chimed in. "A lot of editors are becoming disenchanted with the project; we are losing them all the time," he added. By way of reply, amidst the embarrassing debacle, Mr. Wales has reached out to help and offered a compromise, inviting the opposition to submit alternative suggestions until the 29th of January.“Implementing this functionality is really a volunteer community decision. We know the discussion about flagged revs is still taking place on English Wikipedia, but at this stage, it appears the majority of the community are behind this decision. As that discussion unfolds, we’ll have a better sense of the timing,” Jay Walsh, a spokesman for the Wikimedia Foundation, in a rejoinder, wrote in his e-mail message, explaining the status of the proposed restriction."Now seems an excellent time for Wikipedia to pause and take stock. It has proved the surprising wisdom of crowds as well as their utter idiocy. Its challenge now is to harness the enthusiasm of those volunteers while becoming a more reliable, better written source. And at some point, surely, its founders might want to turn it into a commercial venture. As Samuel Johnson almost said: "No one but a blockhead ever edited, excepted for money," said Iain Hollingshead, a British freelance journalist and novelist."The suggestion of increased moderation on Wikipedia would divide the community. The site has built its reputation on being 'the encyclopedia that anyone can edit'. It's less radical to be 'the encyclopedia that anyone can edit as long as their edits are approved by a trusted Wikipedian' but that's what co-founder Jimmy Wales has suggested. Wikipedia's openness is its strength," said Shane Richmond of The Daily Telegraph, asking, "is it most valuable feature its openness or its accuracy?"Wales' position is that "I consider our BLP issue to be so important that I think it is actually unethical to not use a tool which holds great promise for helping with the problem, now that it has been successfully tested elsewhere. Anyone who would like to see this tool not go into practice needs to start by convincing people that either (a) it is OK for the BLP vandalism problem to continue or (b) there is a better way to solve it."At an information technology conference in Addis Ababa, Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia vowed to offer universal Internet connectivity in the country within three years. The government is working with a United States technology company Cisco Systems to fulfill this promise.The government will invest US$40 million in the venture, which will lay nearly 10,000 km of fibre optic cable.  Ethiopia currently ranks low in Internet penetration, with just 30,000 connections available for its 71 million inhabitants. Part of the program is the installation of Internet access at 450 secondary schools throughout the country.Zenawi explained the change of heart that led to the decision to invest in this infrastructure project. "Not long ago many of us felt that we were too poor to seriously invest in information and communication technology," he said at the conference. "We were convinced that we should invest every penny we have on securing the next meal for our people. We did not believe serious investment in ICT had anything to do with facing the challenges of poverty that kills. Now I think we know better," he explained to the delegates.Not everyone thinks that the government knows better. Giovani Peri, Assistant Professor of Economics at University of California, Davis, specializes in macroeconomics and growth theory. Peri believes that the Ethiopian government may be misguided in its direct investment in the build-up of information technology, and should instead create incentives for the private sector to build such infrastructure.Professor Peri likened the Internet access project to previous failed attempts by African governments to stimulate growth via large-scale projects. "[African governments] in the past tried to build airports ... in the middle of desolation." — but people need to know that the environment is right for business, he said, not just a good airport. He said that the investment in Internet access might be too early for that country, and that before it is built, the country needs a good educational system to get the scientific community involved in the process of building technology infrastructure.Ethiopia's population is mostly rural, and over half of the population is illiterate. The country's GDP per capita is US$560.The European Union (EU) competitions commission has announced its decision to fine the Microsoft Corporation €899 million (US$1.35 billion), approximately 1/10th of the company's gross yearly earnings, for failing to comply with the 2004 antitrust order. It is the highest ever fine charged by the EU (also being the largest fine of its kind ever imposed upon a company), and the first time that the EU has fined a company because of non-compliance with an antitrust decision.The first decision in this antitrust case was given in 2004 citing that Microsoft withheld needed interoperability information from rival software companies which prevented them from making software compatible with Windows. The commission ordered Microsoft to provide this information. Microsoft agreed to this, providing the information for royalty fees of 6.5% of the licensee's revenues for the product on grounds of innovation (specifically, 3.87% for the patent license  and of 2.98% for the information license). The EU found these royalty fees unreasonable and Microsoft was ordered to lower them. Microsoft complied with this, adjusting the royalty rates to 1.2% (changing the rates for the licenses to 0.7% and 0.5%, respectively) in the European Union, while keeping the rate the same for the rest of the world. The EU still saw this as an unreasonable rate, and Microsoft, two month after lowering the rates, reduced the rates yet again to a flat rate of €10000 or a royalty of 0.4% applicable worldwide. Microsoft's royalty rates, which were deemed unreasonable for the period of 15 months between June 21, 2006 and October 21, 2007 are the cause for the fine. So far, the EU has fined Microsoft €1.68 billion in 3 separate fines in this case. This fine will go towards the European Union annual budget.The European Anti-trust commissioner Neelie Kroes stated that the fine was "reasonable and proportionate", as the figure could have gone up as high as €1.5 billion, the maximum that the EU commission can impose. She also said that it should act as "a signal to the outside world, and especially Microsoft, that they should stick to the rules" and that "Talk is cheap. Flouting the rules is expensive". Although she also expressed hope that "today's decision closes a dark chapter in Microsoft's record of non-compliance with the Commission".There is no certainty whether Microsoft will appeal this decision, a Microsoft Spokesperson has stated that Microsoft will review this latest fine, citing that "The commission announced in October 2007 that Microsoft was in full compliance with the 2004 decision, so these fines are about the past issues that have been resolved." Microsoft`s General Counsel Brad Smith commented "It's clearly very important to us as a company that we comply with our obligations under European law. We'll study this decision carefully, and if there are additional steps that we need to take in order to comply with it, we will take them." Microsoft had appealed to fines by the EU before, but all the charges were defeated. If Microsoft does not appeal the decision, the company will have 3 month (starting February 27th) to pay the fine in full. The fine must be paid in Euros.Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer stated that the company had news that the fine was pending. "We knew it was pending," Ballmer told interviewers. "We didn't know it was this week, but we knew it was coming at some point." This may not be the end of Microsoft's troubles with the European Union yet, as the commission is currently investigating two other complaints about the company's anti-competition practices.The decisions came after Microsoft announced they were disclosing 30,000 pages of previously secret software code last Thursday (February 21st). The EU  competition commissioner's commented that this move "does not necessarily equal a change in business practice."Microsoft was set to launch three new products: Windows Server 2008, SQL Server 2008 and Visual Studio 2008 at its "Heroes Happen Here" event today. Microsoft shares slipped 12 cents to $28.26 on NASDAQ after news of the fine.An EU Commission-funded research studied costs and benefits of adopting open source software, such as Linux or OpenOffice.org instead of proprietary software such as Microsoft Windows or Microsoft Office. The study was conducted on six organizations from European nations. The study concluded that:In addition,The study also reported that they found "no particular delays or lost of time in the daily work due to the use of OpenOffice.org" (p. 283) instead of Microsoft Office. This is bad news for Microsoft, who is in a legal battle with European Union over its monopolist behaviors. It is also competing with a number of open source software distributors for the market. Microsoft recently released an update to its popular operating system Windows, as well as to its browser Internet Explorer and its office productivity suite Microsoft Office. These products are competing with distributors such as Red Hat, Firefox, and OpenOffice.org.On Thursday the European Commission threatened to fine Microsoft €2 Million per day if the corporation does not comply with a ruling made in March 2004, stating that Microsoft must provide interoperability with its protocols and other competing services. Microsoft has until January 25, 2006 to respond to the charges, and may also be fined for days after December 15, 2005 as well.The European Commission says Microsoft has failed to comply with an order to supply competitors with "interoperability information" for the protocols implemented in Windows Server operating systems. These include those used to "deliver fileand print services and group and user administration services, including the WindowsDomain Controller services, Active Directory services and Group Policy services" according to page 299 of the European Commission's decision. Microsoft argues that to do this breaches its intellectual property rights as it would be opening Windows Server up for cloning. It has previously appealed to the European Court of First Instance, a bid which failed and where Microsoft was given until December 15, 2005 to comply with the original decision. Microsoft has launched a second appeal attempt.The decision in March 2004 also forced Microsoft to provide a version of Windows XP without the eponymous Windows Media Player and to pay fines of €497 million (US$586 million).The European Union's executive body, the European Commission, has started investigating web search giant Google over anti-trust allegations by price comparison service Foundem and French legal services website ejustice.fr. At stake are allegations that Google's AdWords results are manipulated to prioritise certain advertisers.The complainants allege price comparison sites receive a lower 'quality score', thus being knocked out of fully automated, unpaid-for results; or, being required to pay more for advertising through the search giant's AdWords program. Google rejects Foundem's allegations, arguing the majority of content on price comparison sites is duplicated from other sites, asserting Foundem "duplicates 79% of its website content from other sites, thus adding no value." The company line is, "[w]e have consistently informed webmasters that our algorithms disadvantage duplicate sites".The European Commission has a history of carrying out anti-trust investigations involving technology companies. Microsoft was ordered to pay substantial penalties for 'bundling' Windows with their Media Player; and, within the EU, must distribute a version of Windows that does not have said bundled software. A similar battle was fought over the automatic inclusion of Internet Explorer with their operating systems.Google has previously been the subject of anti-trust allegations and investigations. United States authorities blocked Google from buying Yahoo!, citing concerns over a near-monopoly in search; Google's purchase of mobile advertising company AdMob was also subject to anti-trust scrutiny by the US prior to being allowed to go ahead.File:European-parliament-strasbourg.jpgThe European Parliament has rejected the directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions (software patent directive) sustained by lobbies of large software publicists such as the corporations Microsoft, Siemens, Nokia and Alcatel, grouped under the title of the European Information & Communications Technology Industry Association (EICTA, [1]). The directive involved the granting of software patents.648 MEPs out of 680 rejected the text, 18 voted for and 14 abstained.A rejection vote became the expected outcome when the European People's Party, initially in favour of the directive, decided to reject it.The European Greens, Socialist Group and European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party also voted for rejection of the directive for heterogeneous reason. Michel Rocard, author of a number of amendments to the original directive, said that the majority of the modifications were unlikely to be supported by the Commission and Council, with whom the Parliament would have had to enter a Conciliation procedure if it had voted for maintaining the directive in moditifed form. "Better have no text at all than a bad one", he added.Before the vote, Rocard pointed at the irritation of the Parliament towards the Commission: "There is collective anger throughout the Parliament because of the way the directive was handled by the Commission and the Council".During the debate on Tuesday, Commissioner Joaquín Almunia told MEPs: "Should you decide to reject the common position, the Commission will not submit a new proposal.".The rejection was welcomed by small and medium software companies, as well as by Free Software supporters. The Directive had been subject to an intense campaigning, within the Parliament, in the news media and on the Internet.  The supporters of the Council position appear to have spent several ten millions, hiring prestigious PR agencies with at least 30-40 lobbyists who roamed the halls of the Parliament every day for 3 months, and many full-page advertisements in EU newspapers such as European Voice, EU Reporter etc.  The opponents of software patentability (that is supporters of the position taken by the European Parliament in its 1st reading of 24 September 2003), coordinated under the roof of the Foundation for a Free Information Infrastructure (FFII), also had several lobbyists stationed in Brussels, conducted several conferences and demonstrations and published some newspaper advertisements, with a total budget of nearly 100,000 eur apart from countless unpaid working hours of a dedicated supporter base, consisting mainly of programmers and software entrepreneurs.The controversial European Union Directive on the Patentability of Computer Implemented Inventions, also called the "software patent directive" has been put to rest for 2004. The directive was expected to easily pass through the European Council's Fisheries Council on Tuesday, December 21, but was removed from the agenda at the request of Poland's Minister of Science and Computerisation, Wlodzimierz Marcinski. The directive's opponents, some of whom had conceded defeat on Tuesday before the vote was taken, will continue the debate informally until meetings resume in 2005. Software developers, who supported the European Parliament's proposal last year to definitively rule out software patents, welcomed the delay as a chance to reintroduce those provisions into the current draft.Florian Mueller, campaign manager of NoSoftwarePatents.com, which is supported by three IT companies (1&1, Red Hat, and MySQL AB), applauded Poland's move."The Polish government deserves greatest admiration for its courage!" said Mueller in a press release. "Now Europe has the opportunity to have a constructive debate on the severe shortcomings of the current Council text, under the new Luxembourgish EU presidency next year." Germany's representative also backed the delay, saying it would allow everyone to align the current proposal to changes proposed by the European Parliament last year. "We were well aware that [the current proposal] has room for improvement with an eye to the objective of arriving at a consensus position between the EU Council and the European Parliament," Germany's Federal Minister of Justice Brigitte Zypries said in a Tuesday statement. "We will continue to work constructively toward finding a solution that even better meets the needs of those concerned than the decision taken in May of this year."On May 18, 2004 EU Council reached a political agreement on a "Common Position" on the directive which ignored the European Parliament's vote from last year. The Council vote generated a lot of controversy. Later, the Dutch parliament failed to convince its EU representatives to reverse their vote. According to the new voting weights which took effect on November 1, the majority needed to formally adopt the Common Position (after translations were done) is questionable. The 20 countries that supported the Directive on May 18 fall short of the new qualified majority by 16 votes.Despite assurances from the European Commissioner for the Internal Market Charles McCreevy that the Council would adopt its controversial Common Position text covering Software Patents, members voted to restart the entire process with a new directive.MEP Michel Rocard noted several "inelegancies" by the Commission in his speech against the directive, such as not taking into account any of the Parliament's substantive amendments in its recommendation to the Council. He also took the Dutch and German governments to task for ignoring their respective parliaments. The Irish Presidency's sponsorship by Microsoft was also criticised, as were the attempted ratifications at fishery Council meetings.There was also confusion over the actual effects of the proposed directive with industry players confirming that the Council text allowed pure software patents, while the Commission claimed it would not."In the debate, broad agreement prevailed over the fact that the current proposal was counter-productive and far from a good basis for a decision," said Italian MEP Monica Frassoni.The computer-implemented inventions directive was voted down by members of European Parliament (MEP) in the legal affairs committee. 19 MEPs voted in favour of re-starting negotiations, 2 against with one abstention.On April 29 Microsoft Taiwan launched Visual Studio 2008 and Windows Server 2008 in Taipei. The event was also an occasion to celebrate the tenth anniversary of Microsoft Research Asia, with the president, Hsiao-wen Hung, who was praised by several media groups, IT executives, and academic units because of his background.On the same day of the product launch, Hung talked to Colley Huang (Founder and Chairman of DigiTimes) about "the past decade overview of IT industry" in an executive panel.Hung also invited several academic elites and executive panels like Ovid Tseng (Principal of University System of Taiwan), George Chen (Deputy Principal of National Taiwan University), Davis Tsai (General Manager of Microsoft Taiwan), and Hsi-peng Lu (Director of Student Affairs of National Taiwan University of Science and Technology). They reviewed the collaboration between academical units in an academical executive panel. Thereafter, Hung will sign an MoU with ITRI for the future academical collaborations.The Pre-show Press Conference of COMPUTEX Taipei 2008, Li Chang, Deputy Secretary General of Taipei Computer Association commented on Hung's background when Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen mentioned:Security firm F-Secure announced on Monday they have confirmed rootkit-like behavior within the software provided by electronics giant Sony in their MicroVault USB memory sticks.F-Secure had received a report that their DeepGuard software was highlighting an issue when the memory stick was connected.After closer analysis by F-Secure it was identified that the software was creating a hidden directory within the users computer that neither the user or anti-virus software could detect. They say that the issue is similar to the one in 2005 where Sony DRM software allowed malware to be hidden from users.Mcafee, another major security firm, said: "The apparent intent was to cloak sensitive files related to the fingerprint verification feature included on the USB drives.""As with the Sony BMG case we, of course, contacted Sony before we decided to go public with the case. However, this time we received no reply from them," said F-Secure in a blog post.Popular social networking website Facebook went down for unknown upgrades, possibly to circumvent multiple holes that were published in a white paper earlier. From roughly 1:00 to 4:15 pm ET, users reported the site was down.Blogs have speculated it may be simply a server upgrade, or it may be new features. One web development blogger has even raised the theory that the site was hacked, with the login box showing multiple random email addresses, through "<input>" coding. Another user replied to this posting, saying that they were even able to read the other, random user's inbox. Both a blogger who works at a computing company's office in Johannesburg, South Africa and a Norwegian news outlet reported similar troubles. Many blogs received comments from people with similar circumstances, worldwide.A white paper by Adrienne Felt, posted on July 27, 2007, explained step-by-step how to use an exploit to hijack a user's account. The white paper was then partially censored by the author, until the vulnerability has been fixed by Facebook. Regardless of whether the change was prompted by this paper, both the XSS hole and problem with forms described by the author were fixed during the upgrade.The site read "We're upgrading. We'll be back soon." with no further explanation.This is the first known global outage for the site.This comes as a rival site, ConnectU, has filed a lawsuit against Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg for allegedly stealing the idea and the code. The hearing is scheduled for tomorrow.Also on Wednesday, the Black Hat Briefings computer security conference begins. The conference unites people from "government agencies and global corporations with the underground's most respected hackers."Facebook hired a public relations firm to systematically discredit Google by paying two journalists to plant negative pieces in U.S. newspapers, leaked correspondence discloses. The new revelations are likely to increase tension between the two companies, which are already fierce rivals.The social network has confirmed the validity of the leaked emails, seen by Wikinews, which suggest executives at the social networking giant hired Burson-Marsteller, a high profile PR and communications firm, to discredit Social Circle, a rival website run by Google. Burson-Marsteller then recruited two journalists — Jim Goldman and John Mercurio — to push editors at The Washington Post and USA Today to publish editorials criticising Social Circle over its privacy settings. The story was exposed after Burson-Marsteller approached a blogger to publish the propaganda, but the blogger posted the correspondence online.Burson-Marsteller has been forced to apologize for taking on Facebook as a client, admitting the orders to discredit Google violated company policy. "The assignment on those terms should have been declined," a spokesperson said. The revelations are likely to be incredibly damaging for the firm, who have represented a number of controversial clients in the past. Facebook, however, said the allegations against Google were valid, insisting there were genuine privacy concerns with Social Circle. Google has declined to comment on the issue.Facebook Places, a location-publicising service that was released in the United States in August, has now become available to users in the United Kingdom. The service was released in Japan earlier this week. Previously, some people in the UK who use Facebook's iPhone application discovered that they were able to use the service.This service allows individuals to publicise their location, or "check in", in a way similar to the one used by Gowalla and Foursquare. Users of Facebook Places will be able to establish if any of their Facebook "friends" are or have been in the vicinity if both decide to "check in". The service will become available to other parts of Europe "as soon as possible", stated Michael Sharon, Facebook Places' product manager.Sharon commented: "We wanted to prepare a robust set of privacy controls. I'm really proud of what we've done with the Places privacy settings because they are unprecedented in the industry at this moment in time. We think Here Now [which shows users if other Facebookers are in the area] is a fantastic feature. It's a great way to meet new interesting people, but we also know some people wouldn't like to use the feature – they just want to share with friends or friends of friends – so we took care to turn it on for only some people. Some people explicitly let us know that they just want to share with a certain group so we changed the settings from the default for them – of course they can opt back in at a later time.""One of the major issues is the way that Facebook have implemented his functionality," mentioned Trend Micro's Rik Ferguson. Having had a trial use of the service upon its launch yesterday, Ferguson continued: "By default, users are opted in to the ability to be tagged by their friends, they are opted in to allowing their friends' Facebook apps to access their location information, and they are opted in to allowing 'non-friends' checked-in to the same place to see their whereabouts. This is all backwards - this should be deployed on a purely opt-in basis and no information about my whereabouts should be posted without my explicit consent, every single time a post is made."Facebook announced Thursday it will begin to share some of the technology from their social network. The company indicated it would like to share specifications and design documents to help startups and to support innovation. Facebook hopes that they will be able to benefit from the innovations of others.Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook's CEO, announced the company's "Open Compute Project" at an event held for reporters at the company's headquarters in Palo Alto, California.Facebook will not directly make any money from the new project. However, by making the designs of its servers open source, the company hopes others will find ways to improve them. They can then incorporate those advances into their own servers. Anything that can make Facebook's servers run more efficiently provides a major benefit for the company.More efficient servers will also drive down utility costs for the social media giant, which relies on massive data centers around the United States to keep its operations going.Facebook says it is already working with manufacturers, including Dell, that are manufacturing servers based on its designs. Some new servers are already available.As a result of IBM's officially setting the withdrawal date of its OS/2 operating system from the market, as well as its withdrawal of support, many OS/2 fans hope that the computer giant will release most or all of the operating system as open source software.The United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has asked the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF), host of Wikinews and its sister projects, to take down its image of the FBI seal from its websites. However, the WMF declined, saying that FBI lawyers had misinterpreted the relevant federal law.In a letter dated July 22, David C. Larson, Deputy General Counsel of the FBI demanded that the WMF remove the seal from its websites within fourteen days, claiming that "it facilitates both deliberate and unwitting violations of these restrictions by Wikipedia users." Larson cited 18 U.S.C. 701, which states: "Whoever manufactures, sells, or possesses any badge, identification card, or other insignia, of the design prescribed by the head of any department or agency of the United States for use by any officer or employee thereof, or any colorable imitation thereof, or photographs, prints, or in any other manner makes or executes any engraving, photograph, print, or impression in the likeness of any such badge, identification card, or other insignia, or any colorable imitation thereof, except as authorized under regulations made pursuant to law, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than six months, or both."Larson went on to say that use of the FBI seal may be authorized only by the director of the FBI; the FBI director has not given such permission to WMF. The WMF, represented by General Counsel Mike Godwin, responded, saying in a letter dated July 30, that Larson's interpretation "is both idiosyncratic (made especially so by your strategic redaction of important language) and, more importantly, incorrect."Godwin said that "while we appreciate your desire to revise the statute to reflect your expansive vision of it, the fact is that we must work with the actual language of the statute, not the aspirational version" Larson provided. According to the relevant case law, it "was intended to protect the public against the use of a recognizable assertion of authority with intent to deceive." Godwin asserted that the use of the FBI seal by the WMF and its projects do not fall under the purview of that law.The websites of the Wikimedia Foundation are filled with user-generated text, pictures, and other materials, uploaded and curated by independent, often anonymous, volunteers, who change the websites minute by minute. The most well-known sites are the Wikipedias, encyclopedias with over 13 million articles in hundreds of languages. However, the foundation also hosts an image and media library, dictionaries, the Wikinews news websites, book websites and many other educational collaborations.Cindy Cohn, legal director for the Electronic Frontier Foundation (where Godwin was once staff counsel), said that the WMF's constitutional right to free expression allows it to use the FBI seal. "I have to believe the FBI has better things to do than this," she said. The reason for the FBI's request is unknown, as the FBI seal is published on many other websites, including Encyclopedia Britannica.File:IPad-02.jpgThe United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has launched a probe into a security breach that allowed hackers to retrieve 114,000 e-mail addresses of iPad users on the AT&T network.The FBI announced the investigation Friday, which will determine exactly what allowed a group of hackers using the name "Goatse Security" to access the data. The security breach was first announced by the blog Gawker on Wednesday. The FBI has since asked Gawker Media LLC, the owners of the site, to retain all information relating to the incident. The company was also involved in another recent case with Apple Inc., which included the iPhone 4. Gawker said that it does not believe it is the main target of this FBI investigation.Editors at Gawker were able to verify the information the hackers sent to them, and did not post full e-mail addresses or any other identifying information in its initial story of the incident. Gawker said that it did not pay Goatse Security for the data. One of the hackers later wrote that they did not reveal the addresses to anyone else and had already deleted them.The hackers were able to obtain the data after discovering a program on AT&T's website that provides the e-mail address of a user when that user's identification number is given. The hackers essentially guessed and then saved the numbers for the 114,000 users. They did not tell AT&T of the security hole.A spokesperson for AT&T said Wednesday that the company "was informed by a business customer on Monday of the potential exposure of their iPad ICC-IDs [the identification numbers]", and had disabled the e-mail-providing program by Tuesday. AT&T also said that no other information was stolen other than the e-mails addresses of their customers, and that "there is no evidence that any other customer information was shared." The company says it will notify all of the iPad users whose information was compromised.Many of the users involved are high-ranking government or corporate officials, including Rahm Emanuel, the current White House Chief of Staff, and Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City. Others include employees of Google and the U.S. military.Apple has not commented about the breach.7,810 Jeep SUVs are to be recalled in order to address a software vulnerability in the vehicles' entertainment systems which allows the vehicles to be "hacked" — allows vehicle software security to be compromised — Fiat Chrysler Automobiles US (FCA US) said on Friday. This recall affects some 2015 model Jeep Renegades.FCA US said exploiting the vulnerability would take "unique and extensive technical knowledge, prolonged physical access to a subject vehicle and extended periods of time to write code.” They said there are no known instances where the software vulnerability has caused injury to anyone.They said owners of affected cars can fix the software vulnerability by inserting a device containing a software patch into a USB port inside the car.Another 1.4 million vehicles manufactured by the company have also been recalled last month, when white hat hackers discovered they were able to hack and disable the engines of the affected vehicles remotely.After 12 years of work, the first beta version of Wine (WINE = Wine Is Not an Emulator) , entitled "version 0.9", has been released today.Wine is a free software implementation of Microsoft's Win32 API.  This means that it enables non-Microsoft operating systems to run software that was written for Microsoft's operating systems. Wine is not just a simple emulator, but a complete rewrite of the whole Windows API and standard libraries (DLL's).Written by a community of developers, which includes some companies whose businesses are based on it, Wine runs on POSIX compliant operating systems such as GNU/Linux and Unix-based operating systems. Wine allows a user of one of these operating systems to run Windows applications without having a copy of Microsoft Windows.As the beta term suggests, more work is expected before the final release is made. The pre-release status of the software has not prevented some from using it for years to run a wide range of software, including modern games, office software, and news reading applications.Wine is seen by advocates as an important tool for enabling people to migrate generally away from Microsoft's Windows operating system, or specifically to free software operating systems such as GNU/Linux and FreeBSD.  If a piece of software that is important to a person or business is only available for Microsoft Windows, it can tie that person or business to using Microsoft Windows.  Software such as Wine can free people of such ties (sometimes termed "vendor lock-in").Wine is distributed under the terms of GNU Lesser General Public License.  This means that the software can be freely used and redistributed, and its source code can be studied, modified, and redistributed. It can also be integrated into software that does not grant these freedoms (proprietary software).There are no direct competitors to Wine.  The two most related software packages are VMware and Win4Lin, but neither is free software, and both require that a copy of Microsoft Windows is installed.  Rather than working as an emulator, they allow for more than one operating system to be run simultaneously.Two related products that are based on Wine are CrossOver Office and Cedega.  Each is the flagship product of a company, CodeWeavers focusing on office and TransGaming Technologies focussing on games emulation, respectively.  While neither product is entirely free software, CodeWeavers do contribute their modifications to the Wine software back to the Wine community.Freecol, a free software (under the GNU General Public License) has been released in Piedmontese. This makes the game, clone of Sid Meier's Colonization the first game to have been released in this language which is only spoken by about two million people.Freecol, the simulation of the historical process that lead to the Declaration of Independence in North America, is the first computer game to be localized in Piedmontese language. Players of the game need to take administrative and political actions to reach its goal. Version 0.7.0 in Piedmontese was released on July 13, 2007. Speakers of regional languages hope this will serve as an examplar, so that more localizations of the game in other regional languages will be released over time.The localization was done on Betawiki, the platform which is also used for the localization of the Mediawiki software.John Hospers, the United States Libertarian Party's first presidential nominee, died Sunday of natural causes at 93. 2008 Libertarian Party Vice Presidential nominee Wayne Allyn Root, who was a friend of Hospers, reported the death via his personal blog, and on Facebook, writing: "I have sad news to report ... John Hospers has passed away. Because of our close friendship, I was asked to announce his death to his many Libertarian fans. John was a friend of individual liberty and freedom, and the first Libertarian Presidential candidate. He passed quietly away in his sleep without pain and suffering, of natural causes."He later added: "He was the sweetest man alive, and a very loyal friend of mine. He will be greatly missed by all. The Libertarian movement has lost a pioneer and hero."Hospers was a renowned scholar who served as Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at the University of Southern California.  However, he was best known for his 1972 run for president with the newly created Libertarian Party. He appeared on the ballot in only Washington and Colorado and received a combined 8,715 votes, but won an electoral vote from the faithless elector Roger MacBride of Virginia. Hospers was the latest third party presidential candidate to receive such a vote.In recent years, Hospers was active on Facebook. In his final post on Saturday, he thanked his friends after celebrating his 93rd birthday two days earlier.The Institute of Quantum Optics and Quantum Information at the University of Innsbruck  in Austria has created an entanglement of eight quantum particles, yielding a quantum byte or "qubyte", or eight qubits. This is an important step toward the realization of a practical quantum computer, which would use superposed quantum states to perform complex calculations. A detailed writeup of this work is available in English and German. The formal paper was published in the December 1 issue of Nature.Contributors to the breakthrough are researchers from IQOQI under the supervision of Rainer Blatt and Hartmut Häffner in coaction with Otfried Gühne and Wolfgang Dür of the Innsbruck research group directed by Hans Jürgen Briegelhave.With a trap using magnetic fields they captured eight calcium ions, lined them up, and set them up in "W states" using a complicated laser technology. A quantum byte with eight ions provides a computing matrix of 65,536 (0-255 x 0-255) elements that are mostly independent. It is suggested that the method should be scalable so that the number of ions could be increased. This experiment proves that the kind of ion traps used in Innsbruck are the most promising technology for the realization of large computing matrices.On Monday, February 28, 2005, Jambo OpenOffice.org, the first Swahili office suite, was released at the University of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania. The office suite was translated from the English version of OpenOffice.org, an open source suite based on Sun Microsystems' StarOffice. Jambo OpenOffice.org was translated by a multinational team including Swedish and Spanish programmers, as well as linguists from the University of Dar es Salaam. Monday's release included builds for Linux and Windows.The office suite has four components: a word processor, a spreadsheet, a presentation creator, and a drawing program. The translation effort required translating 18,000 English strings, made up of one or more words, many of which have previously had no direct Swahili equivalent. As part of the translation, the team developed a glossary of 1500 technical words in Swahili. The office suite also includes a spellchecker with a lexicon of 70,000 words.Swahili is not the only African language into which OpenOffice is being translated. According to Ethan Zuckerman, a fellow at Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet and Society, OpenOffice is being translated into nine official languages of South Africa by Translate.org.za. The same organization is also supporting translation efforts to bring the software into the Rwandan language Kinyarwanda, and Hausa, a language spoken largely in Nigeria.Swahili is spoken by approximately 55 million people worldwide, predominantly in East African countries, including Tanzania and Kenya.Interview with the project coordinatorReplies to questions from Pingswept by Alberto Escudero-Pascual, March 3, 2005> 1. Is the suite 100% translated to Swahili now?The suite contains more than 99% of the strings in Swahili. The onesthat are left in English  (less than 100 strings out of 18,000) willbe worked out in the next release. Yes, this release is fully functionalin Swahili.> 2. What would people who speak only Swahili > do before Monday's release if they needed a > word processor? Are there any alternatives?No alternatives. This is the first ever release of a word processor in Swahili.> 3. How widely do you expect the suite to be distributed? > What sort of IT infrastructure exists in East Africa?I "expect" the software to get installed in all the primary schools ofthe country. I also expect the software to be installed in the mainuniversities of the country and colleges. We have postive feedbackfrom them but this is a rather "political" decision out of my (our)control.The secondary schools have compulsory English so they might not wantto install it.East Africa, ufff that is like asking what IT infrastructure is in thewhole Europe :-DIf you mean connectivity, all is satellite VSAT upstreams. Most ofthe local loops in Dar are based on IEEE 802.11b. It is expensive formost of the locals. But there is an Internet Exchange already in Dar es Salaamwhere the ISP peer together. Things will always getbetter. The software is placed in the IX.The software will spread slowly, but I am sure that will spread.> 4. What next? How many words are there to translate > in a small Linux distribution like Knoppix?The Tanzanian team will start translating OOo training documentation,and next they will work with Firefox. A Linux desktop might come nextyear.I have no idea what will it take to translate Knoppix, but thepriorities should be in getting first a couple of good tools asOpenOffice and Firefox and do loads and loads of training material inSwahili.> 5. How will future versions be compiled once you > return to Sweden?I have developed an almost automatic version to update JambOOo 1.1.3 inKiswahili. The UDSM has access to one of the build servers. I expect anew release of JambOO, maybe 1.1.4 with all the bug corrections in sixmonths. The next step is to migrate to OOo 2.0, I have no clearpicture of how that will happen.> Will it all come through one copy of Visual Studio> in Dar es Salaam?Nope, the Win32 version was developed entirely in Sweden and Spain duringChristmas 2004 . The new build system does not require Visual Studioto "update" the Swahili strings.> 6. How was the project funded? How can people contribute to this> project, or similar projects in the future?SIDA (Swedish International Cooperation Agency) has funded theUniversity of Dar es Salaam and the Institute of Kiswahili Researchfor one full year. My company IT+46 also was funded by SIDA to supportthe project technically.IT+46 has contributed 50% of its working-time at no cost to the project.> 7. What is the plan for IT +46?Our plan was to be in Tanzania only six months and handle all thetechnology and the training back to the university as we want them tokeep on with the development by themselves. Now, we are trying to findsimilar projects that need support. There are many languages out thereafter all.Symantec, an antivirus software manufacturer, announced Thursday that they had discovered a new Trojan horse that affects Sony PlayStation Portable hand-held gaming consoles. The program deletes required system files, preventing the device from starting correctly. Symantec has named the virus "Trojan.PSPBrick".The PSP, by default, can only play games approved by Sony. To play other games you must use a software hack. This Trojan pretends to be a program that performs this software hack. The use of any software that attempts to perform this hack, including this Trojan, voids the warranty.Symantec has said they are not aware of any way a user can restore their PSP after it has been infected.  However there have not yet been any confirmed infections. To get infected the user must choose to download the file and copy it to their PSP. "It does not affect the average user," said Eric Chien a software engineer at Symantec.The Trojan is distributed as an archive file named "EXPLOIT 2G PSP Team V1.RAR". The archive contains two files that must be manually copied to the PSP and run for the user to be infected. Once infected it deletes four files required for the PSP to boot: /vsh/etc/index.dat, /kd/loadcore.prx ,  /kd/loadexec.prx, and flash6:/kd/init.prx.Four men and one woman were in jail in Tyler, Texas as of yesterday morning following a robbery allegedly involving an elaborate scam.Police alleged Alneisha Butler originated a scheme to lure a 25-year-old man to an apartment complex in Tyler late Tuesday night, where he was accosted at gun point by four men. Butler and the man had been corresponding online for a few weeks, when she told him she wanted him to meet some friends of hers, according to police. When the two met at the complex, they were met by the four men who demanded money from the victim. He didn't have cash, so the assailants ordered him to get cash from an ATM (Automated Teller Machine) while they held the woman until his return. The man left the scene and notified police by phone. The men named as alleged assailants in the crime were Lawrence Caston, Shannon Howard, Justin McGee, and David Roberts.The woman and each of the four men were being held on a US$750,000 bond. A police spokesperson cautioned, "This could have [just as] easily happened if he met her at a bar as it happened online. If you go somewhere with someone and they start leading you to a place you don't feel comfortable, then don't go".The flight simulation website Avsim has recently been "destroyed" after an attack by hackers. The website was used for all types of computer flight simulation, but it was mainly devoted to Flight Simulator X. It was launched thirteen years ago, in 1996."The method of the hack makes recovery difficult, if not impossible, to recover from," said Tom Allensworth, the founder of Avsim. "AVSIM is totally offline at this time and we expect to be so for some time to come. We are not able to predict when we will be back online, if we can come back at all." The attack destroyed both of the site's servers. "Some have asked whether or not we had back ups. Yes, we dutifully backed up our servers every day. Unfortunately, we backed up the servers between our two servers," said Allensworth. "The hacker took out both servers, destroying our ability to use one or the other back up to remedy the situation." "It looks like 13 years of hard work on Tom's part could have been wiped out. Avsim is an important site, because it services the whole community as a source of community developed terrains, skins, and mods - its contribution has been immeasurable," the editor of PC Magazine, Derek Davis, told the BBC news agency.9 April 2018: US Republicans query Linux Foundation about open-source security 28 April 2017: Debian to shutdown public File Transfer Protocol services 23 May 2014: Chinese government prohibits use of Windows 8, cites security concerns 8 July 2009: Google announces new operating system 4 February 2009: Stanford physicists print smallest-ever letters 'SU' at subatomic level of 1.5 nanometres tall 19 December 2008: RNA journal submits articles to Wikipedia 5 November 2008: GNU project releases new version of license to allow Wikimedia projects to switch to Creative Commons licenseShirley Sherrod, an African-American employee of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) who was ousted last week, has said that she will "definitely sue" conservative blogger Andrew Breitbart over a video clip posted online at BigGovernment.com, operated by Breitbart, that made her appear racist.Formerly the director of rural development in Georgia, Sherrod was referred to on Breitbart's site as a "racist govt employee," and the video had been edited to make her appear to have discriminated against Caucasians. Sherrod spoke in March of this year at an NAACP meeting. The clip edited from the original video footage of this meeting misrepresents Sherrod as deliberately failing to support a white farmer because of his race. In reality, the full video revealed that Sherrod was speaking about racial reconciliation and the lessons she learned after the episode. However, the USDA asked Sherrod to resign before the full video was released. The farmer mentioned in the video and his wife later stated that Sherrod had actually helped to save their farm, and after the full video was made public, US Department of Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and US President Barack Obama apologised and Vilsack offered Sherrod a new job with the USDA. However, Sherrod said that she has not decided whether to accept the new position.Breitbart said that he posted the edited clip to prove that the NAACP has racist elements, and has not apologised to Sherrod. Shortly before the video clip was posted, the NAACP had demanded that the Tea Party, a conservative activist group that Breitbart is active in, remove racism from parts of that group. However, Sherrod says that she no longer wants an apology. "He had to know that he was targeting me," the 62-year-old said at a convention of the National Association of Black Journalists.On Thursday, Phil Scott of Vermont became the fourth governor in the United States to sign an executive order requiring all companies providing Internet access to state agencies to abide by net neutrality for all customers in his state.  He said he did this because Vermonters rely on Internet access without blocking, throttling and paid prioritization, threatened by the December 14 decision of the US Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in the matter of "Restoring Internet freedom".   The first state governor to challenge the FCC in this way was Steve Bulllock of Montana, who did so on January 22. Andrew Cuomo of New York followed two days later. Philip Murphy of New Jersey signed a similar executive order on February 5.  These four executive orders differ in details, but all require that state agencies purchase Internet access services only from companies with an enforceable commitment to net neutrality for all customers in their state.This is part of a flurry of state-level net neutrality actions.  The New York State Assembly introduced bill A01958 on January 17, 2017, three days before the inauguration of Donald Trump as President of the United States, anticipating action by him to overturn the 2015 "Title II Order" that made net neutrality enforceable in the US.  Two other bills were introduced into the Washington House of Representatives in the ten days before the official decision of Trump's FCC on this issue.  In addition to these, 63 other state-level responses by net neutrality supporters were documented by Fight for the Future (FFTF) by February 16, 2018, including at least 27 bills introduced into the legislatures of 17 states with others reportedly under consideration.  These bills are in addition to the lawsuit filed on January 16 by the Attorney General of New York on behalf of 21 states and the District of Columbia claiming this FCC decision was "arbitrary, capricious, and an abuse of discretion within the meaning of the Administrative Procedure Act" (APA) of 1946 and other grounds.  These states were New York, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, and Washington state.  New Jersey reportedly later committed to join the suit. These four executive orders are the only actions on FFTF's list of actions by net neutrality supporters that seem immediately enforceable.  All others require approval by democratic bodies.  The four executive orders might be challenged in courts as conflicting with "Preemption authority" claimed by the US Federal Communications Commission's "Declaratory ruling, report and order" adopted December 14 and released January 4.  The FCC order was described by dissenting Commissioner Clyburn as "Destroying Internet Freedom" rather than "Restoring Internet Freedom" as the order is titled.  She wrote that this order "will put profits and shareholder returns above what is best for" consumers.France has banned use of the Skype PC telephony application in Universities. The exact reason is unclear, but state security was one of the reasons given by the authorities responsible. Several other possible reasons have been cited including fears of research secrets being handed over to the United States and the fact that in order to make calls to the public phone network you pay a company in Luxembourg and not the local phone company. The Skype software uses an encryption algorithm that makes it next to impossible to monitor calls; this is frequently cited as China's reason for banning the application.Some media reports have suggested that French authorities are fearful that whilst they were unable to monitor calls made with Skype, they might be monitored by the US.However, this version of facts, which has spread like wildfire, was promptly refuted by French authorities who called attention to the fact that the ban only applies to university research centers and laboratories, and not to the general student and faculty population. The real reasons behind the ban remains a hot point of debate and controversy, although public opinion in France is not sympathetic to Skype's new profile. Skype has recently been purchased by eBay, which the French consider a mammoth e-company with questionable practices and a dubious reputation.The Free Software Foundation (FSF) has announced today the release of the first version of gNewSense, a new GNU/Linux distribution based on both Ubuntu and Debian. The goal of the newly created distribution is to offer an operating system which is 100% proprietary software free.Generally, GNU/Linux distributions comes with proprietary software such as kernel drivers (eg. NVIDIA and ATI card drivers), the Opera web browser or the VoIP Skype software among others.  According to its developers: “From a philosophical perspective we wanted to create a GNU/Linux distribution where the user has access to all the sources for all software on the system. This includes everything from the heart of the kernel through to the everyday desktop applications."  Ted Teah, FSF's free software directory maintainer explained, "With all the kernel firmware and restricted repositories removed, and the reliance on Ubuntu's proprietary distribution management tool gone, this distribution is the most advanced GNU/Linux distribution that has a commitment to be 100% free." gNewSense will provide users with full security updates and is available for immediate download in LiveCD ISO format along with a version of the Ubiquity graphical installer. The developers have also created a set of tools called Builder that allows users to create their own gNewSense-based distributions.In the new 1.0 version, gNewSense has removed all non-free firmware from the kernel, removed access to the Ubuntu Restricted component (such as links to LaunchPad which are redirected to the gNewSense webpage for now) and replaced the Ubuntu logos with its own. Also the UniVerse component is enabled by default and Emacs, BSD games, NetHack, and build-essential part of the default install.There already exists such a distribution called Ututo which aims for zero proprietary software but it never really took off in popularity. A few years ago, Mark Shuttleworth, founder of the Ubuntu distribution, also initiated a similar initiative dubbed Gnubuntu but it never materialized.The French institution of regulation of broadcasting media has recently prohibited the use of the words "Facebook" and "Twitter" on television or radio broadcasts; except where these social networks are a central part of a news report. The regulation, issued by the Conseil supérieur de l'audiovisuel (CSA), cites a 1992 statute governing the relationship between journalists and advertising, sponsorship, and "teleshopping". Mentioning the words "Facebook" or "Twitter" on air, in the eyes of the CSA, constitutes "clandestine advertising". CSA spokesperson Christine Kelly explained her organization's desire to set a level playing field when it comes to social networking: "Why give preference to Facebook, which is worth billions of dollars, when there are many other social networks that are struggling for recognition," she said. "This would be a distortion of competition. If we allow Facebook and Twitter to be cited on air, it's opening a Pandora’s Box — other social networks will complain to us saying, 'why not us?'"Broadcasters now may not tell their listeners to "find us on Facebook", but rather "find us on social networks". However, they would still be allowed to name the social networking sites when either is involved in a news story.Business Insider contributor Matthew Fraser sees this action as a form of animosity towards US culture: "Facebook and Twitter are, of course, American social networks. In France, they are regarded — at least implicitly — as symbols of Anglo-Saxon global dominance — along with Apple, MTV, McDonald’s, Hollywood, Disneyland, and other cultural juggernauts. That there is a deeply-rooted animosity in the French psyche towards Anglo-Saxon cultural domination cannot be disputed; indeed, it has been documented and analysed for decades. Sometimes this cultural resentment finds expression in French regulations and laws, frequently described, and often denounced, by foreigners as protectionism."CNET's Chris Matyszczyk, on the other hand, suspects that Frenchmen will hardly miss the explicit references to social networks tacked onto the end of broadcasts. "I am confident that not one single French citizen will miss the now standard cliche at the end of each broadcast entreating every viewer to please keep in contact with the news station on one or other of the American social networks."The Domesday Book, penned in the eleventh century, can now be explored online after more than twenty years of work.The book was commissioned by William the Conqueror in 1086 to tally the amount of land and resources owned throughout England. The findings were used to calculate taxes, and the wealth of the king.From today, anyone with an Internet connection is now able to explore the book for free. A web browser can be used to find out what life was like in the past in any English village, town or city. In addition, a person can download a copy of any page from the book for the fee of £3.50.Commenting on the online edition, Adrian Ailes, a Domesday expert from The National Archives, said it was “a fantastic achievement”. “It is important that people of all ages should be able to read and use this national treasure,” he added.The book was voted the “nation’s finest treasure” in 2005. But studies have found that thirteen percent of people believe the Domesday Book to be a chapter in the Bible, and nearly two percent think the iconic document is a novel penned by Dan Brown.The original text is currently on display at The National Archives in west London.The portalpage for the online edition is http://nationalarchives.gov.uk/domesday.Google has confirmed that it has "received formal notification," that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is investigating its business practices. The acknowledgment was posted on the internet search engine company's  blog  Friday. Google said it was unclear about the nature of the probe.A broad FTC investigation would cause the company be tied up in defending itself for years, and according to Bloomberg, might well  be the government’s biggest antitrust case since the Microsoft probe. The FTC will likely launch an  anti-trust investigation, as the company has been the target of many past smaller ones, according to CNN. Mercury News reported Friday  morning that the FTC review will probably focus on whether Google is using  its dominance in the internet search business to  promote its own products and services.  Google's rivals say  Google unfairly profits from its monopoly in the search engine business by using its search services to point users of its internet search engine to its own sites and services while hiding links to its competitors. The FCC probe  is expected to determine if Google abuses it market dominance to promote moneymaking online marketing, such as  its  mapping, comparison shopping and travel services. According to CNN, "Google dominates search in the United States, controlling about two-thirds of the market, according to comScore. It also licenses the world's largest smartphone operating system, and its share of U.S. display advertising revenue recently eclipsed long-time leader Yahoo."Google's response is that most complaints of anticompetitive behavior come from companies who are displeased with their ranking in Google's search engine. However, Joshua Wright, law professor at George Mason University said  the FTC will be looking at possible  harm to users and not complaints by  Google’s competitors. Melissa Maxman, co-chair of a Washington-based, antitrust practice group, said the FTC's Bureau of Consumer Protection unit will almost certainly be involved to see if Google deceives search engine users by screening search results to profit its own services. She said she would be "shocked" if the consumer protection unit was not involved.  Google Fellow Amit Singhal said in the post, "We respect the FTC's process and will be working with them (as we have with other agencies) over the coming months to answer questions about Google and our services." But Singhal acknowledged, "It's still unclear exactly what the FTC's concerns are, but we're clear about where we stand. Since the beginning, we have been guided by the idea that, if we focus on the user, all else will follow." Bloomberg reported Friday: "Google has set aside $500 million for a U.S. government investigation into online pharmacy ads the company accepted that may have violated the law."Google's efforts to improve privacy policies after last years' determination that its social-networking service Google Buzz used deceptive tactics, are currently being overseen by the FTC.Japanese multinational company Fujitsu launched a website for a dog pedometer which allows customers to monitor their dog's health online. The device measures data while attached to the dog's collar. Customers are also able to add more data to the website manually, then it displays the complete set of data graphically. Fujitsu launched the website today (Tuesday) and plans to start the sales in Japan tomorrow (Wednesday).The pedometer is called "Wandant", from Japanese "Wan" equivalent to "woof", and the "dant" of "pendant". The latter refers to the pedometer, because it is attached to a dog collar. The users can transfer data to an Android phone using a touch-card to make it available online.Fujitsu said Wandant would be the first cloud-based dog health-care service.The data include walking, temperature, and shaking motion statistics. The users can manually enter additional data such as food quantities, weight, custom notes, and photos.Fujitsu said, "The data are presented graphically on a custom website that makes trends in the dog's activities easy to understand at a glance. This helps owners get a stronger sense of their dog's health, while enabling communication with the dog."The future of grocery shopping has changed in the Palatinate region of Germany. Last November, the Edeka supermarket chain offered in one of its Rülzheim stores fingerprint identification as method of payment. Customers can have their fingerprint put on file and begin using the system as an alternative to cash or card. Customers then place their finger on the scanner to complete a purchase.The supermarket owner Roland Fitterer claims the system shaves 40 seconds off checkout time and plans to introduce it into his other 5 stores.Internet and biometrics services provider, it-Werke, is the technology company behind the effort. The supermarket is their third client to adopt what it-Werke calls its digiPROOF technology.There was sufficient interest among store customers that 100 registered to use the system. The chances are one in 220 million that two people have the same fingerprint.A civilian known as 'Jimmy Justice' who resides in New York City (NYC), New York, the largest city in the United States, has been videotaping NYC police officers and city workers, breaking the law while on the job.Since 2007, he claims to have caught "hundreds of officers and other city employees violating the law," and says he has them all on camera. He has posted his best confrontations with them to the video sharing website YouTube. As a result, Justice states that he has been asked to do a United States television show and Wikinews got an exclusive interview with him. For protection, Justice wished not to be called by his real name in fear of police retaliation.Last year, Justice videotaped a police officer parking in front of a fire hydrant, but has only recently gained attention on social networking news sites such as Digg and reddit.com. So Wikinews contacted Mr. Justice, known as JimmyJustice4753 on YouTube, for an exclusive interview to find out what caused him to get revenge on the law. On June 30, 2007, Justice caught officer E. Anderson of the NYPD, traffic division, parking directly in front of a fire hydrant while she went inside a restaurant to take a 15 minute lunch break."Do you think there is something wrong with parking a vehicle, blocking a fire hydrant,?" says Justice while following Anderson to her car after her meal."Mrs. Anderson I'm talking to you," says Justice as Anderson ignores him. "You parked your vehicle blocking a fire hydrant. You are not allowed to do that. Somebody else would get a ticket for that. Why are you allowed to do it? You should be ashamed of yourself Mrs. Anderson."By this time, the incident has gained the interest of people nearby the scene and passing it. One unidentified woman, who claims to be a retired NYC police officer decides to intervene stating that people "are not supposed to film any police, [or] anybody employed with the police department because of the terrorism." A short time later the woman walked off camera.Since 2007 Justice says he has caught "hundreds of law enforcement officers and city officials" on "over 30 hours of video" violating laws from illegal U-turns in business districts to blocking bus stops and fire hydrants. Justice has only uploaded the "most colorful ones to YouTube" and recently, on April 8, 2008, Justice videotaped a NYPD tow truck officer blocking a hydrant while he also ate lunch inside a restaurant. According to NYC law, it is illegal for any vehicle to park within 15 feet of a fire hydrant and to park in front of a bus stop. It is also illegal for any person to make a U-turn in a business district. Fines for these violations can cost a driver up to US$115.00 for each violation occurred.When Wikinews asked Justice why he decided to start filming the violations made by officials he answered, "what bothers me is watching an officer write someone a summons and then commit the exact same violation with their official vehicle. I started making these videos to remind the officers (and complacent civilians) that City employees have to abide by the same laws that they are paid to enforce. I plan on doing this and inspiring others to do this as well as a means of leveling the playing field against discourteous officers.""In NYC, the traffic cops are notorious for their draconian indiscretion in handing out summonses to civilians for petty violations. Obviously the laws are not enforced as a matter of public safety, but rather to raise revenue," added Justice.Justice makes little effort to get the violations on videotape saying "all I have to do to catch them is open my eyes.""The problem with abuse of authority is rampant in New York City. I take my video camera with me on the way to work and on the way to social events and band rehearsals and when I see action it takes me less than 4 seconds to have the camera out and in record mode," states Justice.His videos have drawn the attention of media and he has been featured on ABC's 'I-caught videos' and Inside Edition. Justice also states that the popularity of his videos have gotten the attention producers in Hollywood, California and as a result, there are plans for a television show.Since Justice began getting even with officials and their violations, he states that there has been a positive change in the communities."The publicity my videos have received has effected positive change in the community, but we still have a long road ahead of us," added Justice.As a result of his videos, at the time the NYPD launched an investigation into the violations, but it is not known if any officers were charged or punished. Justice himself has never been arrested, but has been assaulted."I have never been arrested for this yet but they have threatened me with arrest. I have been spit on, cursed at, assaulted, and I had 2 cameras broken already," added Justice.The GNOME Project announced today the release of the latest version of its free desktop environment for Linux and Unix operating systems. Version 2.12 of the GNOME Desktop has several new features including an updated look and feel, an improved file manager, a new "About Me" panel to keep a user's personal information and Evince, a new PDF and PostScript document viewer. Several components comprising the GNOME Desktop, including its Web browser, e-mail client, and multimedia applications, have also undergone significant changes.Owen Taylor, chairman of the GNOME Foundation's board, explained that "GNOME 2.12 looks better than ever before and brings greater consistency." He added that "[t]here are useful new features throughout the desktop, carefully implemented to increase usability while keeping GNOME simple and intuitive."The GNOME Desktop, which is available in 43 languages, has received some attention over the past few years with large deployments, affecting hundreds of thousands of users, reported in Spain and Brazil and several more on the way in Ireland, the United Kingdom, and China. The Italian South Tyrol province of Bolzano reported only a few days ago that 16,000 students would now be using the GNOME Desktop in private and public schools. Software vendors such as Real Networks, Mozilla (responsible for the Firefox browser), the Eclipse Project, and VMWare have adopted elements of its developer platform for software development.More than 500 people, both volunteers and employees of sponsoring companies, make up the GNOME Project, which releases a new version of the GNOME Desktop every six months. The GNOME Foundation provides organizational support to the project.On Wednesday, Mark Shuttleworth, founder of the Ubuntu operating system, announced the open source OS will end its ties with the Unity8 desktop environment and that Ubuntu 18.04 LTS (Long Term Service) will be shipped with the GNOME desktop environment by default. Unity has been Ubuntu's default desktop environment since it was released six years ago in 2011.In his blog post, Shuttleworth explained growth of products are decided by the market and the community. Canonical, Ltd., the software company behind Ubuntu, could not gain investors from Unity8, Ubuntu Phone and the convergence shell. Instead, they are shifting their Ubuntu focus on to cloud and IoT (Internet of Things), which Shuttleworth notes finds application in "auto, robotics, networking, and machine learning".Canonical — after making controversial desktop environment Unity the default — launched their own smartphone in 2013, called Ubuntu Edge, with a crowd funding campaign target of US$32 million but could not cross the US$13 million mark. A couple of years later, Canonical partnered with bq, Fairphone and Meizu to launch Ubuntu phones. Unity worked  for Ubuntu phones but did not perform well in the global market. "I'm not giving up! I will do my best to keep Ubuntu touch and Unity8 standing on both it's legs!", Ubports' developer Marius Gripsgård posted on his Google+ profile on Wednesday."The choice, ultimately, is to invest in the areas which are contributing to the growth of the company", Shuttleworth wrote in the blog. Following this announcement, GNOME tweeted, "Welcome back Canonical! Ubuntu 18.04 LTS to ship with GNOME by default!". Currently, Ubuntu is available in various desktop environments like Ubuntu GNOME (GNOME), Ubuntu MATE (MATE), Xubuntu (XFCE), Kubuntu (KDE Plasma), Lubuntu (LXDE) and Ubuntu Budgie (Budgie), though Unity remains the default for the upcoming version, 17.04 (Zesty Zapus).A collaboratively-developed operating system kernel known as GNU Hurd has been made bootable using the L4 microkernel, which provides room for significant speed improvements over an existing implementation using the Mach microkernel. The newer architecture also has a more lively developer community.Developer Marcus Brinkmann made the historic step and finished the process initialization code, which enabled him to execute the first software on Hurd-L4. In a message to the L4 port of GNU Hurd mailing list, Brinkmann wrote, "We can now easily explore and develop the system in any way we want. The dinner is prepared!". [1] However, the kernel's current feature set is very limited. "With my glibc port, I can already build simple applications, but most won't run because they need a filesystem or other gimmicks (like, uhm, fork and exec), and I only have stubs (dummy functions which always return an error) for that now," he added in a later posting. [2]Compared with Linux and BSD Unix's monolithic kernel architecture, a microkernel based operating system provides developers greater modularity and isolation from hardware, a big win with L4 already being available for a large number of hardware varieties.There is a cost in speed for such abstraction, and this cost was higher on Mach, at around 15%, compared with only around 5% on L4 and it's predecessor L3, both developed by Dr. Jochen Liedtke. [3]The greater modularity and abstraction of a microkernel approach means that the microkernel itself does not need constant modification as is seen in the Linux kernel today, since it provides only the very minimum of services, and does so very carefully. Thus, the fact that L4 was developed in 1996 is seen as exemplifying this stability -- rather than showing its age -- since few, if any, improvements in approach have been imagined in the meantime.However, the Mach kernel first developed ten years earlier at Carnegie Mellon University is seen as a flawed first implementation, with the lessons learned being implemented in microkernels like L4, known as second-generation microkernels.The GNU Hurd forms the base of the GNU operating system, much of which has been widely adopted by users of other Unix-like operating systems, including Linux. The GNU Project has been developing the Hurd since 1983. In 1990, the GNU Project decided to use the Mach kernel, rather than writing their own. [4] The Hurd is released as free software under the GNU General Public License (GPL).The Hurd kernel is an experiment which aims to surpass existing Unix kernels in functionality, security, and stability, while remaining largely compatible with them. It currently runs on Intel IA32 machines. According to the GNU Hurd project, "The Hurd should, and probably will, be ported to other hardware architectures or other microkernels in the future" [5].`Hurd' stands for `Hird of Unix-Replacing Daemons'. And, then, `Hird' stands for `Hurd of Interfaces Representing Depth' - perhaps the first software to be named by a pair of mutually recursive acronyms.A limited port of Linux already runs on L4, known as L4Linux.Friday, Google, Inc. announced on its official blog that it will be acquiring in-game advertiser Adscape Media, Inc, a San Francisco, California based company.  Ads that are placed in games through Adscape are targeted based on the plot and storyline that a gamer encounters within a game.  These ads are also targeted geographically and demographically.  Google, which is based in Mountain View, California, stated that the terms of the agreement and the price paid for Adscape will remain confidential, but the cost might be about $23 million, as informed the Red Herring magazine on 15th February. Adscape is now fully controlled by Google and will provide the company with its first opportunity to use in-game advertising.  Google has stated that it will be working with Adscape's partners the same as the company had been before.On the 18th of December, Google held the "Unbound" event that attracted about 300 people, who gathered at the New York Public Library. The event's visitors met to discuss the issue of Google's Library Project and Book Search tool and the publishing business perspectives in general.  Google decided to bring up the issue, as a lot of representatives of the publishing industry believe that the project will deprive them from the expected profits from books sold in bookstores and online marketplaces. The speech of Jim Gerber, manager of content partnerships at Google, opened the event. Mr. Gerber noted that their meeting was aimed at a mutual understanding of changes the book-publishing market will face in the 21st century. Among the speakers present were those closely related to the publishing business - authors, publishers and analysts, including Cory Doctorow, a science fiction writer and co-editor of Boing Boing, as well as agents of the leading publishing stores such as Harper Collins and Cambridge University Press. Having organized the event, Google pursued their aim of improving the perception of its Book Search project.  The company tried to establish links with publishers and libraries by extending an offer whereby portions of copyrighted published content would be availabe for public view through the Google search database. Still, Google stumbled upon skeptical attitudes by publishers. However, some of the publishers supported the initiative. Cory Doctorow expressed his belief, grounded upon his personal experiences, that book snippets available free on the Internet implied the possibility of commercial benefit.  One of the major advantages of the on-line library is the guaranteed attention and interest it can attract to the publishers' products.Although the issue aroused a lot of controversial opinions, the speakers came to the conclusion that as the digital world has been experiencing rapid growth, the publishing industry has to keep to the modern pace and broaden its horizons. As it was mentioned by Tim O'Reilly, the founder of O'Reilly Media, a technical manual publishing company, that in the time of revolutionary changes, brought by the development of digital technologies, it was important for their industry segment not to ignore but embrace the forthcoming changes. He also mentioned that the Library Project and Book Search tool carried out by Google represented an opportunity to become part of the newly-born media culture.At present day Google Inc. holds the leading position on the U.S. Web search market. With the gain of 0.4 percent reached in December, its share of the market has increased to 47.4 percent. Yahoo Inc. follows Google in second position - as stated by a Monday survey, it has also ranked higher.According to comScore Networks Inc., a firm dealing with Web audience measurement, Microsoft Corp. is in third place. However, its share decreased 0.5 percent to 10.5 percent of Web searches performed by American users. The slight decline has also been suffered by Ask.com's share - it diminished by 0.1 percent to reach 5.4 percent.The United States has been named by the comScore Networks Inc. the largest Internet market in the world. Google's share of the U.S. Web search market has continuously grown during the recent period of over a year. As for Yahoo, its share of the market became 0.3 percent higher, having reached 28.5 percent in December compared to November, as marked by the survey.U.S. Web users carried 6.7 billion searches in December - that means from November the overall number of searches increased by 1 percent. Since December, 2005 the number of U.S. Web searches has become 30 percent higher - 3.2 billion searches were conducted by web users on Google sites and 1.9 billion searches on Yahoo.Google announced today that they are developing Google Chrome OS. The operating system, announced on their official blog, will be based on their Chrome browser, which is now nine months old.Google said that at first it will be targeted toward netbooks, but in the future, will eventually expand.  The company said that it will continue to be developed alongside Android, their operating system currently being used on mobile devices.The system will run in a windowing system atop a Linux kernel and will be fully open source.  It is planned to be released in 2010.  On their blog, Google said, "Speed, simplicity and security are the key aspects of Google Chrome OS.  We're designing the OS to be fast and lightweight, to start up and get you onto the web in a few seconds," said the blog post written by Sundar Pichai, Vice President Product Management, and Google's engineering director, Linus Upson.Both men said that "the operating systems that browsers run on were designed in an era where there was no web" and that the new OS is "our attempt to re-think what operating systems should be".Recently, Google had released Google Desktop 2 (beta), software that aims to provide information on a side-bar that sticks to the right end of your screen. Content on Google Desktop include e-mail searching, news and weather, subscribing to RSS-syndicated websites, and more features.One particular feature of Google Desktop is how it sends anonymous information of your computer use to Google (at option) in order to help choose RSS feeds and the like for you. This is much akin to how spyware works, however, said features can be disabled rather simply. Along the same lines are the ability to automatically find Weather and Stocks you would like at the first time you open it. This is a Beta so there are a few kinks in this system that can be expected to be sorted out at the full release.Google Desktop replaces the "Gmail Notifier", so you can check your gmail emails directly from the Sidebar. In addition to the Gmail mail checker, if you have Outlook, Outlook Express or Thunderbird email clients on your computer then it will check the email accounts in them. All this is automatic, so you get all these emails. Emails can be hidden by using filters.The program is a 1.3MB download and requires Windows 2000 or Windows XP. It automatically starts up when you load your computer.Google has said on its blog that it finds Microsoft’s attempt to buy Yahoo  "troubling," and that Google believes "this [the purchase of Yahoo] is about more than simply a financial transaction, one company taking over another.""The hostile bid by Microsoft to Yahoo is worrying," said David Drummond, the chief legal officer for Google. He continued by saying the takeover is "about preserving the underlying principles of the Internet: openness and innovation."Press agency Europa Press said that Eric E. Schmidt and Jerry Yang know that the "possibility of launching a counter is not possible for Google."Yahoo said that their executives are examining the offer from Microsoft, a process that they said may take some time. The Google blog cited Microsoft’s alleged "inappropriate and illegal influence over the PC," as the reasons for their concerns. They continued by saying that “Microsoft has frequently sought to establish proprietary monopolies."On Tuesday, Google introduced a new service called Google Buzz, a new feature to share updates, photos and videos. The service is built into Gmail, which already has 176 million users, according to comScore. Buzz's features will be available on Android operating system based phones as well as the iPhone, allowing real-time updates.Google hopes to integrate frequently visited sites like Picasa, Flickr, Google Reader, Twitter and YouTube, so users can stay connected to everyone via a single browser window.Buzz has a built-in group of friends which are automatically selected including the people that the user communicates with most frequently via Gmail and Google Talk.Google Buzz will be available as a mobile Web application, letting the user provide status updates by voice and geotagging their posts. Location-based updates can be read while one is using Google Mobile Maps. Posts by fellow users can be classified location-wise.Google executives said that Buzz would help tackle the problem of information overload, as Google would apply its algorithms to help people find the information most relevant to them.Facebook currently has more than 350 million active users worldwide. Google already has a micro-blogging site Jaiku, comparable to Twitter in terms of format. Orkut also has been one of Google's previous ventures in social networking. Google Buzz will look to compete with such sites.On Monday, Google added the "+1" button to its search results. It works similarly to the Facebook "Like" button. Today, Google began planning to add it to text ads, globally known as "AdSense".Google Product Manager Nick Radicevic commented at Google's AdSense blog: "Today, +1's will start appearing on Google search pages globally. .... We'll be starting off with sites like google.co.uk, google.de, google.jp and google.fr, then expanding quickly to most other Google search sites soon after." Individual websites also can use this feature. People with a Google account can add a "+1" button to their personal websites. If a large number of readers click the button, the site will move closer to the top in Google search results.Google also plans to eventually add the "+1" button to its text advertisements, globally known as "AdWords". A user would be able to add rank to an ad and optionally make it available at their Google profile. Google expects the experiment to be useful to improve search results and to combat poor websites and content farms.On Thursday, March 17, Google announced the launch of code.google.com, a new website for its open-source software (also known as "code") and APIs, for use by external developers.  This launch is the first significant contribution Google has made to the open-source community.  The release was announced at the end of the O'Reilly Emerging Technology Conference in San Diego.Google's announcement comes two weeks after Yahoo announced its own Developers Program, offering access to a new collection of its APIs, at the Search Engine Strategies 2005 Conference & Expo in New York.  Chris DiBona, Google's Open Source Program Manager, spoke about the release, emphasizing their desire to feature good programs that were being developed using their APIs.  Two XML feeds are currently offered on the site, one for general updates to code hosted there, and another for changes to the weekly featured content.The initial software projects provided on the Google site are narrowly focused, consisting of tools for debugging and compiling in two computer languages, C++ and Python, particularly when handling multi-threaded code.  Google says this is in part to get feedback from a particular audience, before expanding the scope of the project.These tools are all available under the BSD open-source license, though the site's FAQ notes that it is not tied to any particular license, and in the future is likely to include code released under a variety of free licenses.  Google has said that it is developing this site, in part, in the hopes that it can use some of the resulting code in the future.Google has launched an online spreadsheet site, in a private beta. The site will allow spreadsheets to be shared between up to 10 users, which is aimed to be useful to teams and small businesses.  "Many people already organise information into spreadsheets. Where they are struggling is to share it" said the product manager, Jonathan Rochelle.Google recently bought the online word-processor Writely, launched a calendar product, as well as a desktop search tool. Many see this as them straying into Microsoft's markets.Google Spreadsheets uses very advanced AJAX (Asynchronous Javascript And Xml) and Client Side Scripting to mimic very effectively it's desktop counterparts' functions.It is surprisingly fast, has very good formatting and advanced formula support, but best of all it has complete support for Microsoft Excel .xls files, and very good collaboration: just enter the e-mail address and you can share easily.In mid-September, Google launched a new search engine: Google Blogsearch. The new search engine, whose development was announced over two years ago, allows you to search blogs by dates, date ranges, language, authors, and by the blog itself, in addition to keywords. It is then possible to set up your own custom newsfeed with these search criteria.Despite the features, there has been criticism related to this new engine. One example is how their index only dates back to March 2005. In addition, flaws in the search algorithm may result in duplicate blog entries, as well as other "blog noise" to receive high results.This new search engine was made supposedly to help compete with other search engines, such as one by Yahoo!.Google Blogsearch has joined the group of other Google search engines, including Google Image search, Google Groups, and the famous Google Web search.Google has today launched its foray into the world online payment processing with Google Checkout. This is considered by many to be a rival to the payment giant PayPal, owned by eBay. This service is currently only available to U.S. residents.Google has created the service in a similar way to PayPal. There are two types of Google Checkout account, Buyer and Seller. Only a Seller account can receive payments through the service, a Buyer account can only make payments. This is tied in very closely with the Google Adwords service — adverts selling items can now display a small shopping cart icon — which indicates that the advertiser accepts Google Checkout as a method of payment.The selling rate is also closely tied in with the Google AdWords service. Other online payment services generally charge a set percentage per transaction, whereas Google Checkout credits you with a certain amount of "free transactions" when you purchase Google AdWords (For every US $1 spent on AdWords, US $10 in sales can be processed at no charge) — or a rate of 2% plus US $0.20 if the Seller is not a Google Adwords subscriber. There are no charges associated with Buyer Accounts.Currently, Google Checkout only accepts Visa, MasterCard, American Express, and Discover Credit Cards for inclusion on a buyer's or seller's account. They also offer a special deal for users of a Citicard credit card — US $5 (or 1000 ThankYousm Points) for signing up. Google has announced its' intentions to "to make the service available to merchants internationally" in the near future.Google announced on Monday that it is launching an open source web browser, dubbed Chrome, to compete with browsers such as Internet Explorer from Microsoft, Firefox from Mozilla, and Safari from Apple.In a post on the company's official blog, Sundar Pichai, vice president of product management, and Linus Upson, an engineering director at Google said Chrome would represent a "fresh take on the browser" and that it believes Chrome "can add value for users and, at the same time, help drive innovation on the web."Google chose to announce the launch of Chrome through a comic book, through which the company hoped to help tell the "story" of the web browser.  Google said the browser supports a new JavaScript engine more advanced than is currently available in competing web browsers on the Windows platform, and said it was "hard at work building versions" for Mac and Linux.The browser is said to be based on the WebKit framework, although Google only went so far as to say that they had "used components from Apple's WebKit and Mozilla's Firefox" in the blog entry announcing Chrome.The search engine giant Google is reportedly not accessible in some parts of China and Google services such as mail were down from Wednesday night to Thursday morning Beijing time. Google officials have not commented but said they were investigating reasons behind the outage. Recently Google has come under fire from the Chinese government for including "pornographic and vulgar" content in search results. “We have found that Google has spread a lot of pornographic content, which is a serious violation of Chinese laws and regulations," Mr Qin told reporters on Thursday.China is also demanding all new computers starting July 1st be shipped with special new internet blocking software called “Green Dam Youth Escort” which filters out all pornographic content. United States officials are opposed to the idea and have expressed concerns it might cause China to be in violation of World Trade Organization rules.Google has started phasing out support for Microsoft's Internet Explorer 6 (IE6), following a hacking attempt that exploited an IE6 vulnerability, despite the flaw being fixed promptly.From March 1 on, some services, such as Google Docs, will not work "properly" when accessed from the browser. Google recommends that both firms and end-users upgrade "as soon as possible". Google now only officially supports Internet Explorer 7+, Firefox 3+, Chrome 4+ and Safari 3+.Hackers exploited a weak spot in Internet Explorer to find the contents of Gmail accounts of human rights activists in China. Following this, both the French and German governments advised that users should switch to a different browser until the flaw had been plugged.Microsoft issued a patch quickly after the revelations, pushing out a scheduled update just under three weeks earlier than they had scheduled. The software giant normally issues updates once a month, but the high press coverage led it to run an unscheduled update. However, Microsoft admitted that they knew about the problem "since early September", and were planning to patch it in February, leaving the hole open for five months. Rajen Sheth, the Senior Product Manager for Google Apps, said in a blog post that the web had "evolved in the last ten years, from simple text pages to rich, interactive applications including video and voice", and that "very old browsers cannot run many [...] new features".20% of users still use the browser, released in August 2001 in order to complement the then-new Windows XP operating system, including many governments. Microsoft will support the browser until 2014, although the browser has attracted strong criticism among people in the web industry. The bad publicity garnered from the attacks has allowed rivals, such as Mozilla Firefox and Google's own browser, Chrome, to gain market share, allowing the open-source Firefox, of which a new version (3.6) has just been released, to claw a 40% share, close to overtaking Microsoft's 45%.Last July, Google also dropped IE6 support from the popular video sharing site, YouTube. Popular sites, such as Facebook and Digg, have also dropped support. IE6 does not support several key technologies, making compatible web-design hard to do. For example, it does not render partial transparency in png images, and many site designers must work around the fact that Internet Explorer 6 does not support many important parts of the cascading style sheets (CSS) family of standards, which is how the majority of websites are designed.Financial analysts say Google is planning an e-wallet service that could eventually compete with eBay's payment service PayPal. Google has not confirmed the development. The rumor is a first sign of Google's expected expansion of revenue sources to capitalize on its advertising customer base and search-engine traffic.  What form that expansion will take has been a hotly debated subject for the company whose stock valuation momentarily made it the world's biggest media company on June 7, 2005.  Even Microsoft has been mentioned as a possible future competitor.Ebay's stock valuation dipped more than 2% on the news.  Paypal currently accounts for one-fifth of the company's revenues.  But one business analyst saw potential benefit for Paypal[1], depending on exactly how the "Google Wallet" takes shape.  The uncertainty underlined the lack of substantive information behind the rumor.According to the New York Times, the CEO of a major online merchant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, was approached by Google to take part in this service. Steve Langdon, a Google spokesperson, declined to comment. Spoken version of the articleAccording to several pages on Google’s website, Google is launching a free WiFi service. This program, called Google Secure Access, creates a Virtual Private Network allowing secure access to the Internet. Google Secure Access encrypts all traffic to and from a user’s machine while the user is connected to the wireless access point.Google provides its engineers with time to work on independent research projects. Google Secure Access was created as an independent research project by a Google engineer after he discovered that WiFi was insecure at most locations.According to the Google Secure Access FAQ, the service is only available at "certain Google WiFi locations in the San Francisco Bay Area". According to some reports, the service is working from some independent (non-Google) WiFi locations in NYC.Like many of Google’s other popular services such as Gmail, Google Secure Access is still in the beta testing stage.On Monday, October 9, 2006, Google Inc. announced its decision to purchase YouTube, the popular video-sharing site, for $1.65 billion in stock. Following the closure of the deal, YouTube will operate independently, "to preserve" its user community and its brand, the announcement said.Eric Schmidt, CEO of Google stated "The YouTube team has built an exciting and powerful media platform that complements Google's mission to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful. Our companies share similar values; we both always put our users first and are committed to innovating to improve their experience. Together, we are natural partners to offer a compelling media entertainment service to users, content owners and advertisers.""We are excited to have the resources to move faster than ever before," co-founder Chad Hurley, YouTube's 29-year-old CEO, told the Associated Press during a Monday interview.100 million videos are watched on the YouTube's flash based site every day, including professional movie and TV clips and music videos, as well as amateur content.According to published reports and information posted to the Writely.com website and blog, the service has re-opened its Writely account beta program.The Writely beta was launched in August 2005,and Google acquired the Writely technology on March 9, 2006. The core Writely service provides a free online collaborative word processor which is widely viewed as an alternative and potential competitor to more traditional locally-run word processing software.The service has claimed that thousands of people had previously registered for the service exclusively driven by word-of-mouth and the Writely blog. Shortly after being acquired by Google, the company greatly restricted the service and maintained a future customer sign up waiting list.Writely re-opened its beta service on August 17, 2006. According to the company's blog, the timing of the re-launch was due to a positive product review on CNET combined with persistent email requests asking the service to re-open. Additionally, Writely is planning to make its service available as part of the Google Account sign-in sometime on the near future.A number of industry sources have speculated on why Google chose to issue a press release on August 17, 2006 touting its involvement in a Star Trek convention and failed to release any information on the Writely beta re-open. While Google has proven  reticent to release and publish product information in the past, the lack of any published information for the Writely beta re-open has generated a greater than usual number of web posts and articles addressing the subject.On Tuesday morning, many Comcast internet users were reporting problems connecting to Google services, such as web search, personalized pages, and Gmail.Since the original reporting, other US ISP users also reported that they could not connect to Google.Google released a statement saying that they are investigating the problem. Comcast support states that a ticket has been filed.Internet users also reporting that other leading websites, such as YouTube and Amazon were not loading on the same ISP networks.Outages by the leading websites are not uncommon, such as a technical glitch at AOL back in June that delayed emails for several hours.The Google outage brought up the topic of Net Neutrality on many internet websites and forums, such as Digg.It has been announced that a DNS server in Massachusetts went down, causing the problems and that it has been fixed.Google is being sued by the Authors Guild, among others, due to the verbatim publishing of contents of their books in Google Print for Libraries, a search engine for searching books that started in December. The Authors Guild wants Google to make the content from books protected under copyright unavailable, as they claim that they have never given permission for their text to be published. However, Google offers the option of having their text removed from their databases.Google also claims that the text is used under fair use, as they only include "snippets" of the text, and not the entire book. Also, Google sees Google Print as an incentive to authors, as it could help boost sales. “This ability to introduce millions of users to millions of titles can only expand the market for authors’ books, which is precisely what copyright law is intended to foster,” says Google.The lawsuit was filed by three writers in a New York federal court, and has the support from the U.S.-based Authors Guild. The suit acknowledges that text snippets presented via the internet to users is legal under the U.S. definition of fair use. Rather, the complaint centers on the wholesale copying of a book's text into Google databases.Another Google Print program, called "Google Print for Publishers", seeks consent from publishers (such as Simon & Schuster, who has given permission) to publish their works. Considering as publishers may be holders of the copyright in book contents, this could be the sole project of Google Print, assuming Google Print for Libraries is deemed "massive copyright infringement" by the District Court in Manhattan where the suit was filed.Last Tuesday in Taipei, Google Taiwan held an annual summary press conference named "Collective Intelligence & Innovation" (In Chinese: 匯聚智慧、集體創新). With many products had already been presented to the public like wikis, blogs, and photo albums in the Web 2.0 era, Google served to provide lots of services like Google Apps, Google Maps and YouTube with suitable versions in Taiwan differing other countries this year.Global Deputy Director of Google Kai-Fu Lee said: "The contents on the Internet were mostly limited with some copyright issue in the past, but after many products in the Web 2.0 era are presented, several contents are progressively released and opened to the public in the presence. As those factors, we [Google] hope developers in Taiwan can develop useful tools for local people to apply with people's life.""In order to change minds in public, we [Google] conjoined some required elements into people's life, and services on iGoogle in Taiwan are progressively more and newer because of the improvements of developers. We hoped a simple service can be multiplied with releases of useful and functional tools," he also said.Also in this conference, the Engineering Director of the Google Taiwan R&D Center Li-feng Chien also announced the achievements on the "Google Taipei Developers' Day" and invited developers named Chi-pao Hu and Yi-ru Lin to share some actual applications on iGoogle.Google today released Google Talk (link) in beta, an Instant Messaging (IM) and computer-to-computer voice talk product, using the Jabber protocol (built from XMPP). At this early stage the service is only available to users with a Google Gmail account.  The official client, required for the voice functionality, is only available for Windows XP/2000 although existing IM clients such as Gaim and iChat on Mac and GNU/Linux platforms can be used for text chatting. The new service does not offer "Voice over IP" - users cannot call telephones, nor can telephones dial Google Talk users. It also has no voice-mail system, unlike rival Yahoo's offering, which is also no longer in beta. Google Talk also does not log chats, and offers no method of searching conversations. Only the last 20 lines of any conversation are recorded.This positions Google to compete with the popular service Skype.  Like Google Talk, Skype's PC-to-PC communications are free.  Skype also offers gateways to and from various regional phone services for which it charges.  It is not known at this stage if Google intends to enter that market.The largest search engine on the web, Google receives over 200 million queries each day through its various services.  Other recent releases include the Gmail email service and Google Earth, which lets users view satellite photos and other map information.File:Google Wave.jpgGoogle has decided to retire the Google Wave social-networking service after one year, citing lack of user adoption.Urs Hölzle, Google senior vice president for operations, said in a blog post that "Wave has not seen the user adoption we would have liked. We don't plan to continue developing Wave as a stand-alone product." Hölzle also said that as a "web app for real time communication and collaboration, it set a high bar for what was possible in a Web browser. We weren't quite sure how users would respond to this radically different kind of communication." Google says that it will continue the service until the end of the year.In May 2009, Google launched Wave as a private beta. A year later, it became open to the public. Wave is an email service that integrates social media features and capabilities into emailing. It integrates IM-like features into its service. The company released components of Google Wave as open source for those to create a similar service. "The central parts of the code, as well as the protocols that have driven many of Wave’s innovations, like drag-and-drop and character-by-character live typing, are already available as open source, so customers and partners can continue the innovation we began. In addition, we will work on tools so that users easily "liberate" their content from Wave," Google said.Ever since Google Android was discussed at the 2007 Google Developer Day, and the conceptual structure of the GPhone was announced last year, mobile phone manufacturers, including Motorola, HTC, and Samsung, have been highly interested in manufacturing the GPhone.The "GPhone" will be built with "Android" inside, which has had several issues with multi-language transformation and localization in different countries.  It was confirmed to thirty-three manufacturers that the GPhone's launch will be postponed to 2008 Q4 or 2009 Q1 after the stability of Android is greater.Although the postponement was confirmed, some industrial analysts commented that GPhone will be the greatest opponent for iPhone after its launch.This week Google's on-line video sharing website YouTube launches its own awards ceremony. The site will present the best user-generated videos posted during 2006 in seven categories. The starting point is Monday and users will end voting on Friday. Winners will get their trophies on March 26.The categories that YouTube is going to present include: most creative or inspirational video, best series, as well as music video or commentary and best comedy. The last category, number seven, is called "most adorable video ever" and it is to continue the tradition of videos starring cats and dogs while asleep.Those that are nominated are able to promote themselves on YouTube during the following five days. These users are also able to plead for votes.The $1.65 billion Google's acquisition gathered a huge number of fans. According to Jamie Byrne, head of YouTube product marketing, 2006 was a pioneering year for sites that rely on user's content. However, companies like Viacom, believe one category is missing - "Best Professionally Produced Copyrighted Video." Last week Viacom sued Google together with YouTube for more than $1 billion. The lawsuit states that the ever increasing popularity of YouTube is due to a massive uploads of copyrighted videos including "The Colbert Report" and "South Park".Antonis Tsipropoulos (Αντώνης Τσιπρόπουλος), the administrator of the Greek blog aggregating service blogme.gr, has been sued, arrested and jailed, because one of the linked RSS feeds on his site had satirical content. Although the service was unrelated in any way other than linking to the allegedly offending blog, the blogme.gr server was shut down and its hard drives were confiscated.Mr Tsipropoulos posted an explanation for the service's downtime, describing his arrest but naming neither the satirical blog nor the plaintiff. Tsipropoulos later removed the explanation at his lawyers' advice because it might appear to be contemptive to the authorities, because it stated that an aggregating service has nothing to do with the various feeds' content. Although Tsipropoulos gave no clues to the identity of the plaintiff, the only satirical blog known to appear in blogme.gr lampooned televangelist and national mysticist Dimosthenis Liakopoulos. It is suspected that Liakopoulos is the plaintiff. More will be known in the upcoming trial.Hitachi Global Storage Technologies, the San Jose, California-based joint venture of Japanese storage vendor Hitachi and U.S. technology giant IBM, has set a new record for storage density at 230 gigabits per square inch (Gb/in2). The company has developed technology to implement a recording method known as perpendicular recording, which allowed the increase in density above the current ~130 Gb/in2 limit.Techworld claims there is a race between Hitachi and Toshiba for who will get the first drives to market which use the technology. According to Hitachi, they expect, "to ship [their] first perpendicular recording product in 2005 on a 2.5-inch hard drive". Toshiba is also planning to ship a drive in 2005 that uses perpendicular recording.According to Techworld, Toshiba will ship an 80 GB, 1.8" drive in 2005. Toshiba's 1.8" drives are used in portable electronic devices such as Apple's iPod, which is currently available in sizes 60 GB and smaller.While all commercially available hard drives to date use longitudinal recording, perpendicular recording has roots in research done in academic circles over 100 years ago.Hitachi Tech has produced a Flash animation that explains the rudiments of perpendicular recording in a music-video style.Inspired by the 1970s Schoolhouse Rock series of educational animation shorts, the flash movie features whimsical moments with data bits and disk platters that speak and sing (not possible with today's technology), it also contains realistic details. Of no importance to the viewer, but perhaps of interest to some, the animation shows Texas Instruments' UC5608DWP chips visible briefly in the background. While TI's UC5608DWP 18-line SCSI terminator chips have been made obsolete by the new UCC5618, the chips are indeed designed for use in hard drives.On Wednesday, long-time White House correspondent Helen Thomas questioned White House Press Secretary Dana Perino bluntly and repeatedly about United States President George W. Bush's recent confirmation that he had approved CIA interrogation policies that included waterboarding."Where is everybody?" asked Thomas, apparently frustrated with lack of attention her colleagues had given the issue. The community at the social news site reddit answered "Here we are"; a message they plan to deliver along with several thousand dollars in flowers and other gifts.Thomas's questions became front-page news on reddit this morning, via a Think Progress blog post that includes a C-SPAN 2 video clip of Thomas during yesterday's press briefing. Noting the president's repeated assertion that the U.S. does not torture, Thomas characterized the authorized interrogation techniques as torture. "Now he has admitted that he did sign off on torture, he did know about it," said Thomas, "so how do you reconcile this credibility gap?" Perino reiterated that the "United States has not, is not torturing any detainees in the global war on terror." Whether waterboarding, among other techniques, should be categorized as torture has been a subject of political contention in recent months. Thomas was unequivocal, responding to Perino: "That's not my question. My question is, why did he say publicly 'we do not torture', when he really did know that we do?" In appreciation of the reporter asking "A REAL QUESTION" (as the headline put it), reddit users (known as "redditors") have collected over $3,000 for the purchase of flowers, edible arrangements and other gifts. Several 'redditors' also claimed to have ordered flowers for Thomas independently.The bulk of the money was collected through Chipin.com, on a donation page created Micah Fitch, a musician and graphic designer in Minneapolis, Minnesota. As of publication, the site registered 400 contributors for a total of $3,125. Fitch also created a wiki, FlowersWiki, for organizing the gift purchases and selecting messages to go with them. A large delivery to the Washington D.C. offices of Thomas's employer Hearst Newspapers is being scheduled for Friday morning.One redditor claims that a friend who works for The Daily Show is pitching the story to the show's staff.This is not the first time Thomas has received a high-volume flower gift. In 2006, an e-mail campaign that began on the political website Democratic Underground collected over $2000 and resulted in delivery of 108 dozen roses.This Monday Hewlett-Packard is to announce that it is expanding its partnership with SAP. The partnership will be working with NetWeaver around several new services. The company is also expected to mention about its new enterprise solutions that are currently in development.Hewlett-Packard will offer its clients services for upgrading servers, storage and NetWeaver – SAP's application builder platform meant for integrating business processes throughout different systems. Among other services that the company is going to provide comprise assessment, governance and some architecture services for R3.The manager of Worldwide Packaged Applications for Enterprise Applications Services at HP Services Consulting & Integration, Tim Treat, stated that the company first of all looks at servers, storage and management and only afterwards it makes a proposal regarding the things that are to be updated. He mentioned that when Hewlett-Packard will work on upgrading servers and management, it will turn its attention towards Intel. After performing all the upgrades, the company is going to offer its clientele a variety of services package options that are related to NetWeaver. The services offered by Hewlett-Packard will include: enabling the service, design and implementation, application development and management.Tim Treat said that adaptive infrastructure is one of the company's new things that are to come. Recently the company's clients have put in place enough hardware capacity and infrastructure with the goal of supporting peak or quarter-end processes. However, a big amount of that capacity is unused till peak times. This is why Hewlett-Packard looks forward to bring solutions that are to allow users pay for the things they really use.Treat also outlined the fact that, besides its new services, the company is to announce business-process consulting together with IDS Scheer - software and consulting company, which is one of the leading providers of Business Process Management and IT solutions.The U.S. Department of Homeland Security has dedicated $1.24 million in funding in its effort to protect open-source software. Stanford University, Coverity and Symantec have all taken up the challenge to perform daily scans of code, hunting for security bugs. An automated system to achieve this search will be in place by March '06.File:Robot asimo cropped.jpgAt its headquarters in Tokyo, Japan, Honda Motor Company demonstrated on Tuesday technology which links a person's thoughts with robots.The operator wears a helmet which scans for electric currents stimulated by brain activity, but also uses infrared sensors to detect changes in blood flows in the head. The information is sent to a computer, which can then execute robotic movements such as opening the trunk of the vehicle or turning on the car's air conditioning. The commands usually take just seconds to reach the robot.Honda also released a video where a humanoid robot named Asimo was operated by a person wearing the helmet. The employee was stated to be thinking about raising his right hand, after which Asimo moved its right arm.Honda states that it could be quite some time before the technology is ready to go live due to difficulties such as the human brain's liability to become distracted, creating mixed thought patterns. A related problem is the amount of focus required by the operator. "Practical uses are still way into the future." said Honda Research Institute Japan Co executive, Yasuhisa Arai. "I'm [just] talking about dreams today."The Wikileaks website, which publishes sensitive and censored material submitted by anonymous contributors, has experienced unprecedented levels of Internet traffic today through public interest. This interest has caused the website's servers to be unable to meet the demand of over 164 gigabytes of download traffic within twenty-four hours, leading the site to be temporarily inaccessible. The film Fitna, directed and produced by Dutch politician Geert Wilders, has caused controversy for its presentation of Wilders' negative view of Islam as being committed to world domination and acts of terrorism. A trailer for the film was widely uploaded to many video sharing sites, including YouTube and Google Video; this met with anger from Islamic nations, the debacle culminating in Pakistan's government ordering the nation's internet service providers to block the YouTube site. This caused YouTube to be inaccessible to residents of other countries whose Internet service providers' equipment automatically began routing traffic to YouTube via Pakistan Telecom's servers, due to their ban accidentally propagating to other providers. Ultimately, YouTube acquiesced to the demands made by Pakistan and other organisations, in exchange for access being restored. The site LiveLeak originally hosted a copy of the trailer, which has now been replaced with a video message stating that the lives of their staff have been put at risk due to hosting it. As a consequence of this censorship, Wikileaks mirrored the video, receiving heavy access traffic through hosting one of the few copies remaining on the Internet. Wikinews has obtained an exclusive statement from a representative of Wikileaks, affirming that the site has not been taken off-line due to external pressure, and is instead suffering technical problems due to this high demand. The representative gave the following statement:Wikileaks gained recent public attention in the Bank Julius Baer vs. Wikileaks lawsuit, following publication of leaked documents that were alleged to provide evidence of money laundering, tax evasion and asset hiding by Swiss financial institution Bank Julius Baer. The documents are said to have been uploaded by Rudolf Elmer, a former chief operating officer of the bank's Cayman Islands division, who was sacked following an investigation by the bank that involved polygraph testing. Wikileaks has not, however, stated that Elmer was the source of the documents. Bank Julius Baer sought an injunction against the operator of Wikileaks' domain name, Dynadot, to remove access to the site from the Wikileaks.org domain; this was granted by the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. The site was consequently inaccessible through this domain, although access could be obtained through many alternate addresses. Following activity by organisations such as the Electronic Frontier Foundation and the American Civil Liberties Union, who sought to defend the right to free speech that Wikileaks relied upon, the lawsuit was dropped and access was restored.IBM has announced a new project called Kittyhawk, which entails constructing a global-scale shared supercomputer capable of hosting the entire Internet on one platform as an application.  Currently the Internet is a collection of interconnected computer networks.IBM has prepared a white paper detailing the project.  The Kittyhawk will be based on the previously developed IBM supercomputer called Blue Gene. In theory the Kittyhawk will have up to 16,384 racks, providing a maximum of 67.1 million cores with 32 petabytes of memory.According to the introduction of the white paper, "Project Kittyhawk’s goal is to explore the construction and implications of a global-scale shared computer capable of hosting the entire Internet as an application. This research effort is in an early stage, so this paper describes our conjectures and our ongoing work rather than a completed set of results."The Kittyhawk project has created much discussion in the technology community.  One of the main topics of discussion is the comparison of Kittyhawk to Skynet the fictional supercomputer, in the movie series Terminator, which attempts to destroy all human life and take over Earth.IBM and Cisco have announced the development of a new platform, based on Eclipse and OSGi (Open Services Gateway initiative), which should unite all communication and collaboration software developers under a single platform.Before the UC2 (Unified Communication and Collaboration) the unified communication has suffered because of a lack of a platform to be used by all software developers, rather than a series of them and, moreover, provided by different vendors. According to Adam Gartenberg from IBM Lotus Software Group this was the main cause for this partial stagnation.However, the UC2 is meant to ease the work of software developers. Gartenberg stated that this platform is very flexible and will certainly draw much attention form programmers. They will be able to create different plug-ins and small applications to remotely control other, major application. The companies have also unveiled a series of their other joint projects. These project will be based on a set of application programming interface from Lotus (SameTime) and Cisco.The add-ons planned are integration of a series of additional functions and features into the SameTime software from Lotus. Thus, in a few months, the SameTime users will benefit from such functions as click-to-call and voicemail. This will enable easier instant messaging inside the Cisco's Unified IP phones' system.The fact that the platform will be based on Eclipse will make the numerous developers create many communications services, mainly for remote users to benefit from a series of new functions of ERP and CRM applications.Nortel Networks - a partner of Microsoft since last year and Cisco's rival in the area - didn't have much success in the communication services field.As for Microsoft, the experts are waiting for the reaction of the Bill Gates' company on the ideas and offers made by IBM and Cisco for enterprise communications and collaboration solutions.IBM and Google have partnered to start production on a desktop search program for corporate users. Previously, IBM's OmniFind could only look inside standard applications such as Oracle, and Google's Desktop Search program didn't have any extensive network capabilites. The end product of this collaboration will allow for searching managed databases, as well as many unmanaged files, such as personal e-mails, Microsoft Word documents, and rich media files, within corporate servers."Getting these two products together makes sense for both of us," David Girouard, general manager of Google's enterprise business unit. "If you want to have a good corporate search product, you have to have desktop search," he said.No exchange of money has been made between the two companies, and this announcement comes only a few weeks after Google announced its partnership with Sun Microsystems, Inc. Some speculate that Google is making a move to directly challenge Microsoft Corp. in the field of PC Desktop software.United States —"IBM hereby commits not to assert any of the 500 U.S. patents listed below, as well as all counterparts of these patents issued in other countries, against the development, use or distribution of Open Source Software." [1]So begins the pledge IBM has made to "any individual, community, or company" writing or using software defined as "open source" by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).The patents include software for text recognition and database management.[2]"True innovation leadership is about more than just the numbers of patents granted. It's about innovating to benefit customers, partners and society", said Dr. John E. Kelly, IBM senior vice president, Technology and Intellectual Property. "Our pledge today is the beginning of a new era in how IBM will manage intellectual property."[3]"This is not a one-time event", said Dr. Kelly. "While IBM will continue to demonstrate leadership in patent output, through measures such as today's pledge, we will increasingly use patents to encourage and protect global innovation and interoperability through open standards and we urge others to do so as well."Lawrence Lessig, law professor at Stanford Law School and free software proponent commented:  "This is exciting.  It is IBM making good on its commitment to encourage a different kind of software development and recognizing the burden that patents can impose."[4]Not all are confident of IBM's motives, though.Florian Mueller, campaign manager of anti-patent website,NoSoftwarePatents.com, accused IBM of hypocrisy because of lobbying in the European Union to push through theComputer Implemented Inventions Directive."IBM is just being hypocritical because they want to appease the open source community and make themselves popular," said Mueller."In Europe, IBM is a driving force behind the extension of the scope of patentability with respect to software. If IBM wants to assume the role of a post-Christmas benefactor, they'd better stop their aggressive patent lobbying in the EU and their shameless squeezing of small and medium-sized companies with its patent portfolio." [5]IBM's T.J. Watson Research Center in Cambridge released a free tool March 25 for visualizing the changing history of a document or directory of documents, called history flow.  The tool offers a variety of views of document histories, including a view that gives each revision equal importance, and a timeline view which displays each revision proportionally to how long it remained current.  Each different editor who makes changes to the article has a distinct color, allowing for that editor's text to be tracked over time.  The tool was first developed in 2003 by a collaboration between Fernanda B. Viégas of the MIT Media Lab and Martin Wattenberg and Kushal Dave of IBM.  It was initially tested out on a large subset of the pages of Wikipedia, a free online encyclopedia project which preserves every change made to each of its articles.  The resulting paper was drafted in the winter of 2003 and presented at a conference in April 2004; it remains the most comprehensive overview of the lifecycle of articles in an active wiki community.  A year later, the history flow paper is still the most frequently cited source of statistics about the reversion of vandalism on Wikipedia.The current tool is maintained by Martin Wattenberg and Jonathan Feinberg at IBM.  It allows users to download the text and histories of the contents of any MoinMoin wiki, or to view the history of the contents of an entire directory of documents.  The tool is free to download and use, but its code is not open source.  The support for MoinMoin wikis comes via a plugin, so the tool may be extensible to the native interfaces of other wiki engines in the future.On Sunday the representatives of International Business Machines Inc. said that the company will launch its new desktop software system for businesses. IBM's new product is called “Open Client Offering”. The company hopes that its product will put Macintosh or Linux software on a more equal footing with Windows.The Open Client Offering software was developed by IBM in-house, as well as with partners like Novell Inc. and Red Hat Inc. It is to answer the questions regarding the cost-effectiveness of managing Linux or Apple desktop personal computers alongside Windows PCs. IBM officials stated that Open Client Offering will allow enterprises to use the same software on  Windows, Linux or Apple's OS X. It will be unnecessary for companies using Open Client to pay Microsoft for licenses for operations because these will no longer rely on Windows-based software.Scott Handy, IBM's vice president of Linux and open source, stated that the company worked together with the open source community and in the end found a way to develop a software that is able to function regardless of the operating system.To create an alternative to Microsoft, IBM is going to offer Open Document Format software that the company developed for word processing, spreadsheets or presentations, instant messaging and blog tools and Internet Explorer's long time rival – Firefox Web browser. The software developers at IBM believe that the usage of Open Client Offering can cut the cost of managing applications as well as maintenance and cost regarding customer support on company networks that require other software rather than Windows.PSA Peugeot Citroen, being the second largest car manufacturer, signed a multi-year agreement with Novell, which is the provider of Linux software, to run Linux on its 20,000 desktop PCs. In addition Linux will be installed on 2,500 server computers.      RedMonk's analyst, Stephen O'Grady, said that today there is a strong appetite for Windows alternatives. However, he said, this doesn't mean that the alternatives are to displace Windows wholesales. O'Grady outlined that no one is going to significantly damage the desktop dominance of Microsoft.Yesterday, Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), the agency governing Internet addresses,   approved the creation of an "adult entertainment" Internet address, .xxx, on the web, first proposed in 2003.  ICANN is the manager of the Internet's top-level domains, such   .com, .org and .net. ICANN's decision means success for  the Florida-based ICM Registry (ICM), the company that first applied for the .xxx domain in 2004. ICM will oversee the new domain and  will sell the .xxx Web addresses. ICM hopes that  the establishment of a .xxx domain  will contribute a degree of  predictability and security to the largely unrestrained world of Internet websites.  Its chief executive, Stuart Lawley, said, "For the first time, there will be a clearly defined Web address for adult entertainment, out of the reach of minors and as free as possible from fraud or malicious computer viruses." The decision was criticized  by some of the Internet pornography industry's biggest players who fear they could be the target of  arbitrary censorship by governments and boards regulating  the .xxx domain.  Anti-pornography campaigners also criticized the move,  saying it gives  the sex industry legitimacy. But since the .xxx system and its vetting process is voluntary,  popular pornographic sites are not likely to trade their .com domains for  .xxx. Anti-porn critics say that users who think they are  avoiding porn by filtering  out .xxx domains will therefore be misled.  ICM's Lawley saw only positive outcomes from the decision: "Everybody wins. The consumer of adult sites wins. The providers will benefit because more people will become paying customers. And those who don't want to go there will win as well, because the sites will be easier to filter."On Friday, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) ratified the next generation of Wi-Fi Alliance certification known as 802.11n.  The path to ratification began on September 11, 2003 with 11 major drafts of the specification over the course of six years. Even though just approved, wireless devices have been available on the the market for over two years, running on what is known as "draft n" or "pre-N".  The 802.11n standard operates on both the 2.4Ghz and 5.0Ghz frequencies.  This will allow it to be backwards compatible with 802.11a, 802.11b and 802.11g, provided that the base station has dual radios.  The speeds of 802.11n are substantially faster than that of its predecessors with a maximum theoretical throughput of 600Mbit/s.Very few additions were made to the 802.11n draft standard over the last two years, so most if not all "draft n" hardware available on the market today is expected to be compatible with n-standard devices available in the future.  In a similar process of the upgrade from "pre-G" to 802.11g, it is expected that most manufacturers of wireless hardware will release new firmware to bring all draft devices up to full standard compliance.The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) approved two new IEEE 1394 Firewire standards last week.S1600 and S3200 — which enable data transmission rates up to 1.6 Gbps and 3.2 Gbps respectively  — would make Firewire (Apple's name for the standard) theoretically four times faster than is currently possible.According to IEEE, the new standards are based on IEEE 1394b (FireWire 800) Standard. The new standard will allow peer-to-peer transfer without linking computers. In addition, the S1600 and S3200 standards will continue supporting the S400 and S800 previous standards through backward compatibility."The new standard includes all of the amendments, enhancements and more than 100 errata which have been added to the base standard over the last 12 years," Les Baxter, chair of the working group which developed the standard, said in a press release cited in several sources. "This update provides developers with a single document they can rely upon for all of their application needs."          The standard should be ready for deployment in October. Though not as common as the USB standard, Firewire serves a niche market, especially the aviation industry.USB 3.0, the next generation of the competing USB standard, is due in 2010 with reported speeds of 4.8 Gbps.If you've always wanted to live in a world populated by elves, dwarves and wizards, you don't need to pay for a World of Warcraft subscription or buy the Special Extended DVD Trilogy Edition of The Lord of the Rings just yet. You could instead give Battle for Wesnoth a try — an open source turn-based strategy game in a fantasy setting. For the practically minded, "open-source" means that the code which the game is made of is available to anyone who wishes to use, redistribute or change it. It was created by volunteers and can be freely shared. Even the multiplayer online part of the game is free (no ads or spyware either).But Wesnoth, as it is often abbreviated, is notable not only because it is free. While its graphics are simple by modern standards, the sheer number of units and scenarios that are available for the game is staggering. This is where the "open source" philosophy comes truly into play: anyone can contribute art or new campaigns. As of May 2006, the forum where users can share and discuss their own art contained over 25,000 messages. Most of this art is made available under the same open source terms as the game itself.Battle for Wesnoth lets you command armies of units such as archers, swordmen, mages and gryphons during the course of a campaign consisting of multiple missions. Typically, your mission is to defeat an enemy leader, but some scenarios let you liberate a prisoner, find a lost artifact, traverse dangerous territories, and so on. Your best units can be taken from one mission to the next, "levelling up" in the process. Even units of the same type vary in their abilities, making the tactical use of the right unit at the right time very important.The game is reminiscent of turn-based strategy classics such as Heroes of Might and Magic or Warlords. Throughout each campaign, the player is informed of the progress of the story. For instance, in the "Heir to the Throne" campaign, the player follows the story of Prince Konrad, who must reclaim the throne of Wesnoth from an evil queen.The game was originally designed by David White, who is still the project's lead developer. We exchanged e-mails with David about the state of open source gaming, the future of Wesnoth, and the collaborative aspects of game development.David, thanks for taking our questions. Open source games suffer from the problem that very few people have all the abilities needed to make a good game: programming, graphics, story development, sound effects, music, and so on. When you started Battle for Wesnoth, how did you deal with this? Not very well.  :) Version 0.1 of Wesnoth was developed entirely by me, and it was ugly. It had awful graphics, and no sound or music at all.I think the best way to deal with the problem is to make an early version of the game which showcases the desired gameplay. Then, people with the appropriate skills who like the game will contribute. This worked out well with Wesnoth, anyhow, as I soon attracted a fine artist, Francisco Munoz, and once the graphics were decent, more people started wanting to help.I noticed that the forum allows anyone to submit art for the game. How important have contributions from ordinary players been for development?Well, as with almost any free software project, contributions from users have been very important. In the area of art, this is definitely so, though making a substantial contribution of art generally requires a reasonable amount of skill, so the number of people who can contribute art is somewhat limited.This has meant that the number of people who contribute art is much smaller than, say, the number of people who contribute bug reports or feature requests. Still, there are plenty of good pixel artists out there, and we have had many good contributions from our community.Also, within the game itself, it's possible to directly download new campaigns from the Internet, many of which have been created by players. Do you think that, in essence, we are seeing the beginnings of applying "wiki" principles to game development?On one hand, I see the ability to directly download new campaigns as a mild convenience — it wouldn't be much more difficult for the user to, for instance, go to a web page and download campaigns.On the other hand, it does blur the line between 'developer created content' and 'user created content' and so, like a Wiki, makes it much easier for any user to contribute to the game.I think that for an Open Source game, making it as easy as possible for users to contribute content is a key way to help make the game succeed. We have tried hard to do this in Wesnoth. I don't think that with something dynamic like a game, it's quite as easy to make absolutely anyone be able to edit it or contribute as easily as they can in a Wiki, but we have tried to make it as easy as possible. How do you moderate user-submitted content? Are there scenarios or graphics you have rejected because they crossed a line — sexual content, excessive violence, etc.?Well, there are basically three levels of content acceptance:'Official': content can be accepted into the game itself — the  content will reside in our SVN repository, and will be in the tarballs released by developers.'Campaign Server': Content can be allowed on the campaign server (the server which users can connect to in-game to download more content).'Disallowed': Finally, content can be disallowed on the campaign server, which means that the creator could only distribute it using their own channels (for instance, having a web site people could download it from).Content only makes it to (1) if the developers happen to like it very much. We don't have any firm rules as to what is allowed and disallowed, and a campaign that has short-comings from the developer's point of view might still be allowed if it is exceptional in other areas. As an example of this, the campaign 'Under the Burning Suns' contained explicit references to religion. To avoid controversy, we wanted to avoid references to religion in Wesnoth. However, recognizing the exceptional quality of the campaign, we decided to accept it into the official version of Wesnoth in spite of this one aspect we didn't like.Artwork containing nudity has also been a controversial point in the past, as has violence (particularly explicit depiction of blood). We generally take the point of view that we will review each item as it comes, rather than making blanket rules.With regard to whether we allow things onto the campaign server, (2), our general policy is that to be allowed onto the campaign server, the content need only be licensed under the GPL. However, we reserve the right to remove content that we consider to be distasteful in any way. Fortunately, our content submitters are generally very reasonable, and we haven't had to exercise this right.Our aim is to keep Wesnoth appropriate for users of any age and background — of course, it contains some level of violence, but this is not depicted very explicitly, and only parents who do not want to expose their children to animated violence of any level need be concerned. For this reason, we also do not allow expletives on our forums or IRC channels.How do you feel about games like "Second Life", where players trade user-generated content for money?I've never understood the appeal of games like that. I don't enjoy cheating in games, and to me buying items with real money seems like cheating — except worse, since it actually costs money.What changes to the game or gameplay do you anticipate in the coming months and years?Well, we've avoided making many gameplay changes at all, since very early on in Wesnoth's development. Wesnoth is meant to be a simple game, with simple gameplay, and 'changing' gameplay will probably lead to it being more complex. We want to keep it simple.Changes will probably focus on improving existing features, and making the engine a little more customizable. Enhancing the multiplayer component is big on the list — we've progressively added more and more features on the server. We also want to add more graphical enhancement. For instance, a particle system to allow various combat effects.If you had unlimited resources at your disposal to improve the game, what would you change about it?Wesnoth was always designed to be a simple game, with simple goals. It has exceeded all the expectations I originally had for it. There is still some 'polishing' work going on, but really I don't think there is too much I would dramatically change.Probably the largest thing I can name is a much better AI than we currently have. I'm pretty happy with the AI developed for Wesnoth — I think it's much better than AIs for most commercial games — but it could be better. That's the only area of Wesnoth that I think could really be very dramatically improved.I am pretty happy with our in-game graphics. Some people compare our graphics to modern commercial games, and think our graphics are laughably poor. We often get comments that our graphics are around the same quality as those seen in SNES or Genesis games, or PC games from a decade ago. (These people should try playing a strategy game on the SNES/Genesis/PC from this long ago; Wesnoth's graphics are much better).I am very happy with our graphics overall. I think our artists have done an excellent job of making the game look attractive without detracting from functionality. Adding 3D graphics, or changing the style of the 2D graphics would only be wasted effort in my mind — I think we've achieved a great balance of making the game easy and clear, while making it look good.With unlimited resources, I would like some more storyline/cutscene images, and a nice new title screen, but these are relatively small concerns I think.There are some enhancements to multiplayer I would like added — multiplayer campaigns is a long-time feature request. As are more options and features on the multiplayer server.Overall though, if I had 'unlimited resources', I'd much rather develop an entirely new game. We don't have enough good Open Source games — it's a waste to pour all the resources we have into one. :) Wesnoth has dwarves with guns, World of Warcraft has gnomes and goblins with explosives and flying machines — where do you, personally, define the limits of the fantasy genre? Are there scenarios playing in a steampunk world, or ones with modern technology? Would you allow those?Actually we have Dwarves with 'Thundersticks' :) — mysterious weapons that make a loud sound and do lots of damage, but are clumsy and unreliable. The developers do not comment on whether or not these 'thundersticks' are or are not like 'guns' on earth. We like to keep Wesnoth slightly mysterious, and leave some things up to the player's interpretation, rather than spell it out.We once used to have dragoons with pistols, and other weapons like that, but we made a very intentional decision to remove them.I don't like categorizing things into 'genres'. Many people debate whether Wesnoth is an 'RPG', or 'strategy game', etc. I think the debate of what genre something is in is largely irrelevant.We do have a vision for what the world of Wesnoth is like though — and Wesnoth is a world of ancient-era weaponry, with a little magic. Of Elves and Dwarves and Orcs. Very much inspired by Tolkien. I actually originally chose this setting because my focus was on technical excellence — writing a good, solid engine — not on creating a new fantasy world. I decided to stick with a very well-known, proven theme, figuring I couldn't go wrong with it.We probably wouldn't allow anything that departs dramatically from the world we've made into the official version of the game, but we'd be happy to have it on our campaign server. The main attempt at a 'total modification' of Wesnoth is a project known as Spacenoth, which has a sci-fi/futuristic theme.At this time though, there is no release of this project. I hope they do well though.How do you feel about turn-based games like "Heroes of Might and Magic" with their massive army-building and resource management? Do you think there's going to be an open source equivalent of this type of game soon?I haven't played Heroes of Might and Magic very much. The few times I have played it, I thought it was boring to be honest. I don't like the type of game where one marches armies around a 'large map' and then must 'zoom in' to a different 'battle field' every time a battle takes place. I find games like that to take far too long, and tend to become tedious.I would prefer a civilization or perhaps colonization type game. FreeCiv is nice, though it's close to being a clone of Civilization II. I'd like an original game that had the same sort of theme as civilization, but with new and innovative rules.Every online game and community is also a social space. Have you met interesting people through Wesnoth whom you would not have met otherwise? Are there other stories you can tell from the community — have there been real world meetups, chat rooms, etc.?I've come into contact with lots of very interesting people through Wesnoth, and have learned a great deal from them. The Wesnoth developers — many of whom are from Europe — used the LSM conference in France in 2004 as an opportunity to meet each other. Nekeme, an organization dedicated to developing and promotion Free games was kind enough to sponsor two developers to go. Unfortunately, I was not able to attend, but the developers who did had a very nice time.We have several IRC channels on irc.freenode.net, and the most popular ones — #wesnoth and #wesnoth-dev are usually fairly busy with both discussion about Wesnoth, and friendly discussion of other topics.Also, the developers have tried to make a habit of playing "co-operative multiplayer" games against the AI. During these games, we use the in-game chat facility to get to know each other better, and discuss improvements to the game.Are there other open source games that have personally impressed you, or that you enjoy playing?I'm afraid I haven't played many. I like RPGs, and I know lots of people love NetHack and similar games, but I much prefer party-based and generally more storyline-oriented RPGs.FreeCiv is pretty well-done, though I am happy to play commercial games, and so I think Civilization 3 and Civilization 4 are both technically superior in virtually every regard. I think that's an inevitable problem when you make an Open Source game a straight clone of a commercial game.Probably the most promising Open Source game I've seen is GalaxyMage, but it still has a long way to go.Honestly, I don't play that many games. I like playing commercial RPGs, usually console-based, with my wife, and I occasionally like playing the commercial Civilization series. To play an Open Source game, it'd have to be very good, and appeal to my tastes, and I haven't found any Open Source games like that, sadly.Authorities in Indonesia initiated an investigation after a pornographic film was illicitly screened on a 24-square-meter (roughly 260-square-foot) LED billboard in the capital city of Jakarta on Friday, in full view of rush hour commuters.The film, depicting a couple engaged in explicit sexual activity, appeared on the screen for several minutes — five, according to BBC News — during which time passerby took the opportunity to film the display and upload it onto the Internet. Following complaints to the South Jakarta Communications and Information Agency, authorities cut power to the billboard at about 2:45 p.m. to stop the screening. According to a report on Saturday by Agence France-Presse, the film, identified as Japanese erotica titled Watch Tokyo Hot, was believed to have been transmitted to the billboard by a personal computer. Awi Setiyono, head of public relations for the police, said the investigative team for the incident includes a cyber crime unit, with the intention of determining whether the billboard was hacked.Lestari Ady Wiryono, head of public information for South Jakarta, stated "The South Jakarta administration takes this matter seriously". She said on Friday she had no information on the culprits or the source of the film. "We received the report and we immediately severed the electricity to there", she said according to the Daily Mirror.The billboard, located in close proximity to the office of the South Jakarta mayor, is owned by PT. Matapena Komunika Advertama, a private company, while content screened on it is the responsibility of PT. Transito Adiman Jati Transito Adverstising, according to The Jakarta Post. According to Lestari, following the incident, staff from her office along with the investigating cyber crime unit visited PT. Transito's offices to gather information relating to the affected billboard.The Indonesian government blocks access to pornographic websites in the country, whilst also subjecting scenes of romance in public broadcasts to heavy censorship. Under a 2015 decree, the government subjects content shown on billboards to standards of "public ethics, aesthetics, public order, decency, security and the environment".Microprocessor company Intel Corporation has quit the board of directors for the One Laptop Per Child association (OLPC), a non-profit organization that aims to provide children in developing countries with inexpensive laptops. An Intel spokesman cited a "philosophical impasse" as the reason for the split.Intel joined the OLPC board in July 2007, agreeing to give financial and technological support to the project. Development began on a new laptop using an Intel processor rather than the current processor made by Advanced Micro Devices, a rival of Intel. A prototype of this machine was expected to be unveiled at the Consumer Electronics Show in Les Vegas, Nevada, which begins in a few days.According to Intel spokesman Chuck Mulloy, OLPC had repeatedly asked Intel to abandon its support for the Classmate PC, a similar laptop designed for children in developing countries, and focus entirely on the OLPC program. "At the end of the day, we decided we couldn't accommodate that request," Mulloy said.OLPC President Walter Bender said in an interview that Intel's resignation will have "no impact" on the program. "We never really got much going with Intel to have an impact," Bender said. He criticized Intel for a "seemingly half-hearted effort" in developing the new laptops and for using the agreement to make "marketing statements".This week in Taiwan Intel and other technology companies showcased server and computer hardware with processors built using "Penryn" technology, the second generation of quad core technology that is produced with the high-k metal Hafnium that has come to replace halogen and lead components, which are not environmentally safe.This new 45 nanometer (45nm) process technology included features on Intel Streaming SIMD Extensions 4 (SSE4) compatible with video decoding (encoding) software, "Radix 16" which increased computing efficiency, and "deep power down" technology for energy efficiency. For the SSE4 feature, this will benefit makers of high-definition and AV-media, as both HDMI and 1080p are supported.Companies that will participate in the Taiwan Informonth exhibition next month, announced that some products with "Penryn" processors will be on the market by then. Some companies like Tyan and Supermicro will provide small business solutions as well as enterprises solutions. This launch will be tied to other unveilings by the IT and AV-media industries in Taiwan.After the launch of Intel Atom for low-price PCs during the 2008 COMPUTEX Taipei, Intel globally unveiled the Centrino 2 Processor Technology (formerly codenamed "Montevina") products for laptops yesterday July 15.This Centrino 2 continues support for features on the earlier-released 45 nanometer (45nm) "Penryn" processor, and implements enhanced security and management features to the Vpro version. "HD-to-Go" for mobile entertainment and "802.11n" for wireless networking were embedded into this new processor technology. Due to the difference on networking infrastructure in several nations, the WiMAX feature will be added in Europe and North America before this December.According to Intel Corp., wireless network transmission with 802.11 draft-N feature will be up to 450 Mbps, it delivered five times the speed and twice the range of older 802.11a/g technology in this processor technology. In addition, Intel Centrino 2 also provided the horsepower and battery life for mobile entertainment and mobile business.Technology giant Intel released its second quarter results Tuesday, which were the best in the 42 years of the company's existence. The stronger than anticipated results boosted the company's share price, along with those of other technology firms.Intel's revenues over the quarter up to 26 June were $10.8 billion, with net profit at $2.9 billion. In the same quarter last year, the company made a loss of $398 million. Its gross margin rose to 67%, higher than the forecast of 64.1%. The results were better than forecast by either Intel or outside analysts.The company, which makes processors for around 80 percent of the world's personal computers, is thought to have benefited from an increase in demand for electronics as the world economy moves out of recession.“Strong demand from corporate customers for our most advanced microprocessors helped Intel to achieve the best quarter in the company’s 42-year history”, said chief executive Paul Otellini.Intel shares rose by 8% following the results. Shares in rival processor manufacturer AMD also rose by 5.5%, with other technology firms seeing similar rises. The Dow Jones index closed at 10,363.02 points, an increase of 146.75.Local Law enforcement officials acting on behalf of the European Commission raided offices of Intel and several computer makers this morning, a spokesman for the EU said. He did not specify which countries or which other firms were involved. However, a spokesman for Intel Germany, Hans-Jürgen Werner, said that Intel's offices in Munich and Swindon were among those searched.It emerged on Wednesday 13th, that raids also took place at Intel's facility in County Kildare, Ireland in relation to the firms anti-competitive business practices. Intel employs over 5,000 people at its Irish manufacturing facility.The raids are most likely connected to an ongoing anti-trust investigation against Intel by the EU. It is alleged that the company used its market dominance to bully its clients into buying its chips instead of AMD ones. Intel is denying the allegations.Wikinews has learned that the internet group known only as "Anonymous" has hacked the website of the No Cussing Club (NCC), nocussing.com, for at least two days in a row. On day one, the group hacked into the website, replacing the content with links to images of alleged e-mail conversations. The e-mails appear to be from the founder's e-mail account, accusing organization members of forgery and using the site for their own personal financial gains. The website was also replaced with Anonymous's logo and a message. On January 22, they again attacked the website, by means of a Distributed Denial-of-service attack (DDoS), bringing it offline periodically throughout the day. Anonymous attacked the Scientology website in 2008 with a DDoS attack, taking it off-line for at least two days."It has come to our attention that the creators of the no cussing club, McKay and Brent Hatch have done so at great personal gain. Their material promotes the organization as the brainchild of their 14-year-old son, when actually the material is written by his parents, who also manage his profitable career while using his speaking events to plug their own material," said Anonymous on the hacked website. On Encyclopedia Dramatica, a satire Wiki, they claim further responsibility for the hack and exposition saying they managed to break into McKay and Brent Hatch's email accounts. "[the accounts got] haxx0rd and via this astonishing development passwords were got and a certain website got its shit ruined." According to the NCC's website, it has 20,000 members worldwide, was founded in 2007 by McKay Hatch, a 14-year-old boy, and aims at discouraging swearing in public places such as schools. In 2008, McKay even succeeded in making cussing illegal in his hometown of South Pasadena, California and has appeared on various talk shows such as that of Doctor Phil. However, according to e-mails leaked to Wikinews, allegedly written by the boy's father Brent, a motivational speaker also owning Dawson Publishing, the parents are allegedly using the site and their son's material for their own personal financial gain. Anonymous also claims that the parents have forged some of their son's writings and claim it to be his.The e-mails allege that Brent along with his publishing company, the name which "nocussing.com" is also registered under, were trying to set up assemblies in the No Cussing Club's name at schools across the United States for US$1,500.00 per show and would then pocket the money, doing the same for postcards they created for churches and schools."McKay spoke last night to a group of 40 people, and at the end of his presentation, there wasn't a dry eye in the crowd. I know this is going to work because the message is so important. Thanks for all you do and I hope we can work together for a long time, and of course make money in the process," said Brent in an alleged e-mail conversation on November 25, 2008. Earlier in August 2008, Brent spoke about hoping to reach a "goal" of "2.5 million dollars" by selling thousands of postcards to "schools and churches".On January 19, 2009, ABC News.com reported that McKay claimed Anonymous was sending him and his family hate e-mail and death threats, nearly 50,000 per day, "almost all of them filled with obscenities" and spam. On the NCC's website, McKay calls himself the "most cyberbullied kid on the planet" because of Anonymous's attacks."A lot of people were saying I was taking away their freedom of speech," said McKay to ABC News on January 16. "All I was trying to do was raise awareness." He says he formed the club because his schoolmates were sick of hearing people swear in public. Wikinews contacted the NCC to confirm or deny the reports, but would only say that "the FBI is [working] on it [the case]" including "our attorney and we will press charges" against those who are responsible for the crimes.Anonymous is known to prank and hack websites and e-mail accounts. In September 2008, the group hacked into BillOreilly.com, the official website of Fox News Channel commentator Bill O'Reilly, exposing personal information of the site's users in a document posted on the internet.The NCC is located in South Pasadena. According to the California Penal Code §502 part C of the computer hacking laws, depending on the offense if caught, punishments could be a "fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months, or two or three years, or by both that fine and imprisonment, or by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars ($5,000), or by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by both that fine and imprisonment".On October 20, 2008, Dmitriy Guzner, aged 18 from New Jersey, admitted to the charges related to carrying out the DDoS attack on Scientology's website. He was subsequently charged with computer hacking crimes and faces a maximum sentence of ten years imprisonment.The computer hacking organization Lulz Security disbanded yesterday, said the group in a statement. Released via Pastebin, it states "[o]ur planned 50 day cruise has expired, and we must now sail into the distance."The announcement comes a day after The Guardian released leaked IRC logs of private conversations between LulzSec members and days after the arrest of a British teenager in connection to the group.With the announcement the group released previously unseen private information. Included was AT&T and AOL internal data, Battlefield Heros Beta user account data, and user information from the NATO bookstore. In total over 810,000 people's user information was present in this final release.LulzSec became known after they allegedly hacked the Play Station Network, rendering the service unusable. The group allegedly proceeded to hack US federal government websites such as those of the FBI and CIA. One of their last hacks targeted the Arizona Department of Public Safety in which they allegedly copied hundreds of confidential documents.While LulzSec has disbanded, there are copycat organizations in Italy and Brazil.The Pirate Bay, a file-sharing website based in Sweden, seeks to purchase its own island nation in an attempt to escape copyright laws. A group of people has launched a campaign to collect money via the Internet to acquire a former British sea platform situated in the North Sea, six miles (9.6 kilometers) off the British coast.The Pirate Bay states that the platform, named Sealand, will give users an easy way of sharing files protected by copyright in other nations. According to the statement made on the website, those who invest in purchasing Sealand will receive citizenship in it. The platform was occupied in 1967 by the associates and family members of Paddy Roy Bates, a former radio broadcaster and former British Army Major, who now form its royal family. Prince Roy and Princess Joan Bates and their son Prince Regent Michael are willing to sell the platform for £65m. The royal family claims that it is independent and outside of any country's jurisdiction. The sovereign status of the platform is disputed. The Government of the United Kingdom extended the territorial waters from 3 to 12 nautical miles after 1987, placing Sealand in its jurisdiction. However, Prince Roy simultaneously expanded the territory of Sealand and claimed continued independence. (See Sealand on Wikipedia.)Hired estate agents from Spain estimate the price of the floating island to be about 504 million pounds. The Swedish website mentioned that it was looking for alternatives to acquire Sealand. It also mentioned that if the "Internet-pirate" community is not able to buy Sealand, it will look for another small place to claim as its own.The Pirate Bay website was closed for some time in May 2006 due to Swedish police raids. The site was later re-opened from the Netherlands before moving back to Sweden.Between 10 to 15 of Bucharest's 61 Unirii Boulevard residents will be able to connect to the Internet through their power lines. Starting from May of this year, a trial was organised by Electrica Muntenia Sud, the electricity company of Bucharest and Southern Romania.The technology, known as Power Line Communications (PLC), enables the transmission of broadband Internet and fixed line telephony data through the existing electrical power network. The technology, in use by 13,000 people in 30 countries throughout the world, is considered very advantageous due to its high speeds and low cost. It uses infrastructure that is already available in most people's homes.Once the Unirii Boulevard trial concludes, and if it is successful, Electrica Muntenia Sud will roll-out the PLC Internet plan to the mass market. It is expected to be embraced by Romanians because its data transfer speed of 5Mps is available for a monthly subscription fee of less than 15 euro.Bucharest is the first city in Southeastern Europe to trial such innovative technology.International police cooperation organization Interpol has put Julian Assange, founder of the whistle-blowers' website Wikileaks, on its most-wanted list after a court in Sweden announced he was wanted for alleged sex crimes. Wikileaks is this week releasing more than 250,000 secret "cables" between US diplomats.Two weeks ago, Swedish authorities ordered the arrest of Assange for suspected rape, sexual molestation and illegal use of force. Interpol, the International Criminal Police Organization, yesterday released a "Red Notice" calling for Assange's arrest. Interpol stated that this type of notice is not an arrest warrant, but a request "to assist the national police forces in identifying or locating those persons with a view to their arrest and extradition."The incidents are alleged to have occurred in August of this year, several weeks after Assange released 75,000 documents detailing US military actions in Afghanistan. "The background is that he has to be heard in this investigation and we haven't been able to get a hold of him to question him," said Marianne Ny, director of prosecution in Sweden. It was first reported that he was suspected of rape later in August, when he described the allegations as part of a "smear campaign" against Wikileaks. Wikinews reported at the time that he said "the charges are without basis and their issue at this moment is deeply disturbing." A statement posted on Wikileaks' website after the charges were announced defended Assange. "We are deeply concerned about the seriousness of these allegations. We the people behind WikiLeaks think highly of Julian and he has our full support. While Julian is focusing on his defenses and clearing his name, WikiLeaks will be continuing its regular operations."Assange's lawyer, Mark Stephens, said that the allegations against him were made after the two women he is alleged to have raped found out that he was in relationships with both at the same time. "Only after the women became aware of each other's relationships with Mr. Assange did they make their allegations against him," Stephens said in a statement. Stephens added that he had not "received a single written word, at any time, in any form, from Swedish authorities on the Swedish investigation against our client," and he and Assange had only learnt about the case through reports in the media. "[This is] a clear contravention to Article 6 of the European Convention, which states that every accused must be informed promptly, in a language which he understands and in detail, of the nature and cause of the accusation against him," he added.Assange is currently residing in an unknown location. It has been reported he has attempted to disguise himself by cutting and dying his hair. He told Forbes magazine recently that Wikileaks has obtained documents containing evidence of corruption within a major US bank. He has reportedly been paying in cash and with friends' credit cards. Speaking about the release of the cables, he told ABC News: "US officials have for 50 years trotted out this line when they are afraid the public is going to see how they really behave." It was reported on Wednesday that Ecuador, a country which critically opposes US policies, has offered Assange residency.Along with the arrest, Assange is facing mounting pressure in the US over the leak of the cables. A retired CIA agent, Peter King, said Wikileaks should be designated a "terrorist organisation," and called for Wikileaks and Assange to be prosecuted for the release.On Monday evening, Hillary Clinton, US Secretary of State, condemned the publishing of the files, thought to be leaked by Bradley Manning, who served as an intelligence analyst with the US Army before being arrested. "It is an attack on the international community, the alliances and partnerships, the conversations and negotiations, that safeguard global security and advance economic prosperity," Clinton said. "There is nothing laudable about endangering innocent people, and there is nothing brave about sabotaging peaceful relations between nations on which our common security depends." She added that the US "deeply regrets" the leakage of the files.Speaking to Time magazine on the internet, Assange defended the release of the files. "It is not our goal to achieve a more transparent society, it's our goal to achieve a more just society," he said. He also confirmed that Wikileaks has obtained more classified material, saying:"[W]e have a lot of source material that ... remains unpublished." Assange added that it was "very important" to him that "the law is not what, not simply what, powerful people would want others to believe it is."Assange said in the interview with Time that all the documents had been reviewed and all names of informants had been redacted "carefully." He said: "They are all reviewed, and they're all redacted either by us or by the newspapers concerned." He also said that Wikileaks "formally asked the State Department for assistance with that. That request was formally rejected."He was asked whether he was concerned that publishing the files could be considered civil disobedience. "Not at all. This organization [Wikileaks] practices civil obedience, that is, we are an organization that tries to make the world more civil and act against abusive organizations that are pushing it in the opposite direction," he said. "We have now in our four-year history, and over 100 legal attacks of various kinds, been victorious in all of those matters."Domas Mituzas is a Lithuanian software developer recently given a temporary position on the Wikimedia Foundation's board. The position lasts until June this year, after which he has stated he will decide whether he will run for a full term of two years. As well as working for the Wikimedia Foundation, he is employed by MySQL AB.In light of his recent appointment to the board, Wikinews conducted the following interview with Domas Mituzas.January's second Interview of the Month was with Danny O'Brien of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) on 23 January in IRC. The EFF is coming off a series of high-profile successes in their campaigns to educate the public, press, and policy makers regarding online rights in a digital world, and defending those rights in the legislature and the courtroom. Their settlement with Sony/BMG, the amazingly confused MGM v Grokster decision by the Supreme Court of the United States, and the disturbing cases surrounding Diebold have earned the advocacy organization considerable attention.When asked if the EFF would be interested in a live interview in IRC by Wikinews, the answer was a nearly immediate yes, but just a little after Ricardo Lobo. With two such interesting interview candidates agreeing so quickly, it was hard to say no to either so schedules were juggled to have both. By chance, the timing worked out to have the EFF interview the day before the U.S. Senate schedule hearings concerning the Broadcast flag rule of the FCC, a form of digital rights management which the recording and movie industries have been lobbying hard for - and the EFF has been lobbying hard to prevent.In the year 2000, Dries Buytaert created Drupal, a freely licensed and open source tool to manage websites, as a bulletin board for his college dorm. Since Dries released the software and a community of thousands of volunteer developers have added and improved modules, Drupal has grown immensely popular. Drupal won the overall Open CMS Award in 2007, and some speakers in Drupal's spacious developer's room at FOSDEM 2008 were dreaming aloud of its world domination.Buytaert (now 29) just finished his doctoral thesis and has founded the start-up Acquia. The new company wants to become Drupal's best friend, with the help of an all-star team and US$7 million collected from venture capitalists. Wikinews reporter Michaël Laurent sat down with Dries in Brussels to discuss these recent exciting developments.The new version of Apple Inc.'s tablet computing device, the iPad 2, has gone on sale in the United States at Apple Stores and a number of other retailers (including Wal-Mart, Target, Sam's Club, Best Buy, Verizon, and AT&T), a shift from last year's launch which was only available through Apple's stores. The product will go on sale internationally on March 25.The device was announced on March 2 at an event at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California. CEO Steve Jobs emerged from sick leave to make the announcement.The iPad 2 has an all-new design and has several improvements over the original iPad. The device runs on a dual-core Apple A5 CPU. According to Jobs, the CPU's new dual-core capability enhances multitasking and doubles the processing speed. Apple additionally introduced a magnetic 'Smart Cover' accessory that snaps to the front screen of the device along with several new apps ported from the Mac OS X operating system and the iPhone. These include iMovie, GarageBand, and Photo Booth. The new iPad introduces front and rear cameras which enable FaceTime and video. The new tablet is fifteen percent lighter and 33 percent thinner than the previous version—thinner than an iPhone 4—and has beveled edges. It is available in black and white and continues to be capable of ten hours of battery life on a single charge.The announcement came after months of rumors about the successor to the original iPad. Competitors have designed tablets to compete with the iPad, such as Motorola's Xoom powered by the Android operating system. Apple, who normally follows a yearly product cycle, has pressed its iPad successor into the marketplace almost a full month earlier than usual.Tablet computers have existed for years but, until recently, have not been popular amongst consumers. Tablet sales totaled 90,000 in 2009. Apple sold nearly fifteen million iPads worldwide in 2010, generating US$2 billion in revenue within three months. In 2010, Apple held a 75% share of the tablet computer market. According to one analyst, even with competition, iPads will still make up at least 20 million of the more than 24 million tablet computers sold in the United States in 2011. An analyst predicted 'conservatively' that 35 million iPad 2s will be sold in 2011. One analyst credits Apple's enormous App Store for the iPad's continued domination. Apple also holds an advantage in price over other tablets, many of which are still first generation devices. An analyst at J.P. Morgan predicts an overabundance of tablets caused by faltering demand. This could have drastic effects on competitors.The iPad connects to the Internet over Wi-Fi and 3G models of the new device can connect to the wireless networks of AT&T or Verizon Wireless. The iPad 2 will start at US$499—the same starting price of the original iPad. The equivalent model of the original iPad has been reduced to US$399.Timeline of Apple touchscreen devicesUnited States defense officials acknowledged that Iraqi insurgents successfully intercepted live video feeds from U.S. MQ-1 Predator unmanned aerial vehicles with widely available software. The story broke on Thursday in the Wall Street Journal with a defense official, anonymously, informing them it is an old problem, which has already been fixed.The Journal says U.S. military personnel in Iraq discovered the problem late last year when they seized a Shi'ite militant's laptop containing drone video feeds.Senior defense and intelligence officials say insurgents were able to take advantage of an unprotected communications link in the systems of the remotely-piloted aircraft. The insurgents used software that is available online and costs about $26.While U.S. defense officials say the issue has been fixed, the Journal quoted senior intelligence officials as saying it was not yet clear if the problem had been completely resolved.U.S. officials say there is no evidence that militants had been able to take control of the drones.  But the intercepted video feeds could show where the planes are operating.The Journal also reported that U.S. drone feeds have also been intercepted in Afghanistan.Officials say the U.S. government has known about a flaw in the drone communication system since the NATO intervention in Bosnia in the 1990s.  At the time, the military assumed local adversaries would not know how to exploit it.The report says fighters in Iraq used software programs such as one called "SkyGrabber" from the Russian company SkySoftware, which is designed to intercept data transmitted by satellite Internet.The Journal quoted one of the program's developers, Andrew Solonikov, as saying it was designed to download legal content — such as music and video — and that it was never intended to intercept military data.  Solonikov said in a email to the paper, "It was developed to intercept music, photos, video, programs and other content that other users download from the Internet — no military data or other commercial data, only free legal content."To challenge the possibility of WiMAX connection on high speed rails, Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) and Taiwan High Speed Rail Corporation (THSRC) started an experiment on Mobile WiMAX technology for the THSR. It's the first-ever WiMAX experiment on high speed rails in the world. Industrial companies including Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Broadband Platform Inc., Nippon Telegraph and Telephone, Corning Incorporated, and ZyXEL are confirmed to provide solutions in this first-ever experiment."THSR is a must-have transportation way for the public besides of inter-city buses and railways in Taiwan." stated THSRC. "There are three critical difficulties that this experiment should be overcome: 'Speed of the THSR', 'Base station construction inside the rails', and the most important one - 'Internet connection on tunnels'." stated ITRI."If this [difficult] experiment can be succeeded, Taiwan will become the first nation to provide the Internet connection on high speed rails in the world." said by Moses Yen, Director of Exhibition Department of Taiwan External Trade Development Council.Winner of the Nobel Prize for Physics in 2000 for his work on developing the integrated circuit, Jack Kilby died after battling cancer on Monday, June 20, 2005, in Dallas at the age of 81. After years of claims, Kilby agreed to share credit for the invention with Robert Noyce, the co-founder of chip maker Intel.His contribution to the pioneering breakthrough of the integrated circuit was made by Kilby during his employment with Texas Instruments (TI) in 1958. He also is credited with co-inventing the handheld calculator which made TI the leader in early consumer electronics development. The integrated circuit paved the way in the development of the microchip used today in computers, DVD players, interactive video games and cell phones.Kilby's work includes the awarding of 60 patents. It was said of him in a statement by TI chairman Tom Engihous that, "In my opinion, there are only a handful of people whose works have truly transformed the world and the way we live in it — Henry Ford, Thomas Edison, the Wright Brothers and Jack Kilby."In his first year working with TI, Kilby's work on what became the forerunner to the microchip was an invention he fabricated by using a sliver of germanium on a glass slide. This invention was the predecessor to the semiconductor that ultimately replaced vacuum tubes and switching wires then in use as the transistor devices. The invention also led to solid state electronics able to withstand more shock and impact in handling.Kilby is recognised for his 'seminal thought' on the integrated circuit by being awarded the Robert N. Noyce Award in 1995, the Semiconductor Industry Association's highest honor. He is survived by two daughters and five grandchildren.Australia —James Gosling, the creator of the Java programming language, said last week that he believes Microsoft is wrong in its decision to support C and C++ programming languages in the common language runtime in Microsoft .NET. According to him, this decision may lead to severe security flaws in .NET. Gosling is currently in Australia, giving talks and visiting friends.According to Gosling, the problem lies with the programming languages and some of their characteristics: “C++ allowed you to do arbitrary casting, arbitrary adding of images and pointers, and converting them back and forth between pointers in a very, very unstructured way." The Java language was developed due to limitations of C++. Gosling began using C++ for the former Sun Microsystems's star-seven project. At that time Gosling concluded C++ was inadequate and created the Oak language. The Oak language would become the language known today as Java. The former star-seven project shares its defining characteristics with networked software applications today: safety and portability.Gosling continues: "If you look at the security model in Java and the reliability model, and a lot of things in the exception handling, they depend really critically on the fact that there is some integrity to the properties of objects. So if somebody gives you an object and says 'This is an image', then it is an image. It's not like a pointer to a stream, where it just casts an image."Charles Sterling, a Microsoft developer and product manager of the .NET framework, didn’t entirely disagree with Gosling’s thoughts. But he said that .NET defines different types of code. And there is the code which is managed by the .NET framework. All new Microsoft languages, such as C# and Visual Basic.NET, produce only code managed by the .NET framework, so they are safe.A key idea that has not shown up in Gosling's talk is that Java itself allows a very similar process to occur. Java's JNI (Java Native Interface) allows the integration of the same unsafe code that prompted Gosling's central thesis.However, Gosling says languages like C and C++ can still produce unsafe code which would not follow the rules of safety of .NET. This sort of code, usually found in old software applications, requires additional .NET permissions to execute. Sterling says it is up to developers to decide whether or not to use unsafe code in their .NET applications.On February 4th, 2008 Judge Vaughn R. Walker dismissed the Electronic Frontier Foundation's lawsuit against Uri Geller. Walker dismissed the case, concluding in his 25 page opinion that the United States District Court in San Francisco did not have jurisdiction over Geller, a British subject, or Explorologist, LTD, an English company that holds certain rights to him. The lawsuit was filed in May 2007 by the EFF on behalf of Brian Sapient and his organization the Rational Response Squad. Sapient has posted a excerpt from the PBS documentary Secrets of the Psychics, starring James Randi, on YouTube. Geller claimed he owned the video clip and forced YouTube to remove the video. However, Sapient filed a counter-DMCA claim and the video has since been restored pending the lawsuits.Walker suggested that the case be moved to Philadelphia where Explorologist, LTD (Geller's business) filed an earlier lawsuit against Sapient, claiming that the YouTube post violated English Copyright Law.This past Tuesday, a United States federal judge ordered the popular video sharing website YouTube to hand over a record of every video that users have watched, including registered accounts and IPs.Viacom, which owns several U.S. television networks such as MTV and Nickelodeon, launched a $1 billion lawsuit last year alleging that YouTube wasn't doing enough to stop its copyrighted material from appearing in over 160,000 unauthorized clips that have been viewed over 1.5 billion times. Viacom argued that since they claimed that copyright material is more popular than user-made videos, they needed access to the information to strengthen the case, in which US District Court judge Louis L. Stanton agreed and ordered Google to turn over such information.Google argued that this would cause privacy issues, but Stanton said it was just speculation. The Electronic Frontier Foundation, a San Francisco-based privacy advocate group, said the ruling was "a setback to privacy rights, and will allow Viacom to see what you are watching on YouTube." said EFF's senior staff attorney Kurt Opsahl.Viacom had also requested for the code used to search keywords for each video and access to Google's advertising database to see if Google was receiving revenue from ads from the alleged videos, but these requests were denied by the judge, arguing that code and ad data was too valuable.There are concerns that Google is violating the Digital Millennium Copyright Act which allows a video provider service to not to be sued if it removes copyrighted material.Founder of the whistle-blowing website Wikileaks Julian Assange will remain in jail for at least 48 hours as Sweden contests the decision to grant him bail. Assange was granted bail in a hearing at London's Westminster Magistrate's Court; however, Sweden filed an appeal hours later.Assange was granted bail with the help of former British army officer Vaughan Smith, who told the court that Assange could stay at his mansion in Suffolk. Defense barrister Geoffrey Robertson said that Smith would keep Assange "if not under house arrest, at least under mansion arrest". Assange's lawyers say that Assange is only wanted for questioning, and has not been charged with any crimes. To this the magistrate agreed. However the lawyers representing Sweden countered by saying "The court has already found that Mr. Assange is a flight risk. Nothing has changed in this regard. [If the alleged offences took place in Britain] it undoubtedly would have been a charge of rape in this jurisdiction." Robertson did not agree.The magistrate set the bail at £200,000, with two additional guarantees of £20,000; Assange would also have to surrender his passport and submit to electronic monitoring. He would also have to spend at least four hours at Smith's mansion in the day and four at night. He will also have to check in with police every day between 6–8 pm local time. After the magistrate outlined the conditions Assange emotionlessly said, "I understand".Celebrities were also present in the courtroom to show their support for Assange. Among those in attendance were Fatima Bhutto, Bianca Jagger, Pakistani President Asif Ali Zardari, and John Pilger. Outside the courthouse approximately 100 people protested holding placards carrying messages such as "Why are you shooting the messenger?", "Julian Assange is a political prisoner", and "This is not 1984". Assange's mother Christine was present at the courthouse and told reporters, "I am very happy with the judge's decision and I thank you all so much for supporting Julian."Assange has been accused of rape and sexual molestation which allegedly took place in Stockholm, Sweden. Assange could face up to two years in prison if convicted and his lawyers have pledged to fight an extradition.The 2008 Google Developer Day started its second day today at Beijing International Convention Center, China. "Cloud Computing" was chosen as its theme for this event, driving more discussions between several participating programmers on the applications of Internet APIs.Since Google Gears, Android, and the Google App Engine was already discussed in Japan, Google China announced that they will cooperate with several local internet communities including MySpace, Tianya Club, and Xiaonei Web on an interactive platform - "OpenSocial" in China.Computer security experts warn that a malicious computer worm, dubbed "Kama Sutra," is set to wreak havoc this Friday, February 3rd on Microsoft Windows computers worldwide. Kama Sutra is designed to destroy files that end in .doc, .zip and .pdf.The Kama Sutra worm has been spreading through cyberspace since January 16, packaged in emails with subject headings such as: "give me a kiss" and "crazy illegal sex."When users click an email attachment, their PCs become infected with destructive, self-replicating software. The worm affects Microsoft Windows operating systems and is programmed to go to work on the third of every month, overwriting or corrupting Microsoft files and others such as Portable Document Format (PDF) files."This one can damage your office files, your Microsoft Excel spreadsheets and your PowerPoint presentations," Tino Klironomos, a computer retailer, said. "(The files will be) all gone, history."Computer security company LURHQ reports that there may be hundreds of thousands of machines already infected with the worm, which also goes by the monikers "BlackWorm," "CME-24," "Blackmal," "Mywife.E" and "Nyxem."To prevent the worm, Windows users should arm themselves with anti-virus software. People can also protect their PC with up-to-date anti-virus gear and firewall protection. Free anti-virus tools are available from many anti-virus organisations. These tools can detect and remove the Kama Sutra worm from an infected machine. Experts say: "Make sure your virus definitions are up to date. Besides being careful about opening email messages and attachments, users should back up their most valuable computer files on an external device such as a CD, zip drive or DVD."Steve Bass at PC World says: "Stop worrying. If you update your virus program signatures regularly, and do a weekly AV scan, I don't think you have much to worry about..." Other advice is not to open any messages with the subject headers "crazy, illegal sex", "give me a kiss" and "hot movie."The worm will not affect machines running on non-Windows operating systems such as Mac OS X or GNU/Linux.The fourth major version of the K Desktop Environment, KDE 4.0, was released today after several years of development and testing.KDE is a free software project which aims to provide an easy to use desktop for UNIX and Linux workstations. As part of KDE also comes applications for many daily needs, and a complete platform for developers with the tools and documentation needed to write applications for the system.The release is a major break from the last major version, KDE 3. The most immediately obvious new feature is Plasma, a new desktop shell. Plasma provides a panel, a menu and other means to interact with the desktop and applications. Plasma also features a widget engine, that allows users to use various desktop widgets that are referred to as plasmoids.Among other major changes are Phonon, a framework independent multimedia API, Solid, a device integration framework and Oxygen, a new style guide and default icon set and a move to Qt 4, the most recent release of the Qt application development framework.KDE 4.0 packages are available for Debian, Fedora, Gentoo, Kubuntu, Mandriva and openSUSE.Kids will have to look elsewhere for educational entertainment, after the European Commission received complaints that the British Broadcasting Corporation's website was "unfair competition" to the commercial online games market.The site, called BBC jam, will be suspended on March 20, 2007, pending review, per the BBC Trust.BBC jam offers educationally-oriented games aimed at 5 to 16-year-olds, created with an operating budget of £150 million (US$290 million) over five years, US$85 million of which allocated to independent content producers. The government funded service is formally requesting proposals on how it should promote education and learning digitally, without being "non-compliant".NUT Cymru, a Welsh teachers' union, is worried about the closure.Both NUT Cymru and the Welsh Assembly Goverment have questioned the extent to which commercial firms would step in and fulfill the terms of the Welsh Language Act 1993.Kurdish Ubuntu, a Linux distribution, was promoted this week with a reception in Diyarbakir. Ubuntu was the first Linux distribution to implement Kurdish localization. Kurdish localization in Linux is an important milestone for Turkey due to ethnic conflicts. Kurdish Ubuntu was prepared by a team of hardworking translators working on the Rosetta web application [1]. In his talk at the reception, the mayor of Sur (a town in Diyarbakir) said that "Whatever language it is in, we wanted it [our service] to be accessible multilingually because multilingualism is our wealth. Our work is being conducted on Kurdish, English, and Turkish language support. ... If we can integrate multilingualism, multi-identities, and multi-culturalism in this nation, this region will be a place of peace instead of conflicts." Mehmed Uzun, a Kurdish writer, speaking about the Kurdish language, told the attendees that "Our most important problem is that the language is not standardized. The Kurdish language should be standardized." Ubuntu was later distributed to the reception's attendees.Previously, we reported that Kurdish Linux was launched in Turkey: Kurdish Ubuntu, a Linux distribution, was promoted this week with a reception in Diyarbakir. Ubuntu was the first Linux distribution to implement Kurdish localization. Kurdish localization in Linux was an important milestone for Turkey due to ethnic conflicts.According to Milliyet and Radikal, well-known Turkish newspapers, the Diyarbakir Attorney General of the Republic of Turkey started an official investigation on the mayor of Sur (a town in Diyarbakir) and on Ubuntu. Although the official cause of investigation was not specified, in the light of the ethnic conflicts in Turkey, a Kurdish operating system was not welcomed by Turkish officials. Mark Shuttleworth (founder of the Ubuntu Foundation and head developer of Ubuntu) and his team is looking at how to help ameliorate the situation. Kurdish Ubuntu was prepared by a team of hardworking translators working on the Rosetta web application. In his talk at the reception, the mayor of Sur (a town in Diyarbakir) said that "Whatever language it is in, we wanted it [our service] to be accessible multilingually because multilingualism is our wealth. Our work is being conducted on Kurdish, English, and Turkish language support. ... If we can integrate multilingualism, multi-identities, and multi-culturalism in this nation, this region will be a place of peace instead of conflicts." Mehmed Uzun, a Kurdish writer, speaking about the Kurdish language, told the attendees that "Our most important problem is that the language is not standardized. The Kurdish language should be standardized." Ubuntu was later distributed to the reception's attendees.India is the latest of the countries where the One Laptop Per Child (OLPC) experiment has started. Children from the village of Khairat were given the opportunity to learn how to use the XO laptop. During the last year XO was distributed to children from Arahuay in Peru, Ban Samkha in Thailand, Cardal in Uruguay and Galadima in Nigeria. The OLPC team are, in their reports on the startup of the trials, delighted with how the laptop has improved access to information and ability to carry out educational activities. Thailand's The Nation has praised the project, describing the children as "enthusiastic" and keen to attend school with their laptops.Recent good news for the project sees Uruguay having ordered 100,000 of the machines which are to be given to children aged six to twelve. Should all go according to plan a further 300,000 machines will be purchased by 2009 to give one to every child in the country. As the first to order, Uruguay chose the OLPC XO laptop over its rival from Intel, the Classmate PC. In parallel with the delivery of the laptops network connectivity will be provided to schools involved in the project.The remainder of this article is based on Carla G. Munroy's Khairat Chronicle, which is available from the OLPC Wiki. Additional sources are listed at the end.Leaked diplomatic cables between Australia and the US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, have raised controversy in the Australian community. The documents were released by the whistle-blowing website Wikileaks. The cables between the then prime minister of Australia, Kevin Rudd, and the US Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, revealed that China may need to be forced to integrate into the international community. The secret documents also contained information of a conversation between Clinton and Rudd in Washington. In the interview, Rudd stated that China was "paranoid" about Taiwan and Tibet.The sensitive documents may place a strain on diplomatic relations between Australia and China. Despite this, Kevin Rudd reassured the public that the "robust" relationship between Australia and China wouldn't sustain any substantial damage to the relations between the two countries. At this stage, Prime Minister Julia Gillard has provided no further comment on the matter, other than to ensure that the relationship between China and Australia would allow opinions to be expressed without any threat to either side.At the heart of the leaks is Australian founder, Julian Assange. Wikileaks have now released 821 of their promised 251,287 US diplomatic cables. The cables are being released on a stage-by-stage basis. Earlier this week, Assange was arrested on suspicion of rape in London under a Swedish arrest warrant placed on him from a court in Stockholm on November 18.Wikinews has confirmed through several sources that a lawsuit filed against the Wikimedia Foundation, the parent organization of the popular online encyclopedia Wikipedia, by the 'Barbara Bauer Literacy Agency,' has been dismissed. As a result of the associated conflict, edits pertaining to Bauer on Wikipedia were deleted and, following the commencement of legal proceedings, Wikinews exclusively obtained the offending texts and edits.Judge Jamie S. Perri dismissed the case citing the 1996 Communications Decency Act, promoting free speech over the Internet. The act protects the  provider of interactive computer services from liability for publishing content provided by another.At the start of the court action, Wikimedia asked the court to dismiss the case. "Wikimedia asks the Court to dismiss the claims against it, with prejudice. The claims against Wikimedia are frivolous because they are barred as a matter of law by the Communications Decency Act (47 U.S.C. § 230( c), "Section 230" or the "CDA"), by the First Amendment, and by New Jersey law. Wikipedia is an online encyclopedia written by its users, the content of which can be created, edited, or removed by anyone.The claims arise from statements made on numerous Internet websites, which Plaintiffs assert describe them as being among the "20 Worst Literary Agents" and having "no...significant track record of sales to commercial (advance paying) published" states the motion filed in Superior Court of New Jersey, Monmouth County," said the organization. Before the case started, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) issued a press release that defends against a suit Bauer filed against Wikimedia which states that contributors on Wikipedia posted "libel statements" against Bauer that labeled her as number three on a list of twenty people grouped as the "worst" publishing agents, and included allegations that she had "no documented sales" through her firm. Complaints filed against her and her firm state that Bauer had a bad record when dealing with "commercial publishers,", and questioning her practice of, "charge[ing] in advance of making a sale, against the generally-accepted industry practice."In March of 2007, Wikimedia was named in a lawsuit filed in Superior Court of Monmouth, New Jersey, along with 20 other defendants which included operators of the Absolute Write web site and the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America who authored the list.Wikinews has learned that Bauer's Wikipedia article was deleted some time during the course of the proceedings, along with the edit history of her article and its talk page as a "courtesy." During the investigation, Wikinews found that all edits to her article, and edits to pages requesting it to be deleted were deleted by Wikipedia administrator MaxSem.Wikinews has also exclusively obtained all the edits affiliated with Bauer's article, which was sourced accurately, the deletion requests along with the edit history of all pages related to the discussion about Bauer's article. Fearing retribution on Wikipedia by other administrators and users, the source who provided Wikinews with the edit information wishes to remain anonymous.The deleted Wikipedia article on Bauer stated that she claims "to have placed books with a number of well-known commercial publishers, but does not provide specific details of the books in question. In 2006, due to the number of complaints they receive, Writer Beware (part of the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America writers' organization) listed Bauer's agency as one of the twenty worst literary agencies."Bauer's article was started on May 25, 2006 but was not deleted until March 21, 2008 by Wikipedia administrator and Wikimedia office employee Cary Bass, who was not able to comment on the incident. It underwent two requests to be deleted, with the second one passing, and it was subsequently deleted. It had first been deleted on March 25, 2007 by "Doc Glasgow", an administrator, amid allegations that the information presented in the article was "a bloody disgrace, full of 'allegations of who said what on message boards. No mainstream media interest." It was later restored on March 26 to undergo a "deletion review." It was then deleted just under one year later after an extensive discussion.Barbara Bauer was shown to have threatened a number of website hosts who reproduced the "Top 20 Worst Agents" list, or referred to her inclusion in the list; her complaints apparently prompted a brief takedown of the AbsoluteWrite.com site.One blog even states that Bauer attempted to get people fired from their jobs, after allegedly posting information online that was in any way connected to the Top 20 worst agents."Barbara Bauer has been running around the Internet lately threatening people who've posted information about her fee-charging, non-manuscript-selling ways, including people who've linked to the Twenty Worst list. She has threatened legal action; she has even attempted to get people fired," states Victoria Strauss on accrispin.blogspot.com.The EFF, along with attorneys at Sheppard Mullin Richter & Hampton, are defending Wikimedia submitting a motion to dismiss the suit against the Foundation. The Foundation says that the First Amendment of the United States Bill of Rights and New Jersey law protect the contributors from any legal action.Specifically, Section 230 of the act states, "no provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the publisher or speaker of any information provided by another information content provider. No provider or user of an interactive computer service shall be held liable on account of any action voluntarily taken in good faith to restrict access to or availability of material that the provider or user considers to be obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, excessively violent, harassing, or otherwise objectionable, whether or not such material is constitutionally protected."Bauer claims that her agency informed Wikimedia of the false allegations, and requested that they be removed. She also claimed that Wikimedia refused to remove the information when requested. Bauer further states that the contributors involved with her Wikipedia article "conspired to defame Plaintiffs and interfere with their prospective economic advantage."Mike Godwin, attorney for the Foundation states that the point of Wikipedia is to return the knowledge it provides, to a worldwide culture."We provide a platform through Wikipedia for smart citizens to give their knowledge back to a larger culture. Our ability to offer citizens that platform is what's at stake in this case," said attorney representing the Foundation, Mike Godwin in a EFF press release on May 2, 2008.Despite the claim of freedom of speech, Wikinews has learned that on the same day, Godwin requested that the edits and the article on Wikipedia relating to Bauer, be deleted by a community action. Godwin also stated that the Foundation has "filed court papers in which we stated that the article is no longer available.""I've been trying to keep 'Office actions' to a minimum (partly in reaction to some fairly heavy-handed WP:OFFICE stuff in the past), and it would be helpful to be able to say that any given action was taken by the community, not by the Foundation," said Godwin on Wikipedia's Administrators' noticeboard on May 2, the same day of the EFF's press release. 'Office actions' are changes directly authorized by the Foundation which are made to content on any of the Wikimedia projects. The edits are made by staff members working for the Foundation's head office located in San Francisco, California. Edits of this nature are generally "removals of questionable or illegal Wikimedia content following complaints," according to Wikipedia's policy on 'Office Actions.'A few minutes after, MaxSem, a Wikipedia administrator, deleted the edits related to the deletion request of Bauer's article as a "courtesy" stating that there would be "legal problems" if the edits were not deleted.  Wikinews originally intended to publish an article at the start of the court case, although it was deleted from the article by Wikinews administrator Brian McNeil, who said that it was deleted "per consultation with Mike Godwin" as the posting of any material relating to Bauer, on Wikimedia sites, could be considered contempt of court. The deleted copy of this article was then leaked to Wikileaks, who released a press release saying that the Wikimedia Foundation censored Wikinews. At the time of this The Register reported that "Wikinews - like its sister site, Wikipedia - bills itself as a place without bias. Ostensibly, it's a democratic news source that never answers to a higher power. But that's just a setup for the latest act in the world's greatest online farce." The Register has a long history of denigrating Wikimedia projects.File:Muammar Abu Minyar al-Gaddafi in Dimashq.jpgThe Libyan government has cut off Internet access in the country. The General Posts and Telecommunications Company, Libya's main provider of Internet access, has ceased to function. It was shut down following citizen protests against the country's leader, Muammar Abu Minyar al-Gaddafi, who has been in power since 1969.The government of Egypt took a similar measure last month, when it cut off Internet trying to quell public protests against the regime. Despite the government's efforts, Egyptians who took to the streets for two weeks were able to oust the nation's president, Hosni Mubarak, after 30 years in office.Limited access to the Internet makes it difficult to get information from the country. Libya is a country with a smaller population than Egypt, and has fewer service providers, which has apparently made the task of disconnecting everything a little easier.In Egypt, the military refused to attack people protesting. The situation is different in Libya, where the armed forces attacked hundreds of demonstrators in the square of the city of Benghazi, causing many deaths.The increasing violence in Libya has prompted the 27 European Union ministers to issue a statement protesting Libyan governmental violence toward protesters, saying it "condemns the ongoing repression against demonstrators in Libya and deplores the violence and death of civilians." Two Libyan pilots have defected to Malta and asked for asylum, saying that they were ordered to fire on protesters, according to Maltese officials. The violence has spread to Tripoli. Witnesses have reported that a "massacre" occurred today in suburbs of the Libyan capital with the indiscriminate shooting of women and children.  According to Human Rights Watch, hundreds have died over the last four days. The escalating violence is causing turbulence in the world energy markets. The International Monetary Fund says that energy exports accounts for approximately 95% of Libya's export earning.Major distributors of the operating system Linux have agreed on a new standard that includes common elements for desktop software, in a move to make Linux a more effective competitor to Microsoft Windows.The Free Standards Group (FSG) will unveil the Linux Standard Base (LSB) 3.1 on Tuesday at the Desktop Linux Summit in San Diego.  The first distribution to include LSB 3.1 support, Xandros, is expected to be released on May 1, followed shortly by versions by Red Hat, Novell, and others.  The status of Ubuntu's upcoming version is still unclear [1].The standards aim to resolve difficulties that programmers face in developing software for Linux.  Because Linux, developed by Finnish programmer Linus Torvalds, defines the kernel or core of the operating system, there is a wide variety of graphical interfaces for it and differing software libraries.  LSB 3.1 standardizes core pieces of Linux to make development easier."One of the big things that's difficult is consistency, and that's Windows' biggest strength," Jim Zemlin, executive director of the Free Standards Group, told the Associated Press.  "If you buy a Windows program, you know it will run on a Windows computer, and Linux needs to work the same way. [...] If you really want to become a broadly adopted and used technology, you have to have that degree of standardization," he said.Mountain View, California — According to Google's 2004 Year-End Google Zeitgeist report, Linux scored fifth on a list of most-searched technology terms, beating out all other operating systems. Linux was the No. 4 technology search term on Google in 2002.This ranking follows a banner year for the community-built operating system.  The 2.6 kernel, deemed the first enterprise-level release of the software, became available for users in 2004 and made significant inroads into the enterprise computing industry.  The IDC recently reported a prediction that the worldwide market revenue for Linux will exceed $35 billion by 2008.  "SCO" was the No. 1 company query for 2004 in Google's report. High-profile lawsuits by SCO against IBM and other companies for alleged copyright or patent infringement were filed and dominated Linux news throughout the year.Over the summer a customized distribution of the Linux (or GNU/Linux) operating system was installed on 2,460 desktops in the Italian South Tyrol province of Bolzano. This deployment included all 70 of the province's private and public schools and affects more than 16,000 students.The distribution installed, FUSS Soledad GNU/Linux, is a customized version of the popular Debian GNU/Linux distribution.  FUSS Soledad GNU/Linux has multi-language support and uses the GNOME desktop environment.In addition to the desktops in the schools, more than 20,000 LiveCDs are scheduled to be created and given free of charge to the students and their families. These LiveCDs allow students to use the same software on their home computers that they are going to use at school.Project co-director Antonio Russo said, "With the participation of all the public and private schools, this will give to all the students, families, teachers, and operators from the educational world the opportunity to use a entirely free operating system, both at school and at home."The switch was funded by the province of Bolzano, the European Social Fund, and the Center for Professional Formation in Italian Language.A report accidentally published on the Internet provides insight into a secretive European Union surveillance project designed to monitor its citizens, as reported by Wikileaks earlier this month. Project INDECT aims to mine data from television, internet traffic, cellphone conversations, p2p file sharing and a range of other sources for crime prevention and threat prediction. The €14.68 million project began in January, 2009, and is scheduled to continue for five years under its current mandate. INDECT produced the accidentally published report as part of their "Extraction of Information for Crime Prevention by Combining Web Derived Knowledge and Unstructured Data" project, but do not enumerate all potential applications of the search and surveillance technology. Police are discussed as a prime example of users, with Polish and British forces detailed as active project participants. INDECT is funded under the European Commission's Seventh Framework Programme (FP7), and includes participation from Austria, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, and the United Kingdom.Mr Justice Saunders today imprisoned a man for eight years at the Old Bailey in London after an FBI sting in which he tried to buy ricin on the Dark Web.Mohammed Ali, 31, from Liverpool, was convicted at trial of attempting to possess a chemical weapon. He told the jury he was "curious" about the Dark Web, which is a largely hidden and difficult to police section of the Internet. Ali said he didn't realise he had done anything illegal.Ali was prosecuted under the Chemical Weapons Act 1996 after sending an undercover agent a message reading  "Hi, would you be able to make me some ricin and send it to the UK?" He bought 500mg, which has the potential to kill about 1,400, but was sent a dummy package. Counter-terror police in the UK liaised with the FBI.The powder, which Ali paid for in BitCoin, was actually harmless. Hidden inside a toy car, the package was treated with markers and his face glowed under ultraviolet light, indicating he had handled it. The judge said today there was "real risk" involved.Ali told his trial he had discovered drugs and guns for sale. Computer analysis showed he had looked up ricin and other poisons; he said he went for ricin simply because it had appeared in Breaking Bad. He also searched for small animals after being advised to test it on a rodent; a to-do list on his computer included "paid ricin guy" and "get pet to murder".Mr Justice Saunders said the case called for "a deterrent sentence", which "will appear harsh to the defendant and his family." "Everyone needs to know that the possession of a chemical weapon is extremely serious and long prison sentences will follow."COPENHAGEN — At Microsoft IT Forum 2004 Copenhagen technological conference Bill Gates, founder and current Chairman and Chief Software Architect of Microsoft, has said the future operating system of Microsoft called Longhorn will be released in 2006. There had been fears that Longhorn would not ship until 2007 or later. Microsoft has responded by cutting features from Longhorn, notably WinFS. Features planned for Longhorn include a new 3D graphic user interface, a more sophisticated replacement for MS-DOS, and execute for processor NX, or No Execute, security features that prevents some malicious code from being run. This is expected to be the first Microsoft release since Windows XP in October of 2001. There has, however, been some speculation of a "Windows XP Reloaded" in the interim. Longhorn is currently in Alpha as a preview-release to Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN) subscribers.A computer glitch in the Los Angeles International Airport computer systems caused passengers in four different terminals to be forced to wait for their flights, causing a massive backlog of over 20,000 international passengers.Los Angeles International Airport, often referred to by its airport code LAX, is the primary airport serving Los Angeles, California, United States. LAX is the busiest airport in California, and the third-busiest airport by passenger traffic in the United States.According to airport staff, a system containing Customs and law enforcement information about international passengers failed at about 2:00 p.m. PDT (UTC-8).Airport officials diverted flights arriving from Ontario, Canada to another airport until the system was back up.Stranded planes were connected to ground power, and incoming passengers that had already landed had access to food, water and restrooms.Computer hacking group Lulz Security has attacked a server of one of the United States affiliates of Nintendo, a Japanese-based video gaming company. Nintendo themselves confirmed the news on Sunday, with a statement from the corporation reporting that the unit was illegally accessed "a few weeks ago".Speaking on behalf of the corporation, Ken Toyoda had claimed that "[t]here were no third-party victims" but acknowledged "there was some kind of possible hacking attack". According to Tomokazu Nakaura, Nintendo in Japan considers "protection of our customer information" to be the "utmost priority". To adhere to this claim, the corporation does "constantly monitor our security".In this instance, the hackers were not able to gain consumer details as the attacked server did not have any on it, according to Nintendo. On social networking website Twitter LulzSec defended their actions, tweeting: "We're not targeting Nintendo. We like the N64 too much - we sincerely hope Nintendo plugs the gap. This is just for lulz. <3"Nintendo has reported that the issue has now been rectified and that the incident will have no effect on their intentions to launch an e-shop in association with one of their products, the Nintendo 3DS, a games console which allows users to play games in a three-dimensional space without the requirement of glasses.Recently, LulzSec has claimed responsibility for a number of Internet attacks that have occurred during 2011. Amongst those were three aimed at the Sony online network. The first attack occurred in April, when the group hacked the PlayStation Network, placing the personal details of 77 million users at risk. This prompted Sony Pictures Entertainment to remove access to the network for in excess of one month.The second attack occurred on May 23, when LulzSec unlawfully gained access to the details 52,000 Sony Pictures Entertainment consumers, as well as illegally taking them. In a third incident, LulzSec accepted responsibility for an alleged database hacking on the website for Sony Music in Japan on May 23.A group of Internet hackers, which refers to itself as Lulz Security or LulzSec, has claimed to have broken into servers for Sony entertainment websites and stolen in excess of one million items of personal details, including email addresses and passwords. Seventy-five thousand "music codes" and three-and-a-half million "music coupons" were also alleged broken into, according to a statement on their website.In a statement, LulzSec reported that, "[f]rom a single injection, we accessed EVERYTHING" [sic]. Claiming that Sony had not encrypted data which they allegedly gained access to and "were asking for it", the group questioned: "Why do you put such faith in a company that allows itself to become open to these simple attacks?" Sony Pictures Entertainment spokesperson Jim Kennedy has stated that the corporation is "looking into these claims".This incident is reminiscent of an occasion when the data of over 77 million accounts on the PlayStation Network were unlawfully taken by hackers in April 2011. The thefts prompted Sony to close the network, as well as other features, for nearly one month. According to BBC News Online, the attack is thought to be the largest in the history of the Internet.HANOVER, Germany —Internet portal and mail-provider Lycos Europe has launched a program to increase spammers' bills by having thousands of voluntary users' computers repeatedly query websites from which spam originates. Such a tactic would increase the bandwidth costs for these websites. However, it also faces legal questions.Spamming, the mass sending of unsolicited emails, is lucrative in part because each email can be sent for nearly insignificant costs. With such low costs, a commercial spammer needs only to have a very small number of recipients buy their product to make a profit. The goal of many anti-spam proposals has been to increase the cost of spammers sending messages. Lycos' approach is to make it more expensive to maintain servers that send spam.Volunteers may download the screensaver from the Lycos website for it. The program would run on a user's computer in the background and request about three megabytes (3MBs) of data every day. The screensaver shows which spam server is being targeted by the user, where the server is located, and how many others are attacking it at that moment. Target email servers are selected from blacklists from anti-spam organizations, with Lycos' own verification.Legal issues arise over whether this can be interpreted as a denial of service attack. In such an attack, computers overwhelm a webserver with requests for data to the point where it does not have the resources to fulfill its normal function. Lycos, in explanatory material on the screensaver's dedicated website ( http://makelovenotspam.com ), claims that its technology closely monitors the screensavers' effects on targeted websites and prevents any of them from being completely shut down by information requests. Lycos Europe operates in Germany where, according to Joerg Heidrich of Heise Zeitschriften Verlag, less than completely shutting down a server is not clearly illegal under the penal code. It may, however, be actionable under the civil code. But Lycos may be betting that no one will file a suit, as that would require those participating in illegal spamming to reveal their identity.The website no longer allows downloads of the screensaver, and users of the screensaver cannot connect to spam sites, but are instead given the message 'Stay Tuned'On Thursday at about 23:30 PST, Level 3 Communications, one of the largest Internet service providers (ISPs), disconnected from most of the internet.  The Broomfield Colorado, USA-based Level 3 is a tier 1 provider that connects smaller ISPs together in order to pass data.There are various reasons why they may have dropped off. The official answer given on the phone was that they had an OSPF failure in Chicago that caused massive internal routing issues.  This was followed by a network wide failure of BGP – the protocol that allows the Internet to route between providers.Other possible reasons are more nefarious.  Apparently, Level 3 recently demanded that its peers (other ISPs that connect to them on a mutually beneficial level) pay Level 3 $30,000 USD. Some speculate that their quarterly report released yesterday and subsequent stock price dropping caused them to make a display of power in order to convince other ISPs to pay up.  If this was the case, it failed horribly as many other ISPs are now disconnecting from their network, and, due to their demands of payment, are considering not reconnecting at all. So far there is no reason to believe that this is anything more than an urban legend, as the outage impacted all other peers and customers as well.Larger network-based projects noticed the outage immediately. The Freenode IRC network set up a channel for ongoing news and to figure out how to work around the problem.  As reports came in from around the world, it became more obvious that this would not be a simple fix.  Level 3 had lost connections to AT&T, Cogent, Internap, Qwest, Savvis, SBC, Sprint, UUNet, Verio, WilTel, XO, and more.An hour into the problem, many network administrators had routed around Level 3 to avoid their problems, but Level 3 was still out.  Two hours in and the response from Level 3 was that “we're having technical problems – no estimated time of completion yet”.  Finally, after about two and a half hours, Level 3 started routing packets correctly, but it could hardly be considered fully functional.  Pieces of the network seemed to be going up and down at random and Level 3 tech support said they would need more time to fix the problem.At about 3:30 PST, Level 3's services returned to normal, and they reconnected to the Internet.Satire site Uncyclopedia, a parody of online encyclopedia Wikipedia, has been labeled by the Malaysian government as dangerous. The Internal Security Department of Malaysia issued the warning today, saying that the site has "messages and information insulting Malaysia".The warning notes the creation date of the website as being 5 January 2005, and hosted by Wikia, Inc., both of which are correct. However, it claims Wikia owns Wikipedia; Wikipedia is a charitable non-profit website owned by the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation, while Wikia is an independent, for-profit company.The report evidently mentions that Uncyclopedia covers Malaysian "history, culture, the political leaders, the government, the national song and the name / history of the national flag," none of which is "correct". They accuse the website of helping to reinforce a bad international image of their country.There are no reports of the site being blocked from access within the country, only this statement, which urges Malaysians not to circulate the content.Uncyclopedia's article on Malaysia begins:The site has fired back with a parody article posted at the site under their UnNews section, titled Uncyclopedia Internal Security Department warns on Malaysia. The article suggests that the "Internal Security Department of the Uncyclomedia Foundation," which is a facetious and fictitious parent organization of Uncyclopedia, identifies Malaysia "as a dangerous country... It warned its people not to use the country today."There are forty-seven individual language editions of Uncyclopedia, including Tolololpedia, which is written in Bahasa Melayu, the Malay language. This is in addition to fictional "language" editions which include Oscar Wilde, Newspeak, N00b, White Supremacist, and Re: PharmaccgRy.Nearly 20,000 websites have been attacked by unknown malicious computer users using a technique known as an SQL injection. The attackers have inserted code to install malware onto visitors' computers. The code exploits a newly-discovered weakness in Adobe Flash Player, a very common web-browser plugin. The attacks prompted an investigation by the Taiwanese information security industry into the source of these attacks.An SQL injection is a common method employed by malicious users to attack and deface websites, arising from website mistakes in checking user input. Attackers take advantage of these weaknesses to inject information of their choosing into the website. For example, in June of 2007, Microsoft UK found its webpage changed to a picture of the Saudi Arabia flag, an attack which was carried out using an SQL injection.According to SecurityFocus, this most recent series of attacks stems from a vulnerability in versions 9.0.115.0 and 9.0.124.0 of Flash Player. It allows attackers to load any code they wish onto a computer running these versions of Flash.As the vulnerability in Flash is newly discovered, Adobe has not yet released a newer version which fixes the problem. For the time being, computer security experts recommend that internet users with one of the unprotected versions of Flash disable the plug-in on Mozilla Firefox or Internet Explorer to prevent malicious users from gaining control over their computers.The most recent version of the Flash Player, version 9.0.124.0, does not appear to be vulnerable to this exploit.Last month, Paul D. Ceglia filed suit against Facebook, the world's largest social network, claiming that he rightfully owns 84 percent of the company. The lawsuit, filed in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, bases its claims on a 2003 contract between Ceglia and Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg. The contract reportedly states that Zuckerberg would give Ceglia 50 percent ownership in the company in exchange for designing a website "similar to a live functioning yearbook with the working title of 'The Face Book'," and paying a US$1000 fee. Ceglia would also get an extra percentage point every day after January 1, 2004 until the work was completed. Earlier this month, Judge Thomas Brown issued a temporary restraining order that prevents transfer of Facebook's assets in light of the ongoing lawsuit. According to Victor P. Goldberg, who teaches at Columbia University's Law School, the lawsuit may get tripped up by the statute of limitations, which is six years in New York. PC World says that one problem with Ceglia's claim is that the contract was purportedly signed in 2003, while Zuckerberg didn't register the domain name thefacebook.com until January 2004.This is not the first time Ceglia has appeared in court. In 2009, New York's Attorney General Andrew Cuomo accused Ceglia of fraud. The state claims that Ceglia took more than $200,000 from customers of a wood-pellet fuel company, and failed to deliver any products or refunds; this case is still ongoing. A Facebook spokesman has stated that they believe this suit is completely frivolous and will fight it vigorously.A man has been jailed after being found guilty of the kidnapping, rape, and murder of a girl in County Durham, England, after arranging to meet her on social networking website Facebook by befriending her and giving her a false identity.  33-year-old Peter Chapman, an unemployed man who has no fixed abode, registered on Facebook and in October 2009 made contact with Ashleigh Hall, a 17-year-old childcare student from Darlington.On the website, Chapman assumed the identity of a teenage boy named Peter Cartwright. Peter convinced the girl to meet him via several other social networking websites. Reports said Hall had notified her mother that she was going to visit one of her friends. According to text messages, she believed that she was departing to meet Cartwright's father.Ashleigh Hall's dead body was discovered in a field in the town of Sedgefield. A short time after the murder, police officers arrested Chapman for minor traffic violations. After being escorted into the police station, he told police officers of his offences while being questioned. A CCTV camera recorded Chapman saying to police officers: "I killed somebody last night." The police then followed him to the location of the body.A police notice had been issued in relation to the disappearance of Chapman, who has been convicted in the past for previous offences and was still on parole at the time of his arrest. According to a Merseyside Police statement, the notice was not issued until nine months after they realised Chapman had disappeared from his residence.  The notice was issued in September 2009, a month before Hall's murder.  During a trial in Teesside Crown Court, Judge Peter Fox QC stated to Chapman: "This was an evil scheme very carefully brought, and with considerable detail to trap your victim." Peter Chapman was found guilty of offences of kidnap, rape, and murder. Fox sentenced him to a minimum of 35 years in prison, stating to Chapman that "[f]or what it is worth, I cannot foresee your release."In 1996, Chapman was given a seven-year jail sentence for the rape of two prostitutes.  In that incident, he threatened to attack the two prostitutes with a knife.  He has also been suspected of committing several other offences of sexual attacks and rapes against young women, but was never charged in any of those instances.  Chapman has been listed on the Violent and Sex Offender Register since 2000.Andrea Hall, the mother of Ashleigh, said outside the courthouse: "Them sort of people shouldn't be allowed out into society anyway. I blame them [the authorities] for letting them out." In a video, she stated to the media: "Just put the message out that please, parents whose kids are on Facebook, please ask them to tell you who they're talking to. You just don't know who is behind that photo. Look what happened to my daughter. It's unimaginable, what me and my family have gone through. I've got three other children that probably won't have a life now because I'll never, ever keep my eye off them. I'd also like to say thank you to the community and to all my friends for the support that they have given me through this."Facebook have also released a statement advising Internet users not to meet any individual in person that they have previously met online unless they know who the individual is.  They said that "there are unscrupulous people in the world with malevolent agendas".  Graham Reeds QC, who was on the prosecuting side, noted: "Having invented 19-year-old Peter to make contact with girls, he now decided to invent Peter's dad in order to persuade Ashleigh that it was safe to get into his car.  The plan he devised was calculated and wicked and it worked."The leader of the murder inquiry was Chief Superintendent Andy Reddick, who also gave his opinion about this incident. "Ashleigh made a mistake and paid for it with her life," he commented. "Her death and this murder trial should be a wake up call to parents and Internet companies around the world to ensure as far as they can, that nothing happens to another innocent victim."Today, court proceedings in the European Union's Court of First Instance in Luxembourg began as Microsoft Corporation filed an appeal against the European Union Commission's decision in an anti-trust case, commenting that the Commission made several mistakes in its decision to fine Microsoft 497 million euros, or approximately 613 million dollars concerning several allegations that Microsoft used its majority share in desktop software to also take over the video and media player business. The Commission also forced Microsoft to produce a version of Windows XP that did not include Windows Media Player. Only 1,787 copies were ordered through March 31st. Microsoft has also alleged that the proposed punishment of 2 million euros per day is too severe. The EU has also proposed that Microsoft's upcoming operating system, Windows Vista will also exclude rivals through bundling programs. Although a decision is not expected for at least several months, analysts have predicted that a verdict in favor of Microsoft would destroy the EU Commission's prestige as well as any case against Microsoft.Nine months after announcing the interoperability between their instant messaging (IM) services, Internet rivals Microsoft and Yahoo! began limited public beta (pre-release) testing of the program. This enables users of the two services to communicate with each other using their existing IM client, Microsoft's Windows Live Messenger (formerly MSN Messenger) and Yahoo! Messenger with Voice.Users wishing to use the new feature can go to a special page on the service's website, where they have to review and accept an agreement. After signing out and signing in again, the interoperability is enabled without downloading any new software.The service is designed to allow users to see each others' online presence, view personal status messages, share select emoticons, view offline messages and add new contacts from either service. However, more advanced features, like voice calls and shared folders are not interoperable between the two services.The program is available internationally in more than 15 markets.On Monday, United States technology giant Microsoft announced their plans to acquire GitHub, a San Francisco, California-based web-based hosting service for software version control using Git, for 7.5 billion US Dollars (USD).In the official announcement at the Microsoft News web site, the company said they are to reach agreement with GitHub by the end of the year. They said the agreement would allow them to deliver Microsoft development services to GitHub users, and "accelerate enterprise use of GitHub". GitHub had been financially struggling recently and is expected to get a new CEO.In 2016, according to financial news and media company Bloomberg L.P., through three quarters GitHub lost USD 66 million, while in nine months of that year GitHub had revenue of USD 98 million. In August 2017 GitHub said they were seeking a new CEO. According to the announcements by GitHub and Microsoft, the Microsoft Corporate Vice President Nat Friedman would become the new CEO of GitHub. He had created app creation platform company Xamarin and was "an open-source veteran", Microsoft said.GitHub confirmed the acquisition plans on its blog. In this announcement they alluded to concerns about past friction between Microsoft and open-source software, however they said "things are different. [...] Microsoft is the most active organization on GitHub in the world", mentioning VS Code as an example. In the announcement, GitHub also referred to its several years of collaboration with Microsoft on Git LFS and Electron. GitHub also mentioned the Azure development platform run by Microsoft.Microsoft Corporation  announced on Wednesday it has finished all work on its long-delayed Windows Vista operating system (OS) and plans to release it to consumers January 30 2007.The announcement means Microsoft is on track to meet its revised release schedule.Jim Allchin, co-president of the Microsoft division that includes Windows, said that Windows Vista's code was released to begin manufacturing copies early on Wednesday."This is a good day," Allchin declared. Microsoft previously announced that it would release Windows Vista to large business clients at an event at the NASDAQ Stock Market on November 30 2006, and make it available to consumers sometime in January 2007.The release will be the first major upgrade in more than five years to the OS of the company that powers most of the world's PCs. Vista claims to have  improved graphics, more effective tools for finding documents, pictures and other items on PCs, and a new Internet browser.Vista's release has been victim to a series of delays, the most recent delay was blamed in part on efforts to improve security of the OS. In its quest to get Vista up and running, Microsoft also has had to scrap some of its original goals, including getting rid of a more sophisticated method for sorting and organizing information. Analysts have said that scaling back the system could hurt the company if people don't see enough of a reason to upgrade.The most recent delays also forced Microsoft to miss the holiday season, possibly dealing a blow to computer makers and retailers who would have been hoping for the new OS to boost holiday gift sales.Microsoft and other computer manufacturers are offering holiday shoppers coupons good for a free or discounted Vista upgrade.It's not clear how quickly big businesses will start using Vista. It can often take months if not years for companies to test a new operating system and make sure it will work well with the other programs they rely on.Allchin said Microsoft is providing tools that allow companies to test for compatibility problems more quickly than with past Windows releases. He also said he hopes the security improvements would drive companies to upgrade faster.Microsoft estimates that the new OS could set off a hike of 10% or more in Windows software sales in the financial year to June 30, with most of the increase coming in the second half of the year.Microsoft shares rose 3 cents (from US$ 28.95) to close at US$28.98 Wednesday on the NASDAQ.Microsoft has announced they will launch web versions of their popular Office software in 2010.  It will be included in all versions of Office 2010 when it ships next year.  All Windows Live customers will also reportedly have access.  Testers will be given access at the end of this year.The service will go into direct competition with Google Docs, launched three years ago.  Last week Google announced they were going to launch a new operating system, called Google Chrome OS.  Like Google Docs, Microsoft Office will be compatible with Firefox, Safari, Google Chrome and Internet Explorer.Microsoft's group product manager for Office stated, "We believe the web has a lot to offer in terms of connectivity.  We have over a half a billion customers world-wide and what we hear from them is that they really want the power of the web without compromise. They want collaboration without compromise.  And what they tell us today is that going to the web often means they sacrifice fidelity, functionality and the quality of the content they care about. We knew that if and when we were ever going to bring applications into a web environment, we needed to do the hard work first because we hold such a high bar."Microsoft's business software division, which includes Office, made USD 9.3 billion in profit during the first three-quarters of its 2009 fiscal year.  Analysts from The Wall Street Journal have predicted that the move "could put at risk as much as $4 billion (£2.46 billion) in revenue."Microsoft announced on Thursday the release dates for the new version of the Xbox gaming console. The Xbox 360 will be in shops in the US on November 22. It will be launched in Europe on December 2 and in Japan on December 10.The Xbox 360 in the US and Europe will come in two editions, base and premium. The premium edition will include the console, an external hard drive, wireless controllers, headset and membership in the Xbox Live gaming service.  The base version will only include the console and a wired controller.  The base edition will sell for £209.99 in the UK, €299.99 in Europe and $299.99 in the USA. The premium edition will sell for £279.99 in the UK and $399.99 in the USA. A third edition with nearly identical features to the premium edition will be available in Japan for ¥37,900.Microsoft has said up to 20 games would be ready by the launch date, and  40 games should be launched by the end of 2005.  "We expect a strong portfolio of titles on launch day and through the holidays that will appeal to fans of every genre and gamers in every region," said Chief Xbox officer Robbie Bach.The launch date is two days before Thanksgiving, the traditional start of the US Christmas buying season.  A  November launch will give Microsoft a lead over competitors Sony and Nintendo. Sony plans to release the PlayStation 3 in the spring of 2006, and Nintendo plans to release its new console, the Revolution, sometime next year.Last month Microsoft Corporation made accusations against the European Commission, stating that it may cause delays in the final release of their latest operating system, Windows Vista (formerly known as Longhorn).Microsoft's general counsel, Brad Smith, stated:"We recognize that the European Commission does not give 'green lights' for new products, and we have not asked for one. We appreciate the constructive dialogue we have had with the Commission and the guidance the Commission has provided," Smith added. Based on this guidance, we have made changes to ensure that we're in compliance with our competition law obligations.". The news should be welcomed by all those anticipating Windows Vista within the European community, with Microsoft showing compliance to follow the regulations set out by the European Commission.The entire debate started when Microsoft were responding to a letter received by the European Competition Commissioner, Neelie Kroes, that showed concerns over "The possible bundling into Vista of certain products, such as internet search and certain security features that are currently available on a standalone basis from Microsoft and other vendors". In July, Smith had made a statement that Microsoft had offered to create changes to its system to comply with the commission, and that it had asked the commission to state which changes would make Vista apply to its standards and regulations."We told the Commission that we would be prepared to do any one of four things and they could simply tell us which of those things they wanted us to do" said Smith.Since Bill Gates announced the removal of WinFS from its new operating system in October 2003, the company has been plagued by many setbacks and legal issues. Only time will tell whether Brad Smith's announcement from Microsoft is entirely truthful instead of a way of covering Microsoft's back.Matthew Aslett. "Microsoft backtracks on EC blame for potential Vista delays" — Computer Business Review, October 16, 2006Shaun Nichols. "European Vista launch on schedule" — VNUNet, October 16, 2006Steve Ranger. "Vista: we're keeping an eye on it, says EC" — Silicon, October 16, 2006United States software giant Microsoft has launched an unsolicited bid to buy Internet search giant Yahoo! for US$44 billion or approximately US$31 per share.The deal, which is half in cash and half in stock, if accepted by Yahoo!'s shareholders, could create a major competitor to Google, the search giant which currently dominates the Internet search market.Microsoft has recently made changes to the Windows license agreement, saying that, “An upgrade of the motherboard is considered to result in a new personal computer to which Microsoft OEM operating system software cannot be transferred from another computer."This will force users who upgrade their motherboard, even via the OEM, to purchase a new license agreement.  The only exception is a defect for which the OEM replaces the motherboard.Microsoft claims it needs to have "one base component left standing that would still define that original PC. Since the motherboard contains the CPU and is the heart and soul of the PC, when the motherboard is replaced (for reasons other than defect) a new PC is essentially created.”Microsoft has asked its OEM partners to begin enforcing the new policy when they upgrade a client's computer.Software giant Microsoft's chief lawyer Brad Smith claimed in an interview published in the magazine Fortune on Monday that open-source software products violate 235 of Microsoft's patents. The main transgressors are claimed to be Linux (107 patents) and OpenOffice.org (45), with e-mail programs infringing 15 patents. Microsoft wants royalties to compensate for the patent breaches.According to Microsoft's Vice-President of intellectual property and licensing, Horacio Gutierrez, the company wants to negotiate with the open-source companies rather than sue them. "If we wanted to litigate we would have done that a long time ago. Litigation is not an effective way of going about solutions," Gutierrez said. According to him, Microsoft has over the last years tried to work towards a "constructive" solution to the alleged problem of patent violation.Microsoft in the past has used the strategy of cross-licensing to get royalties from companies who infringe their patents, for example in their deal with Novell. On a company blog, Novell reiterated that their deal "is in no way an acknowledgment that Linux infringes upon any Microsoft intellectual property.""We don't think that customers will want to continue on without a solution to the problem," Gutierrez said about Microsoft's approach to guaranteeing companies that they won't get sued because they use the allegedly patent-infringing Linux operating system.The upcoming third version of the GPL licence, the licence under which Linux is released, will prohibit Linux distributors to agree to patent royalty deals. Microsoft called these "attempts to tear down the bridge between proprietary and open-source software that Microsoft has worked to build with the industry and customers."A related U.S. Supreme Court ruling from April 30th showed how software patents can be subject to court challenges; basically, if the innovations patented are "obvious", the patent is weakened. Joe Lindsay, information officer for a mortgage company, pointed out that the Unix code that Linux is based upon preceded Microsoft Windows, which might also be a reason for some patents to be invalid.Red Hat, the biggest Linux distributor, said in a statement on Monday:Larry Augustin, former CEO of a company called VA Linux (now VA Software), responsible among other things for launching SourceForge.net, an open-source software development community, posted a message on his blog under the title "It's Time for Microsoft to Put Up or Shut Up":According to the Fortune report, more than half of the Fortune 500 companies are estimated to use Linux in their data centers.In recent days, reports have surfaced that Microsoft may plan to backport its WinFS system to Windows XP.The technology, intended to track file metadata for better organization and searching capability, had previously only been planned as part of the forthcoming Microsoft Windows Longhorn operating system release.Support for Windows XP, while surprising, may aid developers in speeding adoption of the new technology in their applications.According to a 2002 email exchange obtained by lawyers in an Iowa case, Microsoft executives wanted to "whack" Dell because it was focusing on Linux  deals a little too much. The first email by Bill Veghte, currently a company vice president, describes a Linux panel where a Dell executive explains their plans to increase Linux in the enterprise market.  The responses to his email start in a worried tone over market competition but quickly escalates as Paul Flessner, a senior vice president in Microsoft's server applications unit, states: Paul Flessner then goes on to describe the advantages to promote Linux over Windows for Dell:A recent study funded by the EU Commission concluded that "in almost all the cases, a transition toward open source reports of savings on the long-term costs of ownership of the software products." In addition, Microsoft has long been at the center of criticism and allegations over its alleged unfair and anticompetitive business tactics in Europe and elsewhere.Microsoft has announced it is dropping its bid to acquire one of their Internet competitors, Yahoo!, after a three-month courting effort by Microsoft.Microsoft chief executive officer, Steve Ballmer notified Yahoo! chief executive officer, chairman and co-founder, Jerry Yang via a letter that Microsoft was dropping their bid for the Sunnyvale, California based search engine giant.In a press release from Microsoft, Ballmer said, “Despite our best efforts, including raising our bid by roughly US$5 billion, Yahoo! has not moved toward accepting our offer. After careful consideration, we believe the economics demanded by Yahoo! do not make sense for us, and it is in the best interests of Microsoft stockholders, employees and other stakeholders to withdraw our proposal”.Microsoft withdrew its bid effort after raising their bid from $44.6 billion to $47.5 billion, which works out at $33 per share. However, Yahoo! were waiting for a bid of around $53 billion, which was more than Microsoft were willing to pay.Microsoft had previously wanted to takeover Yahoo! in-order to compete with Google, the market leader in online advertising.  The online advertising market was worth $40 billion in 2007 and will rise to an expected $80 billion in 2010.Some observers, however, are speculating that the bid withdrawal could just be another tactic in their attempt to acquire Yahoo!. Yahoo shares have dropped since the bid was pulled out.As Microsoft had previously announced, they will stop supporting three older versions of their flagship Windows operating system software, Windows 98, Windows 98 Second Edition and Windows Millennium Edition (Me).On July 11, 2006 technical and public support and critical security updates for these products will end, as part of the Microsoft Lifecycle Policy. In their customer notification about the change, the software giant says they are ending support "because [these products] are outdated and these older operating systems can expose customers to security risks", and that customers are advised to upgrade to the company's newer Windows XP.IDC analysts say that seventy million will be affected by the change. Because of the lack of security updates for Windows 98, it is possible that any still-existing security problems can be exploited.Support questions on the Microsoft website relating to the software products can still be accessed and will remain for at least another year. Microsoft ended free support for these products in 2003. The end date of Extended Support for Windows 98 was originally January 16, 2004.As Microsoft had previously announced, they will stop supporting the first service pack of their flagship operating system software, Windows XP. The company will not provide any security updates or incident support options for Windows XP Service Pack 1 (SP1) and Service Pack 1a (SP1a).On October 10, 2006 support and security updates for these two products will end, as part of the Microsoft Lifecycle Policy. In their customer notification about the change, the software giant advises customers to update to the newer Service Pack 2 (SP2), released in 2004.Windows XP SP1 was released on September 9, 2002, offering more than 300 security updates in one package. Other than the security updates, SP1 also introduced USB 2.0 support and a new utility, Set Program Access and Defaults, which let users to have control over Microsoft's bundled products. On February 3, 2003, the service pack was re-released as Service Pack 1a which, as a result of a lawsuit with Sun Microsystems, removed the Microsoft virtual machine (VM), which provided support for Java programs.The support end date for SP1 was originally September 17, 2006.On December 22, 2006 Microsoft has announced that it has extended its warranty for all Xbox 360 video game consoles to one year in the United States. While this one year warranty applies to all Xbox 360 software as well, Xbox 360 accessories will still carry their original 90 day warranty.According to a statement by Microsoft:"Customers that experience hardware issues with their Xbox 360 within one year of purchase will have their consoles repaired at no cost. Moreover, the new warranty policy is retroactive, so consumers that may have already paid for out-of-warranty Xbox 360 repair within one year of the console's purchase will be eligible for reimbursement of their console repair charges."This extension should help ease customers' minds who have been concerned with the Xbox 360's reputation for hardware failures. A partial list of hardware issues can be found here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xbox_360_technical_problemsPeople who have paid for Xbox 360 repair will be automatically distributed a reimbursement check in about 10 weeks from the present date.Previously in September, 2006, Microsoft had waived the cost for repairs on all Xbox 360 consoles made before January 1, 2006, and refunded any fees already paid.A full description of the updated warranty can be found here: http://www.xbox.com/en-US/support/systemsetup/xbox360/resources/warranty.htmMicrosoft has begun an attack against Google over the issue of copyright infringements. The officials from the software giant state that the number one search engine takes a cavalier approach to what concerns copyright protection. The associate general counsel of Microsoft, Mr. Thomas Rubin, prepared a remark that he delivered to the Association of American Publishers. He argued that Google's idea to create a book search engine might come at publishers' expense. Mr. Rubin criticized those companies that use the works of various publishers and not their own, stating that such companies make billions on the back of other people's content. He said that in distinction from Microsoft, Google feels comfortable making a certain content searchable online and afterwards asking permission from the author. According to the associate general counsel of Microsoft, Google does not always ask permission and uses the copyright work until its author tells the company to stop.In response to the accusations from Microsoft, the senior vice president for corporate development of Google said that Google performs legal actions. Whenever the company wanted to make certain content available online it always asked for permission. In such a way Google worked with several thousands publishing partners and recently made a partnership with BBC and N.B.A. to display videos on YouTube.The future of Microsoft's Flight Simulator series is uncertain after the company fired all of Flight Simulator's developers this January. Microsoft still insists that it is "committed" to the series, although the ACES studio, which develops the simulator, was closed when the company shed 5000 jobs.Nels Anderson, the founder of FlightSim.com, a MSFS enthusiast website, called it a "dark day" for the simulation market. "Microsoft have apparently cancelled a 27 year franchise. Flight sims were one of the few things about Microsoft people actually liked. It made them money and had an enormous following. To cancel something like that is an amazing thing to do," he said in an interview with the BBC.Derek Davis, who is the editor of the PC Pilot Magazine, however, said that there could be a bright side to the news: "I don't know what the eventual fate of Microsoft's Flight Simulator series will be, but I think we're going to see a rise in sales and an increase in third-party development. There is now some stability to be had — we're all going to be using FSX for some time — and that is going to make it far easier for developers to produce new aircraft," he said. Flight Simulator X (FSX) is the current edition in the series.The Flight Simulator series is possibly the longest-running computer game series ever, with the first version of the game released back in 1982. It is known, not only for its official releases, but also for its dedicated fan base, which has produced large amounts of third-party addons for the game.Prior to the dissolution of the ACES studio, an eleventh version of Flight Simulator was planned for release in about a year and a half. Also in development at the studio at the time of its closure was Microsoft Train Simulator 2, which was expected to be released this year.Microsoft launched its free online classified listing site, Windows Live Expo today in the United States market, announcing that it is no longer a public pre-release beta version, but "a fully fledged Windows Live service". The corporation is readying a UK version, too.Expo, one of the 30+ announced Windows Live services and software products, is the fifth service in the set to launch. It was previously available in a public beta form for U.S. residents.On Windows Live Expo users can buy and sell items, post classified advertisements, and search for bargains. Similar Web sites include Craigslist and eBay. Expo  can perform searches for listings by people in a specific group (e.g. only e-mail contacts), and also by the geographic distance of the advertiser from the user.The service is meant to be heavily integrated with other Windows Live products, such as Messenger and Spaces. The new version, compared to the betas, introduces the new Windows Live look, the ability to add comments to a listing, provides driving directions to a specific place (like the home of the seller of an item), and also provides more help for developers to expand upon Expo.The announcement, published on the product team's blog, also noted that a UK version of the service was created and is available internally inside the company.Expo was previously code-named Classified, and earlier code-named Fremont.Microsoft plans to expand its anti-piracy activity in the United States using a new way which includes comics. The company's campaign will be held online and its starting day is Monday, January 22, 2007. Microsoft has the aim of telling people about the advantages of software that is properly licensed. The campaign will also focus on intellectual property rights as well as risks that the user takes when using a pirate copy of the product. In an interview, the director of Genuine Software Initiative, Cori Hartje, stated that Microsoft looks forward to inform its clientèle about some important facts that will help users in their business activities. Last month the company launched its campaign in some European countries like: Italy, France and United Kingdom; as well as in other countries from different parts of the world: Indonesia, Brazil, Australia and UAE. Microsoft hopes to catch the attention of users through banner advertisements on the company's websites. It will also launch promotional material which later will be handed out through Microsoft's partners. The company chose comics in an effort to reach a wider audience. The comics are drawn in black and white and they look similar to the ones presented in newspapers.The company has spent millions of dollars in its campaign against unauthorized copies of Windows, but cannot say whether the campaign has been successful.The state of Massachusetts unveiled plans to officially end use of the Microsoft Office suite, instead switching to an open document format currently implemented by many open-source groups.  Massachusetts is believed to be the first major public-sector group to implement such a plan in the United States.Target implementation date is January 1, 2007.  The task is considered challenging, as most government documents were created in closed-source programs such as Office, Lotus Notes, and Corel WordPerfect.  OpenDocument is an XML-based standard for creating documents, spreadsheets, charts and graphs.  The OpenDocument format is supported by many software suites, including OpenOffice and StarOffice.  While Microsoft document formats are generally the most commonly used, government officials worried about the proprietary nature of the formats.On December 29th 2005, Microsoft applied for a patent that allows the operating system to require users to pay attention to ads shown on their computers. According to the patent, a user will be asked to identify her / himself to a webcam or provide some data regarding the advertisement to be entered. The technology that is part of this patent is meant to give Microsoft the right to repossess one's computer if one does not pay attention to advertisements. According to the patent, the technology will be used so that the The stated aim of the technology is so that telephone companies, internet service providers, or leasing companies, can provide computer systems etc. to users either free or at reduced charge and recoup the cost of the system through sale of advertising.Breaking with the scheduled Patch Tuesday cycle of bugfix releases, Microsoft has released an emergency patch to correct the Windows Metafile vulnerability that allows a remote compromise of a computer.Microsoft has made available patches for all currently supported versions of their Windows operating system.  However, the Windows 98, Windows 98 Second Edition, and Windows Millennium Edition versions have not – at this time – had patches issued for this vulnerability.  According to Microsoft, these versions contain the vulnerable software component but, "the vulnerability is not critical because an exploitable attack vector has not been identified that would yield a Critical severity rating for these versions."Current versions of Windows, including Windows XP and Windows Server 2003, depending on configuration, may prompt users to download or install this update automatically for those computers currently connected to the Internet. This is the preferred method of protecting your computer from this vulnerability.Other users are advised to visit Microsoft Windows Update to obtain this security patch, if they are unable to obtain the patch or are unsure whether they have it.Previous methods of protection included unregistering shimgvw.dll to disable handling of Windows MetaFiles, as per Microsoft's security advisory. Since it does not correct the underlying problem, it is unlikely that this method is recommended any longer.Other methods included Ilfak Guilfanov's unofficial patch, which was not advised by Microsoft, but served as a measure to mitigate the immediate effects until an official patch was released. Guilfanov has now noted that the patch is no longer needed.At 9:00 p.m. PDT Monday (0400 UTC Tuesday), Microsoft rolled out the first stable Internet Explorer 9 (IE9) release, available in 39 languages, for Windows Vista and Windows 7. Internet Explorer is the most used web browser, responsible for 56% of webpage hits. The new version adds support for new technologies with relation to the HTML5 specification and several feature changes. The browser was released as a beta with a campaign promoting the benefits of HTML5.It includes support for SVG and the HTML5 canvas, audio, and video tags. It has a failing Acid3 score of 95/100, below Mozilla Firefox 4.0's 97/100, rating and the 100/100 in Google Chrome 10. The program is the first of its series not to run on Microsoft Windows XP. It includes a redesigned layout of the address bar and the ability to pin sites to the taskbar on Windows 7, along with several minor improvements.The browser received mixed reviews. "IE9 as a Consumer Browser — Not Worth It," Jason Mick, DailyTech, concluded. A study by Which? on Tuesday showed that IE9's Tracking Protection Lists, an optional anti-tracking feature, may mislead users. "We're disappointed with the way these lists work, and feel consumers who install multiple lists could be left with a false sense of security." Dr. Rob Reid, Which? Policy senior advisor, said.In a more positive review, a PC Magazine reviewer said that the positives of the new browser outweighed the negatives, and it is "a major improvement over its predecessor."The announcement comes after the company launched a campaign to get Internet Explorer 6 usage down to 1%. Microsoft delayed the Japanese release "to reduce load on network bandwidth at such a critical time" with reference to the earthquake and tsunami in Japan this past Friday.The sales of the Microsoft Corporation has increased considerably during the latest quarter, having brought more profit than predicted by Wall Street. However, the delay in arrival of the major new products resulted in spoiled financial results.The quarter that finished in December marked the increase by 6 percent in the Microsoft sales, having reached the revenue of $12.5 billion. The delayed products  -  the latest versions of Windows Vista and Office 2007 - are to be launched next week. Microsoft's video game business grew considerably in the quarter - its revenue increased by 75 percent, to the mark of $2.96 billion. The success of the business is explained by steady sales of its Xbox 360 console and highly demanded games like the critically acclaimed Gears of War at the end of 2006. The noteworthy results have been gained by Microsoft in selling its server software applied in corporate data centers. It brought the revenue up 17 percent, to $2.85 billion. As for the operating profit, it increased by 35 percent, to over $1 billion. Following the most profitable Windows and Office, the server group, including databases, operating systems, and back-end programs used for e-mail systems, presently represents the third major product line of the Corporation. Net income witnessed 28 percent decrease, to $2.63 billion to be compared to $3.65 billion dollars during the same period of time the previous year.To solve the problem of the product delay and support the personal computer industry, Microsoft provided free or discount coupons for upgraded versions of Windows Vista and Office 2007. Consequently, PC makers sold new computers during the last period of 2006 promising their customers that they would be able to acquire the new Microsoft products, thus preventing PC sales from standing at still point. The coupon program was initiated by Microsoft in October with expectations of approximately 1.5 billion dollars in revenue to be deferred. However, with better PC sales Microsoft received the $1.64 billion.Microsoft pays attention towards development of the consumer electronics business. In the end of 2006 the company launched  a digital media player called Zune, a product to compete with iPod produced by Apple. However, Microsoft's section of consumer entertainment and devices is not profitable yet.As for Microsoft’s on-line business, it also leaves much to be desired, especially considering Internet searches. In the latest quarter there was a decline in the Microsoft's market share in searching. Still, the company continues to invest into this business segment. The revenue brought by on-line services, including web advertising and search-linked ads, increased by 5 percent in the quarter, to $624 million.File:Vista-folder windows.pngMicrosoft confirmed today that it will ship Vista, the latest version of its Windows operating system, in Europe and South Korea as scheduled, despite warnings from the European Commission competition committee and Korean fair trade regulator. A press release on the Microsoft website said it had been in 'constructive dialogue' with both bodies. According to Brad Smith, the company's general council, Microsoft has agreed to several changes set out by the EU body.The discussion mostly centers around the inclusion of Google search facilities, Adobe PDF creation tools, and Microsoft's own security software in the operating system. As Microsoft Windows is used by 90% of the consumer computer market both committees expressed concerns that the bundling of these services and software would push companies offering similar products out of the market. In September Microsoft raised the possibility of the Vista launch being delayed in the EU and Korea however the companies CEO Steve Balmer last night confirmed this would not be the case. At the time Microsoft said it was unsure what changes the commission required to its new OS. Warnings were apparently first received by the company in March when EU Competition Commissioner Neelie Kroes said there could be issues with the new software.This is not the first time the software giant has clashed with EU legislators. In 2004 it was ruled to have abused it's position as market leader to push Media player using Windows. A record €497 million fine was imposed at the time and a further €280.5 million in July this year (after courts ruled Microsoft had not complied with the ruling). In the 2004 action Microsoft was required to share information stored on its servers with competing companies, something it has so far failed to do. The company now faces a €300 million a day fine for each day it does not comply.Microsoft has finally released its long awaited "Silverlight" into Alpha Testing for the general public. "It's the biggest challenge for Microsoft right now," said Brent Thill, an analyst from Citigroup. This is the most direct threat to date, that Microsoft has posed to Adobe (makers of the popular Flash platform).The creators of Silverlight have been promising a single plug-in which will work across all browsers and operating systems and will offer a rich video and interactive media experience which can be embedded within Web sites.Microsoft has also promised to make some of the Silverlight technologies open source. This has been a popular decision among the computing industry, and has been a step away from the usual protection of their products.While at MIX07, Microsoft also discussed its new package called Expression, which is set to be released in June, and will be an alternative to Adobe Creative Suite 3 (CS3).Microsoft has warned that it may delay Vista, the next release of Windows, in Europe unless it receives clear guidance from the European Commission (EC) about its antitrust requirements for the operating system. Microsoft says it has received numerous requests from its partners seeking assurance about the regulatory status of Vista in Europe.Microsoft has also claimed that the EC may require that some security features be removed from Vista, possibly referring to internal firewall changes in Vista.  The EC had expressed concern that the firewall changes might lock out third party security companies & decrease security by creating a more homogeneous computing environment.The EC denies any responsibility for a potential shipment delay of Vista, stating that the onus is upon Microsoft to comply with the competition laws of Europe and not for the EC to tell Microsoft how to design Vista.Microsoft decided to buy a health information search engine called Medstory. This is the company's first step towards an involvement in the health market. The software that Medstory develops involves artificial intelligence techniques which are applied to both medical and health information stored in medical journals, as well as government documents. No additional information on the Medstory purchase was disclosed.According to Peter Neupert, vice president for health strategy at Microsoft, the acquisition of Medstory represents the first step in assembling technologies which can serve well for the consumer experience in health care.In 2006 Microsoft bought Azyxxi, which is a clinical health care service system. It searches and displays information about the patient from many sources. The information might be provided by: scanned documents, X-rays and even ultrasound images.Microsoft decided to make its move into the health care system at a time when many websites, that provide various information on health, started to significantly raise their traffic and receive investments. The industry analyst and Medstory investor, Esther Dyson, mentioned that the technology provided by Medstory is not just a search engine, it also represents an ontology engine. He also outlined the fact that Microsoft has acquired "some of the best deep technology" in the fast growing field of medical search engines.Microsoft has announced its plans to drop the part of its Windows Genuine Advantage (WGA) tool that sends data back to Microsoft saying if the user's copy of Windows XP is genuine or not. There has been a huge amount of controversy over that part of the application, mainly because every time a PC with the software is booted, it sends the data. If the PC, or more accurately, the operating system of the PC, is reported to be a pirated version the user is presented with numerous pop-ups and icons stating that the PC is running an illegal version of Windows.The dropping of pirate checks in WGA could be because of a class action lawsuit that was filed last week by San Diego lawyer, Scott Kamber, on behalf of U.S. users on allegations that the software is spyware. A statement from Microsoft Australia says, "WGA is not spyware. It's installed with the consent of the user and seeks only to notify the user if a proper licence is not in place."Ian Smith, a user angered by the WGA pirating checks, said to Australian IT "I bought my software legitimately, I validated it, I go to Microsoft for updates, and if they want to check it then, that's okay. But coming back every day is too much."Microsoft Corp. is establishing, in Shanghai, China, a center for research and development. The center will work on the company's MSN service. It will be Microsoft's first research and development center of this kind outside the U.S. Microsoft decided to take this step because of several setbacks that occurred in its online services working in China. One of the company's setbacks concerns the resignation of Luo Chuan, who was Microsoft's top executive responsible for the Chinese Windows Live unit. The company's new research and development center is to be established in Shanghai's Zizhu Science Park. At this location, where another giant, Intel Corp, already has its research office, Microsoft plans to develop Internet software.The center is estimated to cost $ 20 million. It will have a special technical support team that will work on Microsoft's MSN Messenger. The company hopes to make its online communication tool popular among Chinese teenagers and young professionals.Microsoft already has an R&D center in Beijing. However, the software giant lacks a facility to work with its well-known MSN service. Investing in its communication tool may strengthen the company's leading position on the Chinese market.Setting up the MSN research and development center in Peoples Republic of China implies that Microsoft looks forward to taking advantage of the Chinese market, which represents a quite flexible environment. This statement was made by Doug Crets, who works at Media Partners Asia as a Hong-Kong-based analyst.In a move aimed to prevent fines stemming from its antitrust lawsuit filed by the European Commission (EC), Microsoft announced that it will be releasing portions of the source code to its Windows operating system. The EC ruled in March 2004 that Microsoft had abused its position in the low-end server and media player market, and required that Microsoft "disclose complete and accurate interface documentation which would allow non-Microsoft work group servers to achieve full interoperability with Windows PCs and servers".  Microsoft reacted by making available 12,000 pages of technical documentation and up to 500 hours of technical support, but the EC came to the conclusion that it was not enough.Announcing that "we are putting our most valuable intellectual property on the table so we can put technical compliance issues to rest", Microsoft General Counsel Brad Smith asserted that Microsoft would be superseding the EC's requirements as a sign of good faith.  "While we are confident that we are presently in full compliance with the Decision, we wish to dispel any notion that Microsoft’s technical documents are insufficient", said Smith.The EC responded in a memo that it will study Microsoft's reply to the Statement of Objections once it receives the full details.  However, EC Competition Commissioner spokesman Jonathan Todd commented that "it would be premature to conclude access to the source code would resolve the problem of the lack of compliance with our decision."A similar offer was made by Microsoft in August 2002 during its antitrust lawsuit filed by the United States Department of Justice and several states' Attorneys General.  The resulting "Microsoft Communications Protocols Program" had suffered continuous criticism regarding excessive cost, paperwork, and non-disclosure agreements.  It is unclear at this time if Microsoft's planned "Work Group Server Protocol Program" will suffer from the same issues if accepted by the EC.Microsoft is expected to return to the EC courts in April.Microsoft  announced Thursday that it plans to release seventeen security bulletins, known as patches, to address 64 security flaws on Tuesday. Nine of the patches are deemed "critical" and eight as "important."The enormous number of security flaws addressed in the April Patch update is a record for Microsoft. The company also released seventeen security bulletins in December, but these addressed 40 flaws, only two being rated as critical; also a record is the number of flaws being addressed in the update; the most previously addressed was 49 in the October 2010 update, reports  Jason Miller of Shavlik Technologies. The April update covers security vulnerabilities in Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows XP and various Windows Server editions, as well as versions of  Office applications, Visual Studio, .NET Framework, Graphics Device Interface,  Internet Explorer (IE) including IE6 (which Microsoft is seeking to discontinue) and other applications.Although Microsoft did not provide details, Microsoft said the update will address a SMB browser bug, discovered in February,  that  could potentially cause a denial-of-service attack, and the Windows MHTML flaw which has allowed  client-side scripts to be run by an attacker in "limited, targeted attacks," Microsoft has said. "This is a huge update and system administrators should plan for deployment," disclosed Wolfgang Kandek, CTO of Qualys.Software giant Microsoft has been attempting to purchase Internet giant Yahoo! in hopes of leveraging the internet presence of Yahoo! in Microsoft's battle with Google.  The original offer for Yahoo! was $44 billion; however since this offer Microsoft has seen a revenue drop this last quarter which could greatly affect the software giant's ability to up the price again in hopes Yahoo! would accept.Revenues at Microsoft were down a total of 6%.  This includes a 24% drop in revenue from the Windows Operating System alone.  Stock prices of both Microsoft and Yahoo! have decreased during the merger discussions. Microsoft's next move is unknown but there has been talk of potentially going directly to the Yahoo! shareholders with a buyout plan.It is too early to tell how this will end, but Microsoft has made it known that it will try all available routes; up to and including a hostile takeover. Recent comments from Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer and CFO Chris Liddell have mentioned that not acquiring Yahoo! is also an option. Whatever Microsoft's plan is, the longer this takes, the more competitor Google will likely use this to their advantage is obtaining both clients and employees, says Juan Carlos Perez of IDG.Mobile phones are to fight HIV/AIDS in Africa. Health-care workers will be able to report current health data  from the field to a central database using their mobile phones, under a project to be launched with the help of leading phone companies and the U.S. government.The US$10 million project, called “Phones-for Health”, was announced on Tuesday at the 3GSM World Congress in Barcelona. The software used in this project is loaded on to a standard handset developed by Motorola. The information will be transmitted with the help of the standard GPRS mobile data communication protocol or, if this is not available, by the ubiquitous SMS.Africa lacks fixed-line telephone as well as Internet connections. Most often people use pen and paper to record the spread of disease. However, today more than 60 percent of people living in Africa have mobile phone coverage and the number of areas to have mobile phone coverage is expected to increase up to 85 percent by 2010. This data was provided by the GSM Association, which is a global trade group that represents some of the leading operators of mobile telephony.The scheme, under which the project will be launched, was designed after the success of another project launched earlier in Rwanda. It will focus mainly on fighting HIV/AIDS in 10 African countries. The first to enter the program is South African mobile phone operator - MTN. The new scheme hopes in long-term to be spread from Africa to Asia so to turn its attention towards other diseases like malaria and tuberculosis.Security experts warn more and more teenagers are now into hi-tech  computer crime. Alarmingly  large number of teenagers are found peddling credit card numbers,  phishing kits and  cracking tips in some Internet forums. The young offenders are very likely to get caught and prosecuted due to their inferior technical skills, claim experts.  Swapping malicious programs, knowledge, stolen data, exploits and virus code are very popular with teenagers exposed to the world of computer crime. Online communities and web forums sharing application cracks, exotic exploits and virus code make it easy for teens to do the illegal activities. Many nuisance programs are written by teenagers to exploit users of  social networking sites, says Chris Boyd, director of malware research at FaceTime Security."Some are quite crude, some are clever and some are stupid," said Mr Boyd. Attempts to make money by dabbling in cyber crime quite often fails due to a lack of technical skills. "They do not even know enough to get a simple phishing or attack tool right," said Kevin Hogan, a senior manager of Symantec Security Response. The teenagers often end up damaging their own PCs by the viruses they have written. Teenagers desire to win recognition for their exploits make them post revealing videos in sites such as YouTube. They commonly sign on with the same alias used to crack a site, run a phishing attack or write a web exploit. They are thus easily tracked down by computer security experts.Mathew Bevan, arrested as a teenager cyber criminal and then acquitted, says teens enjoy the "thrill and power to prove they are somebody". Thus they end up sticking to the same alias, even at a risk of being caught. "The aim of what they are doing is to get the fame within their peer group," he said. "They spend months or years developing who they are and their status. They do not want to give that up freely."Graham Robb, a board member of the  Youth Justice Board, cautions about the life-long stigma on being caught.  "If they get a criminal record it stays with them," he said. "A  Criminal Records Bureau check will throw that up and it could prevent access to jobs."As the case between film studio Metro Goldwyn Mayer and file-sharing software firm Grokster continues in the US Supreme Court, protesters from the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) adopted a novel tactic. EFF Staff Technologist Seth Schoen arrived at the courthouse with several Betamax tapes. As Jack Valenti, until recently the president of the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), arrived, EFF Media Coordinator Annalee Newitz asked Valenti to sign one of the tapes; Valenti complied with her request.In testimony before the US Congress in 1982, Valenti sided with an effort to outlaw Sony's early video cassette recorder standard, Betamax. The Valenti testimony included the oft-quoted phrase, "I say to you that the VCR is to the American film producer and the American public as the Boston strangler is to the woman home alone."The case now before the Supreme Court, MGM v. Grokster, has some similarities to the Betamax case of 1982. Both disputes concern new technologies used for copying media — exclusively video in the earlier Betamax case, all-digital media in the current case of Grokster. There are dissimilarities as well. A recent statement from Recording Artists' Coalition spokesperson and professional singer, Sheryl Crow, points out that with Betamax technology, "a second copy turned out to be of measurably inferior quality," while with Grokster, "one could possibly distribute millions of perfectly reproduced copies." Crow also quotes an expurgated version of the copyright clause of the US Constitution,"To promote the progress of...useful arts by securing ... to authors [sic] the exclusive right to their respective writings ..."The original text reads:"To promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries;"The 2008 Taipei CNC Machine Tools & Manufacturing Technology Show (MT duo) and Taiwan International Robot Exhibition (Robot Taiwan 2008) both began yesterday. These events are both taking place in the build up to Taipei International Machine Tool Show (TIMTOS 2009) at TWTC Nangang, which is due to take place next year.The 2008 MT duo and Robot Taiwan mainly focused on software designed for industry, rather than consumers. This is in contrast to the choice of software displayed in many Japanese Trade Shows, which often displays products designed for consumers.Robotics is a major industry in Taiwan. As a result the organizer of the event decided to refine "Manufacturing Taipei" and split it into the "Robot & Industrial Automation" of Manufacturing Taipei and "Robot Taiwan".There was also a "Taiwan International Robotics Forum" and "Seminars on MT duo" at the event. Both were designed to attract executives from IT, manufacturing, and machinery industries to promote the worldwide use of robotics in industry.The German city of Munich has delayed the start of its planed migration to Linux till 2006. The migration was originally due to start this year, three years after the decision to migrate to Linux was made. Peter Hofmann, the project leader of the migration said the delay was because the "pilot was more important than we first thought and should last longer." Once the pilot is completed all the departments will eventually be migrated to Linux and OpenOffice.org.On May 28, 2003 Germany's third-largest city, voted to move to open source software. Munich made the decision to switch after Microsoft discontinued support for their current OS, Windows NT 4. While Suse was very involved in the early phases, Debian was ultimately selected to replace Windows on 14,000 desktops. The migration is estimated to cost between 30 and 34 million euros, once complete would affect approximately 16,000 users.The first department to migrate to Linux and OpenOffice.org will be the office of the Lord Mayor planed for the middle of 2006, though not all of the department's computers will be immediately migrated.  Peter Hofmann  said "Some departments will start with OpenOffice on Windows, others will start with OpenOffice on Linux," he said. "It depends on their infrastructure, for example, if a department has a small number of simple [Office] macros and templates but a large number of complex applications, it is easier to do OpenOffice on Windows first."Social networking website MySpace lost over ten million users between January and February 2011, according to comScore. In February 2011, the Internet website had less than 63 million users, down from a previous total of approximately 73 million. In the same month, 2.3 million individuals were on the site in the United Kingdom.In the space of one year, MySpace has also suffered a number of user losses approaching fifty million. Earlier this year, MySpace announced their intentions to eliminate five hundred jobs around the world, which equates to half of its employee total. MySpace has contributed to the success of British music artists, including Kate Nash, Lily Allen and the Arctic Monkeys. In 2005, News Corporation purchased the social networking site for £330 million (US$529 million, €376 million). Five years ago, the site was proving to be largely popular, according to Newsbeat. Recently, the website has been facing difficult competition from other Internet websites, such as Facebook and YouTube and has now been modified to be more significantly based on the music industry. Newsbeat has reported that the value of MySpace at present may be £50 million (US$80 million, €57 million).MySpace's Chief Executive Officer Michael Jones has claimed that the website is "no longer a social network anymore" and that it is currently a "social entertainment destination". Zack Whittaker, of business technology news website ZDNet, has commented that he "would be surprised if MySpace survives the year".MySpace, a popular Web network, has announced the decision to provide its database to the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC). The database is comprised of about 50 U.S. state registries on convicted sex offenders.  NCMEC hopes that its use of the national database as well as the support of authorities, MySpace and other on-line communities will contribute to the efficient work of the center.At present time the data contained in the MySpace database is gathered by a number of state authorities. The site, in conjunction with Sentinel Tech Holdings Corp., a company involved into background verification, has amplified a technology that united all the registries. It is claimed that the technology will assist police in keeping track of about 600,000 convicted sex offenders.MySpace and Sentinel Tech Holdings Corp. has been involved in developing the database since December, 2006.  The database has been used for identifying, blocking or deleting the accounts of convicted sex offenders on the MySpace service. The database contains special software tools to match photos and allows authorities to cross-reference photos or characteristics of sex predators against registered offenders.MySpace's provision of its database, however, has not proven sufficient for some critics of MySpace who allege that the network fails to protect minors from adult predators.  A member of a coalition of prosecutors from 39 U.S. states, which is demanding MySpace verify the ages of all of its members, has stated that the provision of the database is not sufficient protection for minors using the website.  The member threatened unspecified legal action if MySpace continues to refuse to verify its members' ages.Internet social gathering website MySpace will start sending online alerts to Internet users in certain regions of the United States in order to help find missing children. MySpace established a partnership with the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children in order to enable AMBER Alert. This is a program that provides an early warning broadcast bulletin in cases of earnest child abduction. A week ago, families of five teenagers who were sexually abused by adult users from MySpace sued the website, stating that it showed negligence concerning its users' protection. In 2006, the company hired a former prosecutor from the United States Justice Department in order to improve its online safety program. The representatives from MySpace stated that the AMBER alerts will appear in a little text box, which will be situated at the top of a profile. The website's users will be able to get additional information regarding the case, which will include photos and information about suspects.In a phone interview, the CEO of MySpace, Hemanshu Nigam, stated that the company has been working with partners and law enforcement in order to find all the possible ways to protect children and keep sex offenders away from the website. He also mentioned that MySpace will provide technology that will benefit the whole industry.MySpace is a fast-growing website, with about 150 million profiles. Half of all U.S. teenagers access such websites like MySpace with one goal – to make friends. This survey was made by Pew.As part of its safety program, the website now asks all its users to have a valid e-mail address. This will allow tracking down possible predators. New subscribers will get a verification e-mail with a link which the user must click to verify his or her identity. MySpace made a deal with Sentinel Tech Holding Corp. to create a new technology, called Sentinel Safe. The technology will allow MySpace to search proposed state and federal databases of sex offenders' e-mail addresses, enabling the company to delete the profiles of sex offenders who register with a "blacklisted" e-mail address.MySpace is also developing new software called Zephyr to show parents what information can be publicly seen about their child on the child's profile.  However, the adults using this software will not be able to read the e-mails sent to their child or edit their child's profile.The goliath of social networking services, MySpace, is trying to take on the goliath of legal online music download stores, iTunes. Bands will be able to sell MP3 tracks through their MySpace profiles.Most MySpace pages for musicians currently feature streaming audio, which allows web users to listen to a small selection of up to four songs while online. The new feature, currently in development, will allow instant pay-per-downloading of the songs. The downloading has been tested on a few bands' MySpace profiles, over the last few weeks. It is expected that the service will be available to visitors in the United States by year's end.Bands will be able to set whatever price they wish, as opposed to the flat rates of services like iTunes; an undisclosed percentage will go to MySpace/Snocap. Snocap claims they are attempting to keep costs as low as possible. Fans of the bands, called "Friends" on MySpace, will be able to add the "storefront" to their own profiles.MySpace claims to have three million music performers registered on its site. Many of these bands are unsigned or independent, and thus don't currently sell their tracks elsewhere.Downloaded MP3 files will be copy-protection free, which means users can keep copies on as many playing devices as they wish, unlike on most legal song download sites.The feature will be powered by a company called Snocap. The corporation processes the songs to make sure users don't attempt to sell tracks they don't own the rights to.A complex series of events, including a five month-old computer error, was responsible for the battery failure that led to the loss of NASA's Mars Global Surveyor last year, an internal review board says. Findings from a preliminary report released on Friday say that while NASA controllers followed procedures while operating the craft, the procedures did not cover the types of errors that occurred.According to NASA, on November 2, 2006, the Global Surveyor was ordered to perform a routine adjustment of its solar panels. However, the Global Surveyor reoriented to an angle that exposed one of its two batteries to direct sunlight. The battery overheated, which led to the depletion of both batteries. An incorrect setting in antenna orientation prevented Global Surveyor from relaying its status to NASA controllers. Its preprogrammed systems did not take into account the need to maintain a thermally safe orientation.That was the last communication that NASA controllers had with the spacecraft.The Global Surveyor was the first US mission to Mars in twenty years, For ten years, the craft returned detailed information to NASA scientists providing new insights, including evidence that appeared to show the presence of water on Mars and identification of deposits of water-related minerals, which led to selection of a Mars rover landing site."The loss of the spacecraft was the result of a series of events linked to a computer error made five months before the likely battery failure," said Dolly Perkins, board chairperson and deputy director-technical of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center.The board concluded that NASA controllers had followed procedures, but that the procedures did not adequately cover the type of errors that occurred. In its final report, the board will offer recommendations applicable to future missions."We are making an end-to-end review of all our missions to be sure that we apply the lessons learned from Mars Global Surveyor to all our ongoing missions," said Fuk Li, Mars Exploration Program manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.The Global Surveyor was the longest operating spacecraft at Mars and had lasted four times longer than expected.AOL has decided to discontinue development of the Netscape web browser which brought surfing the Internet to the masses, until its user base began to erode during the "browser wars" of the mid-1990s and resulted in the birth of Mozilla project.Tom Drapeau, the director of Netscape inside AOL announced on the Netscape blog that support for the recently released Netscape Navigator 9 and all of Netscape's browsers back to version 1.0, will end because it was unable to gain market share and a low number of users that continues to dwindle. Drapeau noted, "AOL's focus on transitioning to an ad-supported web business leaves little room for the size of investment needed to get the Netscape browser to a point many of its fans expect it to be," and that "the success the Mozilla Foundation has had in developing critically-acclaimed products, we feel it's the right time to end development of Netscape branded browsers, hand the reins fully to Mozilla and encourage Netscape users to adopt Firefox."Netscape's origins lie at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign where Netscape's co-founders, Marc Andreessen and Eric Bina wrote their first copy of NCSA Mosaic which became the first popular web browser and opened up the web for the first time to the general public and started the rise of the Internet in everyday life. Andreessen along with Jim Clark, the founder of Silicon Graphics, started the Mosaic Communications Corporation and released their first product Mosaic Netscape 0.9 in October 1994. A month later the company became the name it is today, the Netscape Communications Corporation to avoid legal problems from NCSA. A year later, had a successful IPO on August 9, 1995 and the stock closed the day at $75.Netscape's early success and virtual monopoly of the browser market was short-lived however as Microsoft viewed Netscape's idea of a consistent browser across various operating systems a threat and quickly began development of its own browser, Internet Explorer.This competition between Netscape and Microsoft became known as the browser wars, where both companies tried to outdo each other with their increasingly unstable browsers including: new features that did not always work, not providing bug fixes, deviating from Web standards (including the infamous <blink> and <marquee> HTML tags), program crashes and security holes.By the end of 1997, Netscape's glory had run out and it experienced it's first bad quarter, which resulted in layoffs in January 1998. The new year also brought the world with the arrival of what would eventually become Mozilla and later Firefox, when Netscape decided to make the source code for their browser open source. A year later, Netscape was out of steam and was no longer an independent company but now a subsidiary of America Online.The most recent version of the Netscape browser, Navigator 9, was for the most part was a re-skinned version of Firefox developed internally by a small group of people inside AOL. Netscape's actual browser development division was closed back in July 2003 and the workers laid off.However, AOL continues to run Netscape as a brand including a web portal, including a Digg-like social news aggregator which was branded as Netscape.com from June 2006 till September 2007, when it was spun off into a renamed site called Propeller. Netscape.com is now a dually branded AOL Netscape web portal, which is a duplicate of AOL.com. Netscape is also used as a brand by AOL as a low-cost dial-up Internet service provider.Firefox's third version is currently available as a beta and Microsoft is expected to release Internet Explorer 8 sometime in 2008.Support for one of the earliest popular web browsers, Netscape Navigator, will be discontinued as of today. The browser, now owned by United States internet services company AOL, was once used by 90% of internet users, however the sharp decrease in usage to around 0.06% has lead to all support from AOL being stopped. The decision was said to be due to "AOL's current business focus and the success of the Mozilla Foundation."The move was announced in December, and it was said that all support was to cease on February 1, 2008.  This was extended until March 1, 2008 in order to allow AOL to "provide tools to ease the migration of existing Netscape browser users to ... alternatives" such as Mozilla Firefox or Flock.The decision means that there will no longer be any security patch updates, or new functions for the browser.Apple Computer Inc. today revealed a new product named Mighty Mouse. The mouse has four buttons and a small 360 degree scroll trackball. This product will not only be compatible with the Macintosh but also with Microsoft Windows operating systems.Many of the products Apple has produced over recent years have been compatible with Microsoft Windows operating systems, the most notable being the iPod. The company recently announced that they will start using Intel microprocessors in their computers, and that those computers will be capable of running Microsoft Windows operating systems.Visually, this new mouse will be very similar to the ones that have been shipping with Macintosh computers for some time. It is white and has a rounded feel to it. The only difference is the trackball used for scrolling through documents and web pages.This is the first mouse product made by Apple that has a multi-button function. There are 'squeeze' buttons on the sides and a button under the micro-trackball, but there are no actual left/right buttons - it uses non-mechanical sensors to detect which finger is pressing when a regular click is made.Its US price is $49, UK price is £35.A company named Numenta was founded today by Jeff Hawkins, founder of handheld computer company palmOne, and his longtime partner Donna Dubinsky. The company is focused on the creation of technology to emulate the workings of the human brain. They are based in Menlo Park, California. Hawkins has been intrigued by the faculties of the human brain for years. In 2002, he founded the Redwood Neuroscience Institute. His theories on the working of the brain were explained in  "On Intelligence: How a New Understanding of the Brain Will Lead to the Creation of Truly Intelligent Machines," co-written with Sandra Blakeslee. Hawkins' official recognition with the company will only be as 'founder', as the company will be led by Dubinsky. Hawkins will continue as chief technical officer of palmOne and remain at Redwood.The company will not charge fees for its products during the first few years in order to encourage further development of the technology and build up a development community. The annual budget of more than $1 million will be paid by Hawkins and Dubinsky, who have raised an undisclosed amount from a handful of friends and associates.Hawkins and third co-founder of Numenta, Dileep George, have been working on developing the technology since 2003, and have devised an example piece of software. Data is put into the program by showing it 90 different pictures. The software can then recognise any of the 90 objects, even when drawn incomplete or in bad quality. Pattern matching is still difficult for today's hardware and software technologies. If outfitted with a camera, a sophisticated pattern matching system could be used by law enforcement to recognise the faces of wanted criminals in crowds.Other notable attempts at creating more powerful computer systems include Artificial intelligence, which started in the 1950s and took off in the mid 1980s and led to disappointment due to high expectations, and the Quantum Computer, both fields are still in active development.Jeff Hawkins and Dileep George will be publishing a paper on 'A Hierarchical Bayesian Model of Invariant Pattern Recognition in the Visual Cortex' at an upcoming neural networks conference.Sources close to three distributors of the GNU/Linux operating systems have announced that Progeny, Mandriva and TurboLinux are working together on a new Enterprise Linux distribution in the hope of competing with Novell's and Red Hat's products. The new distribution will be Debian-based, making it the first Debian-based enterprise Linux distribution. According to eWeek.com, the distribution will support both Debian's native .deb package format (including APT) and Red Hat's original RPM system, in order to remain compatible with the many Red Hat-based enterprise distributions such as Red Hat Enterprise Linux and SUSE - according to one vendor, "Basically the objective is to produce a distro that can act like Debian, use the Debian repository, but any Red Hat engineer should be comfortable with it." The distribution will also include a (within Debian) pioneering Web-based service manager for easy system administration, comparable to RHEL's tools of late.Online organisations around the world are today testing Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) — a new system of Internet addresses hoped to resolve the issue of the present system being at capacity. World IPv6 Day is checking everything works as planned.The current IPv4 standard was set up in the 1980s; it gives everything on the Internet a twelve-digit address and allows for 4.3 billion combinations. With these exhausted, IPv6 is designed to increase the limit 340 undecillion — that's 340 trillion trillion trillion.Major websites including services run by Google, Facebook, and Yahoo! are taking part in the test, switching their content to use the new system. Facebook predicts 99.97% of users to be unaffected and Google anticipates 99.5% will not encounter problems. The remainder may encounter slow page loading.Fiji and Australia are among the first countries to have business-hours web traffic during the test. Internet Society of Australia President Tony Hill claims more than 100 global companies are involved.Technology weblog Engadget has published exclusive photos of the yet to be released Palm Treo 700w. The Palm Treo 700w is the first Palm handheld to run Windows MobileNo official announcement has yet been made. Palm may choose to make the official announcement at the upcoming CTIA Wireless IT and Entertainment trade show. The CTIA Wireless IT and Entertainment trade show is one of the phone industry's largest trade shows.Palm Chief Financial Officer Andrew Brown said in a interview with CNet last month, that a Windows Mobile based smartphone may help convert corporate customers. "CIOs don't get fired for using Microsoft products."According to engadget, the Treo 700w has a 1-megapixel camera, Bluetooth, 64 MB of memory and a 240x240 display.Palm OS is no longer created by Palm but by a spinoff PalmSource. PalmSource was recently acquired by Japanese software company Access for $324 million. Palm is the only major handheld  manufacturer to use PalmOS. Many expect Palm to release a PalmOS version in addition to the Windows Mobile version, somewhat implied by the model number Treo 700w. A PalmOS version of the phone would most likely be named Treo 700p.A new search engine that was announced yesterday finds articles and links within the English Wikipedia. Wikiseek, run by a California based startup company called "searchme", is a website which aims to be "A better way to search Wikipedia."Although most keywords work without problems, Digg users have found search terms that the site does not recognize. If you enter "Chicago" for example, it shows no Wikipedia articles at all, and clicking "Chicago, Illinois" leads to an article on West Chicago, Illinois and other related articles to the subject. Similarly, entering "Christmas", "United States" or "PlayStation 3" only provides links to related articles on Wikipedia, although they are in the top 10 of most viewed articles in the English Wikipedia. Searching "porn" comes up with commercial websites linked from Wikipedia, but not the relevant articles in the free encyclopedia. For most articles however, the relevant Wikipedia article is the first result or among the results.The site says that "The contents of Wikiseek are restricted to Wikipedia pages and only those sites which are referenced within Wikipedia, making it an authoritative source of information less subject to spam and SEO schemes." The site also offers a Toolbar plugin and a Firefox extension to add a Wikiseek search button inside of Wikipedia pages.Danny Sullivan at the Search Engine Land blog found Wikiseek's results inferior compared to the  results from established search engines. SearchMe CEO Randy Adams stressed that Wikiseek is still in a beta phase. He pointed out that they welcome feedback more than the average search engine, which can be posted on their company wiki.Searchme put a button on their main page, encouraging beta testers to instantly promote the site on Digg. In August 2006, Digg had half a million registered users.Some media outlets have reported that Wikiseek was created by either the Wikimedia Foundation which runs Wikipedia, or private corporation Wikia, which hosts a collection of wiki communities. Both rumors are untrue, says Angela Beesley, co-founder of Wikia and chair of the Advisory Board of the Wikimedia Foundation. "Wikiseek is an independent project with no affiliation with either Wikia or the Wikimedia Foundation."The Wikiseek site says they contribute the majority of its revenue from advertisement to the Wikimedia Foundation's fundraising effort.Today, The Mozilla Corporation launches Firefox 2.0 Final, the Second-generation release of Firefox. Firefox 1.0 was originally released on November 9, 2004 , and currently Firefox has a usage share of about 12% [1].New features in Firefox 2.0 include enhancements in security, tabbed browsing, performance, and extensions.Mountain View, California, USA —The Mozilla Foundation recently released an update to Mozilla Firefox. According to the developers, Mozilla Firefox 1.0.1 patches 17 security flaws and improves stability. The update is available from Getfirefox.com by clicking 'Download Now' or 'Other Systems and Languages'.Windows users should currently be seeing a small icon on the menu bar of the browser indicating that an Automatic Update to the new version is now available for installation.Mozilla Firefox 1.0.1 is available at the time of writing in US English, French, Spanish (Latin American), German, Italian, Dutch, Finnish and Polish, among many other languages.However the updated Windows version has a flaw affecting anyone who previously installed Firefox as a 'zipped' build, rather than using the standard automatic installer method. (Zipped builds are often customized versions designed for increased speed or development work). If version 1.0.1 is installed over a zipped build, users are reporting that the browser crashes when attempting to enter text into the location or search boxes.Anyone encountering this problem is advised to delete their Mozilla Firefox folder in 'Program Files', then re-install. Their bookmarks, extensions etc will not be affected.The developers of a new video game genre hope to promote the idea of boosting the psychological health of gamers. Today, fun and violence are staples of the gaming industry and several groups in different countries are working on and promoting games to strengthen people's self-esteem and emotional health. One of such groups is Dimple Entertainment, based in Tokyo. The group's representatives stated that in May they will start the production of “DS Therapy”. In this unconventional game, players can see an evaluation of their mental health by answering several light-hearted questions on various topics in the game. Launched in Japan, the game will be available on a hand-held DS Player developed by Nintendo.Mark Baldwin, a psychology professor at the McGill University in Montreal, Canada hopes to use games to make people feel good about themselves. Together with his crew, Baldwin hs developed a game called “MindHabits Booster” based on their research in the field of social psychology. The game idea is built upon their observations that they can use repetitive components from video game play to shape humans' perceptions as well as their ways of thinking.The researchers working at the University of Rochester outlined that both children and adults play video games because they have several psychological needs like: opportunities for achievement, freedom and a sense of connection.Jatalla.com, a new search engine, provides search engine results pages that are derived strictly from user-generated submissions. The relevance ranking procedure relies upon "lexivotes", which consist of two parts:  (1) a word or phrase (similar to a folksonomic tag, but potentially much longer than a traditional tag) and (2) at least one URL.  When a user submits a search query, all lexivotes that exactly match the search query are counted, and results are ranked according to number of votes.Such an approach, which appears to be the first of its kind for this application, differs from the approach of traditional search engines, which rely upon web crawlers to gather content and then analyze this content using one or more algorithms.  Jatalla's lexivote system also differs from traditional ranking mechanisms, such as those of the search engine leader Google, which rank relevance according to sites that link to a given web page.The Jatalla page for Frequently Asked Questions states, "When you perform a search on Jatalla.com, you are interviewing the entire world of Web users, and only those opinions matching your query -- character-for-character -- are counted in generating search results...If you believe (as do we!) that humans are still smarter than computers, you have come to the right place."The beta launch for the search engine is expected in July.Saturday, September 2nd, Wellington held a computer recycling day for free hosted by computer maker, Dell. Now Auckland is looking to host one of their own.During the recycling day, sponsored by Environment Ministry and Computer Access New Zealand Trust, Dell New Zealand took in more than 30 tonnes of obsolete equipment by 1,200 people at Wellington's Westpac Stadium. Instead of the equipment going to a landfill where it is unable to decompose and will leak chemicals into the ground, 97% of all equipment collected will be recycled.Susan McGregor, an Auckland City Council spokesperson, said: "There is a regional forum looking into waste disposal; but to date there is only a scheme for hazardous material to be collected separately by the council. It [the council] would welcome computer companies taking some responsibility for disposing of old computer ware."Dell has indicated it will hold another PC clean up next year.According to Dell, out of the 6.3 million New Zealand computers, 250,000 of them are old and obsolete, mainly because most computer owners, according to a survey, will upgrade their computers every two to five years.Sydney, Australia had recently hosted one of their own computer recycling days; however Wellington's event was four times more successful.A man from New Zealand has found data belonging to the United States Armed Forces on a used MP3 player. Chris Ogle was shopping at a thrift store in Oklahoma when he bought the player for $9. Upon returning home to Whangarei and connecting it to his computer, he discovered files listing data about US soldiers serving in Afghanistan and Iraq. Among the data is lists of Social Security numbers, as well as mission briefings and a list of pregnant soldiers. Most of the data is from 2005, and it does not appear its exposure will have a major impact on US national security. As with any major data breach, however, there is a chance for identity theft of the persons whose information is contained on the player. Ogle has stated he will return the files if he is asked to by US officials. Neither the US embassy in Wellington nor the military had any comment for reporters.The US government has been hit by several high-profile data breaches and worm infections in the last few years. In 2006, investigators had to buy back USB flash drives — containing sensitive information — that had been stolen from a military base in Bagram. The United States Department of Defence banned flash drives in 2008 after malware infected computers there. Also in 2008, John McCain's presidential campaign accidentally sold a BlackBerry, which held sensitive data about the campaign, to a reporter.A Nigerian "free puppy" scam has been circling the internet for months without any reports on television or on the radio. Just yesterday the Toronto Star reported about a Mississauga, Ontario, Canada woman, on September 10, who was scammed by a Nigerian man (Paul) claiming to be a Christian missionary who could no longer take care of his puppy.In April, the CBC reported that the Toronto Humane Society issued a warning for residents to watch out for the new scam, and to not respond to them. Humane Society communications officer Lee Oliver told the CBC that the only contact method, for an ad about a "free" puppy published in a newspaper, was email. After he emailed the person he received an email response in broken English saying the customer would have to pay $500.According to the women the advertisements are published in newspapers, such as free Toronto daily newspaper 24, and online. She saw the ad at Livedeal.com, a website which warns about making foreign purchases, and proceeded to email the person in Nigeria who was offering a "free" female Yorkshire Terrier pup. The ad called "GORGEOUS YORKSHIRE TERRIER FOR FREE GRAB HER NOW!!!" had a picture of a "Yorkie" in a white basket.The seller of the puppy asked the women over the phone to pay $200 for the shipping fee, the next day he asked for $250 to put the dog in a crate, and again the next day $50 for ownership. He did not tell her it would amount to $500. On the third day he asked for $100 for a shot for his puppy. She immediately contacted authorities."Are you trying to call me a scam? I'm a family man," he said. "I am a man of God. I am a missionary," Paul told a reporter for the Toronto Star."Me and my family don't have enough time for baby ... I want a good Christian home for my baby ... I love this baby," he said. "Why all these questions? Why are you accusing?"According to Oliver, a nearby Toronto resident also responded to the scam.Warnings have not only been issued in Canada but also in the Cayman Islands. The United States also has many citizens that are victims of the scam.Nokia Inc., the international mobile phone manufacturer headquartered in Finland, has launched their own online music and game downloading service to the public.They are hoping to challenge other phone manufacturers who offer similar downloading services and also other online stores such as the Apple iTunes store.Along with this announcement Nokia also revealed they will release new handsets that are better suited as multimedia players.Nokia's chief executive, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, said: "Looking into the future, we will deliver great devices, combined with compelling experiences and services, to make it easy for people to unlock the potential of the Internet."The service, named the "Nokia Music Store", will charge between €6 and €10 for a game while a single music track will cost €1 and €10 for a whole album. The service will initially be available on Nokia's N81 and N95 models, but the media is anticipating the service to become available on more models soon after launch.A routine upgrade of anti-virus software has disabled tens of thousands of PCs in China, according to local media reports. The faulty upgrade caused Symantec's Norton AntiVirus software to remove critical Windows XP system files, the reports state.The system files moved or deleted by the software include netapi32.dll and lsasrv.dll, according to Sohu News. The software incorrectly identifies the files as being infected with the Backdoor.Haxdoor trojan. With these files removed, Windows XP will no longer start up, and even the system safe mode no longer functions. Only Chinese-language versions of Windows appear to be affected so far.The Norton AntiVirus application is part of Norton's 360 suite and it is pre-installed in many PCs sold in China, indicating that the problem could potentially affect millions of users.The Obama administration has given the National Security Agency powers to screen private Internet traffic going to and from government sites, and will use AT&T telecommunications as a likely test site. The Obama administration remains firm in this decision, which was put forth during the Bush administration.The agency defends military networks with a classified system named Tutelag, which decides how to handle malware intrusions (for example, whether to block them or to investigate more closely). "We absolutely intend to use the technical resources, the substantial ones, that NSA has," said Janet Napolitano, Secretary of the United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS). DHS's intrusion detection program,  Einstein version 3, is in development as version 2 is being deployed. The program defends all U.S. government agencies and departments.DHS spokeswoman Amy Kudwa said, "We are moving forward in a way that protects privacy and civil liberties."AT&T, the chosen test site under Bush, sought assurance from the Obama administration to determine what elements of Einstein 3 to preserve. AT&T officials declined to comment.In 2006 the Electronic Frontier Foundation filed the class action lawsuit Hepting v. AT&T—currently awaiting decision—against AT&T, which under the Bush administration permitted the NSA to look at domestic communications without a warrant. NSA's intelligence gathering is limited only to foreign communications."We came away saying they have a lot of work in front of them to get this done right," Ari Schwartz of the Center for Democracy and Technology (CDT) said. "We're looking forward to their next steps."Schwartz authored a letter on Einstein to the Office of Management and Budget in December 2008 on behalf of the Information Security and Privacy Advisory Board.NSA director Keith B. Alexander said in April 2009 that the NSA will help, but does not want to take charge. Several people—including Rod Beckstrom, who resigned over the issue as head of the National Cyber Security Center (NCSC); Bruce Schneier of BT Counterpane; Leslie Harris, president and CEO of CDT—and not Dennis Blair, Director of National Intelligence—have urged the Obama administration to keep the Department of Homeland Security in charge despite its low scores, because, they claim, the NSA is a spy agency.A British Columbia company NuCaptcha launched a video-based animated CAPTCHA service to test whether users are humans or robots. As the company says, it is easier to recognise for humans and more difficult to decipher. Many companies supply the users of the service with video and text of advertising content, since the image is what the users have to view to proceed with the service they're using.According to NuCaptcha, the moving image doesn't need to be as clear as static images. With a random video background and big-sized moving text, the blurred text turned out to be easier to be recognized by the brain. The researchers say same text isn't that easily recongised when it's static. Therefore, the image is more complicated to process or abuse, while still being easily readable, NuCaptcha says.The image, as most modern videos, has a significantly bigger size than previously used static images. If often opens in a popup window. The bigger size improves accessibility. As news reporters say, the CAPTCHAs are now easy to use even for older people with vision impairments.The website administrators have to get a database of videos and text material for use with the new technology. In reaction to this demand, a number of companies supply the webmasters with advertising videos for use as the text background.The Captchas need full attention of the user to solve. The ads are also not blocked incidentally by security tools like NoScript. The service is seen as a niche for successful advertising, and is favored by advertisement providers along with the webmasters.Electronic Arts, Activision and Disney are among the current list of companies which give out the videos and text for NuCaptcha.Ivy Bean, thought to have been the oldest person using the popular social networking site Twitter, has died at age 104.By the end of her life, Bean had 53,535 followers (a term used on Twitter to indicate you are watching a person's posts) on the site and was something of an internet phenomenon. In 2008, she became known as the oldest person on Facebook, a title held previously by a 97-year-old French man. Bean frequently updated her Twitter page with videos and descriptions of activities in her daily life that included her winning of the Gold Medal in Frisbee in the Over-75 Olympics in Bradford, Northern England as well as recipes and meeting former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown.At the beginning of July, Bean was admitted to hospital suffering from jaundice.  On July 23rd, Bean returned to the care home where she was a resident, but was no longer able to operate her Twitter account.  Manager of the care home Pat Wright took over the account and began posting on Bean's behalf.It was posted on July 26th that Bean was in a poor condition and yesterday, Wright posted "Ivy passed away peacefully at 12.08 this morning".Many of Bean's followers posted messages of condolence, making Bean the second-most discussed topic on the Twitter yesterday. Among her followers were Peter Andre and Chris Evans.Ivy Bean was born November 8, 1905, seven years before the telephone network was established.Zappos.com, one of the largest online retailers of shoes and apparel, disclosed Sunday that it was hit by a cyber attack. The attack compromised as many as 24 million accounts. Personal data may have been taken, but credit card numbers are encrypted and thus cannot be stolen.Information that may have been compromised includes customers shipping addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, account passwords and the last four digits of any credit card used. Though credit card numbers are encrypted by the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, other personal information is often not. This is common practice among e-commerce websites.  Todd Feinman of Identity Finder told USA Today, "Visa and MasterCard fight to protect credit card numbers, but there's no one fighting for the individual consumer whose e-mail address falls into the possession of hackers."Zappos.com required its users change their account passwords. It notified users of the required change and updated on the situation through an email. They also advised users to change their password on other websites if it is similar to the one used on Zappos.In a blogpost, Zappos CEO Tony Hsieh said "We've spent over 12 years building our reputation, brand, and trust with our customers. It's painful to see us take so many steps back due to a single incident. I suppose the one saving grace is that the database that stores our customers' critical credit card and other payment data was not affected or accessed."Hundreds of developers of freely licensed and open source software from all over Europe met in Brussels, Belgium this weekend for FOSDEM 2008. The 8th edition attracted considerably more visitors than previous editions, mainly from Belgium and its neighbouring countries the Netherlands, Germany, France and the United Kingdom, but also from other European countries and even from the United States.During the conference weekend, presentations touched on programming languages, build systems, gaming (such as Battle for Wesnoth, Crystal Space, Globulation 2), packaging, virtualisation and web applications. The conference also has rooms (called DevRooms) were developers who usually work together via the internet can meet in real life and share thoughts on their projects; CentOS, Fedora, CrossDesktop, Drupal, GNOME, KDE, Mozilla, OpenSUSE and X.org had the biggest rooms this year. The corridors were filled with stands from organisations such as the Free Software Foundation Europe and the Free Knowledge Foundation, Debian, Ubuntu, OpenOffice.org, etc.Since FOSDEM brings many European open software developers to Brussels, it also provides an important networking opportunity. FOSDEM traditionally kicks off Belgium-style on Friday with a beer event, but during the entire weekend several groups hold parties all over town. Wikinews reporters attended a barbecue hosted by the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) on Friday for an interview with EFF and Open Rights Group representatives about the upcoming E.U. proposal to extend copyright for performers to 95 years. Wikinews also interviewed Drupal founder and Acquia CTO Dries Buytaert about Drupal and how Acquia will relate to the Drupal developer community.Although there are many open source games in development, few development teams have the motivation and expertise needed to mature their game from beta status, indicated by version numbers less than one (0.6, 0.7, etc...), to "1.0". This remarkable milestone was accomplished recently by the developers of the computer game Battle for Wesnoth. Wesnoth is a turn based strategy game set in a fantasy environment reminiscent of Tolkien's Lord of the Rings literature, featuring unit types like Elves, Dwarves, Orcs, and even tree people.Development of the game began over two years ago when creator David White released the first development version, 0.1, on June 18, 2003. All code and contents of the game were released under the GNU GPL license, and all versions were distributed freely over the internet. The game was also packaged for various GNU/Linux distributions such as Debian and many others. Wesnoth's ability to run on Unix and Linux, Mac OSX and Microsoft Windows systems and solid playability earned it popularity among the open source community. The game drew not only players, but also programmers, artists, and campaign writers; developers who create stories and scenarios using the mechanics and art of the core Wesnoth engine. The quick pace of development and early popularity considerably increased the number of people working on the game in their free time and allowed it to reach a quality and completeness not often seen in GPL games."1.0" contains several campaigns of varying length, in which you play alone against computer opponents. Wesnoth also offers various multiplayer modes, from a hot-seat mode for multiple players on one computer, to an online lobby where you can play games with players from all over the world. In this case, multiple players can either play in teams against others, or join a team against the computer opponent.There is also a campaign server accessible from inside the game where players can download many additional user created campaigns, maps, and even units. Almost all aspects of the game are scriptable using an HTML-like language which allows users to easily create their own content and contribute it to the campaign server.Sun Microsystems released version 3.0 of its free and open source (FOSS) office suite Openoffice.org on Monday. It has been reported that the new version comes with a number of performance enhancements and new features. Openoffice.org 3.0 now claims to work out of the box in  Mac OS X as a native  Aqua application.News sources report the official download servers of OpenOffice.org crashed soon after the release due to heavy downloads. Downloads are however available from a number of mirror sites.Openoffice.org 3.0 suite includes  spreadsheet,  word processor,  equation editor,  presentation tool,  relational database and  vector drawing software. Full interoperability is available for  Microsoft Office 98/XP formats, but offers read only support for  OOXML file formats. This version supports the new  ODF 1.2 document format. The software is available for many platforms including  Linux,  Microsoft Windows and Mac, as well as in multiple languages.Users report OpenOffice.org 3.0 has introduced a new graphical and text-based hybrid equation editor, a  mail merge wizard, improved label templates and better interface for outlining. Solver, a spreadsheet add-on for  combinatorial optimization problems is included in this version.Other enhancements highlighted by enthusiasts include collaborative options that allow multiple users to edit documents at the same time and improved drawing and charting tools. OpenOffice.org 3.0 can now display multiple pages during editing and workbooks up to 1024 columns in each spreadsheet.The download size of OpenOffice.org 3.0 is 163 MB for Mac and requires OS X Tiger or later and an Intel Mac. The installer for Windows is about 145 MB in size. "As government after government, enterprise after enterprise adopt the Open Document Format, they frequently adopt OpenOffice.org and love it. With 3.0, the application is more interoperable with MS Office, more capable, more extensible. It frees the desktop from vendor lock-in," claimed Louis Suárez-Potts, community manager of OpenOffice.org.OpenOffice.org today released version 2.0 of their free software office suite. This release marks over three years of continuous development and boasts many features over version 1.0 which was released in May 2002. The latest release may be downloaded from the OpenOffice.org web site free of charge.The suite is intended to be a replacement for Microsoft's popular office suite, containing near-identical functionality without the price tag. Site administrators from OpenOffice.org say the suite has been downloaded an average of over 400,000 times per week from the official site alone. When taking into account that the suite is freely redistributable, and that it is distributed with many versions of GNU/Linux, the total number of copies in distribution is larger still.One of the reasons for its significant popularity is the inclusion of several features not found in competing office suites, including in-built export to the PDF format and compatibility with Windows, Linux and Mac OS X operating systems.Distributed under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License, the OpenOffice.org office suite can be run, studied, modified, and redistributed by anybody that receives a copy.  This means that any person, group, or company can publish an alternative version - which makes problems such as vendor lock-in impossible.  It also guarantees that the development will roughly follow with the wants of the userbase - instead of just the business model of one company.A lot of work has gone into making this release more visually compatible with the look of Microsoft Office on computers running Windows XP, however, some users were not happy with the effects these changes had on the look of OpenOffice.org when using a dark theme (colour settings).US-based Oracle Corporation announced Friday it had acquired Innobase OY for an undisclosed sum. Innobase is a Finnish company that has developed several open-source database technologies. They are best known for InnoDB. InnoDB is an add-on storage engine for MySQL used by many popular websites, including Slashdot, EDS/Sabre, Yahoo Finance, Google and Wikimedia. It is an open source tool, distributed under the GNU General Public License (GPL).“Oracle has long been a supporter of open source software such as Linux and Apache. Innobase is an innovative small company that develops open-source database technology. Oracle intends to continue developing the InnoDB technology and expand our commitment to open source software.” said Charles Rozwat, executive vice president of Database and Middleware Technology at Oracle.Innobase is the 11th company to be acquired by Oracle in under a year. The most recent acquisition was of rival Siebel Systems on September 13 for $5.85 billion.US-based Oracle Corporation announced earlier today that they are buying rival US-based Siebel Systems for $10.66 USD per share. Siebel shareholders have the option to receive the $10.66 per share in cash or in Oracle stock. This deal is valued at approximately $5.85 billion USD. Siebel Systems'  Board of Directors has already voted in favour of the acquisition. Founder Thomas Siebel has also given his support. A special meeting will soon be held for Siebel stockholders to vote on the acquisition. If all goes well the deal should close in the early part of next year.After acquiring Siebel; Oracle, which specializes in database applications, will become the second largest software company. Oracle has offices in more than 145 countries, and employs over 50,000 people. This acquisition will make Oracle the largest customer relationship management (CRM) applications company in the world. CRM applications include accounting, inventory management and customer management software. "Siebel's 4,000 applications customers and 3,400,000 CRM users strengthen our number one position in applications in North America and move us closer to the number one position in applications globally", said Oracle CEO Larry Ellison."Today is a great day for Siebel Systems' customers, partners, shareholders, and employees," said Thomas M. Siebel, Chairman and Founder of Siebel Systems.  Many analysts predicted the acquisition of Siebel after Oracle bought competitor PeopleSoft for $10 billion USD, last December."There's no doubt we're gaining share across all product lines," said Oracle's CFO, after a quarter where net income grew 29% and revenue grew 30% to $3.6bn.  Applications license revenue climbed 78% on a constant currency basis. CEO Larry Ellison noted that, in comparison, SAP saw its application license revenue grow a more modest 8%.  Oracle's president claimed 88 head-to-head wins against SAP in the quarter.Some commentators noted that, though impressive, Oracle's results may not persist. Unlike industries with huge fixed costs, competitors in the software industry can quickly gain and lose market share through new product launches and mergers.Ovum noted that the integration of acquisitions such as PeopleSoft, JD Edwards, and Siebel now seem to have been accomplished, and that both Oracle and SAP are benefitting from the increasing symbiosis between the middleware and application markets.SAP replied with a statement noting that it offers "market-leading SOA applications today, while Oracle's next-generation applications exist only in PowerPoint and won't be delivered until 2008 or beyond."This past Saturday at 2007 Taipei IT Month, Intel of Taiwan invited hardware engineers, overclocking experts, and gamers to participate in the "Intel Taiwan Overclocking Live Test" at the Taipei World Trade Center to share techniques and technology for overclocking and other hardware tweaking.According to Intel Taiwan, this "Live Test" event was a friendly competition for participating engineers. It was similar to the "Live Test Center" previously held by Russian computing magazine PC Professionel. At this overclocking festival, Intel provided high-standard hardware on which the participants challenged the extremes of overclocking as measured by benchmark records on PCMark05, 3DMark 2006, and Super PI 1M.Throughout these tests, the organizers frequently reminded spectators not to get too close to the hardware due to the dangers of overclocking and tweaking hardware. Finally, a new Taiwan Record of 15335 points on PCMark05 was established by Wei-che Chang.An official website belonging to the Punjab Police of Pakistan was hacked  on Friday, a private TV channel reported. The hackers left a message on the homepage in which they asked the Pakistani government to "stop proxy war against India." The messages of the chief minister and provincial inspector general were also erased from the site. Although the hackers have not been identified, Pakistani sources say the slogan left on the site points to Indian origins; cyber security experts confirmed this and added that 150 Pakistani websites were hacked in the last three days. The Punjab police website has been hacked twice recently; in one incident, the official emblem was replaced with the logo of the Indian Punjab Police.A police spokesman stated they would take legal action against an Islamabad-based company responsible for the website's security as well as stop the use of its services from July 31. “We are also going to give the domain hosting of the website and its maintenance, including the data update to the Punjab Information Technology Board.” The website has temporarily been shut down.The online payment service PayPal has received a banking licence in Luxembourg, promoting it to the status of a bank. As a consequence PayPal will move their headquarters to Luxembourg.Since 2004 PayPal had the status of an Electronic Money Issuer supervised by the U.K. Financial Services Authority. Having an official bank status opens new prospects for the company: "This will allow us to actively scout retailers in different European countries. With our British licence, we could only do that in the U.K. itself, and in other countries we could only react to requests of the retailers themselves," Christopher Coonen, General Manager of PayPal Southern Europe and Benelux, explained.The change will not affect existing customers dramatically, says Coonen: "We are going to inform them of the new status, and they will have to accept our terms of service again." He also said that for now, there were no plans to use the new licence to offer traditional banking services, but the possibility was being evaluated by PayPal. Working with local partners would be an option to accomplish this, according to Coonen.The British newspaper The Daily Telegraph speculates that the move is part of a strategy to compete with Google's payment service Google Checkout, which launched in the U.K. last month.PayPal has 130 million users worldwide, and 35 million customers in Europe. Payments via its mother company eBay continue to make up 60% of PayPal's revenues. More than half of Britain's internet users have a PayPal account.Human brains cannot manage more than 150 friendships – even with the advent of social networking websites like Facebook, Bebo and Myspace.  This is the conclusion of Robin Dunbar, Professor of Evolutionary Anthropology at the University of Oxford. Dunbar originally carried out research in this area in the 1990s, looking at social groups from modern offices back to ancient villages. He found that the neocortex in the brain, used for thinking and language, cannot cope with more than 150 friends – a conclusion known as "Dunbar's number". Groups of people tend to be limited to about 150 as, beyond that, social cohesion suffers. Revisiting the topic, Dunbar's view is that this number has not increased even with online methods of keeping in touch with friends, like Facebook.Dunbar compared the online activity of those with thousands of internet friends and those with hundreds, before concluding that there was no appreciable difference in their levels of activity.  He defined a friend as someone that the individual cared about and made contact with at least yearly. "The interesting thing is that you can have 1,500 friends but when you actually look at traffic on sites, you see people maintain the same inner circle of around 150 people that we observe in the real world. [...] People obviously like the kudos of having hundreds of friends but the reality is that they’re unlikely to be bigger than anyone else’s", he observed. Another conclusion of his study was that women were better at keeping friendships going on Facebook than men – "girls are much better at maintaining relationships just by talking to each other. Boys need to do physical stuff together". The full results of his study are due to be published later in 2010.Dunbar, 52, has been an Oxford professor since 2007, having previously been Professor of Evolutionary Psychology at the University of Liverpool.  He is a Fellow of the British Academy and a fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford.Apple is being accused of anti-gay discrimination after it made available  a free app for the iPhone and iPad that aims to help "homosexual strugglers" through bible teaching. The app was released in mid-February by Exodus International, a Christian ministry that wants to provide a "refuge for people looking for help in their journey out of homosexuality." To date, over 130,000 people have signed a petition requesting Apple to withdraw the app.The app was developed  by Exodus International. The statement on its website says, "Exodus is a Christian ministry that supports those wanting to reconcile their faith with their sexual behavior." It stresses that Apple has given the app a "4+" rating meaning it  contains "no objectionable content." The app gives users "freedom from homosexuality through the power of Jesus", according to the group.Truth Wins Out, a gay rights activist group that campaigns against "ex-gay" ministries  encouraging people to change their sexual orientation,  launched a petition on the website of  change.org requesting that Apple remove the app. It accuses Exodus of using "scare tactics, misinformation, stereotypes and distortions of LGBT life to recruit clients." It says Exodus is attempting to reach young people with a   message that is especially "dangerous" in light of recent suicides of LGBT youth.Wayne Besen, leader of Truth Wins Out, says the message of Exodus International constitutes hate speech.Jeff Buchanan of  Exodus International, said the app is intended to reach those that  share the church's beliefs. "We are reaching those with unwanted same sex attraction," he said. "We were disappointed to see this petition. What we're asking for is fair and equal representation on the Apple platform. We see this as a religious freedom." The issue highlights the problems Apple faces if it becomes involved in policing the content of the countless religious apps in its store, any of which has the potential to be offensive to someone. "It's an issue of tolerance," Buchanan said. "We're simply asking that we have the same opportunity to voice our message as others."Apple is well known for strictly monitoring the content of  the apps offered to users of its gadgets, and excludes sexually explicit material, offensive speech and images, and last November banned an app that entreated users to speak out against gay marriage.The upcoming Sony PlayStation 3 game console is going to assist scientists in finding cures for cancer and Alzheimer's disease using the Folding@home distributed computing program.Folding@home is run by the Pande group of Stanford University (America) to research protein folding, this is the process whereby proteins build themselves inside the cells in the body. Analyisis of how proteins fold (specifically how the folding goes wrong) can give insights into how diseases form. The simulation processes used in the research take months just for a single protein so the data is split into small packets (called workunits by the community) and distributed to volunteers around the world. By downloading a program called a 'client' users can receive units and perform the simulations on them - results are then sent back to the Stanford servers.Currently more than 150,000 computers run the folding 'client' worldwide. The new client can be downloaded to the users PlayStation 3 console and will then begin to calculate "work units" when users are not playing games. Since the PS3 has a 'Cell' processor with a total of 8 cores the calculations should be performed faster than on a PC. With this new program scientists aim to create a super computer faster than IBM's BlueGene/L System (which currently calculates more than 280.6 trillion bits of information per second). The new calculations are expected to process a thousand trillion bits of information across the whole project every second.A statement on Folding@home's website explained further: "Using the Cell processor of the PS3, we should be able to do more folding than what one could do on a PC. Also, since the PS3 has a powerful GPU, the PS3 client will offer real time visualization for the first time."The new program is part of an expansion of the project and the first of 2 new clients that have been developed. The second, scheduled for release later on, will utilise a computer's graphics card (supporting only ATI graphics cards at first) to perform folding calcualtions."We will release more details on all of this as the new software rolls out," said the statement, "We are beta testing the ATI GPU client software internally at the moment and will likely announce an open beta in four to five weeks (end of September)."The Pande group noted their ultimate aim as being to create an even faster super computer, with the ability to process over a million trillion bits of data every second: "The PS3 client and GPU client are together part of our new broader goals to push Folding@Home to the next stage, reaching calculations on the petaflop to 10 petaflop scale."The PS3 client is expected to be available at the end of September.The Metropolitan Police Service has confirmed that a police officer and a police community support officer were stabbed in the west of London, England. The officers were stabbed at a bus stop in the Ealing Broadway region of the city about 1505 UTC while examining bus tickets. The man stabbed the two in an attempt to evade arrest. The pair were subsequently transported to hospital by ambulance. The police community support officer was seriously injured, having been stabbed in the arms. However, he was not thought to have suffered life-threatening injuries. The police officer was stabbed in the neck. His injuries were considered life-threatening.The alleged attacker, a 30-year-old male, was arrested at the scene of the attack. According to reports, he was wanted by the police for recall to prison. When it became clear that he was going to be arrested, he drew a knife and stabbed the two.Koon Midam, a witness to this incident, commented: "The man was asked to show a valid ticket and went into a violent rage. Very quickly the problem escalated as he drew his knife and made a few quick slashes. It was more of a shock for the first few moments and then there were the cries, the Pc dropping to the floor and the man lashing out again."Another male witness described the events. "I could see two policemen sprinting to the back of a police car to retrieve a green first aid kit," he said. "They rushed back to assist a policeman who had blood on him. I then noticed another policeman who was walking slowly and then collapsed on the pavement. His arm fell to his side. As I drove away I also noticed a number of policemen pinning a man to the ground. He was shouting. What disturbed me most of all was the amount of blood on the pavement, it was clear that someone was very seriously injured."Boris Johnson, Mayor of London, has uploaded a message to the social networking website Twitter regarding this incident. In the tweet, Johnson states: "Shocked by the stabbing of a police officer & a PCSO in Ealing. No place for this on the streets of London".A major security hole was discovered in the pseudo-random number generator (PRNG) of the Debian version of OpenSSL. OpenSSL is one of the most used cryptographic software, that allows the creation of secure network connections with the protocols called SSL and TLS. It is included in many popular computer programs, like the Mozilla Firefox web browser and the Apache web server. Debian is one of the most used GNU/Linux distributions, on which are based other distributions, like Ubuntu and Knoppix. The problem affects all the Debian-based distributions that were used to create cryptographic keys since the September 17, 2006. The bug was discovered by Luciano Bello, an argentine Debian package maintainer, and was announced on May 13, 2008.This vulnerability was caused by the removal of two lines of code from the original version of the OpenSSL library. These lines were used to gather some entropy data by the library, needed to seed the PRNG used to create private keys, on which the secure connections are based. Without this entropy, the only dynamic data used was the PID of the software. Under Linux the PID can be a number between 1 and 32,768, that is a too small range of values if used to seed the PRNG and will cause the generation of predictable numbers. Therefore any key generated can be predictable, with only 32,767 possible keys for a given architecture and key length, and the secrecy of the network connections created with those keys is fully compromised.These lines were removed as "suggested" by two audit tools (Valgrind and Purify) used to find vulnerabilities in the software distributed by Debian. These tools warned the Debian maintainers that some data was used before its initialization, that normally can lead to a security bug, but this time it was not the case, as the OpenSSL developers wrote on March 13, 2003. Anyway this change was erroneously applied on September 17, 2006, when the OpenSSL Debian version 0.9.8c-1 was released to the public. Even though the Debian maintainer responsible for this software released a patch to fix this bug on May 8, 2008, the impact may be severe. In fact OpenSSL is commonly used in software to protect the passwords, to offer privacy and security. Any private key created with this version of OpenSSL is weak and must be replaced, included the session keys that are created and used only temporary. This means that any data encrypted with these keys can be decrypted without a big deal, even if these keys are used (but not created) with a version of the library not affected, like the ones included in other operating systems.For example any web server running under any operating system may use a weak key created on a vulnerable Debian-based system. Any encrypted connection (HTTPS) to this web server established by any browser can be decrypted. This may be a serious problem for sites that requires a secure connection, like banks or private web sites. Also, if some encrypted connection was recorded in the past, it can be decrypted in the same way.Another serious problem is for the network security software, like OpenSSH and OpenVPN, that are used to encrypt the traffic to protect passwords and grant the access to an administrative console or a private network protected by firewalls. This may allows hackers to gain unwanted access to private computers, networks or data traveled over the network, even if a not affected version of OpenSSL was used.The same behavior can be applied to any software or protocol that use SSL, like POP3S, SSMTP, FTPS, if used with a weak key. This is the case of Tor, software used to offer strong anonymity on the TCP/IP, where about 300 of 1,500-2,000 nodes used a weak key. With 15-20% of weak Tor nodes, there is a probability of 0.34-0.8% circa to build a circuit that has all tree nodes weak, resulting in a full loss of anonymity. Also the case of only one weak node begin used may facilitate some types of attack to the anonymity. The Tor hidden services, a sort of anonymous public servers, are affected too. However the issue was speedily addressed on May 14, 2008.The same problem also interested anonymous remailers like Mixmaster and Mixminion, that use OpenSSL to create the remailer keys for the servers and the nym keys for the clients. Although currently there is no official announcement, at least two remailer changed their keys because were weak.Princeton University has decided to join Google's project to digitise the book collections of major libraries to enable online searches of the texts, becoming the 12th major library to partner with Google. The officials from Google stated that Princeton University is to digitize about 1 million public domain books. These books are no longer under copyright. Princeton's 250 years old library has a collection of more that 6 million printed works, as well as about 5 million manuscripts and around 2 million nonprint items.Together with Princeton's library system Google is to determine specific parts of the collection that will afterwards be digitized. Google's Library Project is rather young, being introduced in late 2004. It started with a group of several major library systems. Among them there were: New York Public Library, and several academic libraries of Harvard, Oxford, Stanford and the University of Michigan.The second flow encompassed library systems from the University of California, which was later followed by the University Compultense of Madrid and Catalonia's National Library. Among others to join the second round were the universities of Wisconsin, Madison, Virginia and Texas University at Austin.The works that remain covered by the copyright law were digitized only at the libraries of Michigan and Texas. Google was sued in October 2005 by several major U.S. publishers. While the case is yet to come to trial, the publishers' goal is to block Google's plans to make a storage of copyrighted works that is free-to-use.Researchers at Princeton University have conducted research into the security of electronic voting machines. They have created a virus that could breach voting machines and change votes. The creators of the voting machine say the research was unrealistic.Edward William Felten, a professor of computer sciences and public affairs at Princeton University, and two Princeton graduate students, Ariel Feldman and Alex Halderman, created a computer virus that they say could remain concealed in tests, "steal" votes, delete itself to go undetected and spread to other machines.They used a Diebold AccuVote-TS which is a small computer with a touch screen. The latest version of the software used 128-bit data encryption, digitally signed memory card data, secure socket layer (SSL) data encryption for transmitting results and dynamic passwords.They opened the drawer with a key, picked the lock or undid screws to open the compartment that allows them to change the memory card. They suppressed the beep created by the computer when it reboots by using headphones. They say the virus can spread by using the same memory card which when inserted into a different machine will infect the machine.The researchers say they received the machine they tested on from someone who wants to keep their name anonymous."You have to be a good programmer — not a genius — to do this," Halderman said. "I believe a good programmer could reproduce our virus without very much effort.""Analysis of the machine...shows that it is vulnerable to extremely serious attacks," the report states. "An attacker who gets physical access to a machine or its removable memory card for as little as a minute could install malicious code."Diebold Election Systems president Dave Byrd said that the research was done with security software that were two generations old."By any standard--academic or common sense--the study is unrealistic and inaccurate," he said in a statement."Normal security procedures were ignored. Numbered security tape, 18 enclosure screws and numbered security tags were destroyed or missing so that the researchers could get inside the unit. A virus was introduced to a machine that is never attached to a network.""Every voter in every local jurisdiction that uses the AccuVote-TS should feel secure knowing that their vote will count on Election Day,""That's what they were saying a few years ago," said Halderman. He said he would very much like to study Diebold's newer machines and software. "We expect and fear, unfortunately, that if we were to examine the newer version of the software, we could find similar problems."The state owned telephone monopoly in Costa Rica, the Costa Rica Electricity Institute, (ICE) has called for VoIP Internet to be made a criminal offence. In Costa Rica it has been illegal for anyone other than ICE to offer telephone services. With a reputation for preventing any rivals from challenging its monopoly, but also for providing an efficient service, ICE has recently seen its monopoly dented with as many as 20% of calls being routed through Skype and other VoIP service providers. On the other hand those who seek to promote the software industry in Costa Rica, which already has a dominant 78% share of the market in Central America and the Caribbean, have reacted by saying the proposal would be disastrous both to software development and the country's ability to outsource work. The ICE claims that its telephone structure is being used by VoIP service providers, which is almost certainly true given that Skype offers calls from the Internet to phones in Costa Rica for 8 US$ cents per minute.The Brazilian government news agency Radiobrás (ABr) website has completed a move to free software. As of January 9th, the agency's website is in compliance with the Brazilian government's program to use free software throughout the public sector.Free software is software which, once obtained, can be used, copied, studied, modified and redistributed. It is often made available online without charge or offline for the cost of distribution; free software is not limited to being given away, but can be "free as in free speech" and sold for profit. Some of the most well-known examples of free software are the Linux operating system, the Mozilla web browser and the OpenOffice office suite. About 25 people worked on this change. The change has taken about a year and a half, since the first changes of some workstations and servers of Radiobrás. The switch to free software is being implemented by the National Institute of Technology of Information (ITI), inspired by similar decisions made in another countries. A reduction in service costs is expected.CEO of RadioShack Corp., David Edmondson resigned Friday after admitting to lying in the contents of his resume.  Claiming to have two college degrees, a theology diploma called a ThG, and four years of education, Mr. Edmondson only attended two semesters at a college known now as Heartland Baptist Bible College (formerly known as Pacific Coast Baptist College). There are no records of any diplomas issued to Mr. Edmondson. These discrepancies caused Edmondson and the board to mutually agree to his resignation as president and CEO of RadioShack. Initially, RadioShack launched an internal investigation of Mr. Edmondson's statements; however, this investigation has since been halted.The company had recently suffered a drop of 62% of net income in its fourth-quarter, prompting restructuring plans and a closing of up to 10% of stores.David Edmondson will receive a severance package valued at less than one million dollars in cash from RadioShack.In chatrooms and on bulletin boards, Macintosh users and the Macintosh-curious are buzzing about Tiger, the newest version of Apple Computer's Mac OS X, version 10.4. The open-source kernel, or base of the system, "Darwin", plus all the features of Apple's proprietary Quartz user interface features, software, and system utilities have passed through their next phase of upgrading and scrutiny, and have been shipping for more than a week now.Apple reports that Tiger, the code name for this release, includes over 200 new features and new versions of application software such as e-mail client Mail, web browser Safari, and multi-person audio/video/text messaging client iChat. Entirely new features have also been rolled out in this release:Spotlight integrates search in the core of the OS, and utilizes meta-data in its algorithm.Dashboard provides a sandbox for widgets, handy mini-applicatios like a calculator, sticky notes, and a dictionary, made available at the stroke of a key.Automator, a graphical scripting interface that enables non-programmers to automate repetitive tasks.One user of the new operating system made this comment:Industry analysts have pointed to both the advances and the failures of the new version already. Many of the bigger technology advances have gained high praise, but, they point out, Microsoft Longhorn is also expected to have many of these advantages when it is released, expected in late 2006. And inter-operability, long a strength of Macintosh to work with other operating systems and networks, has had a few bugs—such as reports of issues with Server Message Block (SMB) and Active Directory. Another issue for some is the fact that Cisco System's VPN does not work with Tiger. Cisco has promised a compatible release before the end of the month.The biggest technology breakthrough is Spotlight. Using meta-data, searches are fast and easy and very thorough, and the results of the search can be used over and over again and will automatically update and change as you use your system. Search queries on a user's data can be saved as "Smart folders" without ever moving files on the hard drive, so you can collect all your photos, receipts, and webpages about your summer vacation, for example, while still keeping things ordered on your hard drive. According to a review by PC World, this alone is worth the US$129.Still, even Macintosh support sites such as Mac News suggest waiting for the first "point" release (10.4.1) before jumping in, which is expected in late May. Apple Computer has been on a semi-regular release pattern since moving to Mac OS X, with four versions released in 5 years. This constant development program has occasionally been accused of being aimed at forcing users to constantly pay out for expensive new software, but the returns of regular releases have been quick bug fixes and leading edge technology.Curtis Cooper, a mathematician and computer science professor at the University of Central Missouri, has discovered the largest known prime number to date on January 25. Several people verified the discovery using different hardware and software by the beginning of February and it was announced on Tuesday. Cooper found the prime as a participant in the distributed computing project known as the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search, or GIMPS. Cooper runs the GIMPS client, called Prime95, on an estimated 1,000 computers at the university.The number was first reported to the GIMPS server on January 25 from a university computer which had been running 39 days non-stop. However as for any Mersenne prime candidates, the discovery was announced after several people have verified the number using different hardware and software. The three independent verifications took from three to seven days of computation on powerful hardware.A prime number is a positive integer greater than 1 that can only be evenly divided by 1 and itself. The first few prime numbers are 2, 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17 and 19. 77 (for example) is not prime because it is a product of 7 and 11. The newly discovered prime is expressed as 257,885,161 − 1 and has 17,425,170 digits. It is a specific type of prime number called a Mersenne prime, which are of the form 2p − 1. The exponent p must be prime for the number to be prime. As of February 2013, there are only 48 known Mersenne primes.George Woltman developed and founded GIMPS, the longest known continuously running computer project, in 1996. Cooper as a participant had previously discovered two other Mersenne primes, 230,402,457 − 1 in December 2005 and 232,582,657 − 1 in September 2006, with fellow professor Steven Boone. This latest discovery ends an intermission of almost four years; the previous Mersenne prime was found in April 2009.In a Tuesday media event, Verizon Wireless announced it had reached an agreement with Apple Inc. and would begin selling a CDMA version of the iPhone 4 beginning early February. The move means the end of rival company AT&T's status as the only official US carrier of the iPhone, a status it held since the first iPhone debuted in 2007.The press conference, held in New York City, was hosted by Verizon's president, Lowell McAdam, Apple's chief operating officer, Tim Cook, and Verizon Wireless' chief executive officer, Dan Mead. Neither Verizon Communications CEO Ivan Seidenberg nor Apple CEO Steve Jobs attended the conference. During the event, McAdam said, "If the press writes something long enough and hard enough, it eventually comes true. We're bringing the fruit of our labor with a giant partner, and that's Apple." Such a partnership had been rumored for years, and the amount of speculation grew over the past few months.iPhone 4 pre-orders for current Verizon users begin February 3, and a public release is scheduled for February 10. The "Verizon iPhone," as it has been dubbed for months, has been altered from the original iPhone 4 so it can utilize Verizon's 3G CDMA (code division multiple access) network. This means, however, that Verizon iPhone users will not be able to use the company's 4G LTE (long term evolution) network, and will thus be unable to make calls and access the Internet at the same time. Cook told the audience that the LTE hardware was not ready yet, saying, "The first generation LTE chip sets force some design compromises, some of which we would not make. Secondly—and most importantly—Verizon Wireless customers have told us they want the iPhone now." However, Verizon's iPhone 4 allows the user to create a personal Wi-Fi hotspot, which means up to five other wireless devices can connect to the Internet through the phone.Pricing was announced as US$199 for a 16 GB version and US$299 for a 32 GB version, both requiring two-year contracts—the same cost for an AT&T iPhone 4. However, Verizon said it would not mention the cost of data plans at this time, with Mead saying, "We talked about the device pricing, but we're not going to talk about the pricing for the network for that connectivity."Until a patch is issued, Microsoft recommends that users close or block TCP port 3389, the port opened when the Remote Assistance service of its Microsoft Windows operating system (OS) is enabled. The Remote Assistance feature is a service of the OS that allows Internet Technology administrators of corporate workgroups remote access to other desktops to perform maintenance and other configuration tasks from their own computer. It can also be used by on-line tech support sites. A support assistant can go into a user’s machine, if the service is enabled, and themself make changes directly to another person's computer to resolve an issue.To initialize the remote assistance feature, the user of the helper computer must first make a request of the user of the target computer. Compliance must be granted by the user of the target machine, which then fully opens the communication port of the target machine to the helper computer. The operator of the helper computer then has control of target computer to make changes at will. The user of the target machine can watch in a separate window the actions of the helper, and either party to the session can end it at any time.In a telephone conversation with a Microsoft representative Tuesday, it was learned that work to develop a security patch is underway, but when it will be available is unclear. It was cited that a patch must work consistently across multiple platform versions of the OS. The vulnerability, thought at first to affect only Windows XP SP2, is now believed to affect all current Windows editions, including Windows 2000, Windows XP SP1, Windows XP Professional x64, Windows Server 2003, Windows Server 2003 SP1, and Windows Server x64.The Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) is not enabled by default, however if the service is enabled, a Denial of Service attack could cause the OS to restart unexpectedly according to Microsoft, or experience buffer overflows according to Symantec. The RDP is enabled by default on Windows XP Media Center Edition.Microsoft suggests users block TCP port 3389 (the port used by RDP) on their firewall,  or disable Terminal Services or Remote Desktop if not required by the user. The remote desktop connections could also be secured using either Internet Protocol Security or a virtual private network connection until a patch is ready.To disable Remote Assistance on a Windows XP Edition, the steps are:click 'Start', right-click 'My Computer', select 'Properties'select 'Remote' tab on top of the 'Systems Properties' window, clear checkbox that says "Allow Remote Assistance invitations to be sent from this computer."click 'Apply' buttonThe group, Internet Storm Center, detected spikes in scanning for port 3389 beginning July 6. Larger numbers of systems scanned were reported on July 13. Crackers may be scanning for vulnerable machines, the group said. "It's a kernel vulnerability," said VP of engineering for Symantec Alfred Huger, "so it will be difficult to exploit reliably. But he [the original discoverer] found the vulnerability with a commonly-used tool, so if he can find it, so can others. I don't think it will turn it into a large-scale worm, but then, some kernel vulnerabilities have ended up as just that, like the Witty worm."The programmer, activist, and early Reddit cofounder Aaron Swartz reportedly committed suicide yesterday in New York City. He was 26. Swartz's death is reported confirmed by both Swartz's uncle and his attorney to The Tech, the campus newspaper of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.In 2011, Swartz was arrested and charged for downloading two-thirds of the material on JSTOR, a repository of academic journal articles. Last year, on September 24, he pleaded not guilty to the charges against him. He had previously attracted the attention of the FBI for downloading 20% of PACER, a database of documents related to US federal court cases.Swartz was active in the world of free culture and open source software. When he was 14, he worked on the RSS 1.0 specification, a standard for syndicating news articles in XML. He also worked on a Y Combinator-backed startup called Infogami which was merged with the popular news sharing site Reddit. Swartz also founded Demand Progress, a progressive activist group dealing with civil liberties issues.Schools in the United Kingdom have been advised not to upgrade to the newest Microsoft products, Vista and Office 2007, according to a report by the British Educational Communications and Technology Agency (BECTA). Becta said that there were no "appropriate benefit" that would offset the additional cost and possible compatibility issues created by upgrading. An agency of the UK department for education and skills, Becta oversees the procurement of all IT equipment and e-learning solutions for schools. One of the main reasons given is also compatibility, especially the new Microsoft document format OOXML (Office Open XML), a competitor to the ISO standard ODF (Open Document Format). The report says that "Microsoft should provide native support for the ODF file format increasingly used in competitor products and those that are free to use". Schools that do upgrade are advised not to use the OOXML format. Other reasons were that upgrading graphics hardware to support the new Windows Aero Graphics system used in Windows Vista, which would cost additional money according to PC WorldThe report also says that "Schools and colleges should make pupils, teachers and parents aware of the range of free-to-use products (such as office productivity suites) that are available, and how to use them". BECTA is not the first government institution to advise against upgrading to newer Microsoft products, media reports about a similar move by the Department of Transportation in the US were reported last year according to InformationWeek.According to PC World, the cost of upgrading would be £175 million (US$350 million), with a third of that going to Microsoft.Vinay Deolalikar, a mathematician who works for HP Labs, claims to have proven that P is not equal to NP.  The problem is the greatest unsolved problem in theoretical computer science and is one of seven problems in which the Clay Mathematics Institute has offered million dollar prizes to the solutions.The question of whether P equals NP essentially asks whether there exist problems which take a long time to solve but whose solutions can be checked quickly.  More formally, a problem is said to be in P if there is a program for a Turing machine, an ideal theoretical computer with unbounded amounts of memory, such that running instances of the problem through the program will always answer the question in polynomial time — time always bounded by some fixed polynomial power of the length of the input.  A problem is said to be in NP, if the problem can be solved in polynomial time when instead of being run on a Turing machine, it is run on a non-deterministic Turing machine, which is like a Turing machine but is able to make copies of itself to try different approaches to the problem simultaneously. Mathematicians have long believed that P does not equal NP, and the question has many practical implications. Much of modern cryptography, such as the RSA algorithm and the Diffie-Hellman algorithm, rests on certain problems, such as factoring integers, being in NP and not in P. If it turned out that P=NP, these methods would not work but many now difficult problems would likely be easy to solve. If P does not equal NP then many natural, practical problems such as the traveling salesman problem are intrinsically difficult. In 2000, the Clay Foundation listed the "Clay Millenium Problems," seven mathematical problems each of which they would offer a million dollars for a correct solution. One of these problems was whether P equaled NP. Another of theseseven, the Poincaré conjecture, was solved in 2002 by Grigori Perelman who first made headlines for solving the problem and then made them again months later for refusing to take the prize money. On August 7, mathematician Greg Baker noted on his blog that he had seen a draft of a claimed proof by Deolalikar although among experts a draft had apparently been circulating for a few days.  Deolalikar's proof works by connecting certain ideas in computer science and finite model theory to ideas in statistical mechanics.  The proof works by showing that if certain problems known to be in NP were also in P then those problems would have impossible statistical properties.  Computer scientists and mathematicians have expressed a variety of opinions about Deolalikar's proof, ranging from guarded optimism to near certainty that the proof is incorrect.  Scott Aaronson of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has expressed his pessimism by stating that he will give $200,000 of his own money to Deolalikar if the proof turns out to be valid.  Others have raised specific technical issues with the proof but noted that the proof attempt presented interesting new techniques that might be relevant to computer science whether or not the proof turns out to be correct.  Richard Lipton, a professor of computer science at Georgia Tech, has said that "the author certainly shows awareness of the relevant obstacles and command of literature supporting his arguments."  Lipton has listed four central objections to the proof, none of which are necessarily fatal but may require more work to address.  On August 11, 2010, Lipton reported that consensus of the reviewers was best summarized by mathematician Terence Tao, who expressed the view that Deolalikar's paper probably did not give a proof that P!=NP even after major changes, unless substantial new ideas are added.Celebrating their 70th anniversary, news agency RIA Novosti, along with the Russian chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation, have started the 'Eternal Values' project. This project includes the release of images from RIA's archive to the public under free licenses. During the first phase, one hundred World War II-time photos were uploaded to Wikimedia Commons under the Creative Commons share alike license. The license allows the images to be freely used, including within the commercial industry without a fee and allows for creations of derivative works provided any resulting work is redistributed under the same license and properly attributed to its author. The project is supported by Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, who uploaded one of the images to Wikimedia Commons himself.Medvedev participated in the anniversary ceremony and personally congratulated the agency. He uploaded the 100th image to Commons. Earlier Medvedev supported Wikimedia Russia's position on the need for changes in Russian legislation in order to make free licenses perfectly legal and to allow freedom of panorama in the country.This event is part of Wikimedia Russia's goal to "share knowledge, eliminate the digital divide and increase the availability of historical and cultural value for society." Due to similar projects in other countries, German Bundesarchiv released 100,000 historic images under a free license and Queensland State Library released 50,000 images.Category:Computing - Portal:ComputingPortal:MarsCategory:MathematicsPortal:NASACategory:PhysicsPortal:SpacePortal:UFOThe American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) have sided with Wikileaks.org and will defend them against a lawsuit which took the site off line in the United States. Wikileaks is a website dedicated to hosting leaked documents that are "anonymous, untraceable, uncensorable."On February 18, 2008, a permanent court injunction issued in the California Northern District Court in San Francisco by judge Jeffrey White, California to Bank Julius Baer (BJB), a Swiss Bank, took the domain name offline. However the site remained online via its IP address and alternative domain names. Wikileaks previously published hundreds of documents obtained from a whistleblower of the Swiss Bank, "purportedly showing offshore tax evasion and money laundering by extremely wealthy and in some cases, politically sensitive, clients from the US, Europe, China and Peru.""Blocking access to the entire site in response to a few documents posted there completely disregards the public's right to know," said Ann Brick a lawyer for the ACLU. At least 18 other organizations have signed documents in defense of Wikileaks. Those documents have been forged into a 'joint Amici Curiae ("friends of the Court") brief; which will be submitted to the court and used as defense evidence in a hearing scheduled for Friday February 29.Despite the attempts by the ACLU and others, Bank Julius Baer says that their lawsuit has nothing to do with the rights of free speech."This action has been brought solely to prevent the unlawful dissemination of stolen bank records and personal account information of its customers. Many of those documents have also been altered and forged," said the Bank.Recently the Bank has made allegations that they have been "unable to negotiate with Wikileaks" at all before or during legal proceedings. Wikileaks, in a press release denies the allegations."Wikileaks at all times responded with grace and dignity to BJBs highly irregular demands and left communication open," said Wikileaks which also adds that the correspondence with the Bank is available on its website on servers in Denmark. "BJB did not submit the correspondence tothe court, although it must be absolutely central to the issues held there. We wonder why?"A Russian programming researcher Efim Bushmanov uploaded the Skype source on Blogspot, Torrent, and Github last Tuesday. Bushmanov said that his release engineering work is "not finished," and stated that the purpose of its release is "community involvement."Bushmanov said that his motivation was a story in the Wall Street Journal which described possible eavesdropping on Skype by governmental agencies. The upload to public would allow people to participate with further work on the reverse engineering which is not yet finished.Skype responded by a promise to support security of the Skype users and to investigate and prevent the attacks this can cause: "This unauthorized use of our application for malicious activities like spamming/phishing infringes on Skype's intellectual property. We are taking all necessary steps to prevent/defeat nefarious attempts to subvert Skype's experience. Skype takes its users' safety and security seriously and we work tirelessly to ensure each individual has the best possible experience."Some public said that Microsoft is to blame for the lack of stability of Skype since its acquisition plans were announced in the beginning of May. However, Microsoft has no operational control over Skype servers yet. The acquisition is planned to be finished by the end of 2011. Microsoft's response included a note that despite that they have some Windows code shared with Russian government, they would fear to share Skype code, and make strong attempts to keep it unavailable to third parties.Information Week magazine commented that the release can be legal if no part of the work involves copying the original code from Skype servers.Paul Ducklin, head of technology for security company Sophos, noted the presence of IDA Pro (Interactive Disassembler) files in the downloads published by Bushmanov, indicating that his reverse engineering had not been conducted in a "clean room" fashion. The project included shared files which were enough for the tech company Hex-Rays to verify that the version of IDA Pro used was pirated.The Russian Language Wikipedia surpassed 500,000 articles at 10:02 UTC on February 25, 2010, after "Ys", an article about a Joanna Newsom album, was created by Nurse fiction, a newcomer to the Wikipedia.The Russian language Wikipedia is the tenth largest language edition of Wikipedia, boasting over three hundred and fifty "Featured Articles" and 930 "Good Articles",  shown to be the best in the freely-editable encyclopaedia. Russian Wikipedia is also one of the few languages to adopt the Flagged Revisions system.Wikipedia is a multilingual encyclopaedia that can be edited by almost anyone with an internet connection, meaning that the Russian Wikipedia has 437,862 registered users with 12,929 making at least 1 edit within the last month. The youngest known user is 10 years old, and the oldest is 80.Last year, the Russian chapter of the Wikimedia Foundation, the organization behind Wikipedia, started active work supporting Wikipedia editions in the numerous languages used in Russia — such as Tatar, Chuvash, Ossetian and Yakut.A bill introduced by a Republican representative from Texas, Lamar Smith, would require all ISPs in the United States to maintain a log of all on-line activity by IP addresses for an unspecified period of time, imposing fines and prison time of one year on service providers that fail to do so.The proposed legislation would require:The bill, titled Internet Stopping Adults Facilitating the Exploitation of Today's Youth Act (SAFETY) of 2007, was introduced to the House of Representatives on February 6.Smith, along with seven House republican co-sponsors, designed the legislation as an effort to combat on-line child pornography. A separate portion of the legislation reads: "Whoever, being an Internet content hosting provider or email service provider, knowingly engages in any conduct the provider knows or has reason to believe facilitates access to, or the possession of, child pornography ... shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more  than 10 years, or both."The legislation's effect would, in practice, attempt to force ISPs to connect dynamically assigned IP addresses to specific individuals. It would also extend the responsibility to any Internet content hosting provider which the bill defines as any service that:(A) stores, through electromagnetic or other means, electronic data, includingthe content of web pages, electronic mail, documents, images, audio and video files,online discussion boards, and weblogs; and(B) makes such data available via the InternetInternet privacy advocates are skeptical over the vagueness of the bill. In its present form the bill leaves to the U.S. attorney general, Alberto Gonzales, unspecified powers in setting the limits of the legislation. Bloggers cite the bill as an invasion into something, "That includes, well, everything. IM conversations, E-mails and Web surfing will all be recorded and maintained, lest the ISP face penalties of up to a year in prison," wrote William K. Wolfrum at WorldGolf.com.Marvin Johnson of the ACLU's Washington legislative counsel said, "This represents an incredible invasion into our privacy and freedom to use the Internet without the government reading over our shoulders," according to InternetNews.com.A neologism coined in advice columnist Dan Savage's column Savage Love in response to comments made by former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum about homosexuality has gained prominence during the ongoing election cycle in the United States. After Santorum spoke out against LGBT rights in the United States in 2003, readers of Savage’s column voted to define the word "santorum" as "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex." The prominence of this term's association with Santorum, a current candidate for the Republican Party presidential nomination, has had an impact on the former Senator's presidential campaign.Dan Savage commented on the continued impact of the santorum neologism, in an interview with the Fort Worth Star-Telegram published Sunday, "It's still out there and it is an insanely dirty joke. It is crude. It is vile, as are Santorum's comments about gay people."At a speaking engagement on Friday, Santorum stated that same-sex partnerships don't "benefit society". Whilst speaking as part of his campaign for the U.S. presidency in 2012, Rick Santorum has had to answer questions from supporters of LGBT rights regarding his controversial political positions on issues pertaining to them. Critics have showed up to Santorum events and tried to giltter bomb the candidate. Democratic strategists poised themselves to take advantage of Santorum's association with the neologism phenomenon. Based on sources among Democratic operatives, Jack Cahill of American Thinker reports Democratic tactics in Missouri involve actually galvanizing support for Santorum ahead of that state's Republican caucuses in order to eliminate the possibility of a Mitt Romney win. Cahill says they view Santorum as mostly a dirty joke's punchline.Wikinews previously reported on the santorum neologism phenomenon in 2006, as part of an article, "Wikinews investigates Wikipedia usage by U.S. Senate staff members". The investigation noted that: "An edit to an article about a controversy over Senator Rick Santorum's statements about Constitutional rights to privacy with regards to sexual acts, seemingly coming from Rick Santorum's staff members, removed a reference to an effort to redefine Santorum's last name as a neologism".In a 2003 interview with the Associated Press, Rick Santorum compared legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States to supporting bestiality. Readers of the Savage Love advice column selected a new definition for the Senator’s last name, and Savage created a website www.spreadingsantorum.com to document the spread of the phenomenon. The term became a prominent result in searches online, and gained dominance on Web search engines including Google, Bing, and Yahoo!.Google global communications chief Gabriel Stricker commented to National Public Radio in an interview this January, that the company was avoiding editorial judgment, and that the prominence of the santorum neologism phenomenon in web searches is due to increased interest in the subject. Stricker stated, "There definitely are people who are finding this to be the best answer to their question, and they are indicating this by either clicking on this result or linking to this result as the best answer to that question."In the wake of Santorum's showing in the 2012 Iowa Republican caucuses, additional curious people looked up the former Senator on the Internet and in turn discovered the santorum neologism phenomenon. After journalist Laura Sydell of the National Public Radio program All Things Considered received criticism for covering the increased attention to the santorum neologism, she explained why the issue was relevant: "I felt it was an important and legitimate story in the wake of Mr. Santorum's success in Iowa. Although the site had been up for many years, it was only after Mr. Santorum's success in the caucuses that a large number of people were actually searching for more information about him." The Canadian Press provided a similar analysis in January — that more coverage of Santorum has led to more coverage of the neologism.Rick Santorum himself has acknowledged and discussed the existence and prevalence of the santorum neologism phenomenon, in comments to the press. He was quoted in January by The Canadian Press on his assessment of Google's response: "I suspect if something was up there like that about, say, Joe Biden, they would get rid of it. To have a business allow that type of filth to be purveyed through their website or through their system is something that they say they can't handle. I suspect that's not true." Santorum tried to alleviate the neologism's results in web searches by reaching out to Google in September, but this act only served to increase reporting and coverage of the phenomenon. In a 2011 radio interview with host Steve Malzberg, Santorum characterized the neologism as "filth". He criticized the response of the press to the phenomenon, saying, "It's offensive beyond, you know, anything that any public figure or anybody in America should tolerate, and the mainstream media laughs about it."A new website SpreadingRomney.com now appears prominently among Internet search results for Mitt Romney's last name and defines romney as: "to defecate in terror". Spreading Romney was inspired by the santorum neologism coined in advice columnist Dan Savage's column Savage Love in response to comments made by former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum about homosexuality; Savage's readers voted to define santorum as: "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex."While defining romney as a verb, the word "terror" in the definition given at SpreadingRomney.com links to an article that appeared January 5 in The Huffington Post titled "Mitt Romney's Dog Incident Comes Back To Haunt Him". The article describes a 1983 incident where Romney was reported to have affixed his family’s pet Irish setter named Seamus to the roof of their vehicle for 12 hours while on a car trip to Canada; press coverage of the matter recounted how the animal let loose its bowels due to a fear response during the experience. Similar to online searches leading to the santorum neologism website originally created by Dan Savage, SpreadingSantorum.com, queries for Romney yielding top search results for SpreadingRomney.com are not limited only to Google but extend to other search engines including Bing as well.MSNBC quoted search engine expert Danny Sullivan, who observed that the website had likely risen of late in search results: "I don’t recall seeing it recently, so it appears to be a new gain."The Atlantic reported that as of yesterday, SpreadingRomney.com had received 3,416 like button clicks from Facebook and 1,261 posts on Twitter. The site appeared third in a Google search for Romney, directly below the former Massachusetts Governor's Wikipedia page.In a 2003 interview with the Associated Press, Rick Santorum compared legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States to supporting bestiality. Readers of the Savage Love advice column selected a new definition for the Senator’s last name, and Savage created a website SpreadingSantorum.com to promulgate the spread of the phenomenon. The term became a prominent result in searches online, and gained dominance on Web search engines including Google, Bing, and Yahoo!. Rick Santorum himself has acknowledged and discussed the existence and prevalence of the santorum neologism phenomenon; he was quoted by The Canadian Press on his assessment of Google's response: "To have a business allow that type of filth to be purveyed through their website or through their system is something that they say they can't handle. I suspect that's not true." Santorum criticized the response of the press to the phenomenon in a 2011 radio interview, saying, "It's offensive beyond, you know, anything that any public figure or anybody in America should tolerate, and the mainstream media laughs about it."The company Go Daddy manages the domain name for the website SpreadingRomney.com; the site was registered by an Indianapolis, Indiana-based company named Ayokay LLC which was formed on January 1. The website reportedly started operating on January 10. Rachel Maddow commented upon it on January 12 on her program The Rachel Maddow Show. The founder of SpreadingRomney.com, Jack Shepler, informed Sullivan that he holds no ties to any political campaign group and formed the website out of a comedic motivation.New York Magazine noted that there may be another neologism this time derived from the last name of presidential candidate Newt Gingrich; linking to an established website for SpreadingGingrich.com. That site is currently asking visitors to submit suggestions for a new definition of gingrich.In an interview Monday, candidate for the 2012 Republican Party presidential nomination Rick Santorum criticized advice columnist Dan Savage and said he would pray for him. In return, Savage pointed out Santorum's controversial social conservatism positions. Santorum's disagreement with Savage stems from the santorum neologism coined in Savage's column Savage Love in response to comments made by former Pennsylvania Senator Santorum about homosexuality; Savage's readers voted to define santorum as: "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex."Former Senator Santorum was interviewed Monday by the RealClearPolitics website RealClearReligion and was asked, "If you happen to run into Dan Savage, what would you say to him?" The Republican presidential nomination candidate replied, "I would tell him that I'm praying for him. He obviously has some serious issues. You look at someone like that who can say and do the things that he's doing and you just pray for him and hopefully he can find peace."This is not the first instance where Santorum has commented publicly about Dan Savage. ThinkProgress called his most recent comments on Savage an "improvement", and noted that Santorum previously stated Savage is "below the dignity of anybody".Mother Jones magazine contacted Savage for a response to Santorum's comments. Savage emphasized Santorum's controversial positions on social issues in contrast to his "dirty joke", replying, "Rick Santorum thinks that women who have been raped should be compelled—by force of law—to carry the babies of their rapists to term, he thinks birth control should be illegal, he wants to prosecute pornographers, etc., etc., basically the guy wants to be president so that he can micromanage the sex lives of all Americans...and I'm the one with issues? Because I made a dirty joke at his expense eight or nine years ago and it stuck? I'm the one with issues?" Savage concluded, "Rick can pray for me. I'll gay for him. And we can call it even."In a subsequent piece posted to the website of the Seattle, Washington paper The Stranger, Savage elaborated on his response to Santorum. He commented, "The man who wants to get his hands on the nuclear football so he can micromanage your sex life ... thinks I have issues. That's hilarious."In a 2003 interview with the Associated Press, Rick Santorum compared legalizing same-sex marriage in the United States to supporting bestiality. Readers of the Savage Love advice column selected a new definition for the Senator’s last name, and Savage created a website SpreadingSantorum.com to promulgate the spread of the phenomenon. The term became a prominent result in searches online, and gained dominance on Web search engines including Google, Bing, and Yahoo!.Rick Santorum himself has acknowledged and discussed the existence and prevalence of the santorum neologism phenomenon; he was quoted by The Canadian Press on his assessment of Google's response: "To have a business allow that type of filth to be purveyed through their website or through their system is something that they say they can't handle. I suspect that's not true." Santorum criticized the response of the press to the phenomenon in a 2011 radio interview, saying, "It's offensive beyond, you know, anything that any public figure or anybody in America should tolerate, and the mainstream media laughs about it."Today, some of the leading biologists in the world announced that they are starting a new project to write the Encyclopedia of Life, a project that aims to bring resources on all 1.8 million species together.The website will take the form of a wiki-like environment, but in contrast to Wikimedia's project Wikispecies, only scientists will be allowed to edit. The information will be made freely available on the internet. "Sharing what we know, we can protect Earth's biodiversity and better conserve our natural heritage," said said Jonathan F. Fanton, President of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, which has donated US$10 million to the project. Another US$2.5 million grant came from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.According to their press release, the website aims to become "a global beacon for biodiversity and conservation." The trailer video mentions that the work of classifying all species has barely begun, and that species are disappearing even before we glimpse at them.The founding partners of the project include the Field Museum of Natural History, Harvard University, the Marine Biological Laboratory, the Smithsonian Institution, and the Biodiversity Heritage Library. The Missouri Botanical Garden later joined, and negotiations are ongoing with the Atlas of Living Australia. Other partners are the American Museum of Natural History (New York), Natural History Museum (London), New York Botanical Garden, and the Royal Botanic Gardens (Kew).The institutional council is made up of a selection of international advisors, such as a representative of the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Another member is Erik Möller of the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees.According to the press release, the species pages will become available in "all major languages". Initially the focus will be on animals, plants and fungi, but later this could be expanded to microbes. The goal is to document all 1.8 million species over the next 10 years, but the founders warn that it might take up to 4 years before the quality of the pages becomes acceptable. Today, Wikispecies has over 98,000 articles.The website will partially draw information from existing databases, for example from FishBase which has 29,900 species listed already. Wikipedia is also listed as a source on some of the demonstration pages. Using an indicator for the educational level of the user, novices and experts will be shown just the information that suits them. A system of filters could be used to allow identification of species: for example, if you've just caught a 6-inch-long fish with big teeth in the Amazon River, you could use the filter system to find out what species it might be.The Biodiversity Heritage Library will scan tens of millions of pages to provide open access to the relevant scientific literature which it holds. The first 1.25 million pages have already been digitized in scanning centers in London, Boston, and Washington, D.C. .Turkish investigators have connected sixteen more people to the havoc of the Zotob internet worm, which has been adversely affecting computers for the last two weeks. These people were found by analysing communications between them and the two hackers arrested four days ago.By analysing the code of the Zotob worm, as well as its derivative works, law enforcement officials have found that three internet gangs were involved in the creation of the worm. Farid Essebar, aka 'Diab10', the 18 year old who wrote the worm, as well as others, like Mytob, was a member of the gang '0x90-Team'. The other gangs, 'BlackCarder' and 'MetalHit', wrote some of the variants of Zotob and Mytob.  The other of the two men arrested four days ago was 21 year old Attila Ekici. Turkish officials say that he was paid by Essebar to distribute Zotob. This type of financial relationship confirms theories that writing viruses has become a profit-making enterprise.Monday, Luxembourg-based Skype Limited announced a new monthly service plan called "Unlimited". It's expected that the service will bring on different opportunities for mobile users and change style on communications.As of Skype Limited, this "Unlimited" monthly service with no long-term contract is designed for different kind users from 34 countries. There are three main services, "Unlimited Country" for local landline call by user's choice, "Unlimited World" to communicate with 34 countries globally, and exclusivity services for different continents in Europe, Asia, and North America.In a launch press conference in Taiwan yesterday, Robert Lo, Vice President of PChome Online, commented this new service to media in Taiwan and said: "After the WiMAX technology was progressively accepted in public world-wide, the population of Skype will be more improved."The instant messaging (IM) and VoIP communications company Skype has suffered from an unexpected outrage across Europe since 10:00 AM UTC today. Users were not able to log in and Skype did not announce a cause of the problem.Skype initially left a message on its website and Twitter which reads, "A small number of you may have problems signing in to Skype. We’re investigating the cause, and hope to have more details to share soon."It was suggested by many users that Microsoft might be related to the Skype behaviour, however the purchase of Skype by Microsoft is not yet completed — Microsoft do not currently have any operational control over the Skype servers.Skype investigated a similar issue two weeks ago, its solution for which included an automatic update. This update deleted a file called "shared.xml" on users' computers. While it seemed to resolve the issue, the reason for this was not clear. Online newspaper The Register reports that today's issue is not dissimilar from that experienced previously.Further investigation by Skype showed that the event was caused by "configuration problems", but Skype has not published further details. The situation was claimed to be "stabilizing" by Skype later in the evening.Audible Magic, a company in Los Gatos, California, is developing a new software that can filter music and video uploaded on the  Internet without permission of copyright holders. The company's chief executive, Vance Ikezoye, demonstrated how the system works. He downloaded a poor-quality video from  YouTube and fed it to the filtering software, which identified the video as a fighting scene of “Kill Bill: Vol. 2,” the rights to which are owned by Miramax.The entertainment industry is already demanding the adoption of the new system by the Internet companies. One of the major social networks owned by News Corporation, MySpace, has agreed to adopt the filter. However, not all websites want to adopt the system as soon as it is launched. The main holdout is YouTube, owned by Google.The site's officials earlier said they would adopt a filtering software by the end of last year, but so far YouTube has not begun using any type of filtering system. The company's officials said that they would only use the filter if  copyright owners will broaden their license with Google. The executives of NBC and Viacom have already stated their complaints regarding Google's delay on placing filters.The new system uses a large database that includes digital representations of various copyrighted audio and video files. This technology of spotting copyrighted material, called “digital fingerprinting,” checks for matches and decides whether to post the material on the site or not. However, Audible Magic's software is not considered finalized since it can still be "fooled"--e.g., by cropping the image. Analysts say that the filtering software is to improve the relations that are currently quite tense between the standard media companies and Internet companies.California, Italy and New York are the first to bring litigation against Sony BMG's digital rights management (DRM) software found in at least 20 music discs released by Sony.  The software automatically installs after the user agrees to a end user license agreement (EULA) before the music disc can be played, and includes a rootkit that can create vulnerabilities in the user's Windows computer.  One trojan horse exploiting the hole has already been discovered online.The California lawsuit, filed on November 1, claims that the software violates the Consumer Legal Remedies Act, the Consumer Protection Against Computer Spyware Act, and the California Unfair Competition Law. The upcoming lawsuit in New York would seek restitution for consumers nationwide.  Mathew Gilliat-Smith, the CEO of First 4 Internet, the company that created the software, claims it is "benign content."  Meanwhile, in an NPR interview, a Sony BMG Music Entertainment Vice President said, "Most people, I think, don't even know what a rootkit is, so why should they care about it?"Sony and First 4 Internet have released "patches" and uninstall kits, after programmer Mark Russinovich discovered the hidden files from the rootkit.  However, these uninstall kits are only installable online through an ActiveX application, a technology many security experts advise users to deactivate due to its high execution privileges on host computers.In addition to questions of legality, the DRM software has come under fire from media rights activists and even artists who unwittingly found their albums more stringently protected than they approved of.  Furthermore, Sony's DRM software "phones home" each time one of their CDs is played.  The license agreement does not reveal this behavior, nor does it acknowledge the existence of the rootkit itself.Thomas Hesse of Sony BMG recently told the San Francisco Chronicle that 60 percent of Sony BMG CDs released in the United States currently have copy protection measures, and that they aim to hit 100 percent by early 2006.The fifth annual Sony Fair, established and organized by Sony Taiwan Limited in Taipei, Taiwan since 2004, started at the North Square of Taipei 101 near the TWTC Hall 3 from April 3 to 13. With more opportunities and chances of Blu-ray and High-definition markets, the organizer named its theme slogan with "High-definition Entertainment Park".Not only executives supported this show, and high-definition AV-media showcases, but Sony BMG Taiwan will also invite several vocalists to hold some mini concerts in the Sony Fair 2008 to bring up the visitors during holiday nights.After several laptop producers recalled a total of about 7 million products containing Sony batteries, the Sony Corporation said it will "initiate a global replacement program... in order to address concern related to recent over-heating incidents."Sony previously admitted the recalls announced by Apple and Dell would cost up to 30 billion yen, which is a quarter of Sony's profits in 2005. Several news sources expect this to reflect badly on the company, as it adds to problems with the PlayStation 3 and Blu-Ray DVD. Since Dell announced recalls in August, Sony's stock has lost almost 9% of its value.Keeping up with competitors like Apple and Dell, Toshiba and Lenovo have started recalling laptops with the lithium ion batteries. Dell expanded its program to include about 4.2 million portables. Following Sony's statement, Fujitsu too declared it would replace the batteries involved. A spokesperson for Toshiba added that the company doesn't expect there to be any problems with personal computers, but it will replace their Sony batteries anyway, over customer concerns. However, the company doesn't expect to pick up the tab for it.A Lenovo laptop with the problem battery caught fire in Los Angeles Airport earlier this month. Consequently, Virgin Atlantic added them to a blacklist of prohibited laptops on their flights. According to Sony, microscopic metal particles are to blame for overheating and potentially catching fire "under certain rare conditions".The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission advised ThinkPad users who want to continue using their portable to switch it off, remove the battery and continue with the AC adapter and power cord.From the middle of July, Sony Corporation refreshed their senior laptop brand VAIO from "Video Audio Integrated Operation" to "Visual Audio Intelligent Organizer". According to Sony Taiwan Limited, this refreshment is an attempt to relocate the laptop consuming market for business and entertainment factors.In the "VAIO Experience 2008" press conference in Europe, Sony promoted their new product series for different populations including BZ for business, FW for home entertainment, Z for ultra-slim, and SR for complex applications.Different with past series, Sony added "Clear Bright" screening technology for high-definition display, and "full-carbon production" features. BD-burning and Intel Centrino 2 processing technologies will be featured in all the new models. For security issue, Sony also embedded fingerprint system to prevent personal data to be stolen. Continued from TZ series, innovative designs including "Green Power Button", "Situational Switch" are also added in newly-launched series."Due to consuming market differences, Sony only promoted BZ series in Europe and America but not included Asia. Although the TICA Show in Taipei will be different, functionality will be the greatest issue when a consumers choose a notebook [computer] before buying." addressed by executives from Sony Taiwan Limited, during the "VAIO Experience 2008" press conference in Taiwan.Sony BMG has announced it will suspend production of CDs with their controversial "anti-piracy" software.  The move follows litigation being brought against the company for the software which allegedly opens up Microsoft Windows to malicious attacks.In an ironic turn of events, it now appears that Sony's software violates the copyright of the popular LAME mp3 player, which is distributed under a public license.  In the past, German courts have forced companies to release their source code to the public when it was based upon software distributed under such a license.Mark Russinovich, of SysInternals.com, has discovered a so-called "rootkit" which is installed by Sony's new digital rights management-protected music compact disks (CDs). A rootkit is a common name for malicious software that is used by computer criminals to hide their presence on a compromised computer.  Rootkits frequently contain hidden files and are designed to be difficult for the user to detect and remove.Russinovich classifies Sony's rootkit as malware because it is alleged to introduce several serious security holes, one of which can be exploited to hide files and prevent the user from removing them.  In particular, all executable files which begin with '$sys$' are hidden when the software is installed.   He points out that these security holes could be exploited by hackers, or other malware producers besides Sony.Russinovich explains that naively removing the files will result in a crippling of the operating system on the user's computer.  He  provides an explanation of the difficult step required to remove Sony's malware.  Playing the same CDs on computers not running the Windows operating system, or on a non-computer based CD player remains safe.  As removing Sony's malware would violate the Digital Millennium Copyright Act's anti-circumvention provisions, ripping the CDs on computers running a non-Windows operating system may be the best legal and technically safe option for those who wish to listen to them under Windows.The software is automatically installed when a Sony CD is played on a computer, and is not mentioned in their EULA.  The rootkit has been commercially developed by First 4 Internet and licensed to Sony. Other rights management techniques used by music publishers recently include breaking the Red Book compact disc standard format. This technique causes many CD players to not be able to play the new CDs, but also protects against casual ripping. Fiona Apple's recent album release in the United States uses such technology.A current South Korea presidential candidate for this year's December elections, Ahn Cheol-soo, has promised to allow freedom of choice of encryption technology for online financial transactions if he is elected. Ahn revealed the promise in a campaign book released this Monday. This follows over a decade of active legislation requiring banking websites to use a South Korean ActiveX technology to operate digital certificates.South Korea developed the ActiveX certificates technology in the late 1990s with an expectation of worldwide adoption, which did not happen. ActiveX has been supported only by Microsoft's Internet Explorer web browser. Ahn indicated disadvantages of the technology, writing that "South Korea's unique certificate system, driven by the government, has led to the isolation of South Korea's IT [information technology]. Excessive use of Active X is making web browsing less convenient."Some commenters noted that the technology requires users to install multiple plugins for Microsoft Internet Explorer, which cause a decrease in overall computer performance. At ZDNet Korean portal, the proposed policy change received comments about possible advances in making banking possible on mobile platforms.South Korean antitrust regulators fined the Microsoft company 33 billion Won (US$32m). It also ordered Microsoft to make substantial changes to the Windows operating system. Regulators demanded that Microsoft produce two different versions of Microsoft Windows within 180 days.One version must be stripped of the Windows Media Player and instant messenger software.The other version must come with links to Web pages that allow consumers to download competing versions of such software, the commission said.These regulations will be in effect for the next ten years, but after five years Microsoft can request a review of the market.A Microsoft spokesman said the company would appeal the decision in court."We are very disappointed with the commission's decision," said Tom Burt, a Microsoft vice president and deputy general counsel. "Ultimately, we will file a lawsuit in Korean court challenging the decision."Similarily in March of last year, Microsoft was ordered by the European Union to pay €497 million for antitrust violations. Microsoft was also asked to share Windows operating system code with other companies and offer Windows without the media player.Microsoft is also appealing this ruling.On October 30th Sprint Nextel severed their network connection with Cogent Communications, according to a statement from Cogent. As a result, it is impossible for most Sprint and Cogent customers to communicate directly between each other across the Internet. The actual reasons for the dispute are unknown, though Cogent has had similar disputes in the past with Level3, Telia, Limelight, France Telecom, and AOL.The two ISPs are currently in litigation over peering, the free exchange of traffic between the ISPs for little or no cost. In shutting down the peering, according to Cogent, Sprint is in violation of a contractual obligation to exchange Internet traffic. However, according to Sprint, Cogent has failed to meet its criteria for the peering agreement, and should be required to pay for the traffic, which Cogent refused to do.The de-peering has resulted in some customers of both companies experiencing dropped connections. However, most consumer ISPs and college networks are "multihomed", and thus could connect through separate lines to both companies.A new historic physics record has been set by scientists for exceedingly small writing, opening a new door to computing's future. Stanford University physicists have claimed to have written the letters "SU" at sub-atomic size.Graduate students Christopher Moon, Laila Mattos, Brian Foster and Gabriel Zeltzer, under the direction of assistant professor of physics Hari Manoharan, have produced the world's smallest lettering, which is approximately 1.5 nanometres tall, using a molecular projector, called Scanning Tunneling Microscope (STM) to push individual carbon monoxide molecules on a copper or silver sheet surface, based on interference of electron energy states. A nanometre (Greek: νάνος, nanos, dwarf; μετρώ, metrό, count) is a unit of length in the metric system, equal to one billionth of a metre (i.e., 10-9 m or one millionth of a millimetre), and also equals ten Ångström, an internationally recognized non-SI unit of length. It is often associated with the field of nanotechnology."We miniaturised their size so drastically that we ended up with the smallest writing in history," said Manoharan. "S" and "U," the two letters in honor of their employer have been reduced so tiny in nanoimprint that if used to print out 32 volumes of an Encyclopedia, 2,000 times, the contents would easily fit on a pinhead.In the world of downsizing, nanoscribes Manoharan and Moon have proven that information, if reduced in size smaller than an atom, can be stored in more compact form than previously thought. In computing jargon, small sizing results to greater speed and better computer data storage. "Writing really small has a long history. We wondered: What are the limits? How far can you go? Because materials are made of atoms, it was always believed that if you continue scaling down, you'd end up at that fundamental limit. You'd hit a wall," said Manoharan.In writing the letters, the Stanford team utilized an electron's unique feature of "pinball table for electrons" — its ability to bounce between different quantum states. In the vibration-proof basement lab of Stanford's Varian Physics Building, the physicists used a Scanning tunneling microscope in encoding the "S" and "U" within the patterns formed by the electron's activity, called wave function, arranging carbon monoxide molecules in a very specific pattern on a copper or silver sheet surface. "Imagine [the copper as] a very shallow pool of water into which we put some rocks [the carbon monoxide molecules]. The water waves scatter and interfere off the rocks, making well defined standing wave patterns," Manoharan noted. If the "rocks" are placed just right, then the shapes of the waves will form any letters in the alphabet, the researchers said. They used the quantum properties of electrons, rather than photons, as their source of illumination. According to the study, the atoms were ordered in a circular fashion, with a hole in the middle. A flow of electrons was thereafter fired at the copper support, which resulted into a ripple effect in between the existing atoms. These were pushed aside, and a holographic projection of the letters "SU" became visible in the space between them. "What we did is show that the atom is not the limit — that you can go below that," Manoharan said.  "It's difficult to properly express the size of their stacked S and U, but the equivalent would be 0.3 nanometres. This is sufficiently small that you could copy out the Encyclopaedia Britannica on the head of a pin not just once, but thousands of times over," Manoharan and his nanohologram collaborator Christopher Moon explained.The team has also shown the salient features of the holographic principle, a property of quantum gravity theories which resolves the black hole information paradox within string theory. They stacked "S" and the "U" - two layers, or pages, of information — within the hologram. The team stressed their discovery was concentrating electrons in space, in essence, a wire, hoping such a structure could be used to wire together a super-fast quantum computer in the future. In essence, "these electron patterns can act as holograms, that pack information into subatomic spaces, which could one day lead to unlimited information storage," the study states.The "Conclusion" of the Stanford article goes as follows:The team is not the first to design or print small letters, as attempts have been made since as early as 1960. In December 1959, Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman, who delivered his now-legendary lecture entitled "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom," promised new opportunities for those who "thought small." Feynman was an American physicist known for the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, the theory of quantum electrodynamics and the physics of the superfluidity of supercooled liquid helium, as well as work in particle physics (he proposed the parton model).Feynman offered two challenges at the annual meeting of the American Physical Society, held that year in Caltech, offering a $1000 prize to the first person to solve each of them. Both challenges involved nanotechnology, and the first prize was won by William McLellan, who solved the first. The first problem required someone to build a working electric motor that would fit inside a cube 1/64 inches on each side. McLellan achieved this feat by November 1960 with his 250-microgram 2000-rpm motor consisting of 13 separate parts.In 1985, the prize for the second challenge was claimed by Stanford Tom Newman, who, working with electrical engineering professor Fabian Pease, used electron lithography. He wrote or engraved the first page of Charles Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities, at the required scale, on the head of a pin, with a beam of electrons. The main problem he had before he could claim the prize was finding the text after he had written it; the head of the pin was a huge empty space compared with the text inscribed on it. Such small print could only be read with an electron microscope. In 1989, however, Stanford lost its record, when Donald Eigler and Erhard Schweizer, scientists at IBM's Almaden Research Center in San Jose were the first to position or manipulate 35 individual atoms of xenon one at a time to form the letters I, B and M using a STM. The atoms were pushed on the surface of the nickel to create letters 5nm tall.In 1991, Japanese researchers managed to chisel 1.5 nm-tall characters onto a molybdenum disulphide crystal, using the same STM method. Hitachi, at that time, set the record for the smallest microscopic calligraphy ever designed. The Stanford effort failed to surpass the feat, but it, however, introduced a novel technique. Having equaled Hitachi's record, the Stanford team went a step further. They used a holographic variation on the IBM technique, for instead of fixing the letters onto a support, the new method created them holographically. In the scientific breakthrough, the Stanford team has now claimed they have written the smallest letters ever - assembled from subatomic-sized bits as small as 0.3 nanometers, or roughly one third of a billionth of a meter. The new super-mini letters created are 40 times smaller than the original effort and more than four times smaller than the IBM initials, states the paper Quantum holographic encoding in a two-dimensional electron gas, published online in the journal Nature Nanotechnology. The new sub-atomic size letters are around a third of the size of the atomic ones created by Eigler and Schweizer at IBM.A subatomic particle is an elementary or composite particle smaller than an atom. Particle physics and nuclear physics are concerned with the study of these particles, their interactions, and non-atomic matter. Subatomic particles include the atomic constituents electrons, protons, and neutrons. Protons and neutrons are composite particles, consisting of quarks."Everyone can look around and see the growing amount of information we deal with on a daily basis. All that knowledge is out there. For society to move forward, we need a better way to process it, and store it more densely," Manoharan said. "Although these projections are stable — they'll last as long as none of the carbon dioxide molecules move — this technique is unlikely to revolutionize storage, as it's currently a bit too challenging to determine and create the appropriate pattern of molecules to create a desired hologram," the authors cautioned. Nevertheless, they suggest that "the practical limits of both the technique and the data density it enables merit further research." In 2000, it was Hari Manoharan, Christopher Lutz and Donald Eigler who first experimentally observed quantum mirage at the IBM Almaden Research Center in San Jose, California. In physics, a quantum mirage is a peculiar result in quantum chaos. Their study in a paper published in Nature, states they demonstrated that the Kondo resonance signature of a magnetic adatom located at one focus of an elliptically shaped quantum corral could be projected to, and made large at the other focus of the corral.Sun Microsystems has released StarOffice 8 today. StarOffice 8 is a commercial office suite that includes word-processing, spreadsheet, presentation, drawing and database applications.According to Sun, StarOffice 8 “provides excellent compatibility with Microsoft Office”. This new version improves Word, Excel and PowerPoint import and export filters, improving support for password-protected Word and Excel files and presentations with complex animations, autoshapes and slide transitions. StarOffice 8 also includes a Microsoft Office macro converter allowing many Microsoft Office macros to work in StarOffice.StarOffice 8 is also the first commercial office suite to support the OASIS Open Document Format for Office Applications (OpenDocument). OpenDocument  is an XML based file format created by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards. Massachusetts has recently announced the plan to switch to OpenDocument format. Microsoft has said it will not support the OpenDocument format.StarOffice 8 is based on the open source OpenOffice.org project. OpenOffice.org was founded July 2000, by Sun with the release of StarOffice code under two open source licenses.StarOffice 8 is available as a download from Sun’s Web site for $69.95, or packaged product can be ordered for $99.95. Enterprise customers can purchase StarOffice 8 for $35 (£20) per user.  OpenOffice.org  is available for free from openoffice.org.The popularity of Websites that rely on user-generated content has increased dramatically in the United Kingdom, according to new statistics. MySpace and Piczo show the strongest growth in usage year-to-year, respectively up 467% to 5.2 million visitors and 393% to 4 million. Bebo is up 328% to 3.9 million, while Wikipedia saw a 181% increase.These sites draw more frequent visits that other non-user-generated sites in the UK Top 50, with 4.2 usage-days per month (compared to the 3.5 average). They tend to engage visitors for longer (80 minutes per visitor, compared to the 33-minute average over all), and visitors tend to view more pages per visit (217 pages per visitor, compared to 52-page average over all).Because users of these sites visit more frequently, stay longer, and view more content, the argument goes that this creates more opportunities for marketers to communicate messages. However, in reality, as the number of pages served becomes very large, it becomes more difficult to find sufficient advertising inventory to send with those pages.No-one yet seems to be making big margins from social networking sites. The cost of operating these sites, it turns out, is sensitive to scale. Moreover, users generate a lot of noise in promoting themselves, but there's little evidence that many of them are listening to each other — which severely restricts the site owners' ability to generate advertising services, and secure advertising revenues.Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs announced on Wednesday that iPhone technology is not being used to monitor the location of its customers. The scandal arose from concern that data collected by Apple would make it possible for anyone with access to a person's private computer to retrieve information about their movements.Jobs acknowledged that while iPhones keep a database of Wi-Fi and cell tower hotspots these do not reveal anything about individual users' location. “That’s what people saw on the phone and mistook it for location”In a separate statement, Apple clarified the device is merely caching data in order to improve the speed of locating users in the future. Jobs confirmed during the interview that Apple would testify before the United States Congress. “They have asked us to come and we will honour their request, of course.”Apple have since made plans to release software updates that will cut the size of the wireless hotspot location database stored on its iPhones.The data scandal, coined ‘Location-gate’ has overshadowed news of Apple’s announcement for sales of the delayed white iPhone 4 which will begin shipping from Thursday.Sydney, Australia — Approximately 100 students gained access to their Higher School Certificate results, before the official release date of Friday 17th December 2004.  Police are pursuing the matter.The access was gained through the Board of Studies website.  To read their results, the student required a .zip archive, which was being distributed among students using the Internet.  This archive seems to have contained a URL.  This URL was either directly to the board of studies site, or to a script/site which allowed as student to enter information then assembled a URL to the board of studies site, allowing students to view their results early.Santa Clara, CALIFORNIA — Computer vendor Sun Microsystems released on Tuesday the first offerings of its OpenSolaris operating system code for free, under a license which allows anyone to use or work on the code and distribute the changes they make..The full operating system is expected to be released for download sometime in the second quarter of 2005. Following along with the system source code are 1,670 patents Sun will make available for use by open-source developers. Sun hopes to leverage greater innovation in software from the open source community, in return for allowing the code to be used without charge."This is not an EOL (end of life) release. It's a supercharged, turbocharged rocket launching," Sun CEO Scott McNealy said. "No one else has done what we have just done."The move follows a recent move by IBM to grant use of 500 patents freely to open source software developers. Open source developers had been becoming concerned that bureaucracy and legal issues associated with software patents could be damaging to their livelihoods and to innovation. The moves by Sun and IBM seem intended to placate this growing fear.Dynamic Trace, or DTrace is the first OpenSolaris component to be released. DTrace is a performance-analysis tool that tells developers how to optimize their applications for maximum performance. The code is to be released under Sun's own licensing scheme, the Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL) Version 1.0. This license has been approved by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).Sun's license is based on the Mozilla Public License. The Free Software Foundation has stated on its website that Sun's license, while free, is not compatible with the GNU Public License (GPL) used for the popular open source Linux operating system. This does not mean that Linux software and OpenSolaris software cannot be used together, but limits the extent of integration which may be achieved.Sun had previously allowed free use of the operating system Solaris by some users, for example students. This move greatly extends the range of free uses permitted, and allows users to read and modify the source code without charge or non-disclosure agreement.On March 21, 2006, Sun Microsystems released the source code for its newest processor, the UltraSPARC T1. The UltraSPARC T1 is available with four, six or eight cores, each able to work on four threads at a time. The concept is similar to that of the Intel Pentium EE which uses two cores with two threads.A multicore processor is like having many CPUs on the one chip. Multiple threads allow each core to work on a number of tasks concurrently on a single core. This is particularly useful in a server environment where the UltraSPAC T1 was designed to be used.Sun call the open source version of their processor the OpenSPARC T1 and have made the source code (in Verilog format) and specifications available on the OpenSPARC T1 website under the General Public License, the same license under which most distributions of Linux are released.Industry observers say that the move is triggered by the SPARC architecture's shrinking market share to the likes of IBM's POWER architecture and x86 based chips from Intel and AMD.Open Source Hardware has been gaining momentum since 2002, when Kofi Annan issued a challenge to technology companies. Despite Sun's OpenSPARC T1 not being the first open source processor in the world, it is the first time that the design for a proprietary design processor has been released to the open source community.Sun Microsystems, the company behind the UNIX-based Solaris Operating System, the Java platform as well as OpenOffice.org, has announced that it is acquiring MySQL AB, the company behind the open source database application MySQL, for a reported US$1 billion: $800 million to purchase MySQL's stock, and $200 million worth of options.Sun CEO Jonathan Schwartz said in his blog Wednesday that in addition to this acquisition, Sun will provide global support offerings for the popular database platform. Sun already provides support for another database platform, PostgreSQL.MySQL is used by many web sites, such as Facebook, LiveJournal, Google, as well as the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation and the MediaWiki software that powers it.Sun Microsystems released the latest installment in their popular Java programming language line today, Java Standard Edition 6.0. Though this release, codenamed "Mustang", is not as drastic a departure from its predecessors as version 5.0, Sun reports more features, and noticeably better performance. In addition, the new release promises to support easier databases, and has integrated its graphics rather seamlessly with both Windows and the GTK. Users of the pre-release versions have already reported substantial performance gains. Graeme Wallace, the CTO of FareCompare.com, reported that "The difference between Java SE 5 and Java SE 6 was startling. In terms of crunching through air fares, we are talking an increase in speed of 25% to 30%." Sam Berlin, senior engineer of Limewire LLC, commented that he has "really been pleased with the startup times," and Jim Adams, the principal Java architect at SAS, reported that, in using the version 6.0 pre-releases, he "was always impressed by the speed and memory improvement that [version 6] afforded me."Microsoft has publicly endorsed the release due to its strong compatibility with the upcoming Windows Vista operating system. Said CEO Brad Goldberg, "We welcome the Java SE 6 release and its compatibility with Windows Vista because we want to see a good Java technology experience available for customers using Windows."Sweden has plans to open a virtual embassy in Second Life, the virtual world home to thousands of netizens. Companies like Dell are already selling computers via the virtual world, but Sweden would become the first country to have a cyber-embassy in Second Life.The embassy would not provide visa or perform diplomatic tasks, but would provide information on how and where to get these documents in the real world, as well as giving cultural and tourist information about the country. Visitors will also be able to chat with embassy personnel. A spokesperson explained that it would be an easy and cheap way to reach young people. The idea came from The Swedish Institute, an agency of the Foreign Affairs Ministry of Sweden with providing information about Sweden as a key purpose.The "House of Sweden" as it will be called, will be modelled on the new Swedish embassy in Washington with the same name. The opening is expected in a few weeks.Second life has over 3 million registered accounts. On an average day, the maximum of people logged in at the same time peaks at 25,000. In September 2006, Second Life was reported to have a gross domestic product of $64 million. Some schools in the United States and Canada have virtual classrooms on the site. People like Ailin Graef a.k.a. Anshe Chung have developed virtual businesses in Second Life, and earn thousands of real dollars there.Journalists in Sweden are amongst the victims of a mass hacking carried out on a popular Swedish blog site. Passwords of over 90,000 accounts associated with site Bloggtoppen.se were published on Tuesday. Officials have since confirmed that 180,000 accounts across roughly 60 websites could be compromised.The information was released through the Twitter account of member of parliament William Petzäll. Petzäll released a statement through his lawyer saying he had nothing to do with the release and his account had been hijacked.The operator of Bloggtoppen.se, Jimmy Holmlund, later confirmed the site was shut down after being hacked.A number of journalists have been identified as having information leaked, which has allowed access to email accounts. The Expressen newspaper reported an email received allegedly from the hacker claiming the event shows people "their information hasn't been managed correctly."Politicians are also among those affected. 79 Moderate Party email users and 50 Liberal Party had their passwords made public.The dramatic breach in security has now been referred to Swedish security service Säpo and affected users are being advised to immediately change all online passwords.A 21-year-old Swedish man killed himself and broadcast it over the internet via his webcam feed Monday, after posting to a message board that he had swallowed some painkillers and was going to hang himself.At 11:51 a.m. Central European Summer Time (0951 UTC), Marcus Jannes, a student from  Järna, Stockholm, posted to the Mental Health Problems forum of Sweden's Flashback message boards using the newly-registered username "LurifaxFlux", stating that he was going to hang himself, adding that he had already swallowed 100mg of dexofen and 1500mg of paracetamol. He said that he had set up a webcam to record the event, and would post details later of a FTP server for people to watch.People responded to his post almost immediately. Some offered messages of hope, such as, "How bad can it be? When everything is at its worst, it can only get better", and "Think of poor people, mutilated people, people who are lame or blind. Living with a disability is hard. They can not change their lives! But you still have the ability to alter yours!" Others tried to keep him online by talking to him empathetically: "Is there anything that can make you change your mind?", "Tell me about yourself."However, other users posted messages saying they didn't believe him, wishing him luck with his attempt, and calling him an attention whore and a troll. They also goaded him by saying, "you won't dare, you are too cowardly", and offering advice on the best way to hang himself: "I recommend ... you do it from a height that you can jump off so you are guaranteed to break your neck."In a later post, Jannes said that he had been feeling suicidal for about six months, but was too scared to actually attempt anything until he tried to strangle himself with his own hands. In response to questions, he stated that he was using a network cable to strangle himself because he didn't have any rope, but he was worried that the cable would not be strong enough to take his weight. He also told them that he had Asperger syndrome and High-functioning autism, and was emotionally vulnerable and lacked normal social skills. He admitted to feeling lonely, and alluded to experiencing problems at school, but admitted that he had a good upbringing and had a rather good life. At around the same time, he also updated his Facebook status to say life was "just too difficult", and that he was going to kill himself.Vulnerability allegedly affecting at least two versions of Symantec AntiVirus software has been found. The vulnerability requires no interaction from the end-user, and has the potential to grant complete system level access to an attacker, according to eEye Digital Security, the organization that originally discovered the vulnerability.According to eEye, the Symantec AntiVirus 10.x and Symantec Client Security 3.x product lines are both vulnerable, and other Symantec products may be vulnerable as well.Symantec released a brief statement early today, in which they confirmed that they have received a report pertaining to a "potential remotely exploitable vulnerability," but that it affected only AntiVirus Corporate Edition 10.x. The company denies that any of its 'Norton' line of consumer-grade products are affected.Mobile phone operating software maker Symbian is licensing the Microsoft ActiveSync technology in a move that surprised analysts. The license would allow Symbian to develop a plug-in for mobile phones to let users check email that is served by Microsoft Exchange Server mail system.Symbian was formed in 1998 by Ericsson, Nokia, Motorola and Psion in a collaborative desire to counter Microsoft's emerging market power in operating systems for handheld devices. While Microsoft now provides the Windows Mobile software for mobile phones, it has not attained significant market penetration. At the same time, in part through the increased popularity of Research in Motion's BlackBerry mobile email device, users have come to expect their mobile phones to synchronize email with various mail servers — including Exchange Server.Symbian appears to be sensitive to the appearance of collaborating with the very competitor that spurred their creation. Symbian's press release emphasized that the licensing of the technology introduces just one of the many methods the Symbian software communicates with email servers. The spokesperson for the company, Peter Bancroft, was also on the defensive: "Microsoft isn't a monolithic company" he said, referring to the fact that Exchange Server and Windows Mobile are created by two different divisions of Microsoft.Shares of Research in Motion dropped on the news.At 2 am, September 25, UTC time, the jury of Wikimania 2007 City Contest announced that Taipei has been chosen as the host city of Wikimania 2007."Taipei had the winning combination of a dedicated and experienced bidding team, a great venue with centralized accommodation and community areas, and strong sponsorship opportunities. Taipei also provides the opportunity to focus attention on the growing Asian language projects and the international aspect of the Wikimedia Foundation, as well as learning about other free knowledge efforts and projects in the region," the jury said."This was a very difficult decision.  Every one of the shortlisted bids this year were outstanding," the jury continues. The other 3 bidding cities are Turin (Italy), Alexandria (Egypt) and London (United Kingdom).Wikimania is a conference for users of the wiki projects operated by the Wikimedia Foundation. Researchers and speakers presented studies and experiments on Wikipedia and other projects operated by the Wikimedia Foundation, on wiki culture and technology, and on the world of free knowledge. The first conference was held in Frankfurt, Germany from August 4 to 8 in 2005; the second ran from August 4 to 6 in 2006 in Cambridge, Massachusetts in the United States. The third run will be held in Chien Tan Overseas Youth Activity Center, Taipei, Taiwan from August 3 to 5 in 2007."Among men, La-La; among horses, Red Hare" (In Chinese: 馬中赤兔，人中拉拉) was recently elected as the "Best Internet Cool Quote".Laa-Laa refers to the yellow character from the Teletubbies television series, and Red Hare refers to military general Lü Bu's horse during China's Three Kingdoms period. The quote was given its title after a two-week voting period, that started on October 14 until PepsiCo Taiwan & Doritos announced "Top 10 Internet Cool Quote" on October 31. Voting was on the Doritos Coolpedia website, which started on September 28.Voting attracted more than 10,000 Internet users from 64 countries participating and electing.Coolpedia is a portal for teens and young adults to share and contribute their creations, and interact.At the announcement event was the famous Taiwanese band "MACHI Brothers" (MACHI). Described by Pepsico as a symbol of younger people in the presence of the e-Century in Taiwan, MACHI serves as spokespeople for the website. Members of band dressed in different "Cool Quote T-Shirts" to symbolize the "unlimited creation" of Coolpedia.On November 1, Coolpedia launched a website for a "Cool Video Award" contest, with the slogan "No pictures, no truth!". PepsiCo Taiwan has suggested that the site will be a major Web 2.0 site.These are short blurbs about current events in the technology world.Even though the USB 3.0 standard, with transmission speeds nearing 5Gbit/s (600MB/s), has not yet matured and is not expected until 2009 or 2010, technology leaders Intel, AMD, and nVidia are battling to take the lead on the USB 3.0 specifications.The USB Implementers Forum (USB-IF) was founded in 1995 by Intel, Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Texas Instruments, NEC, and NXP Semiconductors. These companies are also promoting the new standard of USB 3.0.But AMD, nVidia, and VIA Technologies have jointly made an attempt to develop another "USB 3.0" standard to compete with Intel. The opportunity arose because Intel has yet to release their standard for USB 3.0."If the USB 3.0 have two different standards in the future, the consumer will be the greatest loser in this 'standard' battle. As of this issue, we [the Federal Trade Commission] decided to investigate Intel on monopolizing the specification of USB 3.0 and hope this conflict can be smoothly solved." said the Federal Trade Commission in a statement.Nick Knupffer, a spokesperson for Intel, claimed that Intel will release related technical specifications on USB 3.0 for the Information Technology industry to prevent unnecessary conflicts on standards and specifications.The "2008 Research @ Intel Day" showcased conceptual innovations in the fields of visual computing, wireless, health care, environment, and life sciences.Last Wednesday, Intel said it is investing some of its $6 billion research budget in the Computer History Museum in Mountain View, California.Technology related to mobile computing, green technology, WiMAX and wireless networking, solutions for healthcare with SHIMMER and BioMOBIUS technology, an intelligent identification robot named "BarKeep", and Platform Power Management, were showcased there.In the keynote address, Justin Rattner, Intel Senior Fellow and Corporate Vice President and director of Intel's Corporate Technology Group, introduced the history of microprocessors and said: "Parallel Computing will be a critical factor on programming for the best experience to users."On Wednesday the online instant messaging service Telegram announced IFTTT (If This Then That) integration in its client. This feature allows the users to connect their Telegram account to other social networks and web applications. This change came as a part of the 3.15 release. The project team has announced these changes on the official Telegram blog.IFTTT facilities allow users to connect to multiple services from one platform. The bidirectional facility of IFTTT means a user can opt-in for receiving notifications from the connected applications in Telegram and for updating them using commands from Telegram. To get started, users needed to query a relay called "IFTTT bot". According to Telegram, the IFTTT bot provides over 360 services and can also be invited into group chats to facilitate collaboration. Applets need to be enabled to start the IFTTT services. Some of the applets supported are Gmail, Dropbox, Spotify, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Google Drive and Pinterest. Telegram claimed to be the first messaging application to be fully integrated with IFTTT.In the new release, Telegram also introduced an option to "pin" the chats. The "pinning" feature allowed a user to pin chats to the top of the chat list, including up to five chats and up to five secret chats, by long press on the chat in Android and left swipe in iOS. Other introduced features included a new photo high precision crop and rotate tool — the rotate accuracy reached a tenth of a degree — and a new video player for YouTube and Vimeo videos, allowing the users to watch these videos natively from the application. The "picture-in-picture" option in the new player allowed to watch a video and chat at the same time by dragging the playing video around the screen while chatting. The video playing in picture-in-picture mode doesn't stop playing even when user opens other application.These last two features — crop and rotate, picture in picture — were made available only in Android. Telegram said they plan to release new updates before the year end.Previously, Telegram had introduced Telegraph, a publishing medium; and an "instant view" feature which loads articles from Medium and TechCrunch instantly.On Tuesday instant messaging application Telegram announced publishing service Telegraph. They also introduced "instant view" and "jump to date" features. Telegraph offers a simple publishing service without an account. It supports embedding photos, tweets from Twitter, and videos from YouTube and Vimeo by dropping in a link. It allows users to create rich posts with markdown by filling the title, author name and the story. Telegraph is similar to other publishing websites like Medium and Quip. Unlike Medium and Quip Telegraph does not require a login and thus anyone can use a false name to publish a story. The stories can only be edited from the same browser on the same device if the user accepts the cookie policy and does not clear the cache. According to Telegram, instant view offers "an elegant way to view articles with zero pageload time". Links to articles on sites including Medium and TechCrunch shows an instant view option which can be viewed directly within the application which was built to save time and data.Telegram also introduced a jump to date option to search chats by dates. A calendar icon enables user to choose a date to search old messages. Other features in the new update, version 3.14, include improved camera speed, better video compression and photo viewer, and improved security for passcodes. A new interface for notifications and creating groups for the Android operating system is also included, with Telegram saying "Make Android Great Again!". Telegram also introduced a feature to view an entire sticker pack by pressing a long hold on the recently sent sticker. Users can also view the list of groups the user shares with a particular contact.Taiwan Electromagnetic Radiation Hazard Protection and Control Association (TEPCA), an environmental organization set to promote environmental hazard warnings on electromagnetic radiation, protested over the potential health impact of electromagnetic radiation as Ying-jeou Ma, President of the Republic of China, visited this show on the 2nd Day of 2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei (June 3)."Base stations of WiMAX are unnecessary in Taiwan! The governmental people didn't care about the living and health of the public!" strongly stated Jiau-hua Chen, Chairman of TEPCA during the protest.The on-site rate of electromagnetic radiation was firmly higher than the international standards as some experts examined at the showground, according to the Taiwan Hakka Television. In addition, the TEPCA strongly appealed the governments and organizers to announce the place of base stations for health and safety issue.As a result of the protest, not only the information security, but also environmentalists disputed the future of WiMAX.Google became a verb in the Merriam-Webster dictionary yesterday.First founded in September 1998, Google quickly became a phenomenon, overtaking the then top search engines Yahoo and Lycos etc.Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary has added Google, along with Googling, to their dictionary. According to the dictionary, the correct pronunciation is goo-gle, with other forms including googled and googling.The word 'google' is defined as a transitive verb meaning to use the Google search engine to look for information on the Internet.This announcement comes on the heels of Merriam-Webster adding 'IM' as both a noun and a verb.A former contractor of Intel, who was convicted more than a decade ago for bypassing the security systems of the semiconductor company in 1993, is now free from charge. The hacker used a special program, named "Crack", that was able to detect the passwords of his former colleagues. He worked at Intel Supercomputer Systems Division and afterwards he suspiciously left the company. When Randal L. Schwartz was accused, the court sentenced him to pay Intel a restitution, estimated at US$68,000. Then the hacker was imposed to spend five years of probation and 480 hours of community service. In addition, the court sentenced Schwartz to 90 days of deferred jail time. All in all, the legal bills of the former Intel contractor exceeded US$170,000.Randal Schwartz told the court that the reason he used "Crack" is that he wanted to show the disadvantages of Intel's security system, especially when he left the company. He also mentioned about reestablishment of his respect, which, according to Schwartz, was lost. After more than a decade, he appealed to a Democratic governor. In February 2007 a court in Oregon expunged his conviction. Schwartz stated that it will take some time for him to absorb the result. The 13-year journey still keeps him in shock.An Italian court convicted three Google Inc. executives Wednesday of criminal charges for breach of privacy.  David Drummond, Google's chief legal officer, Peter Fleischer, its global privacy counsel, and George Reyes, a former executive, were given six-month suspended prison sentences after being found guilty of violating the Italian privacy code. The Google executives were convicted for not removing a video uploaded to Google Video in 2006, showing an autistic boy in Turin being beaten and insulted by teenage bullies at school.  The video was up for two months, during which it was viewed 5,500 times.  Google Italy pulled it down two hours after being notified by police, following complaints by the boy's father and Vivi Down, an Italian organization representing individuals with Down syndrome.  The uploader and several of her classemates were sentenced to ten months community service by a Turin court.Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo told the Associated Press that the decision puts the rights of individuals ahead of those of businesses.  "This is the big principal [sic] affirmed by this verdict.  It is fundamental, because identity is a primary good.  If we give that up, anything can happen, and that is not OK", he stated.Vivi Down said it was satisfied with the verdict and maintained that their aim was not to censure freedom of expression but to obtain a judgment on fundamental right to privacy.Matt Sucherman, Google Vice President and Deputy General Counsel for Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, said that "[the verdict] attacks the very principles of freedom on which the internet is built."  He continued that under European law, video-sharing sites are protected from liability for the content of material posted.  "If that principle is swept aside and sites [...] are held responsible for vetting every single piece of content that is uploaded to them [...] then the Web as we know it will cease to exist, and many of the economic, social, political and technological benefits it brings could disappear."  He said Google will appeal the decision.Danny O'Brien, international outreach coordinator for the Electronic Frontier Foundation of San Francisco (an international non-profit digital rights advocacy group), described the decision as a "threat".  "If intermediaries like Google or the person who hosts your Web site can be thrown in jail in any country for the acts of other people and suddenly have a legal obligation to prescreen everything anyone says on their Web site before putting it online, the tools for free speech that everyone uses on the Net would grind to a halt", he said.In the wake of Bitmover CEO Larry McVoy's decision to end the free distribution of the Linux version of the source code management system Bitkeeper, Linux founder Linus Torvalds has written a program called "git" to access the Linux source code repositories, Torvalds wrote in a post to the Linux kernel mailing list. The program, resting at version 0.04 as of April 13, is, according to Torvalds's README file: "a stupid (but extremely fast) directory content manager. It doesn't do a whole lot, but what it _does_ do is track directory contents efficiently."When Bitmover changed its licensing scheme, Torvalds wrote that he was looking into using Monotone; he added that he did not want to use Subversion (SVN). According to Kerneltrap.org, on April 7, Torvalds noted, "I detest the centralized SCM model, but if push comes to shove, and we just _can't_ get a reasonable parallell merge thing going in the short timeframe (ie month or two), I'll use something like SVN on a trusted site with just a few committers . . ."While Torvalds characterized Monotone as slow, he was hopeful that it could be sped up. He anticipated using the pre-Bitkeeper system of "people email patches to Linus" until the 2.6.12 kernel is released in the next month or so.Yesterday, the Russian chatterbot "Eugene Goostman" by a team of Russian and Ukrainian developers became the first machine to pass a Turing test, under the academic event organizers' interpretation of the test as originally described by British mathematician Alan Turing. The competition was held at the Royal Society in London, England, and was organized by Kevin Warwick and Huma Shah of the University of Reading to mark the 60th anniversary of Turing's death on June 7, 1954. The Turing test is a test of artificial intelligence aiming to fulfil the suggestion of Alan Turing in his 1950 paper "Computing Machinery and Intelligence", which stated that within fifty years, an "average interrogator" would, following a five-minute long conversation, "not have more than 70 per cent chance" of correctly predicting whether they are speaking to a human, or a machine — which would be able to, as such, fool at least 30% of human judges into thinking it is human.In the contest, where Eugene Goostman and four other bots competed, the bot successfully tricked 33% of the participating judges, which included television actor Robert Llewellyn of the BBC television series Red Dwarf, and John Sharkey, Baron Sharkey, a sponsor of Turing's 2013 posthumous pardon. To give the bot a "believable personality", Goostman is portrayed as being a thirteen year-old boy of the Ukraine; the bot's head developer Vladimir Veselov stated that this made Goostman "not too old to know everything and not too young to know nothing". The bot had previously come close to beating the Turing test on several occasions; it has been a three-time runner-up for the Loebner Prize, and it won a Turing contest at Bletchley Park in 2012, held to mark the 100th anniversary of Turing's birth. In the 2012 Bletchley Park competition Goostman was, notably, only one percent away from the target of 30%.Speaking about the achievement, Warwick stated: "Some will claim that the Test has already been passed. The words Turing Test have been applied to similar competitions around the world. However this event involved the most simultaneous comparison tests than ever before, was independently verified and, crucially, the conversations were unrestricted. A true Turing Test does not set the questions or topics prior to the conversations. We are therefore proud to declare that Alan Turing's Test was passed for the first time on Saturday."Veselov felt that the achievement was "remarkable", and suggested that it could help increase interest in artificial intelligence and chatterbot technology.Turkey’s Finance Ministry has given Google a tax demand of $18.6 million, and Transport and Communications Minister Binali Yıldırım called on Google to register as a taxpayer in the country to "help accelerate" the lifting of a ban on YouTube and Google services.As The Register reported, access to search engine Google had been limited due to a block imposed on its IP set, and most of Google's online services had been inaccessible in Turkey since June 4. The IP addresses were shared between YouTube and other Google services. As International Business Times reports, YouTube has been banned in Turkey since 2008.Accoring to HaberTurk, which is the Turkish version of Bloomberg, Yildirim said that "YouTube is a tax-payer in 20 countries, and we want them to do the same in Turkey." Turkey’s Finance Ministry has given Google a tax demand of $18.6 million. Yıldırım called on Google to register as a taxpayer in the country, and he said that it is a step that "would help accelerate the lifting of a ban on the company’s Youtube video-sharing website."Reporters Without Borders condemned "the growing repercussions of Turkey’s censorship of YouTube" and quoted Turkey's  President Abdullah Gul as saying "I do not want Turkey to be included among the countries that ban YouTube and prevent access to Google."Several internet sites have recently been banned in Turkey. The Register reports that 3,700 websites are "blocked for arbitrary and political reasons" in Turkey, including foreign websites, sites aimed at the country's Kurdish minority, and gay sites according to The Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Reporters Without Borders added Turkey to the list of "countries under surveillance" in its report on "Enemies of the Internet," issued March 2010.About 2,000 protestors marched against Internet censorship last Saturday in Istanbul in Turkey, Xinhua reported.Protesters gathered at central Istanbul’s Taksim Square and marched down to Istiklal Avenue, chanting slogans against Transport and Communications Minister Binali Yıldırım, Internet censorship, and especially against "Law No 5651".Many Internet groups, nongovernmental organizations, and Internet platforms participated in the protest, Hürriyet Daily News reported. Ekşi Sözlük, zaytung.com, bobiler.org, the Young Civilians, Penguen magazine, “Sansüre Sansür” (Censor Censorship) and “Sansüre Karşı Ortak Platform” (Joint Platform against Censorship) were among the participants.More than 5,000 Internet sites including Last.fm, YouTube and some of Google services are currently banned in Turkey. The bans are issued by prosecutors if the site "is deemed liable to incite suicide, paedophilia, drug abuse, obscenity or prostitution, or violate a law forbidding any attacks on Atatürk."Reporters Without Borders reported that the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) recently wrote to the Turkish authorities to urge them once again to restore access to banned Internet sites.Social networking website Twitter announced an advertising platform to enable paid tweets to be displayed at the top of search results. This new feature is called Promoted Tweets; Best Buy Co., Sony Pictures, Starbucks Corp. and Virgin America are some of the participants in this.Twitter has not allowed advertising in the past. According to Biz Stone, the co-founder of the site said that such tweets must "resonate with users" and be conversational in nature. Promoted tweets should be "ordinary Tweets that businesses and organizations want to highlight to a wider group of users".Promoted Tweets would initially appear only in search results in Twitter, according to the company. Only one such Tweet will be allowed in a search results page. This follows Twitter's acquisition of Atebits, the developer of "Tweetie", an iPhone application used to access the site, announced during the weekend by company officials.Analysts mentioned that there were some risks involved with allowing advertising, saying that Promoted Tweets could become unpopular with users.Christine Overby of research company Forrester mentions that there is a possibility that users "may get turned off by too much advertising," "But I think this risk is easy to manage - they can look at how Google for example has handled this," she added.She mentioned that the company's "pay for resonance" model could prove to be risky as advertisers would be paid for how much user attention a tweet receives. "Advertisers are accustomed to 'pay per click' or 'pay per thousand' [advertising units] models," she said. "They may not appreciate this model - there will certainly be a discussion as to what the 'pay for resonance' model actually is."Turkish and Moroccan authorities arrested two suspects who are believed to be the creators of the Zotob worm that took down CNN’s computer network and crippled other computers in the U.S. and worldwide earlier this month.The FBI traced an electronic trail that led to two men from the Middle East and North Africa. An 18-year old Moroccan, Farid Essebar, is believed to have written the worm in return for a payment from a 21-year old Turk Atilla Ekici. Both were arrested Friday and await prosecution in their respective countries.It appears that Essebar and Ekici never met personally, and conducted the entire cyber crime through contact with each other over the internet. The online monikers for the two is believed to be "Diabl0" for Essebar and “Coder” for Ekici.The speedy pace at which investigators made arrests is credited from working closely with the Microsoft Corp., and Moroccan and Turkish authorities, said the FBI assistant director Louis Reigel. "Had we not had those entities involved in this investigation, I suspect it would still be ongoing today."Microsoft investigators began in March to analyze an e-mail variant called Mytob, which emerged in late February.  The two suspects are believed to have authored the predecessor to Mytob, known then as 'Rbot'. These worms could plant in infected computers a backdoor that could be used to gain remote access to the computer and their networks at a later date.The release of the Zytob worm yielded more evidence of the perpetrators’ identities. The motive for the attacks appears to be financial gain and not terrorist related. The two men allegedly forwarded stolen financial information to a credit-card fraud ring, according to the Moroccan government.The 5-year-old Windows 2000 operating system is most vulnerable to attack. The worm uses a flaw in the Windows Plug and Play service; a flaw for which Microsoft has issued a patch. But an August 23 Microsoft advisory notes that some non-default configurations of Windows XP Service Pack 1 systems could also be at risk. XP SP2 users are not at risk.The two unique prime factors of a 200-digit number have been discovered by researchers in Germany and the Netherlands. The number, named RSA-200, is one of a series of challenges issued by security company RSA Security in March 1991 in order to track the real-world difficulty of factoring such numbers, used in the public-key encryption algorithm RSA. The factorisation of RSA-200 beats the previous record number "c176" (176 digits, factored on May 2nd, 2005), and RSA-576 (174 digits, factored on December 3rd, 2003). Written out, RSA-200 is:27,997,833,911,221,327,870,829,467,638,722,601,621,070,446,786,955,428,537,560,009,929,326,128,400,107,609,345,671,052,955,360,856,061,822,351,910,951,365,788,637,105,954,482,006,576,775,098,580,557,613,579,098,734,950,144,178,863,178,946,295,187,237,869,221,823,983The two factors are:3,532,461,934,402,770,121,272,604,978,198,464,368,671,197,400,197,625,023,649,303,468,776,121,253,679,423,200,058,547,956,528,088,349and7,925,869,954,478,333,033,347,085,841,480,059,687,737,975,857,364,219,960,734,330,341,455,767,872,818,152,135,381,409,304,740,185,467The researchers had been working on factoring the number since Christmas 2003. The result was a collaboration between researchers at Bonn University and the German Federal Agency for Information Technology Security (BIS) in Germany, and the CWI (Netherlands). Friedrich Bahr, M. Böhm, Jens Franke, and Thorsten Kleinjung report that they used the general number field sieve (GNFS) to factor the number. The factoring was performed using a number of machines in parallel. The initial "sieving" step took the equivalent of 55 CPU-years on a single machine (2.2Ghz Opteron CPU). Some work was also performed by Peter Montgomery, Herman te Riele and F. Bahr. Bahr, Franke, Kleinjung, te Riele and Bahr were also part of the team who factored a previous record number, RSA-576.RSA-200 was part of the original RSA Factoring Challenge, which was discontinued and replaced with a different set of numbers in 2001. One number in the new challenge, named RSA-640, has only 193 digits (compared to the 200 of RSA-200), and carries a prize of US$20,000 for its factorisation.Two new records for the largest known prime number have been set, both breaking the 10 million digit threshold. On August 23, Edson Smith, a systems engineer for the Program in Computing laboratory at the University of California, Los Angeles in California, United States, confirmed the primality of the number through his work as a volunteer in the distributed computing project known as the Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search, or GIMPS. This new prime number is expressed as two to the 43,112,609th power minus one, and consists of 12,978,189 decimal digits when written out. This number qualifies GIMPS for a $100,000 award from the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), offered to the first person or group to discover a prime number of 10 million digits or more. According to GIMPS' prize agreement, $50,000 will be given to the UCLA Department of Mathematics, $25,000 will be given to charity, $20,000 will be split among previous discoverers of Mersenne primes, and GIMPS will keep the remainder for funding and other uses. Smith, who was contacted by Scientific American by phone, said that the discovery was "quite unexpected."Just two weeks later, on September 6, another Mersenne prime was discovered, this time by German electrical engineer Hans-Michael Elvenich, who worked for the chemical company Lanxess in Germany. This number is expressed as two to the 37,156,667th power minus one, and is 11,185,272 digits long. However, since this prime number was discovered later than the one found on August 23, it does not qualify for the EFF prize. Elvenich said that it was a "finally a great success" after having participated in GIMPS for four years.A prime number is a positive integer that can be evenly divided only by 1 and itself. For example, 2, 3 and 11 are prime numbers. 21 is not a prime number because it is a product of 3 and 7. These types of prime numbers are called Mersenne primes, which can be expressed as one less than a power of two. Mersenne primes are rare, and only 46 are known up to now. The first few Mersenne primes are 3, 7, 31, 127 and 8191.These numbers took a total of several weeks to verify, using different software and hardware. Each number was independently checked by several members of GIMPS' verification team, using 16-core systems of different configurations. The two primes were announced by GIMPS on September 16. Before these two discoveries, the two previously largest known prime numbers were discovered by UCMO professors Curtis Cooper and Steven Boone in Missouri, United States, and their record lasted almost three years.  Historically, prime numbers discovered by GIMPS are larger than the one previously found. The only other exception was when the 29th Mersenne prime was discovered after the 30th and 31st were found.Founded by M.I.T. graduate George Woltman in 1996, GIMPS has found 12 Mersenne primes, or about one per year on average. Volunteers who wish to help find primes can download a program called Prime95, which runs in the background.Smaller prime numbers, such as those with a few hundred digits, are often used in cryptography. The recently discovered prime numbers are too large to have much practical value, although it is believed by some that such prime numbers may still have undiscovered uses. However, mathematics enthusiasts often seek them for fun, and the GIMPS community is already looking forward to finding a 100 million digit prime that will qualify for a $150,000 prize from the EFF.Brad Patrick and Danny Wool announced their resignations from the Wikimedia Foundation last week.Danny Wool, previous Grants Coordinator for the Foundation made his resignation first known on March 20, by removing his name from the current staff listing on the Foundation's website. Unlike Patrick, this was the first indication of Wool's resignation.According to a mailing list post by Wool, he will be running for a seat on the Board of Trustees, the Wikimedia Foundation's governing body, in June. Earlier in the same message, he says that he is unwilling to discuss the reasons of his resignation with the community.Brad Patrick's resignation was known to the Board of Trustees about a month previously and was made public on March 22. Patrick says in his mailing list message that his resignation is not related to Wools, and that "the timing is just unfortunate". Patrick says that he will not be leaving the Wikimedia projects, just "not going to be the WMF's General Counsel" anymore.In an interview with Wired News, Patrick criticized the Board's ability to "handle things", as well as concerns with the "informal structure of the Board" and "the inexperience of its seven members". When contacted by phone, Jimbo Wales said that he was confused by Patrick's statements."What I hope for is for the board to decide to choose a future that will be conducive to a very powerful executive director who can provide some much needed leadership right now," Patrick said.At a hackers conference in Las Vegas with the spoofed name of Defcon, the Assistant Secretary of Defense Linton Wells made a pitch to attendees; "If you want to work on cutting-edge problems, if you want to be part of the truly great issues of our time ... we invite you to work with us."Technology commentator Richard Thieme said that there are many Feds attending undercover; "You can't be deceived by the uniforms. I talked at the Pentagon, and one-third of the people in the audience I already knew from Defcon." Attendees who "out" the undercover ops are awarded free "T" shirts.A "Meet the Feds" panel was attended by a man who demanded, "I would like to know why the federal government, especially some of the law enforcement agencies, are destroying this country."Pentagon people would not comment on the rumours that they are looking for people to attack "foreign" networks. "I'm learning while I'm here but I'm also getting the names of people." said Don Blumenthal of the Federal Trade Commission.The Feds arrested a Russian programmer Dmitry Sklyarov at the annual 2001 Defcon conference. The gathering is attended by computer security experts, hackers and crackers of all types who celebrate the cutting edge of the technology.On June 3rd, 2008, two United States Internet service providers (ISPs) announced they would begin tests to slow web access for their most active customers and charge them for extra speed. Comcast and Time Warner Cable, two of the largest ISPs in North America, both made separate announcements of their plans. The actions come in the wake of an investigation by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), over whether Comcast had restricted some customers from sharing videos, music, and similar files. The FCC investigation led to a US Congress debate over whether and how much control ISPs should have over the flow of customer data.Public interest groups complained in November 2007 to the FCC that Comcast had specifically targeted customers using applications that made use of the BitTorrent system, a popular form of file sharing. Free Press, an advocacy group that pushes for better oversight of cable operators such as Comcast, stated that Comcast practices were discriminatory towards users of the legal technology. "The cable companies see a hammer hovering above their heads and are scrambling to find ways to reduce the appearance of wrongdoing," said Ben Scott, head of the group.According to Roger Entner, a senior vice president from Nielsen IAG, as little as 5 percent of all Internet users may consume as much as 50 percent of all the bandwidth on the Internet. "This is the politically correct version of doing what Comcast had been doing before, though it takes the occasional [peer-to-peer] user off the hook," Entner said. Sena Fitzmaurice, a Comcast spokesperson, said, "This says we won't be looking at what type of traffic that there is, even though we still need to manage the network."Comcast's tests are expected to begin in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania and Warrenton, Virginia.While Comcast will attempt to throttle the speed of all its high-volume users, Time Warner Cable intends to use a different method. They will meter and bill clients, charging more money for faster speeds and larger amounts of transmitted data, functioning more like a traditional public utility, such as an electric company or cell phone service. Their metered billing test will begin on June 5 in Beaumont, Texas for newly enrolled customers. "Instead of raising prices across the board, consumers who are excessive users would pay," said Alex Dudley, a Time Warner Cable spokesman. "It is clearly the fairest way to fund the investment that is going to be required to support that use."An Associated Press report that Time Warner Cable will bill customers between $29.95 to $54.90USD per month has been confirmed by the cable operator, with clients charged an extra $1 for each gigabyte (GB) by which they exceed their purchased plan. Art Brodsky, communications director of Public Knowledge, a consumer advocacy group in Washington D.C., has expressed concerns about the Time Warner Cable plan. Time Warner Cable's most expensive offering, $54.90, comes with 15 megabits-per-second of data transfer speed and a 40 gigabyte limit on total data transfer."An HD (high-definition) movie is 8GB or so, three movies is more than half your allowance for a month, and heaven knows what else you might want to watch," Brodsky says. "This is not a relieving congestion scheme as much as it is a rationing scheme. All it does is protect an inadequate infrastructure from the cable company."The Ubuntu Foundation released its fourth version of the popular GNU/Linux operating system distribution yesterday.  Codenamed "Dapper Drake", the release improves on its predecessor, Breezy Badger, or 5.10.  The 6.06 LTS version will be the first to offer Long Term Support: three years on the desktop and five years on the server.Upgrades to existing Ubuntu 5.10 installations can be accomplished by running the update manager program, where an option to upgrade to 6.06 will be displayed.Because the software in the GNU/Linux operating system comes with permission for everyone to modify and redistribute it, there are many versions (called "distributions") of the operating system available.  Ubuntu builds on the popular Debian GNU/Linux distribution.  Like Debian, it is made almost entirely of free software.Users quickly swarmed Ubuntu's servers and mirrors trying to download the new version. The servers are currently responding slowly; moderators at the Ubuntu Forums suggested that users download with BitTorrent if at all possible, which is much less prone to such slowdowns.Since its first official release in October 2004, Ubuntu has become one of the most popular Linux distributions.  It is intended to be user-friendly without being insecure by design, a charge sometimes leveled against other beginner-friendly distributions like Linspire.  The distribution is offered for free, and CDs are available for order via the Internet without charge (including shipping).The Ubuntu Foundation released its third version of the popular GNU/Linux operating system distribution yesterday.  Codenamed "Breezy Badger", the release improves on its predecessor, Hoary Hedgehog, with updated versions of packages such as OpenOffice.org, new computer management tools, special installation modes for computer manufacturers, and a "thin client" mode for large networks of homogenous computers.  The new version also improves support for laptop computers, portable media players, Bluetooth devices, PowerPC processors, and other hardware.Because the software in the GNU/Linux operating system comes with permission for everyone to modify and redistribute it, there are many versions (called "distributions") of the operating system available.  Ubuntu builds on the popular Debian GNU/Linux distribution.  Like Debian, it is made almost entirely of free software.Users quickly swarmed the Ubuntu Foundation's servers trying to download the new version. The servers are currently responding slowly; moderators at the Ubuntu Forums suggested that users download with BitTorrent if at all possible, which is much less prone to such slowdowns.Although its first release was only a year ago, Ubuntu Linux has quickly become one of the most popular Linux distributions.  It is intended to be user-friendly without being insecure by design, a charge sometimes leveled against other beginner-friendly distributions like Linspire.  The distribution is offered for free, and CDs are available for order via the Internet without charge (including shipping).Manchester Magistrates' court in the UK yesterday jailed a self-described online troll for posting messages to Facebook tribute pages. Colm Coss, 36, was sentenced to eighteen weeks in prison after admitting breaching the Communications Act of 2003.Coss targeted a page in tribute to the late Jade Goody, made famous by reality TV show Big Brother, as well as a page dedicated to young Liverpool dog-attack victim John Paul Massey. Overseas deceased were also targeted, with Coss trolling tributes to a Canadian murder victim, an Australian road accident fatality and a dead US citizen.Coss was arrested after he sent typed letters to neighbours containing photographs of himself and explaining he was "a troll". Although he initially refused to cooperate, Coss later wrote to a police officer and admitted posting the messages, in some of which he said he had had sex with the bodies of the deceased or claimed to have engaged in fictional acts of paedophilia."The harm and upset that this can cause is obvious," according to Paul Mitchell, prosecuting Coss. Coss was charged with 'sending malicious communications that were grossly offensive', entering a guilty plea last month. Yesterday, defence lawyer Leanne Press sought investigation of her client's psychiatric state prior to sentencing, arguing he "had a history of mental health issues." However, magistrates decided he could be sentenced without this. Magistrate Pauline Salisbury noted sentencing guidelines of twelve weeks imprisonment, but said the offences were serious enough to warrant 26 weeks. Eight weeks were shaved off the sentence owing to his guilty plea.In the United Kingdom, online retailers are being asked by IMRG, their leading industry body, to apply accessibility technologies to their sites. Although the main reason given is a business one (the sales to potential customers who may have access issues is estimated at £4b p.a. by IMRG's James Roper), there are also legal obligations (regarding the Disability Discrimination Act), and of course moral considerations to be mindful of, they suggest.The move is catalyzed by a new web-based technology which makes it possible for online shops to provide text-to-speech functionality to the vast majority of visitors, without users needing to buy or install any special software. Thus taking the financial onus off the user and putting it on the shops to enable those with reading barriers to access their online services.While the system is in its early days, retail giants such as, Tesco, are already backing the move, making wide-spread adoption more likely. If this is the case, blind users, as well as many users with other reading difficulties, such as dyslexia and those who speak English as a second language, may well stand to gain a new degree of freedom on the Web.British Chancellor of the Exchequer Alistair Darling announced to a shocked House of Commons today that two password-protected — but not encrypted — computer disks containing the entire Child Benefit database have been lost in transit between the offices of Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) in Washington, Tyne & Wear and the National Audit Office (NAO) in London, in what has been described as "one of the world’s biggest ID protection failures".The database contains details of all families in the UK who receive Child Benefit — all families with children up to 16 years of age, plus those with children up to 20 years old if they are in full-time education or training — estimated to contain 25 million individuals in 7.25 million families. Among other items of information, the database contains names, addresses, dates of birth, child benefit and National Insurance numbers, and where appropriate, bank or building society account details.The discs were created by a junior official at the HMRC in response to a request for information by the NAO, and were sent unregistered and unrecorded on 18 October using the courier company TNT — which operates the HMRC's internal mail system. When it was found that the discs had not arrived for audit at the NAO, a further copy of this data was made and sent — this time by registered mail — and this package did arrive. HMRC were not informed that the original discs had been lost until 8 November, and Darling himself was informed on 10 November.The violation of data protection laws involved in the creation of the discs has led to strong attacks on the government's competence to establish the proposed National Identity Register, when all UK residents will have an identity card. Conservative Shadow Chancellor George Osborne described the loss of data as "catastrophic" and said "They [the government] simply cannot be trusted with people's personal information".The Chairman of HMRC, Paul Gray, has resigned over the affair, and critics are calling for Darling to do likewise.This is the third data embarrassment for HMRC in recent weeks — earlier this month it was reported that the details of over 15,000 Standard Life customers had been put on disk, and then lost en route from HMRC in Newcastle to Standard Life in Edinburgh — and last month a laptop containing the data of 400 people with high-value ISAs was stolen from the boot of a car belonging to a HMRC official who had been carrying out a routine audit.Gary McKinnon was today told that he would be extradited to the US pending appeal. McKinnon stands accused of having caused $700,000 worth of damage to US military computer systems. Describing himself as a "bumbling hacker," McKinnon said his intention was to look for UFOs and information regarding technology that he claims the US government is withholding.Karen Todner, McKinnon's solicitor, explained that "there is power under the Computer Misuse Act to charge him here and he could stand trial here. In fact, had that happened he probably would have been tried, served his sentence and have been released by now." Speaking after the trial, District Judge Nicholas Evans said, "I readily accept, if convicted in the US, the probable sentence is likely to be appreciably harsher in the US than, in comparable circumstances, it would be in the UK. It must be obvious to any defendant that if you choose to commit a crime in a foreign country, you run the risk of being prosecuted in that country."Judge Evans reported that the US government has made promises that McKinnon will be tried in a civil court, rather than facing a military hearing. Despite these assurances McKinnon still fears what could happen to him, "as one person has said to me, most people in Guantanamo have not been proved to be terrorists but allegedly I directly attacked the military."Ms. Todner indicated that they intend to appeal against this initial ruling. "We're proposing to appeal this to the Secretary of State, and if we're still refused we will then appeal to the High Court for a decision to allow Gary to be tried here as a British citizen." This seems unlikely to be successful, however, as Struan Robertson, a computing law expert, explains, "the only way out of it is if he faces the death penalty or if he can prove extradition is politically motivated, which he hasn't done. The fact that he may get 70 years in the US is irrelevant. The treaty makes an exception for capital punishment, but facing a harsh sentence is not in itself grounds to block extradition."The Sun and The Daily Mail — tabloid newspapers that are the most-read papers in the UK — have been found to be in contempt of court by the High Court in London. The case is thought to be a landmark decision regarding Internet publishing.The case dates back to November 2009, when Ryan Ward was on trial before Sheffield Crown Court, accused of murdering Craig Wass. The prosecution case was that Ward hit Wass with a brick, and no firearms allegation was made against Ward at trial, but both titles placed a photograph on their websites of Ward with a gun.The papers took the image off their sites within hours, after being ordered to do so. The trial judge, His Honour Judge Michael Murphy QC, who had previously ordered the jury not to consult the Internet, did not halt the prosecution as he felt "satisfied" the jury hadn't seen the picture. Ward was convicted.Lawyers for Associated Newspapers and News Group Newspapers — respective owners of The Daily Mail and the The Sun — had argued in their defence that using the photo posed an "insubstantial" risk of prejudice, denying contempt although accepting they made "a mistake".Attorney General Dominic Grieve had described "seriously impeded or prejudiced" proceedings had jurors accessed the photos. Angus McCullough QC represented Grieve, telling the court the "strict liability" provisions of the Contempt of Court Act 1981 had been breached.High Court judges Lord Justice Moses and Mr Justice Owen Thursday sided with Grieve and McCullough: "We conclude that the nature of the photograph created a substantial risk of prejudicing any juror who saw that photograph against the defendant Ward."Lord Justice Moses' judgment mentioned the significance of the case in regards to online publications: "The criminal courts have been troubled by the dangers to the integrity and fairness of a criminal trial, where juries can obtain such easy access to the internet and to other forms of instant communication. Once information is published on the Internet, it is difficult if not impossible completely to remove it... This case demonstrates the need to recognise that instant news requires instant and effective protection for the integrity of a criminal trial."The Daily Mail's website covered the ruling in an article in which they also offered an explanation for how they published the photograph. "[A] journalist had submitted an article about the prosecution along with the photograph by e-mail, including a warning stating the handgun should not be included in any copy of the photograph as it would prejudice the trial," it reads. "But when the story was put up online a freelance journalist, then working for the website, added the photograph without taking any legal advice."The penalties for Associated Newspapers and News Group Newspapers will be considered by the judges later.The United Nations is reportedly beginning an investigation into claims that Pfc. Bradley Manning is being "tortured." Manning was arrested in May, after allegedly leaking over 250,000 classified diplomatic cables to the whistleblowing website WikiLeaks.Last week, it was announced that supporters for Manning lodged a complaint with the Office of The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in Geneva, Switzerland, saying that the conditions of his cell and the treatment he is receiving, amount to "torture." According to Salon, Manning is not allowed to exercise, is denied bed sheets and pillows, and has been held in solitary confinement for 23 hours of every day since his arrest. According to Manning's attorney, David Coombs, a former United States Army major, and veteran of the Iraq War, Manning is only allowed to walk in a small room for exercise."[Manning is] taken to an empty room and only allowed to walk, normally just walks figure eights in the room. If he indicates that he no long feels like walking, he is immediately returned to his cell," stated Coombs to Salon.The Pentagon denies that Manning is being tortured, saying he is being treated "fairly. We've been reviewed ... No concerns have been voiced from a (Department of Defense) perspective."According to a documentary about journalism students at the University of British Columbia tracking electronic waste (e-waste), details of United States defense contracts and confidential military data were left on a donated hard drive which was purchased for US$35 in Ghana.The purchased hard drive was a donation by Northrop Grumman Corporation, an American aerospace and defense technology company.The PBS investigative documentary, Ghana: Digital Dumping Ground, tracked what happened to donated or discarded electronics. The journalism students randomly purchased seven hard drives in Tema, Africa. "We plugged them and in and started reading files … They were just sitting there," said Klein. As part of the international reporting course the students then submitted the hard drives to Enoch Kwesi Messiah, a computer scientist at Regent University to see if any of the previous owners had erased the data on their hard drives before disposal.Messiah stated, “I can get your bank numbers and I retrieve all your money from your accounts. If ever somebody gets your hard drive, he can get every information about you from the drive, no matter where it is hidden.” The graduate journalism students under Professor Peter Klein travelled to the Korle Lagoon in Accra the capital of Ghana.  Beside the polluted waters is Agbogbloshie, the largest collection of e-waste, useless electronic donations.“Life is really difficult; they eat here, surrounded by e-waste,” said Mike Anane, a local journalist, “They basically are here to earn a living. But you can imagine the health implications.” The e-waste is burned and rendered down for copper, iron, or gold from the components."It's essentially this charred toxic wasteland," said Blake Sifton, one of the students. "It's incredibly difficult to breathe because there's usually between five and six and seven fires going at any time .… and there's tons and tons of this black, sticky, acrid smoke coming out of them."The United States Congress is currently drafting a bill known as the Communications Opportunity, Promotion, and Efficiency Act of 2006 that would revise and update the 1996 Telecommunications Act. Currently phone and cable lobbyists who own the broadband networks, such as those from AT&T and BellSouth, are calling on the federal government to permit them to operate Internet and other digital communications services as private networks.  The bill as it now stands states that certain classes of Internet providers "may not unreasonably" impair, interfere, restrict or limit applications or services, such as Web sites or voice-over-IP phone connections. Consumer advocates such as Common Cause and some large Internet companies such as Google and Yahoo are concerned that this change will result in a loss of what is being called network neutrality, and are demanding specific language in the bill to address it. Three weeks ago, the House Subcommittee on Telecommunications rejected an amendment to the bill that would have strengthened provisions for network neutrality. The amendment was defeated by a vote of 28 to 8.Network neutrality is a principle of computer networking that describes networks designed so that no communication, application, or service is either given preferential treatment or restricted.  Advocates of network neutrality fear that allowing broadband networks to operate unregulated could lead to preferential treatment toward certain companies at the expense of others.  Phone companies who oppose network neutrality legislation contend that some mechanism needs to be in place in order to pay for expansion of the public Internet.  Edward Whitacre, AT&T's chief executive officer, had made remarks on the issue that consumer groups found inflammatory.  In remarks made on November 7, 2005, presumably referring to Internet sites using their network connections, he called for "some mechanism for these people who use these pipes to pay for the portion they're using. Why should they be allowed to use my pipes?"  Whitacre has since reversed his public statements, saying on March 21, 2006, "Any provider that blocks access to content is inviting customers to find another provider. And that's just bad business."Federal Communications Commission chairman Kevin Martin believes that the FCC already has the authority to enforce network neutrality provisions, citing a North Carolina case in which the FCC acted against Madison River Communications for blocking Vonage VoIP phone service.Representative Fred Upton from Michigan, chairman of the Telecommunications and the Internet Subcommittee, describes the bill as a way to "ignite the marketplace — unleashing great advances in technology and delivering to consumers a variety of new services at a lower cost that were once never even imagined. Every consumer in the nation with a telephone, television and access to the Internet will be better for it — the wave of the future is now." Michael Copps, a FCC Commissioner, said recently, "This Internet may not be the one we know in the future there are threats to it out there... Entrenched interests are already jockeying to constrain the openness that has been the Internet's defining hallmark." A recent poll done by The Consumer Federation of America (See source 5) shows that the Internet has taken on an important role in the daily life of Americans. With two-thirds reporting it is important for personal communications and researching products, over half said it is important for getting news and, about 40 percent cited online banking, e-commerce, and retrieving government information as significant ways in which they used the internet. They expressed a great deal of concern about discriminatory practices of communications network operators.The revision of the 1996 Telecommunications Act was proposed by House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Joe Barton, R-Texas, and U.S. Rep. Bobby Rush, D-Ill., in late March and went on to the full committee on April 5.Massachusetts-based First Amendment rights lawyer Marc Randazza is defending a controversial parody website which satirizes American political commentator Glenn Beck. The website was created in September by a man from Florida named Isaac Eiland-Hall, and it asserts Beck uses questionable tactics "to spread lies and misinformation".The website created by Eiland-Hall is located at the domain name "www.GlennBeckRapedAndMurderedAYoungGirlIn1990.com". Its premise is derived from a joke statement made by Gilbert Gottfried about fellow comedian Bob Saget. The joke was first applied to Beck on the Internet discussion community Fark. It then became popular on Internet social media sites including Reddit and Digg, and was the subject of a Google bomb, a technique where individuals link phrases in order to artificially change Google search results. Eiland-Hall saw the discussion on Fark, and created a website about it. The website asserts it does not believe the rumors to be true, and states: "But we think Glenn Beck definitely uses tactics like this to spread lies and misinformation." In an interview with Ars Technica, he said the website was "using Beck's tactics against him". The website was created on September 1, and by September 3 attorneys for Beck's company Mercury Radio Arts took action. Beck's lawyers sent letters to the domain name registrar where they referred to the domain name itself as "defamatory", but they failed to get the site removed.Beck filed a formal complaint with the Switzerland-based agency of the United Nations, the World Intellectual Property Organization. Beck alleged that the website's usage is libelous, bad faith, and could befuddle potential consumers. Beck's complaint was filed under the process called the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy. The policy allows trademark owners to begin an administrative action by complaining that a certain domain registration is in "bad faith". A lawyer for Beck declined to provide a comment to the Boston Herald, however a source told the newspaper that Beck's complaint with the site is primarily a "trademark issue".Randazza established an attorney-client relationship with Eiland-Hall after his client received threatening letters from attorneys representing Beck. He then sent an email to Beck's attorneys, and pointed out inconsistencies between their client's recent actions and his prior public statements in support of the First Amendment. Randazza wrote a reply to the World Intellectual Property Organization, and contends that the website is "protected political speech", because it is "satirical political humor". Randazza stated that "Even an imbecile would look at this Web site and know that it’s a parody." In his legal brief, Randazza compared the website to other Internet memes, such as "All your base are belong to us" and video parodies of the German film Downfall. "We are here because Mr. Beck wants Respondent's website shut down. He wants it shut down because Respondent's website makes a poignant and accurate satirical critique of Mr. Beck by parodying Beck's very rhetorical style," wrote Randazza in the brief. The brief also commented on Beck's style of reporting, and pointed out a controversial statement made by Beck when he interviewed a Muslim member of the United States Congress. Beck said to Representative Keith Ellison: "I like Muslims, I've been to mosques. ... And I have to tell you, I have been nervous about this interview because what I feel like saying is, sir, prove to me that you are not working with our enemies." According to the Citizen Media Law Project, the website's joke premise takes advantage of "a perceived similarity between Beck's rhetorical style and the Gottfried routine".Public interest attorney Paul Levy told Ars Technica that if a statement in a website's domain name were both false and "stated with actual malice", it is possible it could be considered defamatory. The First Post reported that Electronic Frontier Foundation attorney Corynne McSherry gave an analysis asserting that though the domain name of the website is "pretty dramatic", it constituted "pure political criticism and there's nothing wrong with that". McSherry and Levy both agreed that the action of Beck to take the matter to the World Intellectual Property Organization was probably a tactic to determine the identity of the website's owner.Andy Carvin of National Public Radio wrote that Randazza's legal brief was amusing, commenting: "It's not often that I would recommend reading a World Intellectual Property Organization legal brief for its entertainment value, but today is going to be an exception." Nate Anderson of Ars Technica commented "In any event, the WIPO battle promises to be entertaining, and there's even a bit of serious purpose mixed in with the frivolity. Just how far can WIPO go in using its domain dispute system to address Internet spats?". Domain Name Wire wrote that "...when someone who has created a bitingly satirical web site works with his lawyer to put pen to the paper, the end result can be quite amusing."Writing for Adweek, Eriq Gardner pointed out the comparison made by Randazza's legal brief between the website's parody nature itself and the statement made by Beck to Congressman Ellison, noting: "this case also makes a political point". Jack Bremer wrote in The First Post that the attempts by Beck's lawyers to argue that the website's domain name is itself defamatory "looks like a first in cyber law". Rick Sawyer of Bostonist characterized Randazza's legal brief as "Hillarious!", and called the attorney "among the North Shore's most hilarious legal writers". The FOX News-critical site FoxNewsBoycott.com likened the legal conflict between Beck and the site to the Streisand effect, a phenomenon where an individual's attempt to censor material on the Internet in turn proves to make the material itself more public. "Glenn Beck is experiencing the Streisand Effect first hand," wrote FoxNewsBoycott.com. John Cook of Gawker.com also compared Beck's actions to the Streisand effect: "Now Glenn Beck's trying to shut down their web site, ensuring that people will write about it." Jeffrey Weiss of Politics Daily wrote that by taking legal action, Beck "did the one thing guaranteed to garner the greatest amount of publicity for the site". Techdirt described Beck's legal action as "not particularly smart", and noted: "Beck would have been better off just ignoring it. Instead, in legitimizing it by trying to take it down, many more people become aware of the meme -- and may start calling attention to situations where Beck (and others) make use of such tactics." The blog Hot Air noted the issue could gain attention if it becomes a test case for the First Amendment: "If this becomes a First Amendment test case, the smear’s going to be covered far and wide..."The US Library of Congress plans to create an archive of every "tweet," or post made on Twitter. It announced the move via Twitter.Twitter's general counsel Alex MacGillivray told the BBC: "I think it shows the tweets are an interesting part of the historical record. This project however is not about us, it is about our users and the fact they use the service to chronicle these amazing events. President Obama actually tweeted after he was elected. That is a big deal and it's something he did. It is not something we imagined when we were forming the service."The library plans to highlight the historically significant tweets such as Barack Obama's tweet when he won the 2008 presidential election.Although the library plans a Twitter archive, it does not indicate a change of the Library of Congress' focus. The library reportedly has 160 terabytes (163,840 gigabytes) of data already taken from other Internet sources.There are around 50 million tweets sent per day, all less than 140 characters; the total number of tweets has gone into the billions.United States soldier Bradley Manning, accused of leaking US state secrets to WikiLeaks and  detained  under restrictive  conditions at the Marine base at Quantico, Virginia since July 2010, was ordered Wednesday to sleep stripped of all clothing. According to his attorney, this condition was imposed because Manning made a "sarcastic quip" about the harsh conditions of his confinement.For most of the eight months he has been held there, Manning has been required to sleep only in his boxer shorts because he has been under "prevention of injury watch," according to First Lieutenant Brian Villiard, a spokesman for the Quantico facility. David Coombs, Manning's legal representative for the upcoming court marshal, said that on Wednesday Manning complained of his clothing restrictions and joked that if he wanted to, he might be able to harm himself "with the elastic waistband of his underwear or with his flip-flops."  On Wednesday night, the brig commander determined that Manning must give up his boxer shorts also. Villiard said, "The intention is to ensure the safety and security of the detainee and make sure he is able to stand trial." Villiard, citing privacy rules designed to protect the detainees, did not explain how Manning could harm himself if allowed to wear his underwear. Coombs said Manning was not put under a suicide watch because that would have required the decision of a mental health professional. As a result of the tightening of Manning's conditions, he will be required for the indefinite future to sleep naked in his cell, and endure, according to Coombs, the "humiliation of standing naked at attention for the morning roll call".In a statement, Senator John Kerry suggested recent publicity will cast light on Manning's situation and the balance between humane treatment and suicide prevention: "I think that a lot of people are now reviewing this very, very closely, people have weighed in, myself included, I think that analyses are being made. ...  And I'm convinced that there will be real scrutiny with respect to that issue."Anthony Weiner announced his resignation yesterday afternoon as a Democratic representative from New York to the U.S. House of Representatives, a position he has filled for twelve years. He has been under pressure from politicians within his own party after a sex scandal engulfed his life and that of the Democratic party.Weiner told reporters it was "impossible" to continue in his role after the events of the last few weeks, including revelations that he was involved in sexual relationships with a number of young women over the internet, including sending lewd photos of himself, and then lying about his actions to reporters.  He announced his resignation at a press conference in a Brooklyn senior center where 20 years ago he began his political career and apologized for his "personal mistakes". His wife, Huma Abedin, did not accompany him, but Weiner apologized to her in his speech, saying that he hopes "most importantly, that my wife and I can continue to heal from the damage that I've caused." He took no questions from reporters.On June 6, Weiner had admitted to corresponding with women he met on the internet, including  exchanging lewd photos. But on June 11 he declared  in an emotional interview he would not resign.  Under pressure from Democrats, Weiner  requested a two-week leave of absence from his position in order to obtain treatment to become "a better husband and healthier person." However, Democratic politicians became increasingly anxious to put the growing scandal behind them, as it distracted members from more important issues such as problems with Medicare and the need for more jobs.  As the scandal gained momentum, a variety of politicians, including Nancy Pelosi, the House Minority Leader, called on him to resign. President Barack Obama said he would resign if he were in Weiner's place in an interview with ABC News."Weiner exercised poor judgment in his actions and poor judgment in his reaction to the revelations," Pelosi said in a statement after Weiner announced his resignation. "Today, he made the right judgment in resigning." The scandal came to light May 27 after Weiner accidentally sent a photograph of his crotch on his public stream on the social networking website Twitter, and then tried to cover it up by blaming hackers for posting the picture, denying all responsibility.Weiner later admitted sending online messages to other women, including to a 17-year-old high school student in Delaware, though a police investigation uncovered nothing illegal. On Wednesday, a former porn actress revealed that she had engaged in an online relationship with Weiner and that Weiner had asked her to lie about the nature of their contact. More photos have continued to emerge, including one showing his nude genitals, and others showing him half naked. On Wednesday, the National Enquirer published images of Weiner cross-dressing while he was a college student at the State University of New York at Plattsburgh. In one photo, he is seen wearing a bra and pantyhose, while in another he is oiled and wearing swimming trunks.Colleagues  said Weiner wanted to wait for the return home of his wife, Abedin, before making a final career decision. He has been married for almost a year to Abedin, who is pregnant with the couple's first child. She is a top aide to Hillary Clinton, the Secretary of State, and the couple's wedding was presided over by former President Bill Clinton. She returned home to Washington, D.C. on Wednesday morning after having traveled with Clinton in the Middle East and Africa since June 8. Weiner's district covers parts of Brooklyn and Queens, boroughs of New York City. He ran an unsuccessful campaign for mayor of New York City in 2005, and he was considered a potential candidate for future races. Known to be an outspoken supporter of liberal causes, he has irked conservatives and Democratic leaders. In 2009, he pushed for government-run health care, even though Obama had opposed the idea.The United States announced the declassification of a portion of the Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative, a major part of the US's efforts to thwart cyber warfare, on Tuesday.The announcement came at the RSA Security Conference in San Francisco, and was given by Howard Schmidt, who is the current US cyber-security coordinator, having been assigned the position in December.  While only a portion of the document was revealed at the announcement, and much remains classified material, including all material related to plans by the government for offensive cyber-warfare, the program has twelve parts, and has three main strategies:To create a defensive mechanism against immediate threats, as well as those possible in the near future;To create a defensive mechanism against a wide variety of threats, both present and future;To initiate efforts to strengthen future cyber-security efforts.The program includes funding for numerous security measures, including the government's controversial Einstein program, which scans all incoming communications to government-operated websites. The plan also mentions increasing security for classified networks within the government, as well as developing a government-wide plan for counter-intelligence work, although the declassified portions gave little indication as to what that would involve. The program was begun by President George Bush in 2008 as a National Security Presidential Directive, and has been entirely classified until now.  At its inception, it was intended to serve as a program to unify cyber-security efforts within the government and to develop other security programs for use nationwide.  No budget has been released for the program, although estimates place the cost at $40 billion until 2015.United States Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said on Saturday that the recent actions by Turkey to arrest and detain journalists in the country, as well as planned Internet restrictions, are "an area of concern" for her.Clinton is on a two-day visit to Turkey and made some of her comments during a news conference on the Turkish CNN channel during an event where she answered questions from Turkish citizens. Answering a question regarding the issue, she said that "I do not think it’s necessary or in Turkey's interests to be cracking down on journalists and bloggers and the Internet [...] it seems to me inconsistent with all the other advances that Turkey has made."In a press conference jointly held with Ahmet Davutoglu, Turkey's foreign minister, Clinton suggested that Turkey could serve as an example for Arab countries currently undergoing governmental changes. She said that "people in the Middle East and North Africa are seeking to draw lessons from Turkey's experience" and that "democratic development also depends on responsible leadership."According to Turkish media groups, upwards of 60 journalists are being held based on dubious evidence, though government officials say that only 26 are imprisoned, all on charges separate from their activities in the media. In some recent arrests, authorities have cited anti-terror laws as justification. Separately, the government plans next month to place filters on Internet traffic in the country, which could allow for monitoring of individual users. Such human rights concerns have long served as a stumbling block for Turkey's attempts to join the European Union.A spokesperson for the US state department, Philip Crowley, resigned today after making comments describing the treatment of Bradley Manning, who is accused of leaking information to Wikileaks, as "stupid."Crowley made the comments last week at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. After being asked a question about concerns Manning was being tortured while in prison, Crowley replied that he thought that how the Defense Department was treating Manning was "ridiculous and counterproductive and stupid." He also said that he still believed Manning belonged in prison.Crowley's remarks sparked widespread controversy, and on Friday President Barack Obama was asked about them at a press conference. In reply, Obama said that Defense Department officials had "assure[d] me" that Manning was being treated appropriately.In a statement, Crowley said that "[g]iven the impact of my remarks, for which I take full responsibility, I have submitted my resignation." Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said that Mike Hammer, a current White House aide, will replace Crowley.  She also said that it was "with regret" that she accepted his resignation, and wished him "the very best."Today, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) issued an office action, which confirmed the patentability of claims 6 to 10 of the Amazon 1-Click patent, US 5,960,411. The patent examiner, however, rejected claims 1 to 5 and 11 to 15.  Amazon now has up to six months to amend the rejected claims to overcome the examiner's rejection, provide arguments to demonstrate that the examiner is in error and/or provide evidence to demonstrate the patentability of their claims.  During this period, the entire patent is still considered valid under US patent law.The USPTO is reconsidering the patentability of the claims due to a request for reexamination filed by New Zealander Peter Calveley. Mr. Calveley used internet archives to show that defunct company Digi Cash used a similar technique prior to Amazon.  Despite costing a substantial sum of cash and requiring donations to prepare and file the request for reexamination, Calveley said he did it as a game and hopes that his success inspires others to play the same game."One Click" shopping is an ecommerce technique, which allows a customer to purchase products via the Internet without repeatedly entering personal information such as name and address.  At the time it was introduced it eased the frustration of on-line shopping.  Amazon filed the patent application for 1-click shopping in early 1997 and was granted the patent in September 1999.  23 days later Amazon sued rival Barnes & Noble for alleged infringement by its "Express Lane" ordering which was introduced in 1998.  In December 1999 Amazon won an interim injunction against Barnes & Noble but the USA Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit lifted this injunction in February 2001.  The parties then settled their dispute for undisclosed terms.  Amazon has since successfully licensed the technique to other e-sellers such as Apple.After 6 months of development, the Inkscape project released today a new version of their SVG-based GPLed vector drawing program. It features improved performance and many new features, such as a Layers dialog, better PDF export, configurable keyboard shortcuts and support for clipping and masking. Inkscape runs on  Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X. Inkscape started in 2003 as a fork of the vector drawing editor Sodipodi. Inkscape does not yet have as many features as the best commercial vector editors, but it is currently suitable for a wide range of applications. Inkscape's implementation of SVG and CSS standards is incomplete; most notably, it has not yet fully implemented SVG filter effects, animation, and SVG fonts. Inkscape is currently under active development, which is indicated by the version number below one; new features were being added regularly.Viacom has announced that they are suing YouTube, and its owner Google, for more than 1 billion dollars. The lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. Viacom claims that YouTube has near 160,000 of their videos on their website without their permission, which they say is a "massive intentional copyright infringement."Viacom had negotiations with YouTube for several months, which ended unsuccessfully. The lawsuit was filed after Viacom had asked YouTube to remove 100,000 videos that belonged to them in February. They also claim that YouTube has made profits by "advertising off of unlicensed content." Neither YouTube's nor Google's representatives have yet commented on the situation and lawsuit. Wikinews is one of the media outlets which has placed a request for comment."Total chaos" is how many described the melee that resulted from a sale of used Apple iBook laptop computers at the Richmond International Raceway (RIR) by the Henrico County, Virginia school system. Officials estimated nearly 5,000 people thronged the sale for the $50, four-year-old computers. Among them were 17 injured, four requiring hospitalization - one for a leg injury, and three for heat-related illness, said Henrico County Police. Reports of trampling in the stampede were not uncommon, and one driver reportedly tried to drive through the throng of prospective buyers. Alice Jemerson, an elderly customer said, "They bum rushed the gates and I was knocked over, fighting for my life. All these people were on top of me."Shortly after 7am EST officials opened the gates and many residents ran hysterically toward the building where the sale was to occur at 9am. At a post sale press conference, Henrico County Police spokesman Lieutenant Doug Perry told reporters, "A few bad apples found their way inside. It looked worse than it was."Apple iBooks are the preferred computer for Henrico County schools, and Director of General Services of Henrico County Paul Proto, said changes were made to the event after tremendous interest was generated, some as far away as Europe and California. Officials closed and moved the sale from the Henrico county school warehouse to the RIR, after residents complained that their tax dollars were used to buy the computers, and they ought to have first right to repurchase them. The Henrico County Board of Supervisors voted to amend the County Code so that only residents could purchase the laptop computers. Although officials had prohibited camping out and overnight parking, some in attendance reported that people began arriving at midnight. Henrico Police Chief H.W. Stanley, Jr. said five patrol officers were originally planned for the event, a customary presence for an event the size authorities had estimated. But by 6 am, an enormous crowd was assembled at the front gate. Officials present before opening told the crowd that automobiles would be allowed to enter first, which prompted many to run to their cars. But while some were running back to their cars, others rushed the gate. The resulting confusion created much anger, and guards closed the gates shortly thereafter. Long lines encircling the sale building were commonplace, and one observer noted, "They're going to see themselves on the news tonight, and see what fools they are."Some citizens, however, considered their wait worthwhile. Hairstylist and mother of two Sheress Blunt was one of the first hundred to buy one of the iBooks; she came with her mother and said they sneaked into the raceway through a side gate. Tonya Vaughan arrived at 5:30 a.m., also bought one of the first iBooks and said three people offered to buy it from her for as much as $200. She declined however, saying, "I told them no way! I had worked too hard for it."Lt. Perry said many officers were complimented on the way they handled the crowd, adding that police were seen letting children who had been pushed aside, into the building. Mr. Proto said, "There are no plans right now to have another iBook sale." Henrico County Battalion Police Chief Steve Wood said no arrests were made and the iBooks were sold out by 1pm EST.Apple Computer, Inc. has recently discovered a Windows computer virus on more of their fifth generation iPod 'Video' products."We recently discovered that a small number - less than 1% - of the Video iPods available for purchase after September 12, 2006, left our contract manufacturer carrying the Windows RavMonE.exe virus... So far we have seen less than 25 reports concerning this problem. The iPod nano, iPod shuffle and Mac OS X are not affected, and all Video iPods now shipping are virus free."The RavMonE.exe virus, more commonly known as Win32.RJump.a, is a known Trojan virus which works by opening a "backdoor" that allows others access to the infected computer.  After installation, RavMonE.exe sends a message to several different servers in order to let them know about the computer's new vulnerabilities.Up-to-date anti-virus software installed on Windows OS machines should detect and remove the virus. Apple's web support page is supplying links to trial programs that will remove it free of charge. Affected iPods will need to be restored to factory settings by re-installing the iTunes 7 software.The Volkswagen emissions scandal continued yesterday with the company announcing 800,000 mainly diesel vehicles may also be affected by carbon dioxide emissions problems.The company stated "the safety of the vehicles is in no way compromised". They estimated potentially this could cost them €2bn on top of the €6.7bn set aside to pay for the cost of correcting 11 million cars affected when the scandal broke, in addition to fines by regulators. This follows Monday's revelation that the emissions scandal has affected up to 10,000 vehicles sold in the USA by brands in the Volkswagen group, although the company refutes the allegation. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the regulatory body which has been investigating Volkswagen, claims the company fitted a number of recent Audi, Porsche, and Volkswagen models with technology that initiates secret components during emission tests to ensure the results are favourable.The scandal began with damaging revelations that the car manufacturer has been using illegal software to enable diesel cars to cheat on mandatory emissions tests. This lead to a public apology on September 20 by then-chief executive Martin Winterkorn and the promise of an outside inquiry. He then resigned on September 23, and was replaced by Matthias Müller. The new allegation about Porsche is of particular concern for Müller, because he had previously been in charge of Porsche.The company is expected to foot the bill for the recall of close to 500,000 VW and Audi cars affected at the time. There is also the possibility of Volkswagen having to pay federal fines of up to US$18 billion dollars because the US Clean Air Act sets a maximum fine of US$37,500 for each vehicle that contravenes the requirements of the Act.An investigation into alleged breaches of environmental law was originally initiated on the advice of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a European non-governmental organisation. The EPA requested tests be carried out by West Virginia University, where the secret software was discovered.The software, known as a "defeat device", enabled cars to identify when they were being tested and to switch on the emission control system. The devices may have been adding urea to the car exhaust because that would reduce the amount of nitrogen dioxide. The car would release a fraction of the nitrogen oxide compared to when they were being driven normally. Emissions of nitrogen oxide contribute to smog and are thought to have caused a rise in respiratory illnesses like asthma.Chief Executive of Volkswagen Martin Winterkorn issued on Sunday a public apology and announced an outside inquiry would be carried out, after the company became engulfed in a scandal about diesel emissions tests.Over the weekend there were damaging revelations that the car manufacturer has been using illegal software to enable diesel cars to cheat on mandatory emissions tests. An investigation into alleged breaches of environmental law was originally initiated on the advice of the International Council on Clean Transportation, a European NGO. The United States Environmental Protection Agency requested tests be carried out by West Virginia University, where the secret software was discovered.Volkswagen has suffered a significant drop of almost a fifth in the value of its shares. There have been knock-on effects for other car manufacturers who have also seen their share values fall after suggestions that the scandal could extend much further than just Volkswagen. The company will have to foot the bill for the recall of close to 500,000 VW and Audi cars. There is also the possibility of paying federal fines of up to US$18 billion dollars because the US Clean Air Act sets a maximum fine of US$37,500 for each vehicle that contravenes the requirements of the Act.The software, known as a "defeat device", enabled cars to identify when they were being tested and to switch on the emission control system. The devices may have been adding urea to the car exhaust because that would reduce the amount of nitrogen dioxide. The car would release a fraction of the nitrogen oxide compared to when they were being driven normally. Emissions of nitrogen oxide contribute to smog and are thought to have caused a rise in respiratory illnesses like asthma.Warner Music Group first quarter earnings rose sharply mostly from growth in digital music sales offsetting falling CD sales.  Warner Music sells digital music to several online services including Apple's iTunes at wholesale.  The company's first-quarter revenue from digital music sales doubled to US$69 million, accounting for 7% of overall revenue.  Madonna, Green Day, and James Blunt are signed to subsidiary labels of Warner.Warner Music has undergone restructuring after being sold in 2004 by former parent company Time Warner.  Cutting costs, exploiting current assets, and digital music has been the company's focus since going public in May.The software watchdog group StopBadware.org, run by the Berkman Center for Internet & Society of Harvard Law School and the Oxford Internet Institute, has opened a dialogue with AOL about concerns over the presence of badware, also known as malware, in the now-free AOL 9.0 software. Badware refers to software applications that try to download additional software with very little or no explanation. StopBadware.org decided to investigate after their users have sent in complaints regarding the operation of the software.According to the "open inquiry" on StopBadware.org, the preliminary tests conclude that AOL 9.0 installs software and Internet Explorer extensions without the consent of the user, requires users to take certain actions, and it doesn't completely uninstall itself. The page then warns readers not to use the AOL software unless they're prepared to handle the risks involved.The report clarifies its charges; for example it lists "RealPlayer, QuickTime, AOL You've Got Pictures Screensaver, Pure Networks Port Magic, and Viewpoint Media Player" as the software that is installed without notification. Additionally, the AOL toolbar, a bookmark to AOL.com, as well as extra icons are added to Internet Explorer without consent. The report continues by noting that AOL coerces users into upgrading the software by a popup window that does not allow refusal, as well as automatically upgrades the software without allowing that option to be disabled.AOL spokesman Andrew Weinstein claims that these problems are going to be addressed in an upgrade available next month. In the meantime, Weinstein claims that the problems are not malicious. "No one has done more to protect users from malware than AOL," Weinstein said. John Palfrey agrees that the findings of AOL are not the worst he's seen, but they should disclose more information about the software to users. When AOL was issued with an advance copy of the report, StopBadware.org was "very impressed" with their response, and that they look forward to working with AOL.The French web survey provider XiTiMonitor reports that in their study conducted from Monday, July 2 to Sunday, July 8, 2007 on 95,827 websites, web browser Mozilla Firefox reached a 27.8% share in Europe, compared to 21.1% during the same period last year.Firefox has its biggest market share in Slovenia and Finland where it amounts to 47.9% and 45.4%, respectively, while only 14.6% of people from the Netherlands and 15.2% of surfers in Denmark used Firefox in this survey. The share rose most in Ireland: from 24.9% to 38.6% (i.e. +13.7 points).Microsoft's web browser Internet Explorer remains the most used browser in Europe with a market share of 66.5%. Opera and Safari have a 3.5% and 1.7% share respectively, with other browsers at less than 1%.Oceania remains the region with the highest usage of the freely licensed and open source software browser Firefox, with 28.9%. The continent with the strongest relative increase in market share is South America, where there is a 30% increase compared to last March. Numbers from the U.S.-based company Net Applications Inc. last month showed a fall in Firefox's share from 15.42% in April to 14.54%.Within 24-hours of posting a web advertisement for an upcoming hackathon in Boston, Massachusetts, web startup Sqoot has lost four sponsors for the event, in what has been described as the "worst startup PR crisis in recent history." This caused them to postpone the event and apologize in response to thousands of tweets that opposed the advert and found its content sexist. On March 20, Sqoot, an API provider that delivers daily deals like Groupon and Gilt City, posted an online advert for their upcoming Boston API Jam. The advert promoted various perks for the event, including an in-house DJ, cocktails, food trucks and access to women: women specifically there to serve beer to attendees. As soon as the ad was posted to Eventbrite, many on Twitter expressed concern. Over 3,000 tweets later, the advert was deemed sexist by many and Twitter users both condemned Sqoot and contacted the sponsors of the event. The ad, which Alex Williams of SiliconANGLE described as "bizarre" and "misogynist," was quietly changed on Eventbrite by Sqoot, removing the mention of women as beer peddlers. In a matter of hours, four sponsors had pulled out from the Boston event: CloudMine, Apigee, Heroku, and MongoHQ. Shortly thereafter, Sqoot offered two apologies: a brief apology which was then followed by a more detailed apology stating that they desired to have a "good party" that was not a standard hackathon experience of pizza and keynote speakers. Sqoot stated that they "aimed to call attention to the male-dominated tech world through humor and intended to be inclusive, the gravity of our wording was just the opposite. Our words completely undermined our intentions and went further to harm the world we're trying to have a positive impact on." Other sponsors such as Constant Contact and Simple Relevance remained as sponsors. Shanley Kane, director of product management at Basho Technologies, supported the sponsor withdrawal and didn't just consider the advertisement sexist, but also homophobic by ostracizing gay men by promoting a seemingly "straight" agenda for the event. Kane also believed that Sqoot had the "false assumption that women would not attend the event at all," by promoting it with a male targeted spin. In an industry that is dominated by men, it can be assumed that more men would attend the hackathon than women, but, the advertisement ostracized women even more from attending. And this wasn't Sqoot's first foray into straight male targeted marketing. Blog posts like "Sqoot Makes You Yelp!" featuring the Yelp logo on a woman's backside and "Sqoot Goes Topless" featuring an image of a topless woman, are meant to promote the opening of Yelp's API and company transparency. Alex Williams believes that the Sqoot situation shows that sexism within the tech industry is broad and growing. "Women are marginalized and treated more as objects than as colleagues. The trend is a disturbing one and poses a serious threat to the health and diversity of the tech sector." Techli's Kathryn Hough chocked it up to immaturity, "Someone needs to tell young founders that frat house behavior is not acceptable in the business world. If Sqoot’s business collapses for a few sentences of sexist copy, I hope that other young founders get to see the wreckage before following them off the plank."Lukas Blakk, a release engineer and advisory board member for The Ada Initiative, a non-profit that tries to increase female participation in technology and open source, believes that having a code of conduct in place is a necessity for businesses, and for those businesses who don't "you’ve got a ticking time bomb in your organization’s future." Social media is giving businesses a new challenge when it comes to marketing. When it comes to the criticism fielded by the public towards businesses regarding sexist content, fellow Ada Initiative board member and database analyst Selena Deckelmann agrees that businesses need to step up to the challenge and respond appropriately. "...companies need to develop the skills necessary to respond with grace and understanding, even when under intense, negative scrutiny. Silencing, gas-lighting and ignoring the messenger tactics no longer work when a social network quickly spreads information, and occasionally, outrage."Is there a future for Sqoot? Mike Maney believes Sqoot can recover. Maney, head of influencer management for Alcatel-Lucent, acknowledges that Sqoot will have a long way to go to regain their credibility amongst the tech industry and the clientele they serve, "But, the work they'll have to do to undo the self-inflicted damage [...] is going to require a massive effort."According to document-leaking website Wikileaks.org hackers bypassed security at BillOreilly.com, the official website of Fox News Channel commentator Bill O'Reilly, exposing personal information of the site's users in a document posted on the Internet.The one page document, which Wikileaks confirms to be authentic, shows a list of individuals and passwords of those who have accounts on O'Reilly's website, BillOReilly.com. The list, according to the document, contains at least 205 names, e-mail addresses, billing addresses and passwords of subscribers."The hack was a response to the pundit's recent scurrilous attacks over the Sarah Palin's email story--including on Wikileaks and other members of the press," said Wikileaks in a statement on their website. According to the report, the security on O'Reilly's website was "non-existent"."I'm not going to mention the website that posted this, but it's one of those despicable, slimy, scummy websites. Everybody knows where this stuff is, OK, and they know the people who run the website, so why can't they go there tonight to the guy's house who runs it, put him in cuffs and take him down and book him?," said O'Reilly on his show, The O'Reilly Factor, on September 18.Wikileaks recently published documents from Palin's hacked Yahoo.com e-mail account. The documents had shown that Palin had been conducting matters pertaining to the public or government of Alaska over her private e-mail account.In an exclusive statement to Wikinews, Wikileaks stated that they will only publish the single page, but also claim to have several more. Wikileaks also states that they have already received "three letters" from staff members employed by O'Reilly "requesting" Wikileaks remove the document, which Wikileaks refuses to do."We simply cannot [remove the information]. The system, as per policy, is designed so that files can not be taken down, once up," said Wikileaks to Wikinews.O'Reilly and Fox News have not yet responded to inquiries.Yesterday, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit overturned the conviction of Andrew "weev" Auernheimer, who had been sentenced to three and a half years in federal prison after exploiting a bug in AT&T's website, allowing him access to confidential data about their iPad customers.The hacker and self-described "troll" was convicted of conspiracy to unlawfully access AT&T's servers and identity theft by federal jury in November 2012 by a New Jersey court under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. Co-defendant Daniel Spitler plead guilty. Spitler discovered AT&T had inadvertently made data publicly available through their website, and wrote a script allowing him to obtain the email addresses of approximately 120,000 customers, including that of then-New York mayor Michael Bloomberg. Auernheimer passed this information to Gawker, who published a redacted version.The three judges on the Philadelphia-based court, in a unanimous decision, ruled the New Jersey courtroom was an inappropriate venue for the initial trial. Michael Chagares, circuit judge, wrote "the improper venue here—far from where he performed any of his allegedly criminal acts—denied Auernheimer's substantial right to be tried in the place where his alleged crime was committed". The court said the issue represented a basic constitutional right and not a mere technicality.Prosecutors argued that approximately 4,500 of the affected users lived in New Jersey and the state was therefore a valid place for the trial, but the court noted neither the servers accessed, nor the Gawker reporter, nor the defendants, were based in that state. Auernheimer's attorney, Tor Ekeland, said that the government was "trying to find courts that are favourable to them".Adam is a robot developed by Welsh Aberystwyth University researchers which combines artificial intelligence (AI), robotics and automation to independently conduct and analyse biological laboratory research."What's new and exciting about Adam is [it is] the first time we've managed to show that a computer can not only think up new scientific ideas, but experimentally test them and decide whether they're true," said Ross King, a computer science professor and lead researcher at Aberystwyth University, "Adam makes up its own mind what to do.  It decides what experiments to do, what to test." He says that for other lab experiments the hardware is already in place, the only step needed is to change the software.The artificial intelligence alone spans three computers which holds the databases and analytical software to enable Adam to think. For the yeast experiment, Adam was loaded with databases which hold known information relating to yeasts and organisms. Adam compared all fields in the database to find the areas of missing information from which he devised 20 hypotheses.Adam's AI is connected to robotic arms, sensors, incubators and cameras which enable Adam to start over 1,000 individual experiments every day and follow their progress over a week.A part of the process is that Adam's AI can cycle and analyze the results of the experiments as well doing routine repetitious lab work. Following Adam's testing, King's team manually tested three of Adam's hypotheses and found that the robot's conclusions were correct, and each was a breakthrough to the scientific community.Adam has spawned discussion amongst researchers.  William Melek, an assistant professor of mechanical engineering at Ontario's University of Waterloo, has noted that to set up the AI needed for subsequent experiments involving new biological variables and criteria, the human expertise would be time consuming to customize it.  The usefulness would be limited therefore to the allotment of human input needed to set up Adam.David Waltz of Columbia University and Bruce Buchanan of the University of Pittsburgh say that "For the foreseeable future, the prospect of using automated systems as assistants holds vast promise as these assistants are becoming not only faster but much broader in their capabilities -- more knowledgeable, more creative, and more self-reflective," They note the potential of such lab assistants which may more efficiently process the research data.It was reported that Adam cost about $1million in production costs and this was weighed against the costs of hiring lab techs.  King said, We made many mistakes and learned from Adam.  Eve is a much cleaner design."Eve is the second AI computer under development by Professor King's research team.  Eve's artificial intelligence will be enhanced to analyze compounds needed for medicinal drugs which may treat killer diseases such as malaria.Sunday night's release of leaked United States diplomatic cables shows widespread concern in the Arab world over Iran's ambitions to build a "Persian Empire in the 21st Century".Wikileaks, so far, have released under 300 of the quarter million plus diplomatic communications posted to them on a memory stick. The small sample shows, over several months, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Kuwait and Bahrain asserting that further sanctions against Iran will likely have no effect.Early November last year, General David Petraeus discussed the situation with King Hamad of Bahrain, who argued for the use of force to thwart Iran's nuclear ambitions; stating: "The danger of letting it go on is greater than the danger of stopping it."In that meeting concern was expressed that more Arab involvement in Iraq was needed to frustrate Iranian plans. Petraeus was told Bahrain sought Egyptians and Saudis support, but talks with the latter revealed no interest in taking a leading rôle.The King did welcome the prospect of India becoming involved in the region as a stabilising influence.A mid-December meeting between Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan of the UAE and US Deputy Secretary of Energy Daniel Poneman saw the subject brought up again. In a discussion that touched on the two countries renewable energy plans, and reliable movement of oil through the Strait of Hormuz, the Prince asserted Iran saw itself as spearheading a campaign for a "Persian Empire in the 21st Century." Alleging Iran has established "emirates" in Kuwait, Bahrain, Eastern Saudi Arabia, Southern Iraq, Yemen, and South Lebanon, his picture of Iranian nuclear ambitions is "Al-Qaeda is not going to get a nuclear bomb; Iran is a matter of time."File:Iran strait of hormuz 2004.jpgThe Prince was keen to stress that those in power are the same people who, in 1979, seized the US embassy in Tehran.Subsequent talks between a congressional appropriations sub-committee and UAE's Foreign Minister were the scene of equally serious predictions. The sub-committee, consisting of Nita Lowey, Tom Cole, Barbara Lee, and Donna Edwards, heard from Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan that if Iran became a nuclear state the rest of the region would likely follow suit.Plans to keep the fifteen-millions-plus barrels of oil passing through the Strait of Hormuz each day moving were discussed. Whilst keen to weaken Iranian ties with China, Sheikh Abdullah stressed the US$50 billion in trade between the two; this being considered an obstacle to China backing, and enforcing, a stronger sanctions regime.The sub-committee's Emirates host, like many in the region, stated progress on the Israeli peace process was a good route to de-escalation.A meeting in February this year with Kuwaiti Interior Minister Jaber Al-Khaled Al Sabah was the scene of comparable warnings. Alongside discussions on travel restrictions to be enforced against former Guantanamo Bay detainees, he described Iran as the "beating heart" of Islamic Extremism.Concerns over Iran's involvement in Yemen were discussed, with the minister saying Iran is intent on exporting its revolution; that its nuclear ambitions can only be thwarted by force.Updating the US on perceived Iranian actions, he claimed they were attempting to infiltrate Egypt by recruiting the poor. And, they were becoming involved in the drugs trade, shipping narcotics into Yemen to fund militants.The cable on the Kuwait meeting closes referring recipients to a wiki page: http://www.intelink.sgov.gov/wiki/Portal:Kuwait. Wikinews has been informed this is a page on the US intelligence community's Intellipedia; an internally-maintained project, based on the same technology as Wikipedia, and intended for use in building intelligence dossiers on countries, regions, their politicians, diplomats, plus political and terrorist groups.A cable originating in London from January this year is corroborated by later U.S. news reports; hinting that the Iranian government may indeed be using tactics more reminiscent of the cold-war.In the opening weeks of the year, London-based Voice of America commentator Ali Reza Nourizadeh was advised that Mohammed Reza Sadeqinia intended to target him for assassination, along with others. Sadeqinia was previously arrested in California, and prosecuted for attempting to hire a hit man. The target at that time was reported to be Iranian-American broadcaster Jamshid Sharmahd, one of the main figures behind Tondar — a loose collection of in-exile Iranians opposed to the current regime.Tehran insists Tondar is a terrorist organisation, accusing it of being responsible for a 2008 bombing that killed 14.Sadeqinia, who worked as a painter in Ann Arbour, was arrested on July 28, 2009 near Los Angeles International Airport in possession of thousands of dollars and an Iranian passport. FBI investigations into his possible Iranian government ties were still ongoing a month before his scheduled release in July this year. Found guilty by Los Angeles Superior Court of attempting to hire someone to murder Sharmahd, he had been expected to spend around a year in jail. Tondar spokesman Iman Afar, in the lead up to Sedeqina's release, expressed concern for his own safety and that of others in the L.A. area.The founder of the whistle blowing website Wikileaks, Julian Assange, has been granted bail and was set free, pending an extradition hearing. Justice Duncan Ouseley granted Assange "conditional bail," upholding the previous ruling which was made earlier in the week. He ruled against a Swedish appeal filed just two days ago. Assange is wanted for questioning in Sweden for alleged molestation and rape.On Tuesday, Assange was granted bail with the help of former British army officer and journalist Vaughan Smith, who told the court that Assange could stay at his mansion in Suffolk. Defense barrister Geoffrey Robertson said that Smith would keep Assange "if not under house arrest, at least under mansion arrest." Assange's lawyers say that Assange is only wanted for questioning, and has not been charged with any crimes. However the lawyers representing Sweden countered by saying "The court has already found that Mr. Assange is a flight risk. Nothing has changed in this regard. [If the alleged offences took place in Britain] it undoubtedly would have been a charge of rape in this jurisdiction." Robertson did not agree.Bail was set at £200,000, with two additional guarantees of £20,000. Assange would also have to surrender his passport and submit to electronic monitoring. Pending further court hearings, Assange will be residing in a manor owned by Smith, which is located near the Norfolk–Suffolk border in England. Assange would also have to spend at least four hours at Smith's mansion in the day and four at night. He will also have to check in with police every day between 6–8 pm local time. After the magistrate outlined the conditions Assange said, emotionlessly, on Tuesday, "I understand." Bail conditions remained the same, with small changes that included where he is allowed to travel, changes to his curfew and times in which he must report to authorities. Assange has yet to be formally charged with any crime.Assange believes the sex offense accusation against him are politically motivated to take attention away from material that Wikileaks is publishing, including the release of over 250,000 United States diplomatic cables.On October 22, WikiLeaks released nearly 400,000 United States military field reports detailing events of the Iraq War between 2004 and 2009. That amount of documents makes it the largest leak in the history of the United States military. The documents report 109,000 deaths during the 2004–2009 period, including 66,000 civilians deaths.The war logs describe scenes of torture and abuse asserted to have been committed by Iraqi security forces.Wikileaks' website is reportedly under attack as it prepares to release up to 2.7 million documents, described as "diplomatic dynamite", detailing communication between United States embassies. "We are currently under a mass distributed denial of service attack," the organisation said on its Twitter feed. The website, run by Julian Assange, retaliated by saying that even if their website goes down, several newspapers will publish the leaked files this evening. The Obama administration wrote to Assange yesterday to warn him that "countless" lives would be put at risk should the documents be published. "We will not engage in a negotiation regarding the further release or dissemination of illegally obtained US government classified materials," the letter stated. Wikinews reported on Saturday that officials in Washington were contacting embassies around the world to warn diplomats of the leak.Assange told reporters on Sunday: "The material that we are about to release covers essentially every major issue in every country in the world." Wikileaks confirmed that El Pais, Le Monde, Der Spiegel, The Guardian, and The New York Times will be publishing the documents this evening. "The greatest anxiety is that these leaks will reveal remarks [by U.S. diplomats] of a hostile nature towards various Islamic leaders and Islamic state policies," political analyst Peter Spencer said. Analysts have said that the letter to Obama reflects the U.S. administration's concern over possible publication of the files, which may contain American diplomats' opinions of other politicians, some of which may be candid and embarrassing.The website wikileaks.org has been brought back online following the lifting of a court injunction forcing the site to be taken down. According to a Wikileaks press release from when the site was taken offline, the injunction stated that "Dynadot [Wikileaks' host] shall immediately clear and remove all DNS hosting records for the wikileaks.org domain name and prevent the domain name from resolving to the wikileaks.org website or any other website or server other than a blank park page, until further order of this Court."Wikileaks has described the lifting of the injunction as a "blow to Bank Julius Baer." Wikileaks also claims that Judge White lifted the case because he realized the injunction "trampled the First Amendment."The injunction, which a Wikileaks user described  as 'blind' and 'unlawful' was granted in the California Northern District Court in San Francisco, California. The case was regarding several documents allegedly obtained from a whistleblower of the Bank Julius Baer & Trust.Matt Zimmerman from the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) has said that "We're [the EFF are] very pleased that Judge White recognized the serious constitutional concerns raised by his earlier orders." He continued by saying that "attempting to interfere with the operation of an entire website because you have a dispute over some of its content is never the right approach. Disabling access to an Internet domain in an effort to prevent the world from accessing a handful of widely-discussed documents is not only unconstitutional - it simply won't work."In the first press release from Wikileaks after the injunction was removed, Wikileaks started by just saying “Wikileaks wins :),” followed by a series of web links. Wikileaks did, however, release more information in a future press release.On the second day of Wikimania 2007 in Taipei, Group Sessions continued, while the Virtual i.d.ea Interactive Net Art 2007 Exhibition attracted visitors and participants. This exhibition shows the creation of interactions by using creative contents. Four college teams and two  individuals exhibited their work.This exhibition is mainly focused on Interactive Net Art. Visitors can interact with those artworks, such as "Many Me", "Not One Less", and "One Million Heartbeats", which explored identity, information and community behavior .Kevin Lam from Hong Kong and Marius Watz from Norway also brought "Mobile Brush" and "Neon Organic / Electro Plastique" artworks to show the culture of freedom of Interactive Net Art.The Wikimania 2007 Conference will end on August 5. Submitting free-licensed works for the Wikimania Awards is still in progress, the deadline being 8:00 a.m. August 5 (Taipei time). Wikimania Award winners will be announced at the Closing Ceremony.Thursday saw the start of the fourth International Wikimedia Conference, better known as Wikimania 2008. The conference is being held in the Bibliotheca Alexandrina, a modern library with conference facilities for multiple tracks as well as a grand hall where the opening ceremony and first presentation were held.Speakers for the opening ceremony: His Excellency Dr. Ahmed Darwish, the Egyptian Minister of State for Administrative Development, Florence Devouard, the outgoing chair of the Wikimedia Foundation, Mohamed Ibrahim the active lead volunteer, who took the initiative of approaching Bibliotheca Alexandrina to collaborate on the bidding and the organization of Wikimania 2008 along with the enthusiastic local volunteers, and finally  Jakob Voss head of the program committee.The theme of this year's conference is "Change the shape of wisdom", and the choice of location is seen as an outreach to the Arabic and African communities.According to Dr. Darwish, the conference has the full support of the Egyptian Prime Minister who would have attended but for a clash with a prior engagement. In his introductory talk he described wikis as becoming more reliable and being a form of globalization which did not destroy local identity.Talking of Egyptian efforts to improve education and make it a more continuous process he discussed increased e-Government and the fact that in this area Egypt had come in the top 25% of UN surveyed countries. The country's young population is seen as a driving factor in increasing Internet use.Optimistically, Dr Darwish spoke of the move from a two-sided situation to more collaboration between government and citizens.Florence Devouard spoke briefly about the library, comparing their goals with those of the Wikimedia Foundation and drawing a number of parallels. One of the projects hosted by the library is a mirror of the Internet Archive. As a surprise announcement, she revealed that the language subcommittee had approved the creation of a new Wikipedia version for Egyptian Arabic.Mohamed Ibrahim talked on how Alexandria winning the bid had significantly raised the profile of wiki projects within the Arab and African media. This was evidenced at a press conference held early that afternoon. Around six or seven TV crews were present along with at least 30 reporters. Despite not being Western media, the focus of questioning was on academic skepticism towards Wikipedia; the oft-repeated confusion between Wikia and the Wikimedia Foundation was dismissed when raised. Jakob Voss, the last member of the opening ceremony team, gave a rundown of a number of statistics. The conference received over 150 submissions for talks and workshops. Of these approximately 75 were approved with around 100 speakers due to talk during the course of the three day conference.Participation in the conference is around 650 attendees, coming from 47 different countries around the globe, in addition to some 80 other participants, including individuals from local and international media, sponsors representatives, BA directors and WMF advisory and board members.At a well-attended press conference the usual issues were raised, such as the reliability of Wikipedia as a source. It was also announced that with the stepping down of Florence Devouard as Chair of the WMF board, her successor will be Michael Snow.Jimmy Wales gave a speech titled Freedom of speech, human rights, and free culture. In his speech he made a comparison between the Freedom House rating with the size of the Wikipedia in that language. He found a link between the two in the cases he examined. Other presentations included Rhonda Shearer's speech on media accountability, Foundation goals and plans with Sue Gardner and Erik Möller.The day ended with a board panel providing an opportunity for discussion with the board and a question & answer segment. This included the announcement that the new chair of the Foundation is Michael Snow.The last day of the Wikimania 2008 conference saw Saturday morning sessions on a variety of topics. Wikinews attended a presentation by Eric M. Johnson from the United States Department of State. Eric, a former NCO in the U.S. Marines, is the lead for the Knowledge Management Action team in the department's Office of eDiplomacy, and involved in department's use of Web 2.0 technologies for knowledge management. This includes blogs, and the key focus of his talk, Wiki culture in the U.S. Department of State.Eric opened his presentation with an introduction to the U.S. State Department, one of the oldest agencies of the American government, which today has around 57,000 employees worldwide. When formed in the 18th century their offices and diplomatic staff operated largely autonomously due to lack of ability to communicate rapidly. By the mid-20th century this had changed with the advent of telegraph lines, and changed again with the Cold War and security concerns bringing to the fore the well-known term, "need to know". Now, in the 21st century, the volume of internal communication generated by the department is a staggering 1,800,000 cables a year, 1.5 billion emails, production of around 500,000 print volumes, and maintenance of approximately one thousand websites. Both internal and externally facing.A pilot project was set up, Diplopedia, a MediaWiki wiki running on the department's internal network, which outside of the department of defence is one of the largest private networks operated by the U.S. government.A grassroots effort, this project to promote knowledge sharing differs from the well-known Wikipedia in that it does not allow anonymous edits. There are around 1,000 registered users who have contributed over 4,400 pages. Integration with the Department of State's internal search engine prioritises results from the wiki, increasing the popularity of the site such that it has received over 650,000 page views. Like Wikipedia, users are required to provide sources for entered information at the foot of the article, and users are warned that it is a starting point and not an authoritative source of information. Data on visa requirements and information from other static department sites has been incorporated into the wiki.Eric described the project as just reaching critical mass and attracting increasing interest from other departments. Among the ingredients leading to the success of the project were the cultural change with increasing awareness of the technology from Wikipedia, the formation by the community of a welcoming committee, and the taking on of roles to carry out tasks such as drafting. A number of staff act as "gardeners" tending to the wiki content, keeping it fresh, and well cross-referenced. The continual updating is a novel concept to many of their employees.Unlike Wikipedia, and many other projects using MediaWiki, none of the Diplopedia pages are locked or protected. This even includes their main page. To date there have been none of the content disputes that have been an issue on Wikipedia, and the use of the wiki to replace traditional websites which are far more time consuming to maintain is seen as a logical extension of the project.Carried out with no outside help, and by learning from others' mistakes, the department has adopted mechanisms for assuming that contributions are well-intentioned, and has a body for oversight in the event of a dispute.With the success of the project, eDiplomacy plans to introduce a separate, classified wiki. They will also expand the effort to compile biographies of foreign leaders, which was pioneered by the U.S. missions in Italy and Germany. This effort has proven valuable when combined with a version of the site available on portable devices such as the Blackberry.The future holds moves to seek more support from management and integration with their primary authentication system. Among the features on the main page to keep the project interesting to staff is a "Diploquiz" which poses a weekly trivia question which can be answered from somewhere within the wiki.The Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization which administers online collaborative websites including Wikipedia and Wikinews, announced yesterday that its general counsel Mike Godwin will leave his position this Friday. The author of Cyber Rights: Defending Free speech in the Digital Age, Godwin is a former fellow at the Yale Center for Internet Studies and staff counsel for the Electronic Frontier Foundation who has served as chief lawyer for the Wikimedia Foundation since July 2007.Executive Director of the Wikimedia Foundation Sue Gardner announced the news in a public email. She wrote, "Hi folks, I want to let you know that as of this Friday, October 22, 2010, Mike Godwin will be leaving his role as General Counsel for the Wikimedia Foundation. Mike’s transition out of the role will be a fairly lengthy one: he will continue to be available to the Wikimedia Foundation to provide information and advice for several months to come."Gardner stated in a "Q and A" below the text of her email that Godwin was leaving the organization due to "a confidential personnel issue", and explained that the foundation would not elaborate upon this due to privacy concerns. Gardner noted, "The Wikimedia Foundation believes Mike has always acted in what he believes to be the Wikimedia Foundation’s best interests."Godwin has focused his legal career in the areas of free speech and Internet law. In an article regarding his 1999 selection as a fellow at the Yale Center for Internet Studies, The Hartford Courant characterized Godwin as "a noted cyberspace lawyer and civil libertarian". He is noted for writing "Godwin's Law", an Internet maxim which states, "As an online discussion grows longer, the probability of a comparison involving Nazis or Hitler approaches one."Godwin became the first attorney to join the Electronic Frontier Foundation after its formation in 1990. In a 2007 interview with The New York Times, Godwin commented on the issue of defamation online, "The fear of defamation on the Internet is very strong. We’re going to be riding that social panic for a little bit." He described his role at the Wikimedia Foundation, "Part of my job is to prevent restrictive rules from being put in place that prevent people from participating in massively democratic participatory media. And then let the new norms settle." He acknowledged he empathized with others that had been criticized on the Internet, "Look, I have been smeared online. I know how bad it feels. It hurts. If democracy were comfortable, everybody would have it."Computers and technology make our modern lifestyle more convenient, but they also create new risks like computer viruses and hacking. Many people want to enjoy the convenience of new technology, but they may not be aware of its problems.WiMAX is being promoted in Taiwan by the Taipei Computer Association, the Industrial Technology Research Institute and the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Republic of China. It is considered by some to be the communication standard for the next generation of mobile devices.Information security companies are concerned increasingly by Internet crime, and some of them question the security of WiMAX. After all, everyone wants to welcome this new technology but is afraid of its potential to  cause security issues.Some companies have analyzed potential security issues which threaten the success of WiMAX. But what have they found?Taking the opportunity of two press conferences in Taiwan, Wikinews Journalist Rico Shen briefly interviewed both Hsiao-wen Hung, President of Microsoft Research Asia and Li Chang, Deputy Secretary General of Taipei Computer Association. With their experience in the IT industry, they agreed to comment on this question.0 A.D. is a historical, open source, strategy game, published by Wildfire Games. It focuses on the period between 500BC and 500AD. The game will be released in two parts: the first covering the pre-AD period, and the second running to 500AD. With development well underway, Wikinews interviewed the development team.Aviv Sharon, a 24-year-old Israeli student responsible for the project's PR, compiled the below Q&A, which the full team approved prior to publication.The Frugalware Development Team describes ­­Frugalware as a general purpose Linux distribution, designed for intermediate users who are not afraid of text mode. Frugalware also plans to offer a live CD with desktop options, to be developed by one of its teams. A live CD enables running the Linux software on most compatible Intel and AMD chipset architectures, without having to partition a drive.A freelance journalist writing for Wikinews interviewed the founder of Frugalware Linux, Miklós Vajna.Wikinews: Frugalware is a slack distribution at present. Are there plans for developing binary package management platforms of it?Miklós Vajna: Our package manager is called pacman, and its primary purpose is to install binary packages. If you want to install packages from source, you can use our "repoman" tool.Wikinews: What are your visions for the future of Frugalware, do you plan to globally distribute it as a product, and would you consider allowing a major corporation to sponsor your efforts?Miklós Vajna: The second. Frugalware is free, but maintaining it needs hardware, mirrors, money. We got several donations already (build servers), and we continuously need them. If a corporation want to sponsor us, I think that is totally O.K. :-)Wikinews: What is Arch Linux in relationship to your project? And how do their efforts fit into your game plan?Miklós Vajna: The common [thing] in Arch Linux and Frugalware is the package manager. (To be strict: nothing else.) Developing our package manager is a common effort. If anyone [is] interested in its development, he/she can subscribe to the pacman development mailing list.Wikinews: I've successfully installed Frugalware, OpenSUSE, and WinXP on the same box. Do you see a lot of people doing this sort of thing in the future?Miklós Vajna: We support having more than one operating system on a single machine — though this matters only in case Frugalware is the last installed operating system. We do not have any statistics about what operating systems do other people use besides Frugalware, if they have more than one.Wikinews: Is it possible that PearPC and Frugalware may have a relationship to distribute the PearPC Emulator with Frugalware in the future?Miklós Vajna: It is already available [1].Wikinews: What kinds of software might you include with further editions of Frugalware? Is Muse part of the base package for electronic musicians, or will you have those sorts of things?Miklós Vajna: No [2]. It is not available at the moment. You can request a package by filing a feature request to our Bug Tracking System, at [3].Wikinews: Is the autoupdating feature of Frugalware unique to Frugalware and perhaps a keystone to future developments?Miklós Vajna: I have never tried other autoupdating features. What one can see is that upgrading even from the previous stable release — which means installing 6 months of update at once — requires only a few tricks, and these are documented. So it works as it should, and we always pay attention not to break this great feature.Wikinews: What can new users of Frugalware do to test and relay infotmation back to the developers through the correct channels?Miklós Vajna: We have released stable versions two times a year. There are testing releases every two months. If one would like to help us, then download these releases, test them, and if something is broken, then file a bug report to the BTS (mentioned above already).Frugalware has new X Windows video drivers that provide a major speed improvement over available patches for previous editions of Linux. Alex Smith has been working on them as a developer.In addition, the PearPC emulator mentioned above, which comes with the package manager, may, with proper tuning and installation of a legal copy of Mac OSX, enable many Intel and AMD Frugalware users to use the Apple OS on their desktops. Alex Smith is also a contact person for the PearPC project, which can also be found in irc://irc.freenode.net and at http://www.pearpc.net.The official release time of the latest edition frugalware-0.4 was Mar 30 07:42:21. The developers can be reached for comment through IRC at #frugalware in the irc.freenode.net network.As reported on Wikinews, isoHunt, a torrent and IRC search site frequented by a massive number of Internet users everyday, has recently been one of the targets of the Motion Picture Association of America's anti-piracy campaign. Originally starting out as an IRC indexing site in January of 2003, isoHunt added torrent search later that year in July and has been steadily growing since. By December, isoHunt had 16,248 torrents available. Today that amount is around 250,000.isoHunt has survived while many similar sites around it crumbled, yet was operating long before the others had even been thought of. In April of 2005, isoHunt also gained Torrentbox after its administrator gave it to Gary Fung of isoHunt.Wikinews interviewed Mr. Fung, the 22 year-old Canadian administrator of the sites.Why did you start your site?For fun, and to learn web programming (PHP and Mysql). Also a web search engine for P2P networks has not been done, and would be useful.I read on your site at the time, news of the MPAA's actions hit the news, that you had not been notified, how did you find out? How did you react?I found out first from Mike at Slyck.com, who have received letters of the press release, along with other news outlets like CNET. Within a few hours, all the news sites posted about it.Do you feel it is appropriate for the MPAA to publicly announce that they have commenced action against your sites and others before you even receive notification?Yes, although not surprising. Factually speaking, industry associations like the MPAA often use the threat of pending lawsuits to intimidate to-be defendants, and it serves their purpose of spreading FUD to the public at large.Have you ever received a takedown notice from any company in accordance with the DMCA?At least once a day, often many times a day. I've lost count of how many takedown requests we've received now, it would be at least in the hundreds, if not a thousand. We have a thorough copyright policy outlining our stance, compliance and procedures: http://isohunt.com/dmca-copyright.php. Some of them come back and actually thank us with satisfaction for our prompt processing. For others, such as indie content producers for TV shows and movies, we actually talk to them about using BitTorrent to aid their distribution. And such partnerships are in the works.How do you go about dealing with them?We verify their authenticity, whether identified works are within their copyright, and disable them if found to be aiding in possible copyright infringement.Do you think the service you provide is any different to that of major search engines such as Google and Yahoo?No. We are all search engines, only designed for different markets. "Torrents" for example are metadata pointers that describe and link to resources on BitTorrent swarms. Google and isoHunt for example are different only in forms of links and types of data they index. Both serve the purpose of organizing information on open networks on the internet (WWW and P2P), making them useful and searchable.According to the isoHunt website, Gary received official notification of the MPAA's lawsuit on February 28, 2006. Gary admits that he was impressed by the amount of research which was put into the suit. He said: "I have to say I am impressed by the depth of their legal research, evidently their lawyers have been watching us for at least a year, since we exchanged letters last year. However, their core accusation is false. We do NOT operate this search engine and other P2P services for the express object of infringing MPAA's copyrights, there are many other torrents of content we index that are not owned by the MPAA, copyrighted or non-copyrighted. We would comply with DMCA takedown requests, given sufficient identification. Which they did not."Wikinews interviewed one of the owners of a New York City bar about a popular new politically-themed cocktail drink  called Santorum. The beverage was inspired by the santorum neologism coined in advice columnist Dan Savage's column Savage Love in response to comments made by former Pennsylvania Senator Rick Santorum about homosexuality; Savage's readers voted to define santorum as: "the frothy mixture of lube and fecal matter that is sometimes the byproduct of anal sex."Wikinews interviewed Australian painter Pricasso on his unique artwork created using his penis, and how his art relates to freedom of expression and issues of censorship. He is to be featured at the upcoming adult entertainment event Sexpo Australia in Melbourne this November 5 to November 8.Last Saturday, the "Intel Taiwan Overclocking Live Test" took place in the Taipei World Trade Center in Taipei, Taiwan, which drew many spectators to come and see the hardware experts at work. Overclocking (running computer hardware at a higher clock rate than normally) is more of an enjoyment for senior gamers or engineers, while the average computer users may lack the basic concepts of it, causing hardware to halt when they attempt it.With those issues in mind, Wikinews freelance reporter Rico Shen interviewed Peter "Shamino" Tan, an overclocking expert from Singapore, to clear up some of the basic issues relating to overclocking.The 10.10 version of Ubuntu (codename Maverick Merkaat), a free operative system is to be released in the next few days. French Wikinews contributor Savant-fou (Baptiste) has interviewed Fabrice (fabrice_sp on Ubuntu), an Ubuntu's MOTU (Master Of The Universe), member of the development team of the operative system.Ubuntu is a computer operating system, based on Debian, which is created collaboratively by thousands of people. There are three official Ubuntu versions: Ubuntu Desktop Edition (for desktop and laptop PCs); Ubuntu Netbook Edition (for netbooks); and Ubuntu Server Edition (for use in servers).Dominic McDevitt-Parks, a prolific contributor to Wikipedia and a graduate student in history and archives management, agreed to answer a few questions about his new role as "Wikipedian in Residence" at the US National Archives and Records Administration."Wikipedians in Residence" are volunteers placed with institutions, such as museums and libraries, to facilitate use of those institutions' resources on Wikipedia.According to a Pew Internet report, 42 percent of Americans use Wikipedia as an online source of information. The online, collaborative encyclopedia boasts more than 3.5 million articles in English and versions in over 250 languages. Given the website's vast readership, the Archivist of the United States has proclaimed himself "a big fan of Wikipedia" and emphasizes the need for the National Archives to work with the project. The Archives posted the internship listing in March, expressing its desire for an employee who "will work as a community coordinator and strengthen the relationship between the Archives and the Wikipedian community through a range of activities".McDevitt-Parks, who describes himself as a "history buff, a word nerd, a news junkie and an occasional pedant," is a 24-year-old graduate student at Simmons College in Boston. On Wikipedia, he has contributed for more than seven years under the username "Dominic", his work focusing mostly on Latin American history.He began his work at the Archives in late May, and since then he has undertaken numerous projects, including uploading onto Wikipedia 200 photos taken by Ansel Adams for the National Park Service. Although those photos have always remained in the public domain, accessing their high-definition versions could be problematic. Researchers who wanted to view the files had to visit the Archives facilities in College Park, Maryland.McDevitt-Parks is also preparing a "Today's Document challenge" on Wikipedia, where works featured as "Today's Document" on the Archives' website are also the main focus of newly written or expanded encyclopedia articles displayed on Wikipedia's home page. The first — and so far only — winner of the challenge was the Wikipedia article "Desegregation in the United States Marine Corps", which incorporated an Archives-held photo of the first African-American recruit to the US Marine Corps. Before the challenge, according to McDevitt-Parks, "a thorough history of desegregation in the U.S. Marines didn't exist in Wikipedia's knowledge ecosystem. The topic wasn't totally ignored, but simply split among related entries; a devoted, focused article never existed solely in its own right."The "Wikipedian in Residence" position falls within the Archives' social media staff within the Open Government division of Information Services, since the institution's goal is to distribute as much content to the widest audience possible. The internship is 40 hours per week from mid-May to late August.The name Robert Cailliau may not ring a bell to the general public, but his invention is the reason why you are reading this: Dr. Cailliau together with his colleague Sir Tim Berners-Lee invented the World Wide Web, making the internet accessible so it could grow from an academic tool to a mass communication medium. Last January Dr. Cailliau retired from CERN, the European particle physics lab where the WWW emerged.Wikinews offered the engineer a virtual beer from his native country Belgium, and conducted an e-mail interview with him (which started about three weeks ago) about the history and the future of the web and his life and work.Wikinews: At the start of this interview, we would like to offer you a fresh pint on a terrace, but since this is an e-mail interview, we will limit ourselves to a virtual beer, which you can enjoy here.Robert Cailliau: Yes, I myself once (at the 2nd international WWW Conference, Chicago) said that there is no such thing as a virtual beer: people will still want to sit together. Anyway, here we go.Wikipedia, one of the top ten websites on the internet, will soon be receiving a face lift. The first part of the change is a new skin called Vector. This skin, currently used on Wikinews, will be enabled for Wikipedia on April 5th and provide a more updated look and feel. The second part will change the toolbar when editing, and is intended to ease common tasks. Both changes are important to encourage new people to edit and update content. The improvements have been tested by more than 500,000 beta-testers.The wiki code will also be altered; editors will be able to change tables data and other elements with what is intended as an easier form, in addition to editing an article while watching it.On the other hand, the staff of Wikimedia requested more editors to add and update articles in their wikis. Wikipedia is a website maintained by users in unprecedented numbers. Maintenance and updating processes are dependent on just one percent of their users. Based on some statements, fewer than a thousand users do the maintenance and updating work.People living behind the "Great Firewall of China", do not have direct access to Wikipedia, a popular internet encyclopedia. But they can eat Wikipedia.Or Wekipedia, actually.Blogs have now started reporting that supermarkets now sell "Wekipedia" bread, created by a "Beijing Wekipedia Foods Co., Ltd." Just one letter different than the famed website, it appears to be a new company and product.Even its Chinese name 维百客 (pinyin: wei bǎi kē) is similar to the encyclopedia's 维基百科 (wei ji bǎi kē); the characters 维 and 百 are in both names. The words "bǎi kē" means "encyclopedia", a term with no obvious connection to baked foodstuffs like bread.A bearded man is featured on the packaging; Blognation jokes that it is supposed to be Jimmy Wales, the site's co-founder.The Wikimedia Foundation's communications manager Sandra Ordonez was amused at the branding choice, commenting "I think this is very funny. If they [internet users in mainland China] can't access Wikipedia virtually, at least they can eat it for breakfast".While the Wikimedia Foundation is not in the bread industry, it is currently looking for "dough" of another sort. The American-based charitable organization is holding a fundraiser, to help pay for expenses like running their servers.In the opening day of 2008 WiMAX Expo Taipei (June 2), WiMAX Forum and Industrial Technology Research Institute (ITRI) held the "WiMAX Forum Operator Summit" for global WiMAX operators at Far Eastern Plaza Hotel to examine and forecast the opportunity of WiMAX. In addition, WiMAX Forum released the "Executive Summary of the WiMAX Forum Global WiMAX Subscriber & User Forecast" during a press conference at Taipei Show Hall 2.Besides of the announcements and M-Taiwan Pavilion showcase, the WiMAX Forum Taiwan Chapter also held the "Open House of M-Taiwan WiMAX Application Lab" to demonstrate the R&D achievements in Hsinchu on June 3 - 4, driving more discussions between industrial businesspeople especially in Taiwan.After discovery by a blogger, Microsoft has announced that on their next operating system, Windows 7, users will have the ability to remove Internet Explorer and other select Microsoft programs. Microsoft has been accused of forcing users to run their own software while competitor products get pushed out of the market because of this. On the Microsoft blog they wrote "In Windows 7 we are expanding the number of features you have control over in this regard, giving customers more control, flexibility and choice in managing the features available in this version of Windows."  It goes on to list a number of common Microsoft add-ons including: Internet Explorer 8, Windows Media Player and Microsoft Search. If a user chooses to turn off a feature in Windows 7, it will remove the executable from the user’s computer but the rest of the program will still be installed.In Europe, Microsoft was charged for abusing the market by having Internet Explorer and Windows bundled together. According to Net Applications, Internet Explorer currently has 67% of the web browser market, with Firefox trailing a distant second with 21% of the market.Microsoft plans to delay the consumer versions of its next operating system, Windows Vista. Originally due out by the end of 2006, Windows Vista Home Basic, Home Premium, and Ultimate editions now have a release target of January 2007. Business editions will continue to be released in November 2006. Two different reasons for this have been given in interviews; the first reason being a six-week delay in completing security related work on the operating system and the second reason is that, as a result of this delay, computer hardware manufacturers and resellers will generally not have enough time to prepare for a holiday 2006 launch.  Analysts have said this could put some computer manufacturers into turmoil, though a number of the largest resellers of Windows XP have made public statements supporting Microsoft's decision to delay the consumer release of Vista to January.Currently, Windows XP has been the longest-current operating system from Microsoft, debuting in 2001.Wolfram Research Inc., makers of Mathematica and A New Kind of Science, have released a limited alpha of their new web service Wolfram Alpha. Wolfram Alpha is described by CEO Stephen Wolfram as a "computational knowledge engine." Unlike Google, Yahoo! and other traditional web search engines that rely on statistical methods for retrieving online documents, Wolfram Alpha answers factual questions in the way that Wikipedia does, except it relies on analytical methods instead of human-generated documents.Although the product is still in a limited release some details about its operation and design have been revealed by Wolfram on his blog, and by Nova Spivack who recently interviewed Wolfram about Wolfram Alpha. The product is available on the Web as a single search box reminiscent of Google’s main search page. The search queries can be entered in natural language and the natural language system will parse the query and use models of knowledge (ontologies) and human-curated data to return an answer including graphs and other representations. The ontologies and data are managed by Wolfram employees who must input new ontologies and data by hand or, occasionally, with the assistance of programmatic tools. It is expected that an Application Programming Interface (API) will eventually be available, although it is not known what the API will be used for.Unlike traditional search engines Wolfram Alpha does not search online documents, and thus does not return answers to "fuzzy" questions, such as opinion or advice. Instead, the scope of answers is limited to the knowledge that has already been modeled and encoded in the ontologies and the associated data. In this way the system can generate knowledge that was previously unknown. It is thought that while Wolfram will concentrate on scientific and technical information the system may eventually be able to answer questions in other domains, such as stock information, geography and history. In theory, any question with a factual answer could be answered by Wolfram Alpha.Lead programmer of Microsoft Word, Joe Friend, wrote on his blog that the upcoming version of Microsoft Word (which will be a part of Microsoft Office 2007 suite) will have blog editing and publishing functions.Friend said: "When I write a blog post using my blog providers web-based editor I miss some of the familiar Word features that I've come to rely on, specifically background spelling (those little red squiggles) and autocorrect. These features keep me from making stupid mistakes."Friend also said that Word 2007 will not generate unnecessary HTML code. "Bold become <strong>, Italic becomes <em>, Heading 1 become <h1>, Quotes become <blockquote> and on it goes."Previously, critics of Microsoft Word's HTML generation capabilities held that the application generated unneeded and bulky HTML code.Graphic files that users would use in blog entries will be converted to the PNG format, which includes support for alpha channel (i.e. partial) transparency.To create new or publish post, there will be three mouse-clicks: to create File → New... → New Blog Post); to publish File → Publish → Blog.The World Summit on the Information Society, organized by the International Telecommunication Union, concluded on Friday evening, November 18th, in Tunis, the capital of the north African nation of Tunisia. The event's organizers intended for the event to "put into motion" the plan for Internet financing and governance developed at the 2003 WSIS summit in Geneva, Switzerland.The summit was marred by criticism of Tunisia for allowing attacks on journalists and human rights defenders to occur in the days leading up to the event. A French journalist for "Libération" was stabbed and beaten by unidentified men after he reported on local human rights protesters. A Belgian television crew was harassed and forced to hand over footage of Tunisian dissidents, while local human rights defenders were roughed up and prevented from organising a meeting with international civil society groups. A representative from the French media watchdog Reporters Without Borders, Robert Menard, was prevented from disembarking from his Air France flight to Tunis to attend the summit.During the event, representatives from the Global Voices project were menaced by the Tunisian police as they held their session on "Expression Under Repression." Speaking at the session were Rebecca MacKinnon, Ethan Zuckerman, Nart Villeneuve, Taurai Maduna, Isaac Mao, and Hossein Derakshan, among others. The interaction with the Tunisian police is related by Amanda Michel of the Berkman Center with the description from an attendee as, "[B]efore the break, a phalanx of secret police (ie scary guys in dark suits) showed up. [T]hey filled the hall outside the room, forcing cancellation of the break for fear that we'd not be allowed to re-start."Nicholas Negroponte demonstrated the first working prototype of his $100 laptop.Microsoft has launched its much-hyped Xbox 360 console into Japan, but unlike the European and American markets the Japanese are not rushing out to buy them.When launched in the American and European markets, stores sold out early. In Japan, sales are much lower. One store-owner says that fewer than 50 units were sold in the first 2 hours of its release.Many believe that in Japan it is difficult for any games console to be successful that isn't from a Japanese company, such as Sony or Nintendo.  The first generation of Xbox consoles performed similarly possibly due to being released two years after the PlayStation 2. The large size of the console and the differing style of games was also said to have contributed.There is still some hope for the Xbox 360, Takeshi Tajima, a BNP Paribas analyst, told Reuters news agency: "most people are going to wait and see."Yahoo! announced in its blog Sunday the beginning of a public beta test of its new Podcast search service. The new service makes it easier for people to find and listen to podcasts.Podcasts are short downloadable audio shows, very similar to  a radio show. Podcasts are most commonly downloaded to portable mp3 players such as the iPod for which they are named, but they can be listened to on a computer or burned to a CD as well.“Yahoo Podcasts offers a comprehensive directory of podcast series and individual shows from across the web, complete with detailed search results, most popular and highest-rated lists, editorial picks, and a full collection of tools you can use. These community tools include ratings, reviews, and the ability to tag audio content, or view the tags that other people add,” Lee Ott wrote in  the Yahoo blog. Yahoo! is the first the large web company to offer a podcast search services. Podcast search is currently offered by several smaller websites including Podcast.net, Blinkx, and Odeo. “This is something we’ve been working on for a while, it’s a great way for people to find, listen to, and consume podcasts as they grow more popular.” said Yahoo! spokesperson Meagan Busath.On Monday the second largest Internet search engine Yahoo introduced its new service called oneSearch. The service represents a search system that delivers locally relevant answers for mobile phone users. The company will first launch its service in the United States and then make it international. OneSearch is to push aside Yahoo's main competitor Google in the field of mobile Web search.Marco Boerries, who works as a senior vice president of Yahoo's Connected Life business unit, said that the company is now working on putting search on every phone that includes a browser.OneSearch provides several services including: news headlines, images from Yahoo's Flickr photos site, business listings, local weather and links to other Web sites. Yahoo's officials said that the company has already begun offering OneSearch on 85% of existing mobile phones that include Web browsers.The search results are delivered on a single page and are set in categories. The results are prioritized according to the calculation that Yahoo computers make about a specific information that the customer is trying to make.The company signed deals with several major mobile phone manufacturers, including: Samsung Electronics Inc., Nokia, Motorola Inc. and LG Electronics Inc.Yahoo also promised to help advertisers gain phone customers. Because users make their searches on their phones, they can directly reach the advertiser by clicking on a link.Yahoo's new service, oneSearch runs sponsored ad which is being linked to Web search results and display advertisements. OneSearch may also run mini-banner ads developed for mobile phone screens.It might take some time before Yahoo could actually see positive financial results of its product. Nevertheless its developers are quite happy with the result of their work.The introduction by Yahoo Inc. of its new Internet ad sales system was successful. The company's new feature may turn out to be very useful for Yahoo's shares, since investors are betting on rapid growth of the company's revenue. When Yahoo stated that it will launch on February 5 a full version of its new system, entitled Panama, the company's shares rose by 8 percent on Wednesday. The system, being introduced in the United States, will be launched a month earlier than Wall Street expected.The ad system is to bring the company in closer league with the number one search engine Google Inc. Yahoo's technology will permit various advertisers to pay for specific search terms, which are based on their popularity.Panama will also help advertisers in targeting ads that are sent to a specific audience on the Internet. The system will allow rotating ads in accordance with their effectiveness. Google have been offering these features for several years. Martin Pyykkonen, who is the analyst at Global Crown Capital, said that Yahoo was not as successful as Google but it still continues to strengthen its position as number 2. Although Google had a stronger software platform, Yahoo continues to register good results, which is worth something.Pyykkonen also mentioned that he is not forecasting any shifting in wholesales, and especially a sudden fall of Google, but he is sure that Yahoo will not be far behind Google; in fact the company is to shorten the gap between the two. The ability of Yahoo's new system, to draw more ad dollars from customers, should boost the company's growth in this year's second half. Yahoo is also dealing with a potential drop in prices regarding its key branded advertising sales. This is due to the competition provided by MySpace.com and YouTube.Engineers at China's Yellow Sheep River have developed a desktop computer, called a Municator, which costs only €123 ($150 US).  The machine is designed to help bridge the digital divide in China and to expand China's small domestic semiconductor industry. Its development has been heavily subsidized by local governments.The Municator measures 14.5 x 18 x 3.7 cm. (5.7 x 7.1 x 1.5 in.),  and weighs 0.65 kg. (1.4 pounds).  It is expected to use an existing TV as a monitor. The operating system is a GNU/Linux distribution, known as Thinix 3.0, which is developed by YellowSheepRiver Inc. itself and overseen by the Chinese government for security reasons. The Municator was shown last week at the 2006 CeBIT Fair in Hannover, Germany.Video coverage from CeBIT 2006 speculated that the Municator will include applications such as: Firefox for web browsing, Thunderbird for e-mail, Gaim for instant messaging, Skype for VoIP, Red Office (99 percent compatible with Microsoft Office and based on Open Office) for Linux for word processing, and MPlayer for audio/video playback. The Skype application for VoIP is currently only available from Skype on i386-32 processors under Linux, but CeBit's video briefly shows a beta version of Skype running on the Municator's screen.The 64-bit Godson 2c 400-800 MHz CPU used in the machine has a MIPS-like instruction set, and is roughly as fast as a 500-mHz Pentium III.  The Godson II is made exclusively in China, and consumes relatively little power for its speed in comparison to x86 Intel and compatible AMD chips.  A similar Chinese laptop project called the Longmeng also uses the Godson II.No version of Microsoft Windows supports the Godson II, and due to the independent nature of the Chinese government, the Municator is unlikely to ever run Microsoft Windows or its applications. Banners at CeBIT 2006 proclaim "Say No To Wintel Try Now!"The MIT Media Lab has a similar initiative to develop an inexpensive Linux machine, known as the $100 laptop, which seeks to begin production by the end of 2007.YouTube on Thursday announced that a new section of its free online video editor is now hosting content released under Creative Commons licenses. Videos licensed under Creative Commons may be reused by anyone, including for commercial purposes, so long as the reusers credit the original creators of those videos. A software engineer at the video sharing company said that their video editor would hold 10,000 Creative Commons videos, and that they would be working with organizations like C-SPAN, Public.Resource.org, Voice of America, and Al Jazeera. Individual users may also choose to release their own videos under Creative Commons Attribution licenses (CC BY), making it easier for others to edit their content. According to Creative Commons, the CC BY license is "the most accommodating of licenses offered", allowing users to "distribute, remix, tweak, and build upon your work, even commercially, as long as they credit you for the original creation". YouTube videos that reuse Creative Commons content will link back to the original videos. Bloggers, such as Nick Bilton from The New York Times, expect this action to help alleviate recent debates regarding copyright on YouTube; strict guidelines are already in place to protect companies who want to post videos onto the site. As Natasha Willhite from Korea IT Times explained "YouTube has a copyright policy that is understandably strict; yet some people still experienced confusion after it started cracking down on infringements, so it added a 'copyright school' for the violators to help them understand where they could have violated copyrights and what other ways they could possibly violate the laws if they do not pay close attention to the content that they add."YouTube users will now have more room for creativity in creating content, while protecting everyone's copyright at the same time. "Instead of spending time in running through all parts that make up a video such as music, cartoons/art, or anything else, more time is put towards the development of new ideas using other people's contents plus the user's contents," said Willhite.The online video sharing site YouTube has today hosted the first official "YouTube Live"  event, which featured many popular musicians and contributors to the site.Two events took place, one in San Francisco, United States and one in Japan, with the event in the US featuring artists such as Joe Satriani, Akon and Katy Perry.Another performer at the event, which started this morning at 0100 UTC, was will.i.am, who published his song "Yes We Can" on YouTube, with the video receiving millions of views on the site. The song was based on Barack Obama's concession speech after losing the New Hampshire Democratic Primary to Hillary Clinton. At the event will.i.am presented his song "In My Name," which calls for an end to child poverty. "YouTube Live is the first time a broad variety of YouTube stars are scheduled to appear together under one roof," stated Chris Di Cesare, who works for YouTube as the Head of Marketing. "There have been so many wonderful talents that have emerged from YouTube and more established acts continue to recognize how invaluable YouTube is to building their audience. We felt it was only right to recognize them all in true YouTube fashion."YouTube has stated that, between them, the more than 50 artists performing at the event have 2.5 billion views for their videos on its website. The audience of the event was primarily notable contributors and partners to the video sharing site.YouTube has announced it will share the revenue, yielded due to video clips placed at the site, with their copyright owners. At present day YouTube  represents the most popular site sharing on-line video. In 2006 it was acquired  by Google Inc. As it was mentioned by Chad Hurley, YouTube's co-founder, at the World Economic Forum, held in Davos, Switzerland, the idea of paying amateur videographers was suggested by the desire to motivate and reward creativity. The revenue-sharing naturally implies the site's administrators will have to prescreen the video clips before presenting them at the site to guarantee their authenticity. The task is a complicated one, as about 100 million videos are submitted by 70 million users to YouTube every day. It also implies the clips taken by the users from movies, music videos and TV shows will not be accepted as they used to be up to the current time.It is quite a turn for the company as its initial success was built upon placing all the clips without prescreening them. However, it enables YouTube to avoid confrontation with videos' copyright holders. To fulfill the task of video prescreening, YouTube will have to apply the image-identifying technology elaborated by Google's best specialists. It is difficult to forecast whether the overall plan will bring further success to YouTube. Consider the competing site Revver that still has considerably less users is found among the first who shared its ads revenue, and GUBA, the site provided with  image-recognition screening technology, also does not reach the popularity enjoyed by YouTube.